-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Age of Wonders
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/ageofwonders/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  6, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.3, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 535 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Triumph Studios
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Age of Wonders encompasses many facets of games that have preceded it, but it adds improvements 
 of its own and is consequently a complex and highly evolved strategy game. 

 Age of Wonders isn't ostentatious or innovative. Though it does do a handful of new things, its 
 basic gameplay involves exploring a map, claiming as many resources as possible, and generating 
 units at your towns to form armies to wage war with your opponent's similarly created armies. Specifically, 
 its map exploration, resource management, and unit-based armies bear a striking resemblance to 
 other turn-based strategy games that have been released before it. Age of Wonders encompasses many 
 facets of games that have preceded it, but it adds improvements of its own and is consequently 
 a complex and highly evolved strategy game.  

 Age of Wonders' visuals are inconsistent; its menu screens and opening movie are graced by elegant 
 hand-painted art, whose effective use of shadow and simple color contrasts lend it a distinctive 
 and pleasingly understated quality. Unfortunately, this picturesque style isn't carried over to 
 the maps on which most of the game is played. Though the maps themselves have the same colorful 
 and detailed look of New World Computing's Heroes of Might and Magic games, the same can't be said 
 for Age of Wonders' units, whose miniscule size, stilted animation, and sometimes downright silly 
 appearance contrast oddly with the game's otherwise high fantasy look.  

 Age of Wonders' sound is also inconsistent; at any given time, there's always some sort of music 
 playing in the background, and it's usually stirring and thematically appropriate and never obtrusive. 
 However, one of the most important - and frequent - components of Age of Wonders' gameplay is combat. 
 Unfortunately, between the scurrying of poorly animated units across the screen and the alternating 
 sound of the generic loud slapstick thwack when a melee unit hits its target and the accompanying 
 generic yelp of pain, combat sometimes seems more like a Benny Hill skit than anything else.  

 
 Whatever else may be said about how it looks or sounds, Age of Wonders is a solid, if not entirely 
 original game to play. Its resource management system, which mostly consists of moving your units 
 over mines and other resources on the map to claim them as your own, is essentially identical to 
 that of Heroes of Might and Magic. Of its two combat systems, Age of Wonders' isometric-perspective 
 tactical combat is reminiscent of Master of Magic. Age of Wonders borrows its quick combat system 
 from SSG's Warlords III: Darklords Rising, along with many other features, including the ability 
 to create war parties without a hero in the lead, to create eight-creature army stacks, to raze 
 and loot towns and other structures, and the ability to play turns simultaneously against your 
 opponent.  

 However, Age of Wonders does manage to distinguish itself from its peers with several interesting 
 new features. First and foremost is the sheer number of different factions to play: There are 12 
 races to choose from, and in turn, 12 corresponding sets of combat units. Though the sets of units 
 may seem similar enough at first (and are therefore equally accessible at first) , each distinguishes 
 itself from the rest thanks to various inherent abilities and increasingly divergent upper-level 
 units. Another important way in which Age of Wonders exceeds its fantasy-themed turn-based brethren 
 is by having two combat systems: Any and all conflicts can be resolved either through tactical 
 or quick combat, which helps expedite messy battles or easy walkover fights in an otherwise very 
 time-consuming game. Neither system is at all innovative in and of itself, but the ability to choose 
 between either makes combat so much more convenient, you'll wonder why other similar games haven't 
 done the same.  

 Age of Wonders' interface is also decidedly unoriginal. Though each of the four windows - the overland 
 map, the minimap, the status menu, and the Warlords-style message ticker - can be resized or simply 
 closed, each one must remain open to play effectively. Fortunately, once you acclimate yourself 
 to them, you'll find their functionality goes a long way in compensating for the space they take 
 up. The overland and minimaps are as useful as any found in any similar game, while the message 
 ticker provides quick summaries of important events. The status menu in the lower left-hand corner 
 is particularly useful, since it contains information about all of your holdings, troops, and heroes 
 and lets you jump to any of them with a single right-click.  

 As in some other similar turn-based strategy games, Age of Wonders lets both heroes and units advance 
 in experience levels. However, the path of your hero's advancement is entirely up to you. You can 
 begin with default heroes or customize your hero with one of more than 70 different portraits and 
 further customize him with fully adjustable attributes and the full list of any and all available 
 hero abilities. And when your hero gains an experience level, you're not given a single choice 
 of advancement from a restricted list. Your hero is instead awarded with a certain number of points 
 and can choose from the same list of all the special abilities available. Naturally, some abilities 
 cost more points than others and will require your hero to advance an additional level before purchasing 
 them. In any case, you have a great deal of control over both the creation and development of your 
 heroes, especially as they gain levels; this is particularly important in Age of Wonders' campaign, 
 in which you carry your main leader hero from scenario to scenario.  

 The Age of Wonders campaign itself can be played in one of two ways, either as the good-aligned 
 races allied with the elves or as the evil-aligned races allied with the dark elves. In either 
 case, the campaign game consists of scenarios that branch off in a nonlinear fashion dictated by 
 the game's story: You'll be forced to choose from different paths based on the path you previously 
 chose, and the end result will in fact affect your standing in the final scenario. This branching 
 structure adds to Age of Wonders' replay value, as you can always reload a previous saved game 
 and try exploring a different path.  

 The game includes 22 scenarios, two branching campaigns, and a map editor, which collectively provide 
 many hours of solid gameplay. Unfortunately, Age of Wonders doesn't have a random-map generator, 
 so jumping into a new quick-and-dirty scenario isn't an option. As such, after you've tried all 
 the scenarios and the campaigns and familiarized yourself with all the maps, you won't have much 
 new material to look forward to outside of player-made maps.   

 Age of Wonders looks and sounds good for the most part. It doesn't break much new ground, but it 
 does integrate some of the best elements of some of the best turn-based strategy games out there 
 with a few of its own features.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TankmanT34
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  The Artificial Intelligence (AI) is advanced for a game of this vintage. In Skirmished different 
 'character' opponents can be chosen. Admittedly its real time but the Command and Conquer series 
 didn't get round to that until Tiberium wars, years later. Opponents don't keep attacking with 
 the same route and same petty force. They build up coordinated forces and use them wisely. This 
 is not next generation stuff, and I'm sure its largely scripted rather than reactive, but it provides 
 a challenge. AI that can give you heart stopping moments when you realise the elves have snuck 
 a force in behind you, is worth something.
  
  I cannot over emphasise the importance of AI for a compelling game. This game proved that with 
 careful thought and time in programming, setting a game to difficult didn't just mean bankrolling 
 your opponent, essentially allowing them to cheat. It means they are a reactive enemy (if processors 
 aren't quite there yet in power for really reactive opponents then clever scripting will have to 
 do for the moment) . In the turn based battles you know the enemy's going to do some maybe slightly 
 unpredictable things. They also won't just be able to crush you with resources. If you loose a 
 battle you feel respect for the AI for putting up such a good fight!
  
  Boredom comes slowly, thanks to the sheer variety of weapons, spells, factions, maps, and facets 
 to the world that 'The Gathering' (developers) create. It's a big world with a lot to explore and 
 add to. 
  
  And you get lost in it. The sounds of bird song in forests, the farm animals, the chip of picks 
 in the gold mines, it lets you suspend disbelief. The text before each scenario is well written 
 and tells of great fantasy empires, wars, sorcerers and kings. We humans are suckers for a good 
 story. The map is populated with craggy mountain ranges, walled towns huddled in valleys, deep 
 forests, and deeper caves. When you take it apart its only a load of hexagonal design blocks, but 
 attention has been paid to make this fantasy world real and yet unreal. The Gathering succeed in 
 giving it all the hidden places you want for a mystical romp.
  
  It's a game for the shrewd headed. Its not a micro managers game. You topple your opponents by 
 knowing how far your troops can march, by raising armies carefully, and by snatching poorly defended 
 settlements from under your enemy's nose.
  
  Age of Wonders is easy to learn yet difficult to be really good at. Its variety and compelling 
 strategy make you want to be good. This is a classic example of a job well done in a turn based 
 strategy game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartharel
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Its always quite amusing to find stories of alternate histories for earth, and its also quite fun 
 to have a game that incorparates two types of gameplay into one. Age of wonders is a turn based 
 strategy and RPG at the same time. you can upgrade your heroes and leaders the way you want, give 
 them weapons that you find etc. The game has around 6 alternate endings, so you will find yourself 
 playing through the game many times to do all the levels in the campaign. because its turn based, 
 the game allows for no less than 12 factions, each with a total of 12 units each. the game comes 
 with a simple yet good map editor, however, for some reason there is no dialogue. a world filled 
 with generic music, battle cries and death sounds is all you will get in the sound department. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Variaz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Age of Wonders may not be the most popular strategy game, but I believe it's certainly one of the 
 best.
  
  The setting is a classic fantasy setting, with elves, dwarves, orcs and undeads. There's a total 
 of 12 races to choose from, each with their own units, advantages, disadvantages and strategies. 
 Unlike most turn-based strategy games, this one offers the unique feature of allowing all players 
 to play their turns simultaneously. But if you prefer, you can also use a classic turn-based mode. 
 You also control heroes in this game, which have customizeable stats and abilities. You can also 
 give them various weapons and armors, and they can also learn powerful spells.
  
  The graphics were great for their time, and the music is extremely catchy. Also, all units features 
 a brief story that explains it's role amongst the race it belongs too, and why it serves it. This 
 really adds a lot to the game, and reading each units descriptions is really fun! And finally, 
 the game features a map editor, so you can create your own maps, and download several other from 
 the Internet.
  
  Overall, Age of Wonders is one of my favorite strategy games, especially of the turn-based genre. 
 If you can find it in stores (I don't think it'll be very expensive) , I suggest you buy it. It's 
 worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUnified
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  Age of Wonders is my replacement for Master of Orion. When MOO was being difficult trying to play 
 on my current hardware and Windows OS, Age of Wonders filled that glorious spot of addictiveness 
 and simplistic wonder. No matter which race I played, or which magic I invested in, or which side 
 I played on, there was always something to do and a unique way to win. I twas very well balanced, 
 no one race or side was greater than the others, and you really relied upon the allies in conquering 
 the world.
  
  And just like MOO, I found I could play at my own pace; Destroy the world in under 2 hours, or 
 be cunning and diplomatic for weeks. It's a game that's as customizable in it's gameplay as you 
 want it to be. Plenty of spells to learn, lots of heroes to customize and build, armies to create, 
 and foes to destroy. A classic from start to end.
  
  Gameplay: Simplistic and customizable, play however you want. Tons of variety, no game is the same 
 as the next.
  
  Sound: Music helps, simple but effective. Not quite the glorious rapture of a symphony, but it 
 gets the job done. Sounds are simple and recycled, but they don't get annoying.
  
  Graphics: Resolution is customizable, able to see large parts of the land. Land detail was impressive, 
 but the units in battle seemed like one unit instead of several like it was trying to imitate, 
 and thus battles don't seem quite like large-scale like it tried to convey.
  
  Bottom Line: An awesome strategy game that any fan of the genre will love, or if you need something 
 to replace MOO. Extremely addictive and easy to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akazergling2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 15, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I was turned on to Age of Wonders by a friend who had been playing it for a few months and what 
 began as an innocent adventure soon became a deadly obsession... well not deadly but you get the 
 point.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  What ever youre fancy, be it building an underground Goblin Empire, or a peaceful Human confederacy, 
 Age of Wonders is the game for any fantasy strategy game fan. Combat has a very balanced yet intricate 
 system harkening back to the Heroes of Might and Magic series. Leaders, Siege Machines, creatures/monsters, 
 and plain units all play important roles in combat. With over 100 different spells, combat becomes 
 even more unique and interesting. Outside of combat, Age of Wonders is a classic turn-based strategy 
 game, with the added feature of 3 different vertical levels of play, those being the surface level, 
 the underground level, and the depths level. As you slowly conquer your way across the map you 
 will have to balance the defensive and offensive needs of your empire, diplomatic relations with 
 as much as 11 other races, and the research system.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  
  The Graphics in Age of Wonders, while not 3d, are almost poetic in nature. The terrain appears 
 to be hand drawn (in a good way) , cities each have a unique look and feel to them, and each of 
 the games units is unique to its race aside from the siege machines. The spell effects in Age 
 of Wonders are also exceptional, while slightly outdated now, is a good example of how a game can 
 look 3d without actually being 3d.
  
  Sound  7/10
  
  The Music is very enjoyable in Age of Wonders; each races city has its own music while the general 
 music used in the overview map is also quite enjoyable. Sound effects are also unique to each unit.
 
  
  Value  9/10
  
  Age of Wonders is a classic which you will probably enjoy for many months if not years after buying 
 it. Easy to find on Ebay or at most stores that carry older games, I recommend anyone interested 
 in a fun Fantasy/Strategy game to buy it.
  
  Reviewers Tilt  9/10
  
  I gave Age of Wonders a rating of 9/10 because I still enjoy the game and want it to continue to 
 be popular. With a decent multiplayer ability, run through gamespy, online games are pretty common 
 and the map editor is very accessible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drako45
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 12, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the greatest games I have ever played that did not focus on graphics, instead 
 it focused on control and gameplay. If you play this game you'll always keep it for later, when 
 you get bored of your other games. You can cheat if you find the game to difficult or just to make 
 it interesting. This game comes with its own editor, this way you can create your own scenarios 
 and maps from scratch or edit ANY existing scenarios that came with the game originally. This game 
 is perhaps even better than its sequel age of wonders 2. Personally I believe it is better than 
 most other games in its genre because its unbelievably good gameplay and value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaming_Smoke
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok where to start. You start off as choosing a race you like. Humans, Halfings frostings dark elfs.. 
 Or just in short words, The good side and the bad side. Then as you play on you have to capture 
 lands and get gold and mana which can cast spells. With that you can be able to make people and 
 pretty much own. Spells are amesome but you use lots of mana for it. Like casting death storm, 
 light storm, ECT. But a tip, dont waste all of your mana on a first turn just save up as it increasess 
 or find some on the map.
  
  Ok so lets say your on the Halfing race team. Its not only you as one team theres many others you 
 have the fight. Or in fact you can make peace with them only if they accept.
  
  This game is a really amazing game. Gameplay was amesome it grew on me and im looking forward for 
 some more age of wonder games. The graphics where pretty good but i belive it was fair, it didnt 
 have to look really good. The sound, Oh gosh! AMAZING!! i love the soundtrack it felt so good and 
 it matched the game. So if you like stragey games and like to command people this game is right 
 for you. I give this game a 9.9 it is the best stragiey game ever. Well thats just my opinon Hope 
 ya liked my review! :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauriseth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  When I was like 12 years old, I played this game; of course by the time, I was too little to appreciate 
 it, and now dying for playing it. After Lord of the Rings, it's the best game to compilate the 
 variety of races and magic. also, the catching thing is the money and magic flow, that makes the 
 game so addictive. However, this game has the abbility to prove someone's self-harmony. It's very 
 long, very unpredictable and very difficult, due to the fact that you must perceive every single 
 angle of the game to be abble to eject a flawless move or play. But if you look the full picture, 
 you'll see that this game is one well-worth it one, and if you can beat it, tou are a trully rockstar 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kumaylhassan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  Strategy gaming is one of the most favourite genres of video gaming all around the world. And this 
 is because of many masterpiece games produced by many developers. The reason why Age of wonder is 
 such a stunner is that it combines all the ingredients of a great game and keeps them together, scenario 
 after scenario infact it is so good that you will seldom find even a boring user created scenario 
 (if at all) . Gameplay is right up there a 10 it deserves it. Diplomacy or brute force the choice 
 is not always in your hands and this is why the game is so great. Graphics absoloutely beautifull 
 a 9. Sound, another strong point it has a in game juke box and some really cool tunes to play during 
 games, value a 10, the fact that the factions in the game have highly varied units and there is a 
 high variety of spells infact there is variety in everything this games is of high value. In short 
 highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mar044
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a good slow turn based game then Age Of Wonders Can't be beat, with its 
 great artwork and great music it will keep you playing for hours on end. It's one of the games 
 that even though it was made in 1999 t is worth what did did when it first came out. It has so 
 much content that it will take you hours to finish, with 2 campigns light side and dark side with 
 branching story lines their are at least 6 or 8 endings well worth playing over and over. The only 
 place you can buy it is on ebay but worth the buy whatever the price! 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SalaDin1296248
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I have played. I love it so much. First of all, because Evil &amp; Good 
 is very obvious in the game. The way you build cities &amp; Armies, shatter Evil &amp; distribute 
 Good on the World, it is a very good feeling you feel when you think you want to something for 
 Good. I think this is why Age of Wonders is the most close to my heart till now, even many games 
 is released talking about the same subject but with different way. Thank you very much for this 
 game. It is really Perfect at least to me..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allendar
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 19, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Triumph Studios really brings a peace of quallity to the PC with Age of Wonders. Almost all aspects 
 in the game are good but somehow it doesn't give that ultimate exitement that you get in the Heroes 
 of Might & Magic series.
  
  Maybe you think that comparison with other games musn't always be done directly, but because this 
 game and Heroes really has it's unique gameplay in their own style. And somehow you'll automaticly 
 compare with other games in that same style.
  
  Everything in the game is perfect. The graphics are really pleasing, the sound really gives a good 
 ambient and mood and directly takes you into the magical world.
  
  Somehow something in the game, while playing for some time, doesn't feel right. It starts to feel 
 the same while you are in the progression of the game. Also the storyline is pretty good, but doesn't 
 give that boost to drive you with constant pleasure while progressing.
  
  Overall I would really recommend games in this series at first. Age of Wonders is really a must 
 if you like playing the pre-heroes series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario5555555555
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  a game set in a fantasy world wiith elves, orcs, goblins, humans, undead and lizards clash together 
 to name a few of the playable races.
  
  the gameplay is on the map similar to the Civilization games, but the towns and the combat are 
 way more complicated, 
  
  the combat is dahm nice and a bix complex wich i as a strategy and RPG gamer have a thing for, 
 the units are varied and so are the maps, to not forget that the units are exelent animated
  
  The game is a must buy for everyone who is a fan of Turn Based and Fantasy Games, 
  
  it 
 might be a bit old but the game system is still great, 
  
  if you are a fan of graphics you might consider the Sequel, which has better graphics but i must 
 say, not so great gameplay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: White-Tornado
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  Age of wonders is a great game that is fun and if you get it at wal-mart cheap. Because of the 
 price I thought it was not going to be that great but you know what, it was. This game brought 
 a lot to the table and was a fun yet challenging game. You had many options of what to do and you 
 can even chose what side to fight for. this is contradictory to a lot of games and I was very surprised 
 about how the game played out. I still play this game quite often because its an all around good 
 game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NecroMauri
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  It's a very nice game for it's desing so wondeful and his game play make it like a chest PC version. 
 I used to play it with cheats (I know, lame...) , but once I had the opportunity to play without 
 them I saw the great game it is. Even when everything is on the loop, you could see the way to 
 create a powerful race and make profit to meke your enemies succumb or the a mighty spellmaster 
 and do everybody to kneel to you or the best, get your army to the top seed of streng and destroy 
 everything in your step. in every sense a total strategist with fantasy and fiction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killjoi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Age of Wonders is a fairly solid case of turn-based strategy with a high-fantasy theme. The graphics 
 are functional and somewhat endearing if you're used to the genre's emphasis on gameplay over presentation 
 in general. The sound isn't much to write home about, and musically it's about what you'd expect 
 from a game featuring Tolkien-esque overtones.
  
  Word of warning -- the difficulty of the game can be extremely uneven depending on what course you 
 decide to take (there are several branching points from mission to mission) . That aside, this is 
 a fantastic budget buy if it's even still available, and in the case that it's not, you can probably 
 still acquire it's superior sequel on the discount rack of most stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mepos6639
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2005 4:00 am PT
Review:  oh yeh ! !! !!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!!! 
 !!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!! !! !!!!!!! !
  yup
  oh hell yeh !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! ! !!!!!! !!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! ! !!! !!!!!
  XOXO XOXOX 
 OO XOX O XOXOXO OX OXO XOXOXOO XOX OXOXO OXOXOXO XOXO OXO XO XO XOX XOX OX XO XO XO XO XOOX OX 
 OO XOX OX O XOOX OX OXO XOOX
  XOXOXO XO OX OXO X OXOXO OX XO XOO XO OX OX O O XOXOXOOXO OX OXOXO O XOXOXO OX OX OXOXO X OXO O 
 XO XOX O XO OXOXOX OXOXOX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortuus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2004 1:34 am PT
Review:  Age of Wonders is a turn-based strategy game set in a fantasy world. The game is very in depth, 
 strategic, and fun. I have owned the game for years and I still play it quite often.
  
  When you first load the game you can either play the campaign or play multiplayer. The campaign 
 is hard, I wont lie to you. However, the story is very good and the missions are very interesting. 
 The game is solid and very balanced, which unfortunately is very rare when it comes to turn-based 
 strategy.
  
  Much like the second game in the series, the multiplayer is the best part. You probably wont find 
 any active games on the net, and you will probably have a hard time finding a good PBEM (Play By 
 E-Mail) game, but if you have a buddy with another computer or you dont mind playing against the 
 computer, then you wont be disappointed with this game.
  
  The multiplayer scenarios that come with the game are very well thought out and all very interesting. 
 The game ships with a map editor that allows you and others to create your own scenarios, and there 
 are literally hundreds upon hundreds of fan made scenarios available for download off of the internet.
 
  
  There are a total of twelve playable races to choose from such as humans, dwarves, drow, undead, 
 etc. Each race has its own units and any race can have any sphere of magic. For example, an elven 
 king could practice death magic or an undead king could practice life magic. There are a total 
 of six spheres of magic to practice: life, death, fire, earth, air, and water.
  
  Maps can have a total of three layers: surface, caverns, and deeper caverns. This can make for 
 some very, very large maps to play on, some taking even a month to get through.
  
  Of course, old games have old graphics. The graphics in this game are *very* dated. To me, good 
 graphics are nice but they are not important. Instead, game play is what matters and this game 
 has it in great detail.
  
  If you like turn-based strategy and graphics are not terribly important, then grab this game from 
 the bargain bin or an online retailer and youll be getting a lot for your money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtreusGS
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 24, 2004 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Age of Wonders is a surprising game that is rich in design and lots of fun to play. As a turn based 
 game, players will find similarities with the Heroes of Might and Magic series. While controlling 
 various units and armies, the player is faced against different warlords and spirits who control 
 the world. 
  
  The plot is fairly engaging - involving different races and different units. The different races 
 do not all get along - though as the player progresses, one has to find a way to use them all to 
 accomplish your mission.
  
  The mission based play presses the player along, with options for side quests which are recommended.
 
  
  Overall this game doesn't have many twists that make this game extrodinary. But rather, it is a 
 very solid game with good dynamics. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
