-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Age of Pirates: Caribbean Tales
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/seadogs2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Open-ended gameplay features some interesting role-playing elements.
 Impressive-looking water and weather effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Prone to crashing and random acts of weirdness.
 Slow, haphazard pace goes from sluggish sea battles to silly on-foot fights.
 Convoluted, awkward interface.
 Wildly inconsistent presentation quality.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.7
Critic Score: 6.1, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 705 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Playlogic
Developer: Akella
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Sep 12, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A countless number of rough edges and some major bugs sap just about all the potential for entertainment 
 from this overambitious, underdeveloped game. 

  The life of a pirate must have been pretty rough, and being rough is one thing Age of Pirates: 
 Caribbean Tales certainly nails down pat. This convoluted, buggy game greatly overextends itself, 
 presenting an open-ended role-playing experience that combines ship-to-ship combat and on-foot 
 exploration throughout the Caribbean islands during the golden age of piracy. This game might as 
 well be a sequel to the developers' previous piracy games, including 2003's Pirates of the Caribbean 
 and 2000's Sea Dogs, so it's a shame that the broader, more ambitious scope of this latest take 
 on the formula just leads to more problems.  

          If you liked Sid Meier's Pirates!, then keep playing it instead of this.     

  Much 
 like Akella's previous games, in Age of Pirates you play as a freebooter looking for fame and fortune 
 on the high seas. You can choose to play as either a male or female character, and you start off 
 with a modest ship and crew, and may then proceed to go wherever you like in the Caribbean. Whether 
 you either take on missions for the various European nations that have set up camp on the isles 
 or plunder their merchant vessels is pretty much up to you. By completing various quests and sinking 
 or successfully boarding enemy ships, you'll gain levels of experience that let you customize your 
 sea captain's abilities. You also need to be mindful of your ship's crew -- their health, morale, 
 and salaries -- and may employ officers to help you navigate and fight. There's a lot to think about 
 and to do in Age of Pirates. If only it all worked as well as could reasonably be expected.  

 
  The game gets off to a worrisome start by presenting you with a screen dense with different gameplay 
 options, such as nation progress rate, encounter frequency, sailing settings, and simplified sea 
 artificial intelligence. There's also an overall difficulty option, but it's hard not to presume 
 that a game presenting this fine a level of customization right off the bat is a game that isn't 
 trying very hard to deliver a well-balanced experience. Indeed, Age of Pirates often feels aimless, 
 and the simple text-based quests you'll be given are hardly incentive enough to hold interest. 
 The character-leveling system is probably the most compelling reason to keep playing, but the longer 
 you play, the more the game seems to unravel. Open-ended games ought to reward experimentation 
 and exploration, but this one is almost as likely to crash on you as you keep doing things your 
 way.  

  The pacing and quality of presentation in Age of Pirates are also all over the place. You can tell 
 most of the effort went into creating nice-looking ships, water, and weather effects, because the 
 close-up sailing sequences look very pretty. Most of the rest of the game just looks bad, though, 
 and the clunky interface is unclear and hard to get used to. Bombastic music flares up when your 
 ship gets into a fight, making these deliberate battles feel rushed. While you can initially adjust 
 settings to affect the ship-to-ship combat, these battles wind up being long, slow slogs regardless 
 of your choices. This may be relatively realistic, but you're left with little to do but turn and 
 switch ammo types while your ships wage war. To help speed things along, there's a good chance 
 you'll want to try to move in and board your enemy's vessel, especially since that's the easiest 
 way to get yourself a bigger, better ship (why buy one when you can take one?) . Boarding attempts 
 culminate in a choppy, ridiculous action sequence in which you'll hack at the enemy crew and its 
 captain. These battles haven't changed much since Akella's previous pirate games, and by now they 
 come across as completely substandard.  

  It's too bad so much of this game feels half-baked, since there are many different details you 
 might otherwise want to sink your teeth into in Age of Pirates. Ships may be upgraded with different 
 types of hulls, sails, and cannons, which all carry certain advantages and disadvantages that force 
 you to make interesting trade-offs (such as between durability and maneuverability) . Improving 
 your captain's tactics rating lets you command larger squadrons of vessels, if you prefer strength 
 in numbers. And if you're feeling bold, you can attempt to attack and capture a colony by battling 
 its defensive fortresses, mopping up guards on foot, and even ransoming off the former governor. 
 As you play, your character's overall reputation and his or her standing with the different Caribbean 
 factions will change. Leveling up also lets you choose from a variety of special abilities that 
 let you bolster your captain's abilities as a sailor, a fighter, a leader, a negotiator, and more. 

          Age of Pirates would be better off in Davy Jones' Locker than on your hard drive.     

 
  The back of the box also asserts that there's a multiplayer mode for up to 16 players, including 
 four modes: deathmatch, team deathmatch, defend the convoy, and capture the fort. However, we could 
 find literally no one playing any of these modes online, and there's barely so much as a mention 
 of the multiplayer modes in the game's 60-page manual. Assuming these modes are fully functional, 
 they still probably wouldn't be much fun, considering the ship-to-ship combat in the game is especially 
 dull when you strip out all the role-playing and boarding elements.  

  Age of Pirates is comparable to Sid Meier's Pirates! from 2004, yet while that game distilled down 
 the concept of being a high-seas swashbuckler to its essentials, this newer one drowns in the details. 
 The game just feels rushed and dated, and it comes across as if the developers bit off a lot more 
 than they could chew. It's understandable that in the wake of Pirates!, a similar game would try 
 to differentiate itself by providing many more gameplay features. But to say that the quality of 
 the execution of this game leaves a lot to be desired would be putting it nicely.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (35 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: leffy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 2:08 pm PT
Review:  When originally released, I remember sitting and waiting for the patches required to make it start, 
 load, run stable and fix all the things lacking, to come out. I was not impressed by the publisher 
 then, as the game was clearly released prematurely. However, once the required patches were available, 
 I think it is fair to say that the game is one of the few games I regularly revert to and as such 
 it is a "classic". In my view this game has more depth and just as much atmosphere compared to 
 Sid Meier's "Pirates!". Maybe not as much charm, but if you are one of those Horatio-Hornblower-wannabees 
 who thinks that sea battles and continuous search for gold and glory is worth playing for, then 
 this is definitely an option to try out.
  
  I also like the rather simple trade system. It is not very sophisticated, but it is there and it 
 allows me earn money when I am not looking for a fight.
  
  The good: Lots of atmosphere, good graphics (particularly considering it's a few years now) , time 
 consuming naval battles and OK trading system.
  The bad: Too few options for exploration onshore and formula-like conversation with people you 
 run into. Sometimes missions are seemingly impossible, so keep a save-game before you start a new 
 voyage or cross other "mile stones".
  
  After experiencing sudden problems on several graphic cards with my old "Imperial glory" leaving 
 me without a good naval battle game and only just recently having got hold of Empire Total War 
 , I must say this game has filled a "naval battle gap". I think it must be the open sea atmosphere 
 and the naval battles that probably explains why I consider it a classic.
  
  Of course, I'd love to see people on the deck also when in first person mode, not just 3rd person, 
 but it seems that time is ripe for a new version, so until AOP 2 is released I guess I'll keep 
 AOP on my hard drive for a while longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gpassen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a game with excellent gameplay and interesting improvements over its predecessors (2000's 
 Sea Dogs and 2003's Pirates of the Caribbean) . I first obtained Sea Dogs, loved it, and wanted 
 more. I found it very basic. Next I got Pirates of the Caribbean, which didn't work on my computer. 
 Finally, I got Age of Pirates. It ran on my computer! The graphics are exponentially better than 
 anything in Sea Dogs, and so I was happy... until the crashes started. The game crashes on the save 
 menu and load menu sometimes. It crashes on the inventory menu, depending on which officers I hire. 
 This game is exceedingly unstable, which is its demise. However, the gameplay is awesome. I particularly 
 enjoy bringing my ship right next to an allied ship that is more powerful than mine, switching 
 to first person view, and letting loose with a powerful broadside. While they reel from the blast, 
 I board and take the ship as my own, leaving an officer in command of the previous ship. Then I 
 attack a fortress, capture a colony, and earn money that way. The gameplay is excellent, which 
 makes the crashes that much worse. However, if you are a patient person, i would recomment this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hents7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  This is the best pirate game, i've played so far, defenetly better than sid meier's pirates. The 
 ship fights are better, graphics are better and even ships are better. It is a quite hard game, 
 but it makes it interesting . But it has some bad sides: you can't have many cities, because you 
 will have to save them all the time, ship fights are good but slow, boarding fights are not that 
 interesting, story is a bit weird and hard, enemy has so good ships all the time, capturing a city 
 is not that easy, in fact, it's very difficult, traveling takes time, sometimes a lot of time and 
 it has some minor bugs. but at least the wind changes more often then in sid meier's pirates. You 
 can't search for treasures like in sid meier's pirates, but at least you can fight with friends, 
 unlike in sid meier's pirates . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caetrarii
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  First off, yes, the game has a thing for crashing, but I can disregard that fact since it only 
 happens when I'm boarding/being boarded, where the game autosaves, hence the 10 extra seconds it 
 takes to boot the game back up and load the save are easily forgotten.
  
  The graphics are good, and the physics are great most of the time (getting shot at by an enemy 
 ship and see the cannonballs poke holes in your sails is a nice touch) . So far there's nothing 
 I don't like about the game. You can do just about anything, from raiding trade convoys, kidnap 
 civilians and demand ransom, attack settlements and take them as your own, smuggle contraband... 
 etc.
  
  The game looks realistic enough to satisfy me. It's gotten me addicted to the game and I play it 
 every chance I get.
  
  The game starts off nicely, really nicely, albeit the lack of a tutorial, and as I went on and 
 tried to attack a trade ship, I'm pretty certain the captain laughed at me and sailed away since 
 I couldn't even grasp the basic maneuvering of the ship. I would've liked a small tutorial maybe 
 that shows you right from the bat how to steer a ship and attack other ships. The game has alot 
 to offer with minimal bugs.
  
  I say minimal bugs because they aren't really that much effecting your gameplay, discluding the 
 crashes. The game is quite enjoyable if you give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sqwishybon
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 15, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  I read like 3 reviews before I tried the game out and they were all damn wrong! In combat, the 
 sound only plays about half the time and when talking to people in town they all say like two different 
 things when you first talk to them. The graphics are sorta ok (they were probably stunning a year 
 and a half ago, idk i wasn't born then) but I had to manually set my resolution (1280x1024 IT'S 
 NOT THAT DIFFICULT!) in the engine. ini file or whatever the hell it's called. There is no tutorial! 
 At all! No help to tell you what to push no hints or tips. You hafta check your controls in the 
 options like 30 times to figure out what to push, and you change the controls to middle mouse or 
 anything other than left/right click. The game crashes more than spore\'s release date gets pushed 
 back! Listen to gamespot's review of this one, they\'re right for once.
  
  The only thing this sim accurately portrays is the result of hamsters with down syndrome fed nothing 
 but liquefied plastic mixed with glue for eight years and set loose on a keyboard! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  This game starts of amazing. I got hooked, I loved it, I sailed I earned money, got ManOWar , ranked 
 myself amazingly high, got unbeatable crew and started enjoying it as much as Pirates of the Caribbean. 
 However, Pirates of the Caribbean had that extra bit to take it up to the 9 section with its very 
 nice ideas that actually had to be developed. A nice idea here, which is already seen, is to conquer 
 towns and develop them. It doesn't actually take much time for the developers to develop a few 
 more buttons where you can upgrade your towns and stuff. But in actual effect you cannot see this 
 effect, when you go to the town it is still the same, the fortification has not changed and you 
 can lose it just as easily as you gained it. It takes a lot of running around to get anywhere, 
 especially when you have to conquer the entire caribbean. 
  
  Many other ideas could have been more deeply developed to bring it to a new level. Such ideas could 
 have been side missions, strange things. blah blah blah, you know like a role playing game. This 
 game was just OK and even though it grew on me I cannot help wonder about its broken nonsense bits 
 especially when Beatrice goes away and the storyline doesn't follow through. The storyline starts 
 well but abysmally fails towards the end. 
  
  All in all, a very playable game with loads of potential that could easily reach rank 8 had the 
 end not been messed up and the storyline simply followed through. Many other bits could have brought 
 it to 9 but unfortunately it's stuck at 7, perhaps even a bit lower than 7 because a game that 
 ruins the end ruins the entire gameplay enjoyment for you. 
  
  I will give it 7 as I think I should encourage developers to make games like this one but pay more 
 attention to it rather than just wrap it up early probably because of low budgets. Another problem 
 is that the game is not linear per se but yet has a storyline which makes the game a lot shorter 
 than it could be.
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing 
 if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In this game you take on the role of reckless fortune-hunter Blaze, or redheaded daredevil 
 Beatrice. Explore your colonies and fight side-by-side with your crew. Akella showed off its new 
 pirate simulation, titled Age of Pirates. Taking the word freelance to a whole new level, AOP offers 
 no overall story. You'll start by creating your swashbuckling hero from a fairly diverse set of 
 options. You get to sail around and trade with other nations or raid them. Once in the game, you're 
 pretty much left to your own devices. You get to go in to town and recruit people, buy supplies 
 and fight people. You can do many things in town it's kinda like GTA, you can even go into any 
 random city and kill any random citizen, although you'll anger the guards and lower your standing 
 with the nation. The controls are pretty simple, the controls are like a FPS type of game. Graphics: 
 The graphics are really quite good. Everything is very detailed and colorful an in 3-D. Everything 
 runs smoothy in the game during gameplay.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack suite game well. The voices are ok aswell. The sounds effects in the game 
 sound the way they should sound in real life.
  
  
  Value: All in all this is a ok game but it did not deserve the rating it got from gamespot. The 
 replay value is allright but it's eomthing you might not want to play gain but hey it's up to you 
 every one loves pirates. I give this game 7.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ablain1981
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 31, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Age of Pirates feels like a great idea slapped together by a group of graphic designers. Considering 
 the major bugs and occasional crashes, it's hard to believe that there were any experienced programmers 
 working on this project.
  
  Trying to play the game really makes you appreciate the auto-save feature. There are many times 
 when the game crashes or acts funny and the auto-save comes in very handy. I have the latest patch 
 and still there are many times when my ships have two or three times as many goods in them as they 
 can hold or have hundreds of crew members over what the ship should be allowed to have. I have 
 had my man-o-war bump into a sinking lugger and suddenly be propelled from 6 knots to 200 knots 
 sideways in a circle until I sink. I have pressed the take all button only to have all the goods 
 in my ship removed and the other ship recieve hundreds of thousands of everything. I have recieved 
 messages from my collonies that said aaiaiie iiaiaia iiai .
  
  Bugs aside, the AI is horrible. Enemies tend to behave pretty normally, but your allies tend not 
 to listen to your orders, crash into everything in site, get in your way and otherwise get themselves 
 sunk by ships a fifth their strength. My work around so far is to take the fastest ship in the 
 fleet for myself and finish the battle as quickly as possible. As quickly as possible is not as 
 quick as it sounds.
  
  The sea battles in Age of Pirates are fun for the first little while. As the game wears on however, 
 you have ships that make everyone cower in fear. You can quickly get yourself to the point where 
 there are no enemies willing to put up a fight, taking all the fun out of fighting them.
  
  No matter what you do in Age of Pirates, eventually it comes to a point where the game gets repetitive 
 and a little boring. There are times when you're waiting around for you colony's population to 
 grow, but there is no way to make time pass quicker in the world screen. Trying to build up your 
 money requires repeating the same limited number of tasks over and over again.
  
  In spite of all of it's downfalls, if you wish there were more to Pirates! and you don't mind the 
 occasional bug or two, Age of Pirates is a pretty fun game. I definitely don't regret picking it 
 up and have gotten many hours of enjoyment out of it. However, when I'm done with it, it is unlikely 
 the game will ever get reinstalled on my computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ-Vegeta
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  You seriously need to play games more , you can't appreciate this wonderful game . From the reviews 
 i have read you made this game look like a horrible game ,but from what i have seen - it's terrific 
 . Good graphics and interesting quests . i have patched it to a newer version of the game and i 
 can say it's unbelievably good , i play this game with a lot of excitement , especially the battles 
 with pirates and the battles with ships . It's quite a entertainment . Seriously people you can't 
 appreciate this game enough . But I can forgive you - not every one is a gamer like me , I can 
 agree with only a few reviews about this game hire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markwal
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  The majority of the bugs have been corrected with the new 1.5 patch. Yes there still is a few but 
 nothing that takes away from the enjoyment of this game. It has everything pirate game needs excellent 
 sea battles, great sword fights plus a huge bonus! They made the characters in the game level with 
 experience much like dungeons and dragons. Everything has been thought of in this game it&amp;#8217; s 
 worth buying now. The quest never interferes with what you want to do FREEDOM!! This game really 
 lives up to the jolly roger. Oh and by the way if you do get bored with the game you can always 
 give it a new twist by installing the super mod. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAMGS_Freak
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  If you're not into role-playing games, this is a very good place to start. Although this may be 
 the most buggy game I've ever played, I must say that it completely captured me.
  
  The graphics are somewhat lacking. Don't get me wrong, there are some great effects and surfaces 
 in there, but a lot of it seems to be cut off short, like something more could have been added. 
 This goes for the audio-track as well. All in all, it looks as though this game needs about six 
 more months in the cooker.
  
  The storyline has something rarely found in over-ambitious games; a great foundation followed by 
 a hollow feeling of disappointment. Oftentimes, it'll be the other way around; a weak baseline 
 hidden behind amazing effects and stereotypical dialogue. This is not the case with Caribbean Tales 
 - the story does contain a lot of substance, all you need to do, is allow yourself to delve into 
 it.
  This may take some imagination, but come on - how hard could it be? Just last Sunday, my niece 
 said to me: Did you know Santa has a red bottom? and she's only five years old! :-P
  
  Give it a shot, you won't be disappointed..! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerbee009
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 21, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  OMG Man do not buy this game
  the graphics are on the highest that i can here and the game crashing all the time
  really not 
 an good point
  so i think the game is one big bug
  i already deleted it and burned the cd down: P
  so i can tell you all do not buy this game
  
 it's really not good for the money you pay for it..............
  i think they should fix this bug
  they wont even give me my money back!!!!
  and it's not about 
 my graphics cause it's all on high!!!
  and the game isn't laggin or someonthing... so it's not my pc that cant have it! it's just the 
 game that is like **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoZbaNaToR
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  You play a free pirate when you start the game. It takes place in the Carribean Archipelago Islands. 
 You can choose a country to represent or just play it as a mere pirate. It all starts with a map 
 that was sent by your father who had died many years ago. You can't react to the given map because 
 it's teared in half. After you spend 2-3 hours just figuring out how to play the game and get the 
 hang of On-deck, Sea Mode, and Foot Mode controls, it gets pretty smooth. You'd be lucky if you 
 didnt get a system crash while trying to figure and explore the game... If you didnt, just wait 
 a couple of seconds... It will... After you restart the game you'll realize you can earn skill 
 points and money by either activating the letter of marque by a country of your choice or just 
 declare war against any country and fight your way through thier supply lines and war squadrons. 
 You should have realized by now that the graphics in this game are truly breathtaking. The sea 
 looks almost real, and everything seems so realistic. After a while, during doing chores for the 
 governor or just free roaming the Caribbean you'll stumble on the second half of the map, which 
 this time you have to buy from a bar tender at this tavern. So you should hope you have the right 
 amount of money for its asked price is a bit high. After you figure out what the encryption means 
 you'll head towards an island to meet your long-lost sister and ally to fulfill your fathers' dream. 
 Liberitana: A free land for all and a get-away from the Old World. After that you just stick to 
 the main quest, ofcourse, alongside annoying bugs and errors. It is when you declare to be the 
 new Pirate Boss and set a meeting with the Free Pirates, you get lost. I spent days trying to figure 
 out what to do but with no luck. You later on realize you should conquer the whole carribean to 
 finish the game. So it's a pretty bad storyline if you ask me. When we play more, we realize how 
 ambitious the game really is. With the beautiful graphics, the detailed interface, and the sense 
 of complete free roam. The islands are all accessible, but the only buildings you ever enter (mostly) 
 are the following:
  
  -Ports: Not exactly a building but you can find arms dealers to buy newer swords and pistols for 
 yourself, your officers, and crew.
  
  -Stores: To purchase goods for trade, food for your crew, ammunition (cannonballs, bombs, grapes, 
 knipples, planks, and sailcloth) . And the ability to sell if you have any unwanted goods on board 
 you ship.
  
  -Shipyards: To upgrade your ship (Hull, Sails, and Cannons) . You could also buy ships or increase 
 your armada if you have a good tactics level by buying additional ships.
  
  -Taverns: Where you could refill your crew, hire new officers (You must assign 3 fighters, a navigator, 
 a quartermaster, a boatswain, a cannons officer, a surgeon, and a carpenter) , and get the latest 
 news. You can also get lodgings (a room) to sleep in for the next day.
  
  -Churches: Very later on in the game when you actually start conquering colonies are available 
 for entering. You donate an amount of money to settle your stance with a country so they would 
 no longer pursuit you or allow you to moore in their port by firing at you with their fort.
  
  -Banks: To be honest I never got to unlock them during the game. They wouldn't unlock. But 
 I bet they were just for depositing your money and gaining interest every month.
  
  -Residence: Usually where the governor\boss resides.
  
  Skills are another important and fun 
 thing in the game. they give you the advantage over your enemies and you choose to upgrade what 
 you want. Each skill has a limit of 10 skill points. Your skills consist of the following:
  
  -Leadership: An important skill which represents your control over the crew and their morality 
 (their morality would no longer fluctuate easily) .
  
  -Navigation: The more you add to this skill, the better you handle your ship.
  
  -Tactics: 
 Every 2 skill points enables you to add an extra ship to your armada.
  
  -Fencing: An important skill which helps you inflict more damage to you opponents and reduces the 
 amount of energy loss every time you perform a strike with your sword. (Only the types of strikes) .
 
  
  -Pistols: The ability to increase accuracy and inflict more damage with every shot of your pistol.
 
  
  -Cannons: The greater this skill, the faster your cannoneers reload the cannons on deck, the less 
 chance of a cannon exploding while firing, and the more damage inflicted to the enemies' hull.
 
  
  -Accuracy: The less chance of you missing the target. This skill increases your cannons' accuracy 
 to get a better chance of inflicting critical hits to your enemies' hull.
  
  -Boarding: When you board other ships to fight the crew and take control of the ship, this skill 
 will enable you to board from a further distance rather than getting too close every time you increase 
 this skill.
  
  -Defense: The more skill points increased, the less damage your ship and crew take during battles.
 
  
  -Repair: The efficiency and rate of repairs while in the world map.
  
  -Trade: Make better deals with store-keepers and profit more when you sell your goods.
  
  -Luck: 
 The more invested in this skill, the better luck you get.
  
  The game offers many more details when it comes to building structures in your captured ports, 
 and managing your money equivalently.
  
  This game is truly misinterpreted. All-in-all this game was a tad away from utter success. If it 
 wasn't for its' annoying crashes and bad story line (that is if there is a complete storyline) 
 this game would have been declared a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Runmymouth
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 12, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This game was something I had though looked cool for a while so when I finally saw it at gamespot, 
 I picked it up. The first complaint I have is that it runs an additional program on my computer 
 to check if its a valid dvd, and requires restart. This gets me nervous already about this game.
 
  
  Well i load it up and look for something like a tutorial, nothing exsists. Then when i start a 
 game the ui is horrible. Having to move myself with my mouse and keyboard, I cant just use one, 
 I have to use both. The game does looks pretty, the graphics are amazing, but this game needs a 
 major overhaul on the ui and tutorial to make it worthy of having fun. Mabey ill pop this back 
 out next weekend if i can pry myself off medieval total war II coming out this week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R0gueUK
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 31, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  Age of Pirates is the only pirate game that does not have the whole map of the Caribbean. But I 
 need to say the hand to hand fighting is miles better in age of pirates than Sid Meir's Pirates 
 (new version) only because with Sid Meir's pirates you are 100% guaranteed of winning the fight 
 if your know the tactic. Eg counter then attack then straight away attack. With Age of pirates 
 it can be difficult sometimes. Hopefully the next pirates game to come out would be a mix of sid 
 miers pirates &amp; the hand to hand combat in age of pirates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerguy919
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 27, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  Play a pirate to its highest potential in Age of Pirates: Caribbean Tales. Sail through the Caribbean 
 on a massive War Galleon or a sleek Sloop. Either way you can master the high seas in this fantastic 
 game. Age of Pirates: Caribbean Tales starts you off in 1640's just when the pirates were becoming 
 infamous. You begin just as any pirate... with a small crew working for king and country or for 
 merchants. You are first given a mysterious piece of a map from your father, which is up to you 
 to find out what its meaning is. The game is totally up to you how it goes. Some of the best features 
 of the game are the graphics and sound, the story (or the lack thereof) , and the gameplay.
  
  GRAPHICS AND SOUND
  The graphics in this game are beautiful! The scenes are so real and serene 
 at times you forget that you're supposed to be sailing a ship. The graphics surprised me when I 
 first played the game and they still are. The rich colors that have been used in the game give 
 that extra perk in my book. The sounds are just as cool though maybe not as real as the graphics, 
 though I've never heard a real cannon fire. While playing in a battle or just sailing around you 
 can watch the action up close in 1st person or in the 3rd. Either way the graphics are just marvelous. 
 With chips of wood flying when hit, water rippling from sailing, or explosions from cannons the 
 graphics and sound are so full filling. STORY
  The story in a game like this can be time consuming and boring so the open ended story line is 
 just what this game needs. If the story is what you're wanting in this game then don't bother purchasing 
 this game instead buy Sid Meier's Pirates game. This game focuses on the life of a pirate not the 
 story of one pirate. Being a pirate of your own name is what this is more about. Sailing here and 
 there taking whatever you want is this games focus. Of course in a game with open ends you always 
 suffer some type of consequence for your action so this game is no exception. Beware of your enemies 
 is all I have to say.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay in this game is great in the sense that the battles are amazing and the trading is 
 good and the overall play is genuinely good and true to an that era. I thought that I would only 
 be doing sea battles with cannons much like Sid Meier's Pirates but I was very wrong. This game 
 puts more detail in a sea battle. In harder difficulties you have to sail in a battle in real time 
 meaning you must sail from this ship to that ship in the time it would require a actual ship of 
 the day (only in battle mode of course) . The beauty of this game is you actual could take the actual 
 3 days to sail to an island, but I wouldn't suggest it. The battles are very straight forward for 
 the most part but I would warn any one trying to take a colony to make sure you have multiple ships 
 at your disposal. Overall the gameplay is a little hard to get the hang of but once mastered its 
 a breeze.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS
  Age of Pirates: Caribbean Tales is a game for those who thought Sid Meier's Pirates was too easy 
 and simple. This game requires some tactics in battles especially in higher difficulties. The game 
 so far has been a wonderful breather from games like World of Warcraft. I have thoroughly enjoyed 
 this game and I'm very glad to have bought it despite what others have written. The game runs very 
 smoothly for me and is very beautiful as I have already mentioned before. The one problem I have 
 with it is it does crash from time to time. With that said I hope for patches in the near future, 
 in the mean time save as much as possible while playing. Its unfortunate that the game was rushed 
 into stores without being properly fined tuned for the US market. Age of Pirates: Caribbean Tales 
 is an awesome game to play and I plan to continue to play it for quite some time. Go out and have 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sydafek
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 15, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  the basic concept of a potentially good game is there, but way to many bugs and issues, most simple 
 things that should have been done before releaseing it, and many that they just skipped on... not 
 enough depth to the ships procedures,, sailing, battles, crew involvement etc etc... 2 sets of 
 sails, top n main, regardless of class and size of ship, just dosnt cut it... no real controll 
 over the guns, should half to call quarters before battle, should have to load and run out the 
 guns etc, and ammo types should not be ship wide, but individual, so to load a broadside of bombs 
 port, than grapeshot starboard, etc... can see your crew when your 3rd person but when you switch 
 to on deck view there gone,, come on what is that... the biggest issue with me is the map, no doubt 
 you need a way to make time pass at a high rate, but the map dosnt project to the real sea, uhhhmmm, 
 if i am surrounded by ships on the map and enter battle with one, only the one fleet i entered 
 into battle with are there, and it usually spits you out right beside them without any time to 
 strategise... on top of all that the AI is whorable, my own ships are always running into each 
 other and me, aswell as the enemy are crashen into each other etc... and you dont have a lot of 
 controll over your fleet as a whole, cant send a ship to one port and meet him later ect, or leave 
 a ship in port while heading out your self etc.. the fact you cant walk around your ship bugs me 
 aswell, cant go to your cabin, the hold ect, on deck or 3rd person.. after oblivion you'd think 
 they'd get it that we want to be able to have that full interaction....
  overall i say again, 1/2 a game,, or more 1/4 of a game...
  take this as a base, rebuild with 
 the oblivion engine, crossed with silent hunter style, and then were talking...
  but untill they get sumthing better, i'll still play till i get bored, im a decendent of Drake 
 and i must continue the legacy of terrorising the caribbean.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjan17
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 12, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  Like I said in the warning !! I have bought this game from the store and quite fast this game has 
 a very poor gameplay. Trust me the poor gameplay is not the worst of your stories. This game gives 
 you lot of freedom to allow you to do whatever you like, yet the biggest problem in this game is 
 the bugs. It is just impossible to play it crashes every 5 mins at later points as the game progresses. 
 Then the savegame gets corrupted for some reason and you can start all over again. This game is 
 only nice when you have Alzheimer or something and forget your repeating yourself all the time 
 !!! If you start looking on the internet you will find some nice stories about Akella and their 
 previous games I am suprised that they are still allowed to release games. They are just 1 big 
 fat scam pls trust me on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigPim
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 9, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  First the good things: Only one - the graphics. It is the only game feature that belong to year 
 2006 without further comments.
  The bad things: a lot.
  Worst game stability I ever seen in the last 10 years. the game crashes with or without any reason, 
 anytime. So, you must save a lot and reload a lot more for continious play.
  Poor game universe. Very few interactions with NPC. Main story linear and short. A lot of buildings 
 (banks, churches etc.) are not useable. I think the producers made the launch of this game without 
 finished it. I remeber one of the precedesesor of this game (Sea Dogs) with a more complicate and 
 passionate storyline and a lot of interactions.
  Stupid AI. Even you manage to gather the most powerfull naval force of the Caribbean, the AI will 
 continue to send against you stupid and weak enemies. This encounters will annoy every player. 
 In case that AI it is your ally (ships in your squadron) , it will excelate by inactivity.
  
  Bottom conclusion: It is a game launch without any substantial tests and, above all, without 
 any respect for the consumers. Shame on the publisher! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoplexiorayo
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 9, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  In age of pirates you can either play as two characthers a fortune hunter called Blaze, or his 
 red- headed daredevil sister Beatrice. The game sets you in the 17 century where you can live a 
 pirates life. There are six factions in the game you can pick to be. some of them are the french, 
 british and of course pirates. The first thing you will see is that if your new to these kind of 
 games, is that it will take a very long time to get into. learning the controls take time, and 
 fighting is very tough, since you only begin with a very bad class 6 ships. but you can upgrade 
 your ship with cannons and sails. and you need to increase your skills in the game to or you will 
 be crushed. some skills you can upgrade for your characther is navigation to steer your ship better, 
 or you need to use them for fencing, if you want to fight better. in age of pirates for the money 
 you get you must also use them on musketers, soldiers, sailors and cannoners. you will also need 
 to hire officers in the game if you want to take somebody elses ships, you must also pick skill 
 points for officers. the quests in this game are very fun. for example killing a pirate to be a 
 leader off the pirates. you can also take quest for money in this game like deliver slaves to colonies 
 or delivering a writer to a other island. but the problem is with these quests is that they are 
 very repetetive.
  
  The very nice thing about this game that changes it from most games are that you can do as your 
 wish. ut you mustce the consequenses of it.
  Ship battles can get really fun in this game, and some of them can get really epic. you must also 
 board ships in these battles which is really fun to begin with, but the problem is that they can 
 get very repetetive. its always the same go there kill them battle over. The ship battles in them 
 self can also get very boring. because at times it can get a little bit overrealistic, like your 
 ship drives at no speed because there is no wind. there is also very many bugs in this game like 
 every 50 minute the game will crash to desktop. and if sometimes your ship crashes with a other 
 guys ship the ship will fly across the map. its also very irritating to see in ship battles when 
 you ships sinks you will slowly have to watch the ship sink and then look at some strange death 
 picture. The AI will also do stupid things also like one little pirate ship of the enemy attacks 
 your 4 huge ships which is absoulutely stupid. the AI will also crash into a island to. so the 
 AI in the game is quite broken sometimes. but overall the single player is a very enjoyable expirience 
 even with all its bugs. and questing for hours rocks.
  
  Unfortunately the multiplayer isnt as good. joining a server can get really hard sometimes and 
 that makes it frustrating. the server asks for a password sometimes even if the server doesnt even 
 have a password system. and the game also lacks players alot. the multiplayer has
  four game modes, your standard deatmatch and team deatmatch, and two others like defend the convoy, 
 or capture the fort. there where no servers with defend the convoy so i dont know what it is. but 
 capture he fort is that a team needs to defend a fort, and the others need to kill its defenders 
 and destroy the fort and attack it. none of the game modes in multiplayer isnt interesting, so 
 you shouldnt bother around with the multiplayer. The sound in this game is Good. you can hear the 
 rattle of the cannons exploding into the other ships. and if you activate third person mode you 
 can also hear the oceans sound. the musical sound in this game fits every thing well. you can hear 
 a good city song which will remind you of that your in a busy city. in the ocean when your not 
 in battle you can hear a very quiet nice beatiful music, which can almost make you sleep but be 
 careful to not forget that your actually playing. and then a fitting song when your in battle that 
 makes you wake up pretty good. The people your talking with in the game doesnt sound to stupid. 
 but when i walked in to an enemy city the traders i saw made some stupid grunt sound. and when 
 you talk with somebody they
  always says something like im not in the mood for any chatting but in the text it stand something 
 completely else. and always when you talk with somebody they JUSTdont want to talk with you. its 
 also bad that it isnt any music in the multiplayer which makes the multiplayer feel bad. The graphics 
 in this game is very interesting. the ocean looks great and when your in a city everything looks 
 very good, though it could use some details here and there, the characther faces look pretty good. 
 but some look completely identical to eachother. some of the ships in this game could also have 
 some detail and the islands doesnt look good at all. but overall the game looks good. And so it 
 is here is the game worth buying or not. For 40 bucks your getting a good package, the game will 
 take you some time to get through. and there is also very much to see and do in the game. if your 
 looking for a great single player game and a great multiplayer you are not gonna get it here. but 
 if you really have waited for the game a long time and you know what to expect you will find the 
 game to be well worth the money. but if your not so sure i advice you to rent it because the game 
 is in desperate need of a patch. if you can take that it will crash a lot i say go for it.
  
  Overall the singleplayer is good even with its problems, the soundwork is very good with some 
 beatiful music. the graphics is both very good or bad. If you love pirate games and you have patience, 
 and you love questing, this is the game for you. if you want a complete game and if you want a 
 deep and dramatic storyline with amazing graphics and a great multiplayer this isnt for you. the 
 choice is yours. But now its time to put those pirates in place ARRR!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson32
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 7, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok, not all of it is broken, but the multiplayer is completely broken. We have been requesting 
 that there be multiplayer in a game like Sea Dogs for quite a long time and when they finally put 
 it in, it is completely broken. The game itself is pretty much the same as PoTC except you can 
 control colonies now. I haven't really gotten into the story because it seems a little empty and 
 boring. The game would be fun if not for the multitude of bugs but the big kicker for me is that 
 the multiplayer is unplayable. This was the only new and worthy feature of the Seadogs series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oche
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 7, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  This is a true Pirate's game. I've been longing to experience a game like this ever since i heard 
 that Sid Meier was gonna redo the Classic Pirates! , which unfortunately became a total letdown, 
 at least for real Pirate enthusiasts. The gameplay of Age of Pirates is what Sid Meier didn't take 
 the least of trouble to make, it is really something truly magnificent since it combines pure Role 
 Playing and Adventure without a linear sequence throughout the game. You can be a trader, corsair, 
 pirate, etc, you decide you fate. I have never played neither Sea Dogs, or Pirates of the Caribbean 
 which appear to implement the same game engine, so i took quite some time knowing the ropes of 
 the game, but only to find real satisfaction and enjoyment.
  
  Now bear in mind that the learning curve is steep, have some patience, it will pay off, took me 
 about 5 hours or something to know the basic stuff, and +30 to grasp the whole game essence, but 
 once you do you truly beging to understand the game. I'm not one of those cheap asses who expect 
 to get everything out of the last penny, but i can assure you that for $30 dollars is quite a bargain.
 
  
  It is a must for true Naval combat and Pirate freaks. The naval combat is the best to date, a true 
 attempt to make a Sailing Ship Combat simulator. If Sailing combat simulation evolves from this 
 then we shall have great Naval and Pirate games. In my opinion it is the best quality of the game.
 
  
  At first look it can seem repetitive, take this guy from A to B, escort this ship from here to 
 there, etc, but there is more to that.
  
  The things i do not like about the game:
  
  - The soundtrack: It sounds like Willow meets Clash of the Titans , so i play with the music off 
 all the time.
  
  - Minor bugs: Crashing to Desktop not frequent but there, and other minor issues, besides that 
 it is stable.
  
  - No period selection: Only one time period.
  
  - Reduced size of the Spanish Main or Caribbean Theatre: There are only a few colonies, There are 
 no Bahamas colonies, Cuba, Bermuda, Terra firma, Panama, Mexico, etc.
  
  - Size of Islands not accurate: Nobody's perfect. At least Cutthroats had the approximate size 
 of all islands in the caribbean.
  
  - No Careening: You can't find an isolated beach among the coasts to repair your ships.
  
  
 - No true land tactital battles: This is a minor issue, it would be too much to ask for this game 
 engine anyway, at least now.
  
  - No diversity in Character selection: You are tied to selecting either Sharks, the guy or the 
 gal, no customization of character (How did they let this out!) .
  
  - You cannot break in on locked houses and buildings or steal/obtain any effects from people you 
 kill in the colonies.
  
  The things i like about the game:
  
  - The Ship to Ship Combat: oh my god, it's every Pirate's dream, you have to see it to believe 
 it.
  
  - The Graphics: Very well done, the ships and towns look great.
  
  - The sounds: Nicely done, a few bugs but manageable.
  
  - Open ended: You can do whatever 
 the hell you want to, you choose your path.
  
  - The Boarding and Fencing: The best in its kind.
  
  - Contraband: Nice feature adding depth 
 to the game.
  
  - Trading system: Many goods to look about and buy here and sell there at a comfortable price, 
 good system for those who like to trade.
  
  - Slaves: Avoided element in any trading games because of the political correct **** Slaves were 
 a reality.
  
  - Officers: There is a very nice system which you can hire, appoint and dismiss officers to different 
 options in your ship or appointing him to one of your ships.
  
  - Tactics: You can use and command other vessels as well in naval combat.
  
  - No political 
 correct crap: If you have to kill the crew and its captain or raze a town you just do it!, it's 
 a f@#$%^! Pirate game not a Walt Disney cartoon.
  
  - Replay value: Very high, addictive as hell.
  
  - True world effects: Like weather and plague.
 
  
  - Ship types, weapons and upgrades: There is room for more weapons, ships, crew and bigger and 
 better ships, cannons, sails, hulls, blades, pistols, etc.
  
  I will be playing this game for some time. I bow down before the designer team and truly thank 
 them for this, these are the kind of games that deserve true credit and recognition. So finally 
 if you truly enjoy the historical period or the Pirates subject you i recommend you get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 6, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  I still don't excuse developers/publishers for releasing a game that is not completed and polished. 
 Even if it is fun to play, it's got to include the features that have been advertised and it should 
 work well, without game stopping bugs.
  
  Age of Pirates worked well enough for me to play and write a review of it, but I still am left 
 wondering how good this game could have been if it was worked on longer, and polished. In my reviews, 
 I usually write about graphics, sounds, general gameplay, etc. I won't do that as much here, because 
 I think most gamers who are going to read this have played Pirates of the Caribbean, or Sea Dogs. 
 AoP is similar in a lot of ways to these previous games, and adds alot to them, especially in ships 
 and crew details. The game is difficult to learn, but interesting and for the most part, fun to 
 play.
  
  What I want to focus on most in the review is how you can enjoy AoP the most, even with its many 
 bugs and missing features. First of all, it contains Star Force Protection. I am not a fan, and 
 if I knew about this beforehand, I would not have purchased it. Still, the game installed and ran 
 well on my PC (before the patch) . After downloading the patch, I was afraid to play, because I 
 had heard that even more Star Force drivers were added. The game still worked relatively well. 
 The problems I had were not due to SF, but still occurred because of fundamental bugs and things 
 missing.
  
  The Patch 1.42 handles some issues, but also creates some additional ones. I have since decided 
 to uninstall the game, but I have not given up on this potentially fun pirate game. I turned to 
 the community, on the forums, and found some dedicated modders who are taking things into their 
 own hands, and improving , and fixing the game.
  
  After installing and playing with the mod (the first version of the mod was not compatible with 
 the newest 1.42 patch) , I saw many improvements. There is a new mod coming that incorporates fixes 
 from the official patch while leaving out the additional problems it causes. I am sure this will 
 improve the game even further.
  
  So for my review, instead of going on about the things most of us all know already (good graphics, 
 decent sounds, good music, lots of open-ended gameplay) I wanted to write about the extra things 
 you can get to make the game work better, and be more enjoyable.
  
  Take a look on the Playlogic forums and you'll find all the info you need for patches and mods. 
 Also, Hooked On Age of Pirates is a good source. With the small but very good community behind 
 it, this game can be fun. It's just a shame that the developer/publisher could not provide it in 
 the first place.
  
  It's hard to write a review about a game that ships in this condition but has the support of the 
 cimmunity in the form of mods and things. The game itself has good potential. Modders should by 
 all means expand the game and add to it, but in this case, they are patching it just as much.
 
  
  So if I were to write the review strictly on what the developers/publishe provided, I would rip 
 it apart. If you are a gamer who doesn't like to look for patches, mods, and other 3rd party stuff, 
 you may want to avoid this game, because it does require patching for sure, and in my opinion, 
 it needs more features added, particularly the ones that were advertised and never made it into 
 the final release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalf01
Rating: 4.7
Date: Oct 1, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically, just plain bad. There is no story, and if there is one I can't find it... 
 The game play is very repetitive, graphics are not really up to par, and the sound is decent. All 
 you do is destroy this ship, destroy that ship, move some cargo here, and taxi this guy there, 
 thats it... Oh, and one more thing, the engine is incredibly unstable. I would have to say that 
 this game has more crashes more than a demolition derby. But if you put all that aside, its a fun 
 game, for about 4 hours. But of course you don't have to take my word for it, you can spend 50 
 bucks on it, play it for 10 minutes, and watch it crash on you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarcadoz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to playing Age of Pirates: Carribean Tales for quite some time and now that 
 I have it for about 2 weeks I'm not completely sure what to think of it.
  
  At first it does seem just beautiful. Gorgeous graphics, yet not too complex so the engine still 
 provides you with a great performance. You start with your hero (you choose, male or female) on 
 the pier of a nice island. There are some NPCs running around seeming rather out of place. There 
 is no tutorial available except for a few hints, those NPCs can give you for the beginning. And 
 that really makes the game very hard for starters, as it was for me.
  
  Controls are somewhat easy to handle and there's not much to set up before you can give the game 
 a try. But as soon as you want to do more than just run around on that nice island there is one 
 big question: How do I DO something different? 
  
  Ok, now you make it to the tavern, hire some mates and you just don't know how to put them to good 
 use. Somehow you make it onboard the ship and set sail. Where to? Ah, there is a map which I can 
 use.
  
  Sailing around some time on the open sea I traveled for minutes without finding another island. 
 Problem is, you can't scroll the map, so unless you absolutely know where you are going it's quite 
 hard to find the right way. Hours of learning and searching for guides on the internet later, you 
 more or less get the hang of it.
  
  It's all about cash. You can trade goods, fight and capture other ships, hire more people to work 
 for you, accept side quests and so on. Sailing around in the carribean sea is interesting as soon 
 as you learn about the geography of those islands.
  
  The soundtrack gets boring soon for it is very repetitive and also doesn't really fit the plundering 
 mood, seen from my point of view. Apart from the horrible learning curve, Age of Pirates: CT is 
 one fine chance for all us buccaneers and marauders to live out our pirate fantasies. But there's 
 really not much more about it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthulhu34
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Well first thing I was hoping when I played this is I sure hope there is not dancing in it like 
 Sid Meiers pirates .Truthfully, i see a pirate like the movie Yellowbeard ,not some governor that 
 turned pirate. There is no way the governors daughter would be courted, more like taken by force.
 
  
  Anyway, to no avail did this game skip a beat. It was bang bang right in the action and nonstop dieing. You 
 deffinately need to take the time and read the very poor dictation of whats referred to as an instruction 
 manual that may as well been written in brail. The pictures are downright miniscule to say the least.
 
  
  After about 20 hours of playing the game started to come together. Well I mean it started to come 
 together if you can get by the crashes to desktop at least every 2 hours, after that its easy sailing. After 
 several hours of playing and downloading and installed the patch I noticed more glitches in the 
 game.
  
  The content of the game so far is very good. Combat and skills are fantastic. I reccomend starting 
 out doing some trading and upgrade abit then whack the odd pirate and save an unpositioned officer 
 for pillaging ships, you need someone to command them.
  
  Once the map you get comes into play I can see the great potential for this game. No courting and 
 no dancing. Can't get much better then that.:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZerosVandlich
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 24, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  -El Caribe, marca propia de la pirateria:-
  
  El juego nos mete de lleno en el a&ntilde; o 1935, donde el nuevo mundo da oportunidades a varias 
 naciones y a la pirateria misma donde abrite paso es cosa tu picardia y astucia.
  
  El juego nos pone en la piel de dos personajes, el Capitan Blaze Shark y Beatrize Shark (los cuales 
 de momento lo que e jugado solo se diferencian en formas de combatir y actuar, mas adelante puede 
 que tengan diferentes historias o no) estos personajes empiezan en u puerto dependiendo de la Bandera 
 elegida. Al comienzo de la aventura nuestro primer encuentro es con un mensajero que nos da una 
 nota de nuestro padre y apartir de hay... ya la vida es tuya.
  
  -La Vida del Corsario-
  
  Este juego se caracteriza por no seguir una linea fija de historia o mision, si quieres avanzar 
 en la historia tendras que hacer misiones sencillas que parecen que no tienen nada que ver con 
 la historia principal, o directamente hacer el pirateo hasta que mueras de viejo, en una celda 
 o acuchillado por algun enemigo.
  
  Las misiones son muy variadas, desde escoltas hasta traficar con esclavos toda una gama para definir 
 tu personaje. Las misiones de Escolta son algunas veces la simple de llevar un barco sano a salvo 
 pero nunca hay nada seguro y durante el trayecto no solo es el llevar al barco, puede ser que al 
 acompa&ntilde; ante le de por recojer a mas gente en otro puerto, meterse de lleno en una batalla 
 naval o tener que sacarlo de una tormenta nunca una mision es linial.
  
  Otras misiones muy curiosas son las de Trafico de Esclavos, el hecho es aprisionar esclavos necesarios 
 para el Negrero que te a dado la mision, estos esclavos salen de los barcos capturados en las batallas.
 
  
  La gama de misiones no es corta, cada puerto hay algunas misiones por hacer dependiendo de tu rango 
 y maestria y en otra ocasion seran misiones de un gobernador, estas pueden ser infinitas y de buena 
 dificultad.
  
  -&iexcl; Todo a Estribor!-
  
  La navegacion es un punto muy solido y lto que hace que este juego tenga mucha jugabilidad. La 
 navegacion se divide en 2 formas:
  
  Navegacion Real
  Este estilo de navegacion es para quienes le va el pirateo hecho y derecho. Las rutas son las reales 
 y pueden durar horas, es espectacular este modo sobre todo en tormentas y en noche. Tambien es 
 un modo para descansar y disfrutar del paisaje.
  
  Navegacion Sid Meirs
  Este estilo para los que puedan haber disfrutado de Sid Meiers - Pirates! les sonara mucho, la 
 navegacion no es real y es mas rapida. Pero claro no tendras la oportunidad de ver muchas cosas 
 de las que se ven en navegacion real.
  
  Las tormentas representan un reto a&ntilde; adido que sin duda gustaran a muchos pero a la vez disgustara, 
 en el proceso de la tormenta nuestro barco y velas se ven da&ntilde; ados asi mismo siempre puede 
 caernos un rayo o que nos pille un tornado. La verdad un gasto de dinero en los astilleros, de 
 hay que por muy impresionantes que sean y que estas den experiencia por navegar en ellas siempre 
 es mejor evitarla formacion de tormentas si es posible.
  
  -&iexcl; Al Abordaje!-
  
  Los combates navales son muy tacticos y de pensar, a diferencia de otros juegos aqui la falta de 
 tripulacion especializada en la artilleria se nota, pues te tocara ir de ca&ntilde; on en ca&ntilde; on 
 si no tienes tripulacion especialiazada. Se pueden elegir varios tipos de municion que hace mas 
 el poder abordar un barco:
  
  *Balas normales, causan da&ntilde; os en el casco y pueden eleiminar ca&ntilde; ones y tripulacion, 
 pero claro el abuso excesivo puede provocar el hundimiento y con lo cual perdidas de botin.
  
  *Boleadoras, estas balas estan unidas por una cadena que permite derribar las velas para frenar 
 el barco enemigo, una buena tactia sin duda.
  
  *Metralla, estas sirven para eleiminar y causar gran da&ntilde; o a la tripulacion asi haciendo 
 mas facil el poder abordar.
  
  Cual municion usar es cosa tuya, pero recuerda que los enemigos tambien piensan y bastante, no 
 va ser nada facil poder derribarlos sin sufrir bastantes da&ntilde; os, pero con un poco de manejo 
 y maestria se puede evitar muchos da&ntilde; os.
  
  -La Pirateria no es la unica solucion-
  
  Siendo solo pirateria algunos les puede cansar, de 
 hay que existan varias formas de ganar dinero y botin, aparte de las misiones ya descritas se puede 
 ser Comerciante Importanto y Exportando bienes que un puerto u otro necesiten ganando asi bastante 
 dinero, tambien esta el Contrabando Ilegal que es mas emocionante y da mas dinero, pero claro es 
 mas peligroso para tu carrera.
  
  -Ambientacion Sonora-
  
  Este apartado es el mas magnifico que e oido desde la BSO de Guild Wars y Oblivion, te hace sentir 
 el mar en cada nota y momento. Cuando toca combate la musica es tensa y directa y te mete en el 
 fragor de la batalla, aparte de que los sonidos y musicas son de alta calidad y estas ultimas en 
 formato Ogg con lo cual se agradece mucho. Tambien se agradece que el juego este totalmente doblado 
 al castellano aunque le falla algunas voces que no se meten en el personaje del todo.
  
  Mi vedericto final para mi es un 9.6 ,pero vosotros siempre decidis si lo comprais o no. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjppunk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 21, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Age of Pirates did not disappoint me after my recent purchase. I feel I need to write a review 
 after reading most of the ignorant posts in the forums. Yes this is a buggy game, in fact it is 
 a very buggy series. A lot of games are (Call of Cthulhu, Mark Echo's getting up, The Elder Scrolls 
 Series) . Especially since this series doesn't have the highest budget.
  
  Now I'm going to give you all a little history lesson. Back in 1993 a Sega game was release Called 
 Pirates! Gold ; this game is where the concept for Sea Dogs originated. You start as a first mate 
 who takes control of a ship from his former captain and has adventures on the high seas. Various 
 quests, treasures, and other random quirks kept this game interesting. One very impressive thing 
 was the real life Caribbean map (which is used in Age of Pirates) .
  
  Sea Dogs was one of my favorite games of all time, you start in a Spanish Prison where you break 
 out and take a ship and sail back to an English colony. once again there are various sub quests 
 and several main quests that will win the game. Later Sea Dogs 2 was released (POTC) and this is 
 where many of you get confused. THIS GAME IS NOT THE ORIGINAL NOR IS AGE OF PIRATES RIPPING IT 
 OFF. If you want to make cheap shots then you could say the whole series is ripping off Pirates! 
 Gold. But no one will because I bet none of you have played that game.
  
  Sea Dogs 3 or Age of Pirates, however introduces some very interesting gameplay such as running 
 a colony (something that wasn't apart of the Sea Dogs) , choosing your starting interfaces (You 
 would usually have to start as a preset nation, in Sea Dogs it was England) There is also a main 
 quest that is very similar to both Sea Dogs and Pirates! Gold (I never beat POTC, the game wasn't 
 sold anywhere when I looked for it, though I have played it for about an hour) . The graphics are 
 good, the storyline is great as always, and the overall freedom that most rpg's lack is amazing. 
 Look at games like Oblivion or Fable. Games which were supposed to be the most open ended games 
 available. The Sea Dogs series usually has AT LEAST nine different endings and an unlimited number 
 of ways to get there. The only thing I can compare that to is Fallout
  
  Quite frankly I am upset with the number of ignorant complaints this game has (there are some justified 
 critics) . Put simply this is an awesome game and hits my top 10 favorites 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stev69
Rating: 3.6
Date: Sep 17, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Hasnt lived up to the hype im afraid. A huge amount of bugs and very little depth. Buy Sid Meiers 
 pirates for a more engrossing experience. I have to say I was tremendously disappointed with this 
 offering from Akella, it seems to be a growing trend (for pc game developers) these days to lash 
 games together with a minimal amount of sticky tape and throw it out on the market to see if it 
 sinks or swims. The sheer amount of bugs in this game is truely astounding, it makes me wonder 
 if it was tested at all before release. If I were to use a nautical gunnery term I would say that 
 this one is a dud. Add this to the non exsistent plot (well it is there, its just difficult to 
 find interesting) and the fact that half of the carribean seems to be missing and you basically 
 end up with a very pretty looking scenic slide show, as foe actually gaming dont bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munrock
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 16, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  What I like most about these games is the sailing. I mean real sailing, where using patience and 
 maneuvering is what gets you victory. When you start a game of Age of Pirates, half the options 
 are about the level of simulation. If you minimize the realism, then it plays a lot like Sid Meier's 
 Pirates, but in gorgeous 3D.
  
  If you're a fan of the Patrick O'Brian books, or the Hornblower TV series, or just generally a 
 Naval Combat buff, then Age of Pirates' simulation will reward you to the point that the waiting 
 game before engagements is actually satisfying... all that's missing is a junior officer to keep 
 watch for enemy maneuvers while you're in the kitchen grabbing some coffee.
  
  Ship damage works well, although you have to aim manually to see some of the more satisfying results; 
 such as when you fire chain shot at an enemy mast and see it topple.
  
  The one thing that it fails at in sea combat is surrendering. The enemy won't strike his colours 
 unless you ask him to, and if he accepts then your entire combat squadron (you can make some of 
 your ships into cargo ships and order them away from fights) is teleported to the surrendering 
 ship. It really jarrs the battles, however there are a decent set of options for communicating 
 with hostile and friendly ships. When you see that you can ask a passing ship for the latest news, 
 you realise that Akella have gone a long way towards authenticity.
  
  But just like Sid Meier's Pirates, the authenticity is selective. Akella's take on the pirate life 
 is a lot more mature than Meier's. There's no romancing the governor's daughter, but there is a 
 fair bit of politics involved. All of the officers have different loyalties and the nations have 
 different policies. You can't make any act of aggression without angering someone, and although 
 that's part of the fun it's also a costly mistake in the early game where trading is more lucrative 
 than missions.
  
  Officers are a key part of the game. You hire them in taverns, and at the start they're expensive 
 but valuable. The officers on your crew boost your character's stats; for example if you hire an 
 officer with better gunnery skills than you and assign him as your gunner, then his skill will 
 be used in all gunnery operations. Much, much later in the game your character will be so skillful 
 that you won't need as many officers on your ship, but you'll have them captaining other ships 
 in your fleet and running colonies for you. It's at that point that you'll wish you had groomed 
 your officers to be captains and governors instead of upgrading whatever skills you'd hired them 
 for, as finding good captains and leaders is a mission all on its own.
  
  Ground combat is very different from Meier's version. It's hard to decide which is better. While 
 Pirates! gives you the rock-paper-scissors game, Age of Pirates is more traditional with a selection 
 of attacks varying in speed and power, and parries and blocks that vary in risk/reward for counterattacks. 
 This is a good thing, because the combat is so clunky that your general strategy will serve you 
 much better than your reactions. Combat is generally in two stages, where you lead your crew against 
 the enemy ship's crew in a manic battle and then proceed into the Captain's Cabin for a one-on-one. 
 Generally the crew vs crew combat is decided by strength of numbers but in a close call you have 
 to apply your character to the battle decisively.
  
  All in all, deciding between Sid Meier's Pirates! and Age of Pirates comes down to what you like 
 best about the pirate genre in general. Age of Pirates goes for a more epic take while Sid's is 
 more fantasy fun, and that shows in the length of the games. With Pirates!, you character grows 
 older and has to think about his retirement. It cuts you off and makes you end the game on a high 
 before setting out to beat that high in a new game. If you didn't like that aspect, then Age of 
 Pirates will make you think twice, because it takes ages. The number of battles as you progress 
 your character from petty thief to trader to merchant to pirate to pirate king to founder of a 
 new nation and conqueror of the Caribbean... if you're playing on simulation mode, then two or 
 three battles is enough for one gaming session and that just about covers a trip between two colonies.
 
  
  So it really is all about what you want from your pirates game.
  
  One word of warning for those looking forward to Age of Pirates' sailing simulation: the sails 
 are all wrong. They go so far as to billow in the wrong direction in some ship models! Also the 
 ships will never change their sail configuration: your frigate will not hoist staysails, ever. 
 Your crew will not take the square sails down when you're beating to windward. It's hard to forgive 
 such an oversight but the forgiveness will be worth it. It really will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 16, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  If you were a fan of Pirates Of The Carribean, i strongly recommend you buy this game, it works 
 the same way as before (nearly) but this time it enables you to do more stuff in the game.
  
  Its merley a copy of Pirates Of The Carribean but it expands more through the gameplay.
  
 
  You start off as a Young man who seeks his way through Carribean life, as so, you start with a 
 Small Ship, fast and effective for exploring and doing missions, Doing these missions will enable 
 you to slowly create more cash/gold for yourself and hopefully in the future upgrade or even buy 
 better ships.
  
  There is much more to the gameplay... there are numerous ways of earning money.. eg Boarding an 
 enemy ship and taking its funds/goods then if you have an officier you can capture the ships
  
  You then have 2 ships in your command, nice. However, you need more crew this means you spend 
 more money on wages ever month... so you need to keep the missions rolling or boarding otherships.
 
  
  You have a homebase... UK, France, Dutch ect... which ever one you choose before you start the game.
 
  
  You can also earn cash by trading goods from other colonies to the another.. eg One colony will 
 export `Leather` and another will import it
  
  So basically you buy it for 2 gold each and sell it at 30 gold each
  
  Bigger ships = bigger 
 guns = more cargo space = more crew If you advance really far into the game its time to talk about 
 taking over colonies... yup :D
  
  How'dya fancy owning your own colony and raking in all the profit and gold it makes.
  
  Its 
 not easy... and its hard to maintain since once you have captured at colony.. everyone turns against 
 you... even your hometown. So many other countries and pirates will want to try and capture your 
 colony as well.
  
  When attacking a colony.. you have to beat the Fort... = very hard, you need a big ship, stong, 
 most of time you need at least 2 ships to tackle the fort
  
  Once you have defeated the Fort... you then launch your troops into the colony and kill all the 
 guards and soldiers defending it
  
  Voila ! Once that is done,, the colony is all yours. Put a governor in charge who you wish ( goveners 
 stats/skills help increase forts cannon fire rate, soldiers training, ect...)
  
  You can buy and upgrade your colony with Farms... barracks... mines... ect.... ect... ect.. forts.. 
 ect... HOWEVER ! Upgrading and buying new buildings in your colony cost a bomb... so im talking 
 about 500,000+ It took me a week of trading.. doing missions to even earn 300,000. However... the 
 more missions you do = better jobs jobs you get as your skill increases and more money you make.
 
  
  Its a huge sim game... really fun and playable
  I strongly recommend since ive had 5 years of hardcore gaming.
  
  Thxs for reading
  Rich 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saverioq
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 15, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  It is a complete game with terrain exploration, good trading gameplay but, you will enjoy the freedoom 
 when you sail where you want. The fightings over the sea are exciting and give to you and intense 
 satisfaction when you sink someone. There are detailed ship models, as well as some advanced water 
 and lighting effects. The game have role-playing elements, and a greater focus on the city-based 
 gameplay mode.
  I'ts a best buy. Remeber that you can set the camera out the ship or also in the bridge of it, 
 so you can have a real sensation of possessing it ones .
  Don't mess with other pirate games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetoomaung
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  First of all, my name is Thet Oo Maung and I wrote the walkthrough for Pirates of Caribbean. The 
 game guide is displayed at Gamefaq, Gamespot, IGN and many other game websites. It has been many 
 years since the day of Pirates of Caribbean. I myself am the huge fun of Pirates and navel battle 
 games. Many other Pirates games have been out. Here are some of my favorites, Sid Meirs Pirates, 
 Port Royale 2 and of course! Pirates of Caribbean. Now the originally which was supposed to be 
 Sea Dogs II is out again and this time the name has been changed to Age of Pirates: Caribbean Tales. 
 Here are my impressions after spending a few days with the game.
  
  Graphics 9/10: Although it is not the best quality graphics as Elder Scroll: Oblivion, the graphics 
 in Age of Pirates is one of the most beautiful graphics I have ever seen. It will take your breath 
 away with its beautiful rendered sun set view while you are sailing in open sea. Although the characters, 
 the landscapes and the ships seems to be almost identical as its predecessor, Pirates of Caribbean, 
 it is undeniable fact that the game itself is vividly colorful, realistic and truly amazing.
  
  Interface 7/10: If you remember, the clunky keys of Pirates of Caribbean (using mouse left 
 click to move forward, etc.) , Age of Pirates still has confusing keys. The keys can be redefined 
 to your liking and developers listened to the players outcry of movement key by bringing back to 
 W, A, S, D as default movement. Still rather confusing and uncomfortable key binding makes the games 
 sometime a bit let down, especially during sea fight or land fight. The movement on the ship is 
 still using mouse left click to forward but it has its own reason. The player still need to use 
 W, A, S, D to steer the ship while he can move around on the ship to target, so the mouse has to be 
 used here. The shortcut menu from Pirates of Caribbean is still carried over, such as clicking 
 Enter to get menu to instance travel to Tavern, Shipyards or to the sea. Boarding still uses 
 F3 key when two ships are aligned same as in Pirates of Caribbean. Over all, the interface is what 
 you had experienced from Pirates of Caribbean and little changes done here are unnoticed.
  
  Gameplay 9/10: The opening story here isnt quite interesting as Pirates of Caribbean. A young 
 sailor (male or female depends on your choose) received a mysterious scroll from a messenger. The 
 scroll supposed to be a part of map which his/her father left and now he/she starts a journey to 
 find his/her step-brother/sister to solve the puzzle. Starting from this point, you can do whatever 
 you want to do, trading, capturing slaves, piracy or doing jobs for colonies. Open-ended gameplay 
 gives high to the game and it is pretty much enjoyable and not restricts to follow the story line 
 as in Pirates of Caribbean. Over all, you will find the hours of enjoyments of playing this games 
 without even following the story line.
  
  Sound 9/10: One thing I notice Ages of Pirates from Pirates of Caribbean is its background music 
 and sound whether you are in land or in the sea or on the map. The music plays really match the 
 mode of the game during the time (when in a sea battle, when catching a storm, when sailing out 
 on open sea) . Ambitious sounds are also nice but sometime repetitive. Especially, when talking 
 to random NPC on the town or inside Tavern, you will hear same conversation pretty much.
  
  With the open-ended game play, nice music and just for being a Pirates game, I assure you all the 
 gamers out there, you will find yourself more than satisfying to enjoy this one of the great masterpiece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enaceo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 13, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  Ok, first off , from the time I have been playing it untill now , this game seems to be a good follower 
 of the Sea Dogs series .Same style and principles of gameplay , an updated version of the "Storm 
 Engine" and a lot of other things you might recognise if you have been playing POTC or other Sea 
 Dogs games.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as in POTC. We have the same 4 "instances" - land 3rd person, land 
 fighting , ship 3rd person , ship first person. The controls are pretty much the same too , but 
 we now have some little improvements in each.
  Most important are -the side-step feature (yes, we can side-step now , although it's not integrated 
 to well. Some people may find it hard to use the feature as it is , but this is very usefull in 
 battles as you can dodge you enemy left , right and backwards)
  Then , there are the different attack options we have with the sword. We now have energy, and each 
 attack costs some energy .if we do not have too much energy , we can't preform a strong attack. Energy 
 replenishes itself constantly.
  Ok, so we have : -slashing attack - a powerful and fast attack , but it takes some energy.
  -thurst 
 attack - a thrust with the sword .Is fast and doesn't take to much energy , but it's not as powerful 
 as the slashing attack.
  -vicious attack - a strong attack that can do full damage through enemy blocks. Downside is , it 
 takes a lot of energy , and it is pretty slow.
  -All-round attack - an attack that causes some damage to everyone in a circle around you .
  We 
 also have multiple ways of dodging or deflecting enemy attack.
  -We have the usual block-much stronger now -we can parry ,and deflect our enemy's attack
  -or 
 ce can side-step out of it's way .
  
  When we start the game , we can choose one of 2 characters ,which are step brothers. We can choose 
 Beatrice or Blaze .Their father was a pirate , who had a dream about freeing the islands of the 
 "old war" rulers and form a new and free country , Libertania. He was betrayed by a friend , and 
 was killed by an army attack.
  We can also choose which country we want to start with now .We can be french, dutch , english , 
 spanish , or we can start with the pirates.
  There are some difficulty settings that can make the game quite a challenge .
  Also, the game 
 is generaly harder than POTC. Leveling up is much harder , and we get 1 stat point per level + 1 
 ability ( or special skill , as they were in POTC) each 2 levels.
  When we start the game , a strange man gives us a piece of a map .After some time , we find the 
 next piece , and a riddle on the map. If you manage to find out what it means , and go to the island 
 it points out , you will find a treasure , and your sister /brother there, which tells you about 
 all and Libertania. You then go ask for help from the pirates ,fight their leader and try to complete 
 your father's dream.
  
  We have 16 (not sure , that's the official info) ships we can sail ,but only a part of them can 
 be bought from ship-yards. We can purchase ships ranging from the lugger to the frigate from the 
 sipyard , but bigger warships have to be found on the sea and captured ,as they are not given to 
 privateers.
  Crew is now separated in "sectors" so to call them. We have general sailors that work with the sail 
 and navigate the ship.
  Then , we have soldiers , that join us when boarding.
  Musketeers are soldires that have guns and fight from a distance.
  And we also have the cannon 
 crew , that loads and fires the guns.
  There are also some upgrades we can make to our ships now :
  We have 3 hull upgrades (with each 
 upgrade, we gain hull points, but loose speed) , sail upgrades (better sails mean better speeds 
 , but more damage is received ) and guns. Guns are set in 3 categories : copper , bronze ,and iron.
 
  The guns now have a bad habit of exploding when fired. Copper guns explode the most , bronze guns 
 20% less times ,and iron guns 40% less time. Also, we have the culverines ( longer range , less damage 
 ) and ordinary cannons ( shorter range , more damage) .
  Ship fighting is the same as in POTC , but with some differences when boarding.
  We don't fight 
 all over the ship now ( deck ,hold, cabin...) , we only fight on the deck with the enemy soldiers, 
 and if we beat them ,we fight the captain of the enemy ship one - on - one .If we kill him , we 
 get the ship.
  Also, now we can enslave enemy crews if they surrender ,and sell them to slave-traders for quite 
 some gold...
  
  Commerce is the same as in POTC , but now , exported goods and imported goods for each colony make 
 more of a difference. The colonies now have "levels (outpost, village, town, large town...) and a 
 population that influences the prices.
  We can capture colonies, and build up their infranstructure (with accent on defence infranstructure) 
 to protect them from the other countries.
  
  We can now hire 3 officers per tavern . Also, now there are a lot of positions for them to occupy. For 
 example, we may want to hire a good trader for quartermaster ( to take care of our transactions, money...) 
 , or someone skilled in defence will be a good surgeon ( he will heal our crew ) and some other 
 ones.
  If we place an officer in this position, we gain all his skill-points as long as he is in the position.
 
  
  An interesting new feature is that of "food consumption" .Our crew-men now need food. Luckiy, food 
 isn't that expensive ,but takes a big part of our hold (for example a warship class ship has 900 
 men .These can take 2000 food for about 2 months.
  
  Also, we can now talk to other ships close to us. If they are friends (or smugglers) we can trade 
 with them on the water ,ask for the latest news...
  If they are enemies, we can ask for their surrender , or we can also pay them gold to leave us alone.
 
  Smuggling is no longer island-dependent .There are now some goods that are not legal all over 
 the colonies , and we can find smugglers on un-inhabited islands on the map.
  
  When we start, we can go to the governor of our colony, and start state service. State service will 
 include taking people to other islands , escorting ships to other islands , transporting cargo 
 , transporting important official documents and similar things. When we join ,we are given a salary. First 
 one is 1000 gold per month , but it gets bigger if you advance through the ranks (captain, commondore...)
 
  
  The main map is larger now , and has a lot more islands then previous games. We have islands like 
 Jamaica , Puerto-Rico, Hispagnola , St. Kittis , Barbados (to name only a few of them ) ...
  
  Quests are based on the same system as in POTC ,but with some small modifications.
  We can 
 now meet people on the street or the tavern that want us to escort them , transport them ,get some 
 freight for them ,and even some slave-traders that tell us to get them slaves (as said above-capturing 
 enemy crews) for plantations.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The game uses the same engine as POTC (Storm ) but now it is updated with some fancy new features.
 
  We now have some nice anti-aliasing effects, better and more detailed models for ships and for 
 people , nicer water-effects , more realistic towns...
  At night ,the ships now have lights , and they are quite nicely done.
  The game works pretty 
 well FPS -wise , with only some minor losses of FPS when we look at a large concentration of people 
 or houses , or in very crouded sea-battles.
  
  The interface is a bit changed from POTC ,but you will recognise some things.
  It is cleaner 
 and more efficient over-all .The player and ship icons can be a little confusing at times, but you 
 will understand them easily in no time .
  
  Sound : Sound is very good, and fits well with the atmosphere. Cannons sound a bit better, and explosions 
 sound much more convincing .
  At times, the soundtrack might crash a bit , then resume and play 2 songs at the same time ,but 
 this happens with other games and can be fixed by exiting the game and entering it again.
  
  Other bugs: Haven't noticed to many bugs with quests , except with one where you are supposed 
 to take some freight to a merchant , and the quest does not end for some reason , resulting in 
 the same loop of conversation about "I have delivered your cargo" with the shop-keeper.
  Also, very rarely , the game might crash when going from the sea screen to the map screen ,so save 
 before doing anything important.
  The game now also has an auto-save feature ,and it saves the game before boardings and some other 
 events.
  
  Overall: This is a great game for fans of the Sea Dogs series , an despite it's little control problems 
 , can be very fun and entertaining. Also, open-ended story and the freedom to do what you want can 
 be very attractive for people new to this action-adventure-ship fighting genre.
  So, if you like adventure games , or swashbuckling games ,or both alike , then buy this game and 
 I guarantee you will enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knut-am
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  I just got the game so im not so sure i will agree with my own rewiew after some more hours playing 
 it. being a fan of Sid Meier's Pirates i was looking forward to this game, and after some strange 
 behavour during the instalation, were the install manager did not quit automaticly but had to be 
 turned off manualy, it seemed to be all fine. errrrr,, not quite, after you have installed the 
 game and put it away for then to put the disk in the drive for another go at the game, instead 
 of displaying some kind of normal root disk menu start the game, options, configuration etc etc 
 it start the instalation menu directly and ask if you are sure you would like to compleately remove 
 the game and all your saves,, lol. so be aware people on what you click yes to. finally in the 
 game main menu i found that the option manu had less then acurate menu options to choose from to 
 what the instruction manual explane, and the read me file did not help it either, though all this 
 are small issues as it is not in the options menu that the game is played. it has only 2 fixed 
 caracters to choose between as your caracter to play with so you do not have any costumisation 
 posibillities to your caracter's aperance, not that it is a big issue. i finally found the menu 
 were you can build your pirate's ability up and that screen seemed to me to be both informative 
 and nicely made exept for one thing, when you upgrade your caracter with your earned exp points 
 it did not seem to let you change your mind once you have altered a point to one ability, in other 
 words once you click to use that point it is spent were you used it so you need to make your mind 
 up carefully as it did not allow any fiddling about. Part from the roleplaying elements this is 
 also an adventure simulation type of game witch are not at all a bad thing. it kind of combine 
 a bit of the Privateer space sim sort of play on sea with sailing ships instead of space ships 
 to fly. though you have the freedom to move about on land as you please and talk to evryone you 
 meat, even if initially all of them tells you to buzz off but still talk to you as if the get lost 
 opening never happend, i am quite sure that may get annoying in the long run. all talking that 
 i have come actoss are in text form exept for the opening insult. i find that a bit too monkey 
 Island for 2006 as both the storage medium and prosessing ability of modern computers allow full 
 speach in a game like Oblivion as an example.
  
  the game seem to have an open play possibility were you can roam the seas, or take on pasenger 
 transport, escort service, normal trade, bounty hunting or just plane piracy activity. however 
 the cost of passing time at see without a goal or meaning can get very expencive, i became cought 
 up in a storm at see and hardly was able to save my ship, the repair cost in the shipyard after 
 i made land took half my money away,, so,, i cheated a bit and loaded the game from were i set 
 sail on that last trip and made the same sea journey again, the storm never happend then, so the 
 randomising of wether and other sea condissions i know work well. i admit that after so short a 
 play time i have not yet tried it all. you can also do a lot of upgrading on your ships in the 
 ship yards in towns as well as buy new ships to your fleet if your caracter has high enough level 
 so that is a big + versus SId Meier's Pirates were you have just so and so many things to do, the 
 controlls though seem to be a lot more intricate then what you had on that game, witch was too 
 simpliffic for my taste but you can remap your prefered controls to suit your best liking in the 
 option menu and that worked fine for me. The graphics in the game seem very well done for the most 
 part, the ocean look GREAT though what you see on the ship's deck seem to be a bit squerish and 
 edgy (game res : 1600x1200) . the towns are very well done but the outskirts could have been more 
 like Oblivion, lol. the storm i encountered was graphically very impressive, though it nearly killed 
 us all. the game has all wether condissions like rain + all hours of the day / eavning / night 
 and dusk made gloriously beautyfull.
  
  I can easlily see a longlivity in the game, and i am sure i will try it out a lot, and hopefully 
 add it as a worth playing game also in the future. there are some outcry in the forum about this 
 game craching and not working properly but part from the small little bugs that i have come across 
 and have explaned in the review here, the game seem to be rock stabile on my system no crash at 
 all during 10 hours and 46 minutes of running the game. the game ran flawlessly for about 5 hours 
 non stop, and no problems with stability at all. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  AFTER i have played the game on and off now for about one and a half month, i have come to the 
 point were i might put it away for a wile. the story ARE as said in the GS review not very easy 
 to grip, the leveling up is very slow, even if you play well. but worst of all, the sword fighting 
 is plane rubbish. it is not a problem to outwith any captain. and at my place in the game they 
 usually give up their ship without any rubbish fight. with a good crew you can with ease take over 
 any ship you come across. and the only real challenge in the game is to make enough money to pay 
 your offisers and crew every month. so im afraid i have to cut down a bit on the score from 8.6 
 in my first impression review to this 7.5. it is still a game that is somewhat fun to play, but 
 not as mutch after it all become a bit too teedious. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
