-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Age of Sail II: Privateer's Bounty
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/ageofsail2privateersbounty/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 22, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.1, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 65 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Global Star Software
Developer: Akella
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Aug 13, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's the game that Age of Sail II should have been. 

 Russian development house Akella's first attempt at creating a sequel to TalonSoft's venerable Age 
 of Sail managed to bring that ancient title out of the wargame ghetto while simultaneously giving 
 it so many bugs that the release version was essentially unplayable. Privateer's Bounty was originally 
 going to be an expansion pack for Age of Sail II, but it has instead been released as a stand-alone 
 game that could probably just as easily be called Age of Sail 2.5. Whatever fancy Napoleonic-era 
 name you give it, it's essentially a "fixed" version of Age of Sail II, with a slightly improved 
 interface, tweaked game mechanics, new campaigns, and almost no bugs. It's the game that Age of 
 Sail II should have been. For those of you who already bought Age of Sail II, you get to buy it 
 again. Fortunately, it's worth it.           Sinking ships are nicely done, and show good battle 
 damage.    

  Privateer's Bounty covers the same ground that Age of Sail II did, which is to say that it's a 
 pausable real-time strategy game covering naval combat during the golden age of 18th- and 19th-century 
 naval combat from roughly the American Revolutionary War to the wars of Napoleon Bonaparte. Ships 
 are represented by beautiful 3D models that display details down to the current state of your sails 
 (furled, battle, or full) , depict battle damage like fallen masts, torn sails, and fires, and even 
 show individual crewmen on the decks -- although this last effect makes it look like the ships are 
 full of spinning children's tops and could have been left out. Otherwise, the presentation does 
 a wonderful job of creating an atmosphere of preindustrial warfare, along with some really neat 
 weather effects. Amazingly, this engine runs decently even on midrange computers, unless you try 
 to play one of the really big scenarios.   

  The authentic 19th-century atmosphere that the expansion's great graphics create is broken only 
 by the sound, which is functional enough when it comes to sound effects like explosions and breaking 
 masts but completely over the top with its order acknowledgements. In large scenarios like Trafalgar, 
 the proliferation of voice alerts can turn the game into an audio parody of a sea battle. Turning 
 speech off in this case is highly recommended.   

  True to the form established by the 6-year-old original, the gameplay is of a similarly high quality. 
 Despite the real-time engine, constant, fast clicking and scrolling are the antithesis of good 
 play. One of the brilliant things about the Age of Sail series is how tense the games are, and 
 this tension is inversely proportional to the speed of the game. In small-to-medium-sized battles, 
 you'll often find yourself watching a particular ship, trying to anticipate an enemy move while 
 simultaneously trying maximize your rate of turn, your speed, or some combination of the two. Because 
 firing arcs are highlighted in blue, you can immediately tell whether a ship is vulnerable to your 
 cannons, or whether you're about to be subjected to a broadside yourself. Because of the long time 
 it takes to reload some types of weapons, tension can build to truly gut-wrenching levels when 
 you're trying to keep a ship in your firing arc long enough to deliver the broadside of double 
 shot you're preparing, or as you watch your ship try to outturn an enemy that has you outgunned. 
 In situations like this, you sometimes wish the game would move even more slowly so you could pick 
 the exact moment to make a course change. Just like its predecessors, the game does a nice job 
 of incorporating damage to the rigging, hull, and crew and modeling the effects of round shot, 
 chain shot, grape shot, and double shot. The damage model seems to have been adjusted to provide 
 more realistic results, and the simulation aspect is quite satisfying. Privateer's Bounty demonstrates 
 that historical accuracy does not require a compromise in visual quality.   

  In small battles, the game is all about precise seamanship. In large battles like Trafalgar, the 
 focus changes to fleet management -- and again, Privateer's Bounty delivers, mostly because the completely 
 broken fleet formations from the original Age of Sail II have finally been fixed. If you tell a 
 line of ships to move somewhere, they actually do it. In the previous game, replicating Nelson's 
 famous double-line strategy was impossible, because the mechanisms for grouping and ordering two 
 different formations just didn't work. Now, you can reliably give your hotkeyed groups individual 
 orders and be confident that they'll carry them out, although the need to issue new waypoints in 
 order to change ship spacing is inconvenient. In addition, some battles can end prematurely when 
 the game mysteriously tells you that your victory conditions have been met, even when they haven't. 
           Good weather and fire effects make a great graphics engine even better.    

  This kind of annoyance is repeated over and over in little oversights that are forgivable individually, 
 but add up to a distinct lack of polish. Ships can be set to fire automatically (which is indispensable 
 in large battles) , but there is no way to direct them to ignore forts or towns, so in actions with 
 a land component, you'll find yourself having to keep your ships on manual fire to avoid wasting 
 broadsides on land batteries. You also can't set automatic fire for one broadside while controlling 
 the other one manually, which, when combined with the ability to only reload one broadside at a 
 time, can lead to premature discharge and an uncomfortable wait for a reload.    

 The notoriously bad AI of the previous game has been replaced by a functional computer opponent 
 that acquits itself well in battles on the open sea. But when land is introduced, a number of problems 
 show up, such as ships running themselves aground, which gives the graphics engine a chance to 
 show off its clipping prowess. Fortunately, Age of Sail II is outstanding in multiplayer, with 
 a small but fanatical following, despite the fact that the game currently doesn't work with third-party 
 multiplayer clients. If it eventually does, multiplayer Privateer's Bounty will be the ultimate 
 way to take advantage of what is the best real-time naval combat system available on a computer. 
           When land is involved, the AI can demonstrate numerous failings, like shooting its own 
 ships while aground and stuck in a mountain.    

  Having gotten the strategy part down so well, Akella unfortunately couldn't seem to resist the 
 urge to try to inject some role-playing into what is otherwise a perfectly good wargame. It's as 
 though the developer thought that, since it created the pirate-themed role-playing game Sea Dogs, 
 it would have to keep forcing you to pretend you're a pirate. The campaigns all feature multiple-page 
 mission briefings full of inane text that tries to create an atmosphere of swashbuckling adventure 
 but ends up sounding like a fantasy novel that substitutes pirates for elves instead. The real 
 problem is that some of the briefings fail to adequately define your objectives, so you'll end 
 up playing certain missions over and over until you figure out what all that high-seas fiction 
 was trying to say. The premise is sound -- win battles, capture ships and refit them, buy more ships, 
 fight new battles. The execution is less so, especially because the campaigns all incorporate some 
 version of the "puzzle mission," which often involves land and thus triggers the awful AI. Privateer's 
 Bounty incorporates some new units like submarines, fire ships, paddleboats, bomb vessels, and 
 even balloons, but other than when they're brought to the forefront by scripted scenarios, they're 
 generally ancillary units. Even worse, the scripts can't even keep their stories straight -- while 
 there are supposed to be separate campaigns for the English, French, and Americans, the French 
 campaign briefing text clearly states that you're in the British "Special Boat Service." And you 
 go  fight  the French.           Based on this description, who is the elf?    

  Despite the fact that this is really a "fix 'em up" update of a previous game, Privateer's Bounty 
 still has some bugs. For example, ships on automatic fire are not supposed to shoot when friendly 
 ships are blocking them, but they do anyway (with painful consequences) . Possibly the most irritating 
 bug, however, is the inability to load campaign games that were saved in mid-mission. Doing so 
 causes a crash to the desktop with the same "internal program error" dialogue box that appeared 
 in the original Age of Sail II but was finally fixed with patch 1.56. It now makes a reappearance. 
 This means that campaign games can be only played from the beginning of a mission. This makes little 
 difference in some missions, but in the aforementioned puzzle missions, it can get quite frustrating. 
 Furthermore, some of the scripted events that are supposed to take place in some missions fail 
 to come about.   

  Despite these problems, Privateer's Bounty is a strategy game that offers something for anyone 
 interested in commanding a fleet -- except perhaps fans of role-playing a pirate. Since Age of Sail 
 II is so appealing in multiplayer, it makes sense for fans of the game to buy the latest version, 
 especially since it features improvements that make for a markedly better game. For everyone else, 
 thanks to this update, you can now go to the store and buy an excellent strategy game about the 
 age of fighting sail that generally works right out of the box. It's definitely worth it.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
