-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Age of Conan: Hyborian Adventures
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/ageofconanhyborianadventures/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Mature, brilliantly imagined game world is a pleasure to explore.
 Exciting combat keeps you constantly involved.
 Many quests are powerfully written and have emotional impact.
 Varied classes make both team and solo play equally viable.
 You can tear a man's heart out of his chest and eat it.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A large number of server- and client-side bugs.
 Lacks noncombat activities that would help mix things up.
 Various pacing issues and other minor flaws.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 4,471 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCi
Developer: Funcom
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     May 20, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Technical issues notwithstanding, the violently rewarding Age of Conan is one of the finest online 
 RPGs available. 

  As imagined by developer Funcom, the land of Cimmeria's lush green landscapes are dotted with impaled 
 corpses upon which crows roost and flap their wings, apparently pleased with both the height of 
 their perch and the scent of death. Thus the stage is set for one of the finest online role-playing 
 games in years, one in which fertile fields and arid deserts contrast with the blood spilled by 
 hundreds of sharp-toothed warthogs and hulking mantises. Age of Conan: Hyborian Adventures is an 
 explorer's paradise, offering rich, grisly surprises in the crevasses of its bustling cities and 
 green meadows. Whether it's a looming pyramid hiding deadly secrets or a spider's lair nestled 
 within the rocky hills, the sights are impressive and striking, and the vivid backstory that supports 
 this sprawling paradise is mature and, appropriately enough, barbaric.  

           My other car's a rhino.      

  But this is a flawed paradise. Funcom has been quick 
 to handle the most egregious blemishes since the launch of its massively multiplayer online game, 
 but a number of frustrating bugs remain. The most minor ones have little to no impact on the game 
 proper, like placeholder text and a minimap that occasionally goes blank (among other interface 
 glitches) . Others are more significant, such as broken quests and memory leaks that lead to the 
 occasional crash. Launch imperfections are common enough in the genre, but while Age of Conan's 
 release was hardly disastrous, it has been less stable than we should expect. Many bugs have already 
 been fixed, but the game's edges are still somewhat jagged, and the software can buckle under the 
 sheer weight of its own ambition.  

  You'd do well to look past these imperfections, though, because Age of Conan is the most brutal 
 and immediately satisfying MMOG on the market, thanks to its unique slant on combat, resonant quest 
 writing, and uncompromising maturity. It's also paced much differently than its competition, ushering 
 you into Hyboria slowly by juxtaposing a story-driven, single-player quest against the more standard 
 team-oriented exploration and traditional questing. During your time in Tortage, the initial lower-level 
 city, missions are bestowed with in-engine scenes and full voice acting, which draw you into the 
 world and weave narrative threads that continue even after you've left the pirate port for the 
 wild beyond. It's unfortunate that most post-Tortage quests lack the voice-over, but the tasks 
 themselves are superbly written. While it's true that the majority of them are genre standards -- kill 
 these enemies, collect these items, and so on -- they're assigned by interesting characters with 
 stories to tell. You'll meet a young woman hiding her pregnancy (and the unsavory circumstance 
 behind it) from her overbearing father, rescue a princess that turns out to be a bit different 
 than expected, and interrogate murder suspects. Don't skip past quest intros without reading them 
 in Age of Conan; if you do, you'll be missing some of the game's finest moments.  

  Of course, before you begin your explorations, you must customize your avatar and choose a race 
 and class. The cosmetic side of character creation is delightfully robust, letting you tweak nose 
 length, pick tattoos, and play with a host of other options. Your new virtual self can hail from 
 Stygia, Aquilonia, or Conan's own homeland, Cimmeria, and from there, you pick one of 12 varied 
 classes -- though not every class is available to every race. Each class falls into one of four different 
 archetypes, so whether you prefer to keep to the shadows, melt your foes with the heat of supernatural 
 flames, or (literally) rip a frost giant's heart from its chest and gobble it down, you will find 
 a class that suits your play style. As of this writing, most classes and races are well represented, 
 so you're bound to encounter demonologists and the dark servants that scurry along with them, or 
 see a Tempest of Set's electrical spells streak across the horizon.  

  Battles are not the typical click-and-wait affairs you may be accustomed to in other MMOGs. Swinging 
 a melee weapon or shooting a bow involves more than just clicking your mouse; rather, it requires 
 you to press the number keys (and at upper levels, the Q and E keys as well) to swing or aim in 
 the corresponding direction. Assuming you're fighting enemies around your own level, you can't 
 just indiscriminately tap the keys and expect that growling yeti to fall. Monsters can actively 
 shield themselves from your strikes, so you must focus your attack on the unprotected sides, where 
 you'll do the most damage. You have your own shielding arcs, and you can adjust them during battle, 
 though you'll probably ignore the option, simply because any potential defensive benefit is too 
 small to make futzing with the control and numeric keys worth the trouble.  

           Combos require more effort than just a couple of mouse clicks.      

  The higher your 
 level, the more active you must remain within combat, especially when you wish to string combos 
 together. Combo strikes and spells don't require a single key tap, but rather a succession of them -- and 
 the higher the level of the combo, the more button presses required. It's pretty simple to perform 
 a two-step combo, but when you're tasked with four keystrokes in a row, you'll realize that you 
 simply must pay attention to the onscreen prompts. Combos, when timed right, can also result in 
 deadly killing blows that look and sound gruesome, and never lose their macabre and satisfying 
 edge. Even when no fatality is involved, a combo may involve plunging your claymore directly into 
 a soldier's chest or knocking a Vanir spellcaster a few feet backward with a stun spell.  

  The combat impressively remains gripping enough to push you forward, even when you're pursuing 
 tasks that could qualify as grinding. Much of this has to do with the various roles a single class 
 can play within an adventuring group -- even classes that are seemingly dedicated to healing and 
 support. A Herald of Xotli may be an offensive powerhouse, but the healing blood pit he occasionally 
 drops can be a major boon to a party close to defeat. A Bear Shaman is handy to have around for 
 his buffs and healing spells, but he's more effective using his melee combos in the midst of chaos 
 than he is tiptoeing in the sidelines. These varied abilities mean that not only do group dynamics 
 feel fresher than in most other online RPGs, but that the majority of classes offer highly successful 
 solo play.     

   

  The single-player questing offered within the first 20 levels isn't the only pacing adjustment 
 Age of Conan introduces, though not every adjustment is as successful as others. For example, you 
 can only learn crafting skills once you hit level 40. While the focus on combat is deliberate, 
 crafting activities would have been a welcome way to mix up the early levels, especially given 
 that you can gather resources before you can craft. The prospect of new loot, often a major reason 
 to push forward, isn't as exciting as you'd hope, either. As you level, you'll find that few looted 
 items are helpful, and the limited inventory space (even after buying an extra bag) can make dropped 
 items more of a nuisance than a pleasure. The flow of new abilities is also inconsistent, since 
 rather than bringing brand-new spells, new levels more often reward you with more powerful versions 
 of existing spells and combos. Fortunately, the feat points you begin to earn at level 10 can be 
 spent on new abilities and upgrades from one of three specialization trees.  

           The scenery is breathtaking.      

  Nevertheless, it really is about the combat, whether 
 you prefer to beat up tarantulas or other players. Should you choose to play on a free-for-all 
 player-versus-player server, be prepared for frustration. On those servers, you will be killed -- often -- by 
 archers camping spawn points and "griefers" who get their jollies from punishing new players. But 
 if you'd rather avoid the unfriendliness of such realms, you still have options. Instanced PVP 
 battles are the most immediate outlet for your spellcasting prowess, and you can play a team deathmatch 
 or capture-the-flag variant against others simply by adding yourself to the match queue. Once enough 
 interested players have joined up, you're whisked away to the map for a vicious and enjoyable clash 
 that can result in the best kind of controlled chaos. It's a shame that there aren't more maps 
 available for these games, but the flexibility of Age of Conan's classes and the sheer bloody violence 
 of the matches mean that every visit is a unique, and occasionally breathless, experience.  

  At this point, it's unclear how well the game's most touted PVP component, guild siege battles, 
 will function. They certainly have potential, though the largest battles will be the private realm 
 of the biggest guilds, and we've yet to experience one of these events. It is clear, however, that 
 to build a keep and maintain it, a guild has to have a large amount of manpower and wealth. At 
 any given time, you'll have plenty of cash for your standard needs: weapons, armor, potions, and 
 so on. Building up a keep is incredibly expensive, though -- which is a great way of ensuring that 
 big siege battles remain the domain of the elite, but if you're hoping to start a fledgling guild, 
 be warned that the prospect of building and defending an expansive battlekeep is a daunting one. 
 If you'd rather continue your travels at later levels than invest in siege battle, you'll unfortunately 
 find that the flow of new content gets noticeably slower as you progress toward the maximum level 
 of 80.  

  But even in light of the noted flaws, Age of Conan is a gratifying and entertaining game that, 
 more than any other online RPG in recent memory, possesses a strong sense of place. There is certainly 
 plenty of variety to the scenery and the dungeons, but even in the brightest areas, you can't escape 
 the sense of oppression. You'll see it as you approach Thoth-Amon's tower and hear it in the buzz 
 of mosquitoes, and you can practically feel the humidity in Purple Lotus Swamp. Battles are a natural 
 presence in these places, as if the heavy dread hanging in the air needs to be released through 
 the ripping of daggers through flesh. The combat is mechanically sound and great fun, but within 
 the rich context of Hyboria, it's even more inspiring.  

  The art design is the keystone for this success. Tortage, your first haunt, makes a solid first 
 impression, but it can't compete with the dense Tarantia skyline or the sight of rushing waterfalls 
 in the Cimmerian knolls. The game engine renders these areas with incredible detail, using ornate 
 textures and luxuriant lighting to great effect. Age of Conan is the most attractive and technically 
 impressive MMOG now on the market, though it requires a rather beefy system to see Hyboria at its 
 most splendid, and even then it is prone to weirdness. There are pixel shader glitches, various 
 clipping issues, and other noticeable blights. The frame rate also takes a major hit in populated 
 areas, so a visit to the port city of Khemi may be a little more frustrating than your trek through 
 the less busy Khopshef Province. Additonally, as of this writing, DirectX 10 support has yet to 
 be implemented. Assuming you have a rig that is up to the task, however, you will be constantly 
 admiring the view.  

           Multiplayer minigames are fast, fun, and fatal.      

  The sound design is essentially flawless. The soundtrack isn't as omnipresent as with Funcom's 
 previous MMOG, Anarchy Online, but it is just as marvelous, featuring pounding bass drums when 
 combat gets dramatic and the atmospheric calls of flutes as you explore the idyllic Conall's Valley. 
 Of particular note is the beautiful, serene vocal composition you hear in the border kingdoms. 
 The grunts, clangs, and thuds of combat perfectly match the bloodiness of the accompanying blood 
 splatter, and even small touches, such as the authentic sound of your footsteps as you march through 
 snow, are spot-on. The voice acting, though limited mostly to the first 20 levels, is equally excellent. 

  Age of Conan has plenty of room to grow and a number of issues that need fixing, but even now, 
 it offers a rewarding adventure abundant with character and fascinating backstory. The combat system 
 perfectly suits the adult nature of the quests, and is the finest one yet seen in an online RPG. 
 In spite of its current bugs and glitches, Age of Conan is a remarkably entertaining journey through 
 a dark and mature world of beasts and brutality.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (375 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: weewalio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I'll start this off by saying that I don't personally care if you decide to play Age of Conan after 
 reading this. If I'm writing this, it's as information only. Make up your own mind, yay or nay.
 
  
  Now then, having said that; I was one of the 800,000 or so people who started playing AoC when 
 it first launched. At the time, I had a computer which was right on the borderline for meeting 
 the minimum specs (I'll post a "before and after" spec list at the end of this commentary) . As 
 such, I was playing the game on the bare minimum settings and *still* getting a maximum of 10-12 
 frames per second in the best of cases. Regretfully, after 3 weeks of this or so, I shelved my 
 level 31 Herald of Xotli... and the game.
  
  Over the next few weeks and months, I read up on the long list of bugs, glitches, crashes, memory 
 leaks, broken quests and broken game mechanics that pervaded the game. I was disappointed, because 
 even with slideshow performance, AoC felt fun. The combat was fun and the first 20 levels of Tortage 
 (the tightly scripted, story-driven starter zone) had whetted my appetite for more! Regretfully, 
 I stopped having any hope for this game.
  
  Then some promising signs; the game's lead designer resigns and is replaced by a man who apparently 
 had a sharper vision and more drive than his predecessor. Reviews and comments are chirping about 
 bug fixes, performance enhancements, added content, server mergers to fix population problems. 
 Overall, the positive vibe is starting to at least match the negative.
  
  (A word on negative MMO reviews; always take them with a grain of salt. Tons of people on the Internet 
 will write "reviews" based only on what other people say or write, and these people will NOT change 
 their minds no matter what. I'll admit the game had huge issues at launch, but I'm also honest 
 enough to give someone kudos when they fix their problems, too. Others people aren't.)
  
  After a few months of playing nothing followed by 5 months of playing Warhammer Online, well... I 
 gave up on WAR because that game, while also excellent in many facets, has its own issues to work 
 through. Now, I could either wait for Star Wars: The Old Republic... or resub to an old game. 
 
  
  It wasn't going to be WoW. I hate WoW with a passion I normally reserve only for people who mistreat 
 kids and animals. Everquest, City of Heroes/Villains, Everquest 2, Guild Wars, EVE Online... all 
 my old games came up short when I considered going back.
  
  Then I installed and resubbed to AoC after reading many more comments on various sites and forums, 
 and deciding the game was worth another shot. I had a much better PC this time around, so I cranked 
 the graphics and logged in, expecting at least moderately improved visuals and performance.
  
  Day 1 Back: Gasping as I max out graphics settings and get a steady 70-90 frames per second, 
 followed by careful prodding around as I try to remember what my skills and abilities too. 
  
  Day 2 Back: Grab a ton of quests and go to town, slaying and being slain. I'm impressed by 
 the number of people playing, the game stability, and the fun factor of most quests as I have to 
 trek through the countryside rather than just running 200 feet or so outside the nearest "camp".
 
  
  Day 3 Back: Hopeless addiction sets in as I join my first ever AoC group and enter what used to 
 be a mostly solo dungeon, the Black Castle. It was now apprently revamped as a group zone. Tough 
 mobs, traps (the Indy nod was especially hilarious!) and great boss fights.
  
  After my time in the Black Castle, I was convinced. For players looking for a return to the days 
 when quests had some challenge to them and the gameworld felt like more than just an excuse to 
 plop down some NPCs and dole out some XP, this is your game. Huge vistas, roaming dangerous creatures, 
 alternate routes to pretty much everywhere... and dungeons that put the sense of fear and exploration 
 back into you. This is the game that I have been waiting for since I stopped playing the original 
 Everquest almost 6 years ago.
  
  If you're looking for a game that will suck you in, this is it. Give the free trial a whirl; you 
 simply will not regret it.
  
  OLD PC:
  Ahtlon 64 3500+
  2 Gb RAM
  ATI Radeon X1950XT (256Mb)
  
  CURRENT PC:
  Intel Core2 E8500 3.1Ghz 
  4Gb RAM
  ATI Radeon 
 4850 512Mb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GG-raaaaiiiiiii
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the biggest letdowns that I have ever played. Age of Conan tried to target 
 a more mature audience than those that play World of Warcraft by adding more violence and sexuality. 
 From experience, I found that they succeeded in this area. People that I know started playing AoC 
 because they found WoW too cartoony.
  
  The beginning levels are creatively written and well thought out. The whole tutorial is done in 
 a single player format. Your character has survived a shipwreck and washed ashore. You have to 
 fight your way through a jungle, facing everything from alligators to slavers. The combat system 
 is well done, whether it be through button combinations to perform melee moves or simply waiting 
 for spells to cast. You will find yourself enjoying a more graphic, realistic World of Warcraft 
 for a long while.
  
  However, once you reach level 50 and higher, the game takes a serious nosedive. You start to run 
 out of places to go, things to do. You will find that you have done all of the quests you could 
 possibly do at your level, yet you still won't be anywhere near the level cap. All that remains 
 is to grind, grind, grind, which is never any fun. 
  
  I have written this review after a long time away from the game, so much of this may have been 
 fixed. However, there have been reports that the game will be closing completely soon because of 
 fallen subscriptions and patches that have broken the game more than fixed it. Sure, getting ganked 
 constantly was never really fun, but making it impossible to gank other players is even less fun.
 
  
  Overall, this game could have been great, but critical mistakes made it fall extremely short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pll
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 6:10 am PT
Review:  To start with i have played all the great games since 1997.. so we can say im a hardcore player 
 and i luv every genre of games... played starcraft1 diablo 1 world of warcraft, guild wars, warhammer 
 online, oblivion, call of dutys, crysis, and well, all good game it was ever released i played.. 
 exept LOTR wich i havent tried yet
  But im here to talk about AOC.. most players like to say crap about the game and the bugs, but 
 the game is no longer that buggy AOC we met when it was released... once it was leg but now its 
 a full body. im going to make a list of the pros and cons.
  
  Pros: Best graphics out there in this genre Its a Violent game and so there are less kids on servers 
 then usual... lets keep it that way! All the bugs have been fixed! i have only seen one minor bug 
 yet, not a big deal... The dungeons have booby traps everywhere, wich takes u to a new level of 
 dungeons on MMORPG's ( seeing a boulder rock coming down through a small path and u have to run 
 the heck out of there its a great feeling and inovative :) The pvp just grows on u! Most addictive 
 pvp i have ever played... Guild wars is almost but not quite the same tho.. First 20-30 levels 
 rock, and u dont feel ur leveling at all. 3 diferent talent trees for each class with loads of 
 variety to choose from. All healers dps in combat, wich makes them good dpsers and healing aswell.
 
  Fatalaty! Choping a guys head off just gives 2 many pleasure... Some classes are totally new... 
 ive never seen any of that tipe on other mmorpg's, wich makes the game feel really fresh. ( like 
 a mage with a two handed sword that has a demon inside! wtf is that oO! goddamn funcom xD) I didnt 
 yet tried the massive sieges but as many ppl say it rox so.. this one its a maybe/pro Classes are 
 balanced between them in pvp! This is mostly a pvp game but it has a cool pve Combat system is 
 great. Pvp minigames are awseome aswell Cons: Some pc's run it bad wich may be frustrating ( tip: 
 if u disable shades from all u dont notice any diference and u win like 30 frames ) Pvp server 
 can have just too much open world ganking.. sometimes when u dont want to pvp and just quest u 
 might be forced to fight or die! Im talking in pvp only servers ofc The Caster classes dont have 
 the new combo sistem.. so its pretty much like other mmorpg's The professions are boring and doesnt 
 makes u wanna level them After level 50 u might feel slightly a lack of quests U have to pay monthly 
 fee! T_T The 5 gb download patch arent amusing when u instal it! Theres really not much bad in 
 the game now....
  
  2x 80's wow / rogue dk Top 100 guild in guild wars gvg ! lvl 40 warhammer online goblin shaman
 
  
  Trust me in all this games age of conan is the most new and innovative game out there... From all 
 the mmorpg's its the best atm in my opinion!
  
  Tired of WoW? try this one.. i highly recomment it, and u will too! :)
  Rating 9.1! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huftsk
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 3:18 am PT
Review:  First the background:
  AoC- one of last years most anticipated games. Went from 700 000 to aprox 100 000 active accounts 
 in under a year. (based on rumors, since funcom holding its cards close to the chest)
  I'm one of the initial 700 000 who quit after a few weeks. Reason: Game memoryleaked my gamerig, 
 sudden graphic lockups... yeah, it was just too buggy. When problems occured and you tried to get 
 some answeres from the "support" you found that they were completly absent. No response.
  
  All this is now history, I reactivated my account in nov2008, because I'd heard that most problems 
 were solved, and additional contents were up and running. And by jeebs it is. At least on my rig 
 game run smooth as h*** now!
  
  I have read most of the bad rewievs about this game, and I think it has become a hobby of some 
 to dig up dirt. If I was going to adress every little problem I have encountered in WoW I could 
 singlehanded fill the whole rewiew base of AoC with it. But I dont, why? Because I try to play/try 
 a game for the fun part of it, not just to find problems and wounds to twist my fingers in. 
  I still give Funcom one broken nail: All repairs, patches content addons DX10 support etc, just 
 takes to long time. Dear Funcom, I would love to see this game up with a larger playerbase, and 
 with years and years of gameplay ahead, but you lose tousands of people between every update. WoW 
 was initially in the same dump as AoC in the beginning, but it was at the time almost uniqe, had 
 a well functional support and approached the lack of content in a quick paste. It was a success 
 uncomparable.
  
  Enough said.
  So how do I like the game?
  
  Its kinda like a love / hate relationship.
  
  The graphics is great, better than all other 
 MMORPG's out there I dear say.
  
  Music and Sound quality is even better than in most singleplayer RPGs I ever tried.
  
  Gameplay: 
 Here the Love/hate turns in. Its not like anything else. that is if you dont play a caster, then 
 its like anything else;) . The first levels dont take much skill in gameplay, but skill excells 
 with the level. So you need to give this game a considerable time before getting any assumptions 
 on its level of skill. Is it hard, no but much more appelling than just point click gameplay. 
 
  Me as many others are former or current WoW players and the different paste and rythm in the combat 
 playstyle is somtimes wery annoying, but most of the time a relief.
  
  Questing / pve: It is no secret that AoC has a great story driven start then turns into a sorry 
 state of grindingquests. This with later content / areas etc has improved a lot, but still has 
 a way to go. And funcom has started walking;)
  
  PvP has undergone lot of changes and more is to come as I hear. 
  PvP is good but.... 
  PvP 
 servers is overrun by gankers, PvE servers hmmm...? PvP Rpg servers better with fewer gankers but 
 also fewer players allover. 
  I will not comment PvP more because I have yet to try great player city sieges. Only repetative 
 minigames and world ganking horror.
  
  My Conclution:
  A great game. Still has the potential of a success, tough currently living on the edge.
  Great 
 gameplay graphics and sound.
  A must try, but give it some time.
  Better than most of the MMOs out there IMO.
  
  Huftsk out.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordgrim84
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:58 pm PT
Review:  From the first glance at all of the different negative reviews, this game seems like complete crap. 
 Don't be fooled, it's not. I was skeptical about getting this game because of all of the bad reviews. 
 When i found the game on amazon for $10 i couldn't pass up the opportunity. It arrived and i installed 
 it.
  
  Installation took a normal amount of time. the patches were quite big though and took an hour or 
 two, which is normal. Yes, there are a few bugs, but if your not as picky as most of the reviewers, 
 you'll have no problem playing this game. The attack system is amazing. it keeps the game on edge. 
 the graphics are amazing. once dx10 is out, it will be even better. so far from playing, i have 
 yet to see any major bugs. a few small ones are items not loading the full skins. or having a glitched 
 view of your character from the inventory screen. the game is very enjoyable. the starting is fun, 
 but can be frustrating if you try to solo everything. grouping is easy and simple. and guilds are 
 very friendly. i just purchased a 60day time card and play on playing for a long time. one last 
 not. dont trust all of the reviews. it pisses me off when people complain about a new game being 
 complete shi7 wow blew a left nut when it came out and look where it is now. its also retarded 
 when people write bad reviews just because they like wow or some other mmo better. i know, ive 
 played wow and am usually addicted, but ill admit that its not that great of a game. WAR or AoC 
 is much better, and the games have a higher quality. if you hate this review, oh well, sucks. all 
 you need to know is at least give it a try. don't always believe what people think. those people 
 aren't you and can't tell you if you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag_04
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 9, 2009 6:58 am PT
Review:  I read a lot of critics of this game (good and bad) , but anyway I wanted to try it by myself, and 
 taste to what was supposed to be the "bloody world of conan".
  
  So the game starts good. The character creation is great and there are a lot of options. I really 
 liked the aesthetics of the characters. They look so real. Your adventure begins in Tortage where 
 you spend your first 20 or so levels. In there you can group with others during day or play solo 
 at night in your "destiny quests". It is nice to see that there is voice acting with quest givers. 
 No need to say that the first 20 levels are easy to get through and it isn't needed to group at 
 all. Also, in this game, everybody can sprint and stealth, as long as you spend points in it when 
 you level up. You can climb too, but only at certain points. You watch fatalities as you kill, 
 you upgrade your gear and so on. Good.
  
  So ok. So far the game is entertaining. After you leave Tortage, you travel to the capital city 
 of your country. From now on, you are completely LOST. So you decide to do all the quests that 
 are available. You start to need to group to complete "elite quests", which is difficult because 
 there are not many people in the game (at least in your instanced zone) . You start travelling from 
 zone to zone. You start learning how to gather materials for future professions. You learn some 
 new ability / spell at some levels (at lower rate) or thanks to talents, etc. 
  
  At level range 26-40 probably you have realised that the world feels "dead". This is a consequence 
 of the realistic concept of the game. Only humans makes all NPCs and most humanoid enemies look 
 the same and unoriginal. Open world looks empty. Your mobility it totally limited, and the map 
 doesn't help you to get to some places. What I mean is that you don't feel like you are free to 
 make some things. If you die, you resurrect at certain points, and you have no choice but to go 
 again to where you died to find out that all enemies have respawned and you have to fight again 
 in your way. The rate at which you learn new abilities is really low, so your combat strategy barely 
 changes. Combos are fun, as well as fatalities, but.... I wish you had other options. Lack of abilities 
 is a big flaw and makes the gameplay boring.
  
  Then you decide you want to do some pvp. No problem, you just sign up in the mini-game and wait 
 until you are called to participate. Sometimes you have to wait up to 5 hours until there is enough 
 people to start the mini-game. This is a population issue, it's true, but it is developer's fault 
 for not crossing servers for mini-games. I don't know, probably at 80 the pvp is fun. I just didn't 
 have patiente to play the game more time.
  
  About the playerbase, you may guess that about 90% are high levels (80) so forget about asking 
 for help. Yeah, I was in a guild, but really low level quests are so boring that I understand high 
 levels, I wouldn't help any low level player in any quest, not even if he was my brother or my 
 best friend (LOL) . Now I'm exaggerating. Maybe, and JUST maybe, if you play the game with lots 
 of friends and you happen to be hard-core, this game will be GREAT for you. However, for casual 
 players like me, who only want to spend like 10 hours a week, this game will be a big big disapointment. 
 The only casual part of this game is Tortage (1-20) . The rest is just.... meh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravenhoe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 10:29 pm PT
Review:  
  What can I say, who will ever dethrone World of Warcraft ? I suppose it will be Blizzards upcoming 
 MMO itself, the king is dead, long live the king.
  
  Age of Conan was an ambitious attempts, focussing on lore, theme and atmosphere instead of casual 
 playability (such as WOW and all the "free" online MMOs such as Dofus, Rappelz etc.) The lore was 
 very well implemented, yet one must wonder who knows Robert E. Howard's fictional canon anyway ? 
 Compared to the LOTR, Star Trek Online (tba) , Star Wars Galaxies or even WOW (as to the previous 
 games set in the universe) the Conan universe may not be of that interest, although we all love 
 and adore Arnold swining his sword in the three movies where he portrayed the barbarian.
  
  Still, I very much enjoyed the setting, good graphics and a great sound (music as well as effects) 
 made the world a joy to explore, unlike other MMOs. Yet, the gameplay was nothing out of the ordinary. 
 Go there, kill that, collect that, medieval errand boys all over. PK was possible but implemented 
 in a coherent systems, rewarding or punishing you in any way. The "fighting system" did not rely 
 on skil, although this had been advertised as such. 
  
  The "adult" theme is basically just a joke. How can you call yourself a game for grownups and basically 
 credit this fact to big boobs bouncing around all over the world ? So that is what grown ups do, 
 look at jugs.... and..... adolescents and young boys don't ? Yeah, right. So, you find as much CS: Kids 
 and sociopathic nitwits here as everywhere on the internet, which promotes, lets face it, the domination 
 of people who cannot cope in real life. 
  
  Good Effort and Id rather have a company trying to break the mould and do something new instead 
 of copying WOW (such as WAR) and trying to cash in someone else's ideas. 
  
  Anyway, stay away from it, the ship has sunk
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ION_87
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2009 2:45 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 9/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Combat System: 9/10
  Quests: 7/10
  Story: 9/10
  
  The game really impressed me from all the videos, that I have watched throughout the whole internet 
 including official trailers and fan made videos in youtube, and I loved the game since those videos 
 and still love it.
  
  The graphics really are great and almost perfect (I play on everything MAX without any lag ( fps 
 ~60 ) , there are some bugs, but those are really not so huge, to worry about) . I really love the 
 massive outdoor areas with huge space of walkable area and for addition to that I would like to 
 add, that the areas feel really alive, and there aren't so many empty spaces out there like in 
 other MMOs, and a huge attention is on detail of the land, very beautiful scenery and good for 
 screen shots :)
  
  The gameplay is very great with mixing the new and in my opinion very good and not boring combat 
 system, where you can smash multiple opponents with a swing of a sword or a hammer, not to mention 
 great combat skill ending moves, where the heroe cuts arms, heads, smashes skulls etc... the game 
 really isn't for wimps and young kids because of very high blood and gore content!
  
  Combat system maybe could be better, but I like it as it is now and I really enjoy every minute 
 of combat, because you can't lose focus on fighting (playing now as a Guardian ( best tank class 
 with most xp and medium damage output) . You really need to think about what skill or combo to 
 use first, second and so on, to kill the opponent the fastest way, because slashing, cutting and 
 stabbing will make the killing more than twice as long as using skills. The guardian does not have 
 any magic, so all focus goes on stamina and stamina drain, where you need to think about how much 
 you can spend it on jogging around the map and leaving some for combat, if necessary for bailing 
 out (although it is almost impossible to flee, after monster sees you and begins to attack you) . 
 The AI is very good and I love it... wolves attack rabbits and other small creatures and eat them, 
 if you have a horde of monsters chasing you, there is always an option to run to the nearest city 
 guards and they will attack the hostile mobs, not just stand and watch how you die!
  
  The first quests Tortuga (up to lvl ~20) have voice recordings, afterward many don't, and some 
 do... but that does not make quests boring, because there are a very huge variety of quests including 
 the all known quests of slaying particular monsters, gathering pelts or other ingredients, fetching 
 metal bars for blacksmith, killing pirates and so on, very huge list of things, that you can do! 
 And many of quests ( depending on difficulty of quest ) give huge amounts of experience, so you 
 will level up faster doing quests, rather than ignoring than and killing monsters nonstop.
  
  As I advance in my skills, I can get the chance to know more about the world, where Conan rules, 
 and as a fan of serial/movie of Conan, I really love it, how they made it as it is, not to mention, 
 that my favorite genere of games is RPG, and MMORPG is even better... and that they made a game 
 about the series of Conan in such quality is super!
  
  P. S.
  If you are bored with MMORPG games, where you need to click a monster and then wait until he dies, 
 you will not regret of getting this game! Although I have heard complains from players, that made 
 a Necromancer character, where they say, that they get bored, because they can kill packs of monsters 
 with ease by help of several minions, that a Necromancer can spawn! And after combat, sometimes 
 you can really get tired of it and maybe start wanting just to sit around doing nothing, talking 
 to people, because combats are really intense, when it comes to several mob fights (1 vs 3-5 your 
 level monsters)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeyDL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 9:09 pm PT
Review:  I recently came back to AoC. I brought the game when it first came out and later jumped ship over 
 to Warhammer Online. 
  However, I ended up coming back to give it another try and figured I'd give it my gamespot 2 cents. 
 
  
  AoC is an excellent MMO with fantastic graphics and spell animations. The combat system which uses 
 sort of sequenced combos (for melee) is unique and very entertaining. These combat and spell animations 
 are some of the best you are going to see in any MMO. The visuals and landscapes are fantastic 
 although some of the zone seem small compared to other MMO products.
  
  For those who remember the amount of bugs and game breaking problems (such as no bank or broker 
 in the beginning) most of these have been fixed and the game runs smoothly and most people forum 
 posting or talking about the game online seem to be happy.
  
  I came back and started up a necromancer and I am having a blast. The starting area (Tortage) is 
 excellent since the quests move in line with an overall goal for freeing the town which makes them 
 more worthwhile to complete then the average set of MMO quests. Once you leave Tortage the quests 
 are fine but most people think the luster has gone, since they end up being mostly the standard 
 MMO fare you see in other type games. Although I'm not high enough the big complaints over lack 
 of quests post 50 seem to have been taken care of (I guess I'll find out soon enough) . 
  
  As an MMO, AoC's strengths are it's different type combat system and impressive visual's. My main 
 concern is that with the population drop and resulting server merger's that Funcom has pulled out 
 key development staff and may be keeping the game on life support without putting in any significant 
 effort into new content or future development. I've noticed that when logging on the servers always 
 show a minimum medium population despite being way past prime time activity. time you try to log 
 on. At least with Vanguard and EQ2 they aren't afraid to show you when the server load is light 
 when it actually is. Also, the Funcom forum boards are especially one sided with very little in 
 the way or replies to the numerous suggestions, rants or bugs reported or discussed. I"m used to 
 Lotro where you end up usually getting some developer responses to posts. In the time I've left 
 most of the work has been bug fixes and some content updates for higher levels. I"m not sure any 
 significant content (other then +50 quests and Ymir pass) has been released. At least the PVE server 
 I'm playing on seems to have a healthy population which is a good sign. AoC server population (at 
 least the one I"m on) seems friendly and helpful, but then most of the smaller MMO pops seem more 
 friendly (less WoW like) to me.
  
  My last main comment is really about the gear which I find disappointing. The game seems to lack 
 the type of gear content you get in other MMO's such as WOW, EQ2, Lotro ect... In AoC it seems 
 you might get stat increases but I haven't seen any real gear which boosts talents or set pieces 
 which when combined give you additional benefits. Gear feels a bit lackluster and also not visually 
 inspired either.
  
  But despite these concerns for what it does give you, I"m finding AoC to be a fun experience. I 
 hoping the game will keep me satisfied for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MackB835
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is really nothing more than a poor Neverwinter Nights and Guildwars hybrid, and a poorly 
 done one at that.
  Perhaps to people who have never played either game this one would be alright, but to me it just 
 is not worth it, especially when guildwars is free to play online.
  
  The gameplay is awkward at best, not very well thought out at all and tries to combine too many 
 different styles without succeeding at any particular ones.
  
  Graphics are subpar even maxed out, and for some reason wont detect that I run dx10 and wants to 
 force me to dx 9 even though i have all the up to date drivers ect.
  
  Dont fall in any water in the first town, cause the only way out is for you to drown, which seems 
 like a stupid design flaw for the mission area thats supposed to allow you to learn basic controls.
 
  
  I was one of the ones that wanted to give this game a try and doubted some of the more severe player 
 reviews, but they were right, this game is not that good at all and too expensive for what it is.
 
  
  Id suggest ya find another mmo or stick to the one your already playing, youll have more fun most 
 likely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pergatori
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 22, 2009 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game as I am sure most did, unfortunately it let me down hard. It lacks 
 substance and continued game playability.
  
  The numerous bugs, lack of content and balance issues makes this game barely tolerable. The graphics 
 and character customization (at character creation page not later on with armor) are nice but when 
 compared to the game playing itself there is no contest.. it fails. It lacks any real reason to 
 continue to play and then paired with Funcom's lack of customer service, lack of listening to its 
 player base and fixing small things when there are glaring issues... it leaves the player wanting 
 more MUCH more.
  
  Did I cover crafting? Well lets say there is NO point to it in the game combined with yet more 
 bugs and broken abilities.. there essentially is no crafting.
  
  I would highly recommend looking elsewhere as there are many more decent options available out 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zinithin
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I first started playing this game with a few friends as a Priest of Mitra. As I played I found 
 many faults with the game, so many that once I got level 80 and found it wasn't any fun at all. 
 I just quit along with my friends who also noticed how the game just got progressively worse and 
 worse.
  
  
  The good parts of the game. 
  
  -Very well done begining to the game with good voice acting.
  -Destiny quests are a very interesting 
 and fun part of the game.
  -Amazing graphics for an MMO.
  
  The Bad parts of the game
  
  -Mounted combat is worthless to use.
  -Every zone is instanced and there are really 4+ zones 
 of the same outdoor place going on at the same time. Really takes away from the whole huge world 
 concept.
  -Nearly everything you kill is human. Very little variety.
  -Fatalities happen so much that it just losses its "sweet" feeling.
  -Casters have no combos.
 
  -Combos are implemented rather poorly.
  -Overall, the combat system is flawed.
  -Repeatable quests are used way to much for high level leveling.
  -Only viable way to level is 
 to aoe grind with a group.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doctahgg
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 8:03 am PT
Review:  AOC is the best MMOG to come around in a long time. Goodbye cartoonish graphics, the world of Conan 
 is exquisitely deatailed, the combat innovative, and the questing logical and detailed. Funcom 
 has been right on with the following of the Lore of the written Conan and his world. Fans of the 
 Conan novels and comics will highly enjoy this game. Can't stop playing. Funcom is adding new content 
 as quickly as possible, which makes for replayability with alot of variation. The game plays differently 
 with each of the many player classes. The group questing and raiding allows for much in the way 
 of cooperative play. Guild abound for those that like the comraderie of friends, and they help 
 immensely in the groups and raiding quests. I have had zero technical issues, while some have, 
 it is in most cases due to the variations in hardware. A must play for any online gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgtrobot
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Age of Conan is very frustrating and boring after a few hours. Sure the combat system is "unique" 
 But it is a true waste of time. I bought it and my computer is pretty good. 1gigabyte of ram and 
 all that.. I install it and I have to patch 1 gigabyte. So the next morning I start and try a few 
 different characters. It was obviously too fast for my computer. I google buying RAM and I find 
 4 Gigabytes for 50 bucks. So I bookmark the page. I shut down my computer and find out that my 
 video card is integrated into my motherboard...
  
  The Good: Fun Combat System - Cool Armor - Great Character Customization And Lots Of Choices for 
 classes.
  
  The Bad: Incredibly Frustrating - Glitchy - Boring after 3 hours of game play.
  
  So basically 
 I might come back if I get a better computer but at the moment
  
  **** YOU FUNCOM! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rallierf1
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 19, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Age of Conan the most anticipated MMORPG... yeah anticipated and was hyped like nothing before 
 and proved quite the contrary.
  We were promised sieges and war. We were promised a land of adventure. We got nothing of that.
 
  
  Lets start with questing: repetitive no story
  Go kill that, and kill 20 of them. No reason just do it. well it's ok to get one such quest once 
 in a while for experience but come on all of them quests are like that.
  
  PvP:
  Non existent and no rewards for PvP, just lame gankers ambushing players not allowing them to complete 
 quests.
  
  Bugs:
  I will be lenient, there is a bug infestation and exterminators are on holidays.
  
  Character 
 progression:
  Doesn't even matter, every so and a while failcom decides to boost or nerf characters or specialized 
 items.
  So one week as a guardian you might be the superior foe with no match and the next week you are 
 running for your life to just about everyone.
  
  Sieges:
  What sieges?
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are nice if you have a hell of a computer. In any case though buggy as well.
 
  
  Sound: sound is ok
  
  Overall experience: dreadful
  I have been playing the game for a few months waiting for them to fix the problems and deliver 
 what gamers have been promised. Well it's like waiting for a date that will never come and you 
 wait and wait wishing she would come but at the end you walk alone back home with a bitter taste. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rawlu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  I have to say WOW! (pun intended) , kids feel so threatened by AOC, they wont have anyone left to group 
 with who knows what their doing if all the adults go to AOC I guess?.
  
  Now onto the real game, the game that has indeed been patched, yes they patch, but since these kids 
 have never played a game like WOW or EQ or every other MMO know to man, THEY ALL DO!. I have been 
 playing EQ now for over eight years & they still release HUGE patch's almost weekly for gods sake, not 
 only to FIX THINGS but to add new content, tweak things, make ONE GAME work for a MILLION different 
 computer setups!, patches are a NECESSARY EVIL in MMO. I actually played WOW when it was first released 
 & guess what?, they patched as much as AOC probly had to, I remember lots of downtime for emergency 
 fixes etc, so please give it a rest LOL!. its a MMO. companies are under HUGE pressure to meet deadlines 
 & maybe for all we know Funcom had no choice but to roll the game out, Funcom is like tiny little 
 Frodo trying to go up ageist the HUGE MEGA Dragon that is Blizzard (who I admire very much & cant 
 wait for D3!) & the equally HUGE recourses behind them, so give them a break, I mean seriously?.
 
  
  All I can say is this is the first game to pull me away from EQ in over eight years & I gave up 
 WOW (played to the cap at the time, lv60) long ago & went back to EQ, EQ blows WOW away IMO so you 
 can just imagine how much I feel the same about AOC. AOC is light years better for me as an adult 
 who wants a challenge & to feel that rush sense of reward for it, something WOW has no sense of 
 what so ever, NONE!, its a joke to play compared to Everquest for example let alone AOC.
  
  As for the game itself?, all I can say is watch the Gamespot review (you probly wouldn't believe 
 me as much as I would not believe all these haters) . you can either take the word of a mature editor 
 for Gamespot that gave a great review of the game & I feel was spot on ('KEEP IN MIND THAT AOC IS 
 LIGHT YEARS BETTER SINCE THAT REVIEW 'MONTHS AGO' THAT HE GAVE A SCORE OF -8.5-') 'OR' you can 
 believe these kids who expect every MMO game to be 100% perfect right out of the box & 100% suited 
 to each of them, I for one have yet to find such a MMO game, so I tend to not rip Funcoms throat 
 out for not being PERFECT. I would really give the game a less then perfect score (atleast 9.0) 
 but all the foolishness here compelled me to give my own false score. :- (
  
  Also to be fair & for what it is worth, I have always been a big fan of R. E. Howard, Conan & Red Sonja 
 graphic novels etc, AOC has rejuvenated that love & I have since ordered the full Savage Sword series 
 & Red Sonja series of graphic novels, all I can say is WOW!, I'm so happy about this game & getting 
 to experience Howards world first hand is just amazing!.
  
  Thank you Funcom!. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yodlin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  When I first AoC two months ago, I, like many others, was plagued by numerous bugs. But as time 
 goes on, FunCom is carefully and methodically installing patches for the game, and is now slowly 
 implementing more stuff into the game. As for every great step taken, there will always be stumbling 
 moments. If not mistaken, WoW didn't exactly start out as being a "stellar" game, either. It was 
 also plagued with its own type of problems.
  
  As for people complaining about PvP gaming: who cares? This may come to a huge surprise, but there 
 are people like me out there who do not like PvP gaming. I enjoy PvE environments, where I can 
 spend more time trying to follow the storyline, instead of worrying about some teen noob behind 
 a tree waiting to kill me. 
  
  And speaking of the storyline: it is getting better all the time. The combat system is truly enjoyable. 
 And if you play this game and cannot find something to do, then its your own fault. There are missions 
 and quests everywhere. 
  
  So if you have left AoC, come back and check it out. I believe the FunCom is getting it sorted 
 out correctly. 
  
  I, for one, will play this game for a long, long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzyf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  The game was hyped when launched, and I bought it at the very start. There was lots of bugs and 
 it became fashionable to hate it. But all MORPGs have problems in the beginning, so I waited a 
 bit and then started to play again.
  Now I have to say I really enjoy the game. Bugs have been fixed, content has been added and things 
 are starting to look really good.
  I'm not a powergamer, and haven't reach level 80 yet, but I really enjoy the scenery and the ever 
 changing visual-atmosphere. It looks like funcom finaly has taken the feedback seriously and fucus 
 is on improving gameplay and contents.
  You do need a decent graphics card, but those get cheaper by the minute so that won't be a problem 
 for long. But if you have a good gfxcard and some time to spare AoC is probably the best MORPG 
 in the marked.
  I also kinda like that it looks like players are a bit older than the general WOW crowd.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivowtjuh
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  I started playing Age of Conan a while before the release - with early access. Around that time 
 I was tired of WoW, it got repetitive, so I was eager to try a new game. Given the hype, it had 
 to be good... right?
  
  Right, I receive the key code, find out I have to pay another 5 euros for Early Access. I think, 
 "no biggie", and I paid. Anyway, since I didn't have my CD yet, I was told that I could download 
 the game. Nuhuh. The Early Access starts may 21st, but not for me, apparently. I had to wait 3 
 more days before I could download the game. After that finished downloading, which took almost 
 8 hours, I started the install. 3 hours later I was happy and fired up the game. Of course, there 
 were patches. However, these patches were almost as big as the game itself. So, after literally 
 spending 14 hours on patches, I was finally able to play. I login, create a nice Guardian and start 
 playing.
  
  I found myself in a beautiful world called Tortage. While I was enjoying the view, I was interrupted 
 by the lovely system message saying the servers would go offline in 5 minutes. This happened A 
 LOT during the first 1-2 months, especially Early Access. I told myself, it's ok, it's the release 
 of an MMORPG, they're all buggy. The difference with AoC was that it would never move out of the 
 release. They didn't fix anything.
  
  On to the content. Level 1-20 is fun, good gameplay, nice questline. There's even voice acting! 
 So after hitting 20, having a lot of fun, I went to the 'real world', where there's no more single 
 player. Things went downhill very, very fast from there. Imagine a nice village in a valley. Somehow, 
 there's a small wooden door between the village and the valley. Not a village gate, no, a small 
 door which my Guardian barely fit trough. I thought to myself, okay, odd, but okay. Oh and the 
 voice acting disappeared out of nowhere.
  
  Anyway, when the loading finally finished (it took ages even on the best PCs) , I entered Conall's 
 Valley, only to be greeted by a couple of high levels who would kill me in 1 shot. I thought okay, 
 pvp server comes with a price. However, they had a nice friend standing at the resurrection shrines. 
 You resurrect with about 25% HP, and you get killed again. And again. And again. Not a very nice 
 greeting for a new player, but I was used to it from WoW.
  
  So after playing in Conall's Valley, which was graphicly stunning, by the way, for a while, I noticed 
 that the quests were getting more and more repetitive, and the bugs were getting worse. Up to about 
 level 40 you have the generic quests, much like WoW. After that, you simply started running out 
 of quests. The basic settings for leveling was like this:
  Quest: Kill 20 Vanir XXX (this was repeatable, and the only available)
  Setting: 2 camps, each 
 with 5 Vanir
  Players: about 25 per instance
  
  You can imagine that doesn't work. Anyway, I fought my way trough and even discovered a small bug 
 that helped me level up to about 55. I went to some new zones and I thought the problem was gone. 
 Something was gone... quests. Now there was the lovely way of leveling that uses the Villas in 
 the Noble District. It was an instance based on your level. These villas were pretty much the only 
 way to level up from 60 to 80. You literally had to grind this XP, in the villas. The villas were 
 exactly the same, every single time. It was mind numbingly boring.
  
  Instances. They fixed one or two in the end. But in the first 2-3 months? Nope. You'd have encounters 
 bugging out, suddenly resetting in the middle of a fight, or respawning not 1 second after they 
 had died, and so on. We spent a whopping 5 hours on normal Black Castle, which was so horribly 
 bugged. Same for raids at level 80 - bugs, bugs, bugs.
  
  They fixed some bugs, but all they did for about 5 months was fix the early content, up to about 
 level 30. I think right now the only way for 60-80 is still villas. They didn't even fix the very 
 extreme bugs, like the sound bug, which caused the game to crash whenever you entered a certain 
 zone with sound turned on. So, no sound. Right, they didn't fix that. Instead, they fix some minor 
 bugs with a monster that's slightly oversized.
  
  Combat system. It was supposed to be great, but it's actually horrible for melee classes, mostly 
 in PvP. To attack, you had to use a combo, pressing directions. There were about 4-5 button combo's, 
 taking about 10 seconds to complete. Anyway, once you start a combo, you can't move, or it will 
 end and not attack. So, you have to stay put for 10 seconds, giving any sane player more then enough 
 time to step out of your radius and causing you to miss. Casters, however, didn't have this problem. 
 They simply cast a few spells using the combo and their insane attack range to kill a melee player 
 long before they could even think about hitting it.
  
  Concluding, AoC was hyped up, but it failed miserably. It has a lot of potential, but the development 
 does nothing with it. It remains to be a nicely wrapped piece of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diioz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  The concept of the world of Conan could have been really bigger and stronger than that. They only 
 tried to make money fast with a cheap, not enough developed game. This game is a total mistake 
 for my parts. Nothing is immersing. Girls look sexy with some good graphics but the style of play 
 is just the same over and over again. This looks like a bad remake of world of warcraft with a 
 more human genre. Servers were messed up, they didn't had stuff for advanced players. Quests were 
 so much boring, always go kills a number of that, then come back have experience gains then start 
 again. Damn I did not bought a hunting game, give me some new twist quest that request a little 
 of brain. This game was almost a click and click again thing. I only played a couple of weeks so 
 I don't know if they finally added contents with a patch or something but I sure hopes they did 
 for these players playing right now. They deserve a lot more to be satisfied with what they paid 
 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  This game had potential.
  
  I'm not the first to say it. Almost every review, even the bad, GLOWS about the potential this 
 game had for them.
  
  For good reason, too. The first twenty levels envelops you in an MMO world that FEELS different. 
 From the prostitutes, to the dark ritualistic magic, the engaging environments, the absorbing and 
 almost disturbingly vicious combat... Age of Conan showed a glimpse of a well conceived and fully 
 realized MMO world more absorbing and convincing than any other I had ever played before.
  
  Then, the first 20 levels gone, you go out in the big game world, only to find that everything 
 takes a turn for downhill very fast.
  
  First, you notice the voice acting all but dissapears. Which is not THAT big a deal, except it 
 loosens up your connection to the game world. Then you go out on a quest and realize it can't be 
 finished. Well, whatever... I mean, every game has a glitch or two... no biggie. Then your map greys 
 out. Then you go into an instance, and fight the first of many very buggy, poorly tuned encounters. 
 Then the already poor crafting system gets obliterated in the name of boosting a poorly implimented 
 PvP system.
  
  I could go on... easily... but eventually, there's a point where every player in this game hits their 
 "ENOUGH!" point, and just cancels.
  
  I canceled my account after 1 month of absolute joy, and three more of sheer frustration. The broken 
 content remains largely unaddressed. Many raid and group encounters reamin poorly tuned, and full 
 of illusion breaking bugs that can ruin an evening's experience.
  
  And, I look back, and think "what a waste." I mean, this game had bucketloads of potential. The 
 class mechanics are fantastic. Never before have I played a game and grown so attached to a character. 
 But poor class itemization and even worse content implimentation took the wind out of the sails 
 after a while. Raid content is broken. Class itemization is in need of a serious overhaul, and 
 crafting is a complete waste of time.
  
  The world, however, was wonderful, even when these things frustrated me, and kept me playing, praying 
 and hoping that these issues would somehow become as well thought out as the world in time. Well, 
 time passed, the buggy content and piss poor itemization remained, the server populations declined, 
 and eventually I left, having so little to do, while so much of it remained broken.
  
  There is alot compellig about this game. I'll never forget my first 40 levels playing it. The first 
 dungeon (Sanctum) still remains one of the most darkly atmospheric landscapes I have ever trudged 
 through. The combat will live on in my memory, not only for it's skill in execution, but in it's 
 fittingly violent implimentation. I have never played a game where combat was so deeply enjoyable 
 and personally rewarding.
  
  And, I have never played a game where so much that was good about it was counterbalanced with even 
 more that was bad about it. What suprises me still, to this day, is that what was bad, remains 
 bad, yet they simplified combat, which to me, was the only thing this game did absolutely right 
 in the first place. It amazes me that so much content so critical to personal and multiplayer progression 
 remains broken, while other things get changed for the worse that kept people playing through their 
 frustration.
  
  A little more attention, and a more solid commitment to quality control would have helped this 
 game immensely. Sadly, quality control took a backseat to a dev team more interested in making 
 "changes", rather that just fixing the game that didn't work out of the box, and still remains 
 broken, and what wasn't, is on it's way to be.
  
  This game, for me and many others, will live on in our memories as one of the largest dissapointements 
 in recent gaming memory. And, it's not because it's the worst game ever, because it certainly is 
 not.
  
  But never have I played a game that began with the promise of being one of the greatest games I 
 would ever play, only to watch unattended glitches and poor implimentation of both current content 
 and direction changes tear that promise completely apart.
  
  Age of Conan had potential. It still has potential, and will always have potential. unfortunately, 
 that potential is tied to a development team with little intention of ever backing that potential 
 with the working content it, and the players who continue to play, deserved to have when the game 
 was first released, and both still continue without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xchrisbobisx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I pre ordered AOC a month before the launch and got it the night it came out. I was excited as 
 hell, and before the game launched I read all the conan wiki's to get background info and story. 
 I highly anticipated this game, because their little "Real Combat" engine got me all excited.
 
  
  Now after I installed the game and created my character the first thing i noticed, was that my 
 dreams of being one of the first level 80s was over. If you got a beta key you get to play the 
 game like 1-2 months in advance. Those beta players got to keep their characters. So when I was 
 level 1 there where already guilds with level 80s. The first night it came out!
  
  So that was a minor set back, whatever i continued my adventure on Noob Island, Tortage. I enjoyed 
 my time on Tortage it was fun. Cinematics with real audio dialogue, and a solo single player main 
 quest line. The quests are what you expect it to be. Kill 3 bandits, Collect 5 iron bars, Rescue 
 so and so. But the solo main story really made the experience fun. You feel special in a way that 
 all these NPC's are calling you the chosen one and that you will grow strong to defeat the evil 
 wizard guy. There are also various cinematics inside the solo main quest line and other different 
 unique quests. Like outrunning a volcano. 
  
  So... when does this game start to suck? Why did I rate it so low? After you leave Tortage EVERYTHING 
 that was fun is gone. By then the "Real Combat" engine is starting to frustrate you, which I will 
 get to in a little bit. Not only that, there is NO MORE audio diologue! You will be reading paragraphs 
 of script, ugh. And the fun Main Questline, is no longer fun. You are told to hit... I think level 
 30, To continue your next main quest line. To recover your identety and tap into your natural power 
 etc. Tortage did this very well, the Main quest took you on a 10 level adventure. Well the 2nd 
 Main Quest line is hell of borring. You get to level 30... and you meet a a-hole guy who tells you 
 about the amulet you recovered in Tortage. and thats it... you go get the 2nd piece of the amulet. 
 and then you turn the quest in... and the guy is like "wow you go the amulet i dont believe it!" 
 hit level 50 to get the other piece of the amulet. BooOOoorringg... and stupidly enough I grinded 
 to 50 and did that as well. The reward was to kill another boss, and claim another amulet piece. 
 and thats that. 
  
  level 60 or 65 you finally get to get your main quest line from King Conan himself. But i got bored 
 enough by then by all the buggs and extremely outbalanced engine that i quit. 
  Now lets talk about how you level. Quests are really stupid. the best way to level is to do daily 
 quests. which like in WoW you do every 12 hours? or 24 one of the two. All daily quests take place 
 in "villas" and all of them are the same, you go into the villa. you kill the badguys. nothing 
 will change from your level 30 villa experience and your level 79 villa experience. same enemys 
 same layout. The enemys will be based on your level. So that is the most efficient way to level.
 
  
  Now lets talk about what made me really quit. How unbalanced the game was. My main was a conqueror. 
 I had full "blue" armor, and 2 epic weapons that I wielded dual wield. I was a Carnage (fury warrior) 
 spec that was suppose to be one of the highest DPS builds in the game. 
  Now how was epic weapon level 50 dps machine me, suppose to get outhealed by a level 50 priest?! 
 The balance would be the priest burns ALL its mana trying to outheal my crazy DPS. In reality, 
 the priest puts on a DOT heal. and then continues to use holy spells that damage and kill me. ONE 
 DOT out heals my entire onslaught of DPS. The priest never had to even use a direct heal spell. 
 and never had its HP drop below 90%. That was very fusterating. 
  
  You would think melee characters would be the most versatile and fun to play with this new revolutionary 
 "Real Combat" engine. But in reality casters owned everyone, especially healers. So when everyone 
 started getting owned, people made mages and priests. No one was a melee DPSer because they sucked. 
 Guardians (tanks) where needed due to raids but we will get into why they where OPed later.
  
  I dont know if in the present Healers have been nerfed or not. Because i quit a while back 
 and have delayed this review for far long enough. My experiences where dated far back when the 
 game first launched. But when I played healers did the most damage, they also did the most heals, 
 and could take the most damage like a tank due to their buffs and shields. So when you played the 
 game, there was a rule in general, dont f* * * with a priest of mitra, or tempest of set, because 
 you will get owned. Some balance eh? Makes you fear certain classes and bainwashes you to wish 
 you where that certain class. In a way you feel punished and damned to have been a melee dps'er.
 
  
  Lets continue to classes.
  
  firstly melee dpsers like barbarians and conqueres sucked in PVP (DUELS) they have no survivability 
 at all. You try to attack a healer, their DOT out heals your damage. You try to attack a tank, 
 they have so much armour you wont even land a single hit on them. 
  
  Other classes like Bear shamans, or Herald of Xotli's where decent. Not really overpowered and 
 almost balanced as they should be.
  
  Assassins... lol assassins. My first character was a assassin. I quickly rerolled a conqueror. They 
 where the only class I could kill as a conqueror. I have killed assassins 10 levels above me, (not 
 to brag but POM and TOS's have killed conquerors 10 levels above them...) Assassins are a joke, 
 they where my first character. The stealth system in the game blows. Why? because EVERYONE can 
 stealth. that means a priest can stealth the same as a assassin, which voilds the whole point of 
 a stealth based class. THAT is not all, a assassin sneak attacks in real life and in AOC, they 
 land a hit behind you stealthed your going to take massive damage. However a barbarian and conqueror, 
 or TOS EVERYONE can sneak attack. That being said assassins are pretty useless unless they got 
 a huge buff that I dont know about.
  
  Everyone likes a tank, but when I played I hardly out dps'ed a tank. I had a friend who was a tank, 
 Leveled so fast because they could easily pull and kill 5 NPC's where my conqueror could solo only 
 1-2 maybe 3 on a good day with health pots.
  
  And finally healers- 
  you kill everyone, you can pull 5 mobs and kill them all to level quickly. due to buffs melee characters 
 cant hit you at all. due to heals your able to defeat casters as well. A very repetative class, 
 but effective. A guild mate of mine was a level 80 TOS. He was making a barbarian beacuse he said 
 all he did from level 1-80 was lightning strike. And thats all you do as a healer. spam your main 
 DPS spell, and buff.
  So from my brief description you can tell the game was unbalanced. For those that want to skip 
 my rant, I will give you a summary: Healers own all.
  
  PVP- there was no PVP you just dueled. unless funco added some way to PvP recently that I dont 
 know about.
  
  The graphics of this game really are quite good. I personally have a crappy computer 256mb card. 
 But i seen this game on max at a friends house and it is very gorgeous. Thats about all the Pros 
 i can come up with. 
  
  Lastly I wish to talk about the "real combat" engine: Its really quite simple, a little DDR game 
 with W A S D that you have to do before you perform a attack. Its a epic fail, you feel bogged 
 down by the little DDR sequences in attacks. The higher level the attack the more finger DDR you 
 play. and why its a epic fail? When you do finish the DDR sequence you then attack, sadly when 
 you attack you root yourself in one position. So if i where to run to the side you would miss your 
 big attack, and I would be wailing on you while you did your dramatic melee animation. That being 
 said pvp melee duels where just circle strafing; where you run in circles hitting left and right.
 
  
  
  FINAL SUMMARY!
  
  pros- good graphics, fun to play after noob island.
  cons- very unbalanced. bugs still plague the game, repetitive. no pvp. no real endgame content. 
 "real combat" is borring as hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chanils
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazingly beautifull to look at but the revolutionnary gameplay isnt all that revolutionnary. 
 
  
  It is still you attack and use magic until your enemy is dead only with 3-5 new directionnal buttons. 
 It would make sense if the battle system would punish you when you are using an attack that your 
 enemy is guarding from. After a while you stop thinking where you want to hit and you go all out 
 with your most powerfull attacks and most of the time you will success by doing so. 
  
  Tortage is a bit victim of its own awesomeness. Tortage is the place were you will level your character 
 until you reach lvl 20. It is meant to be like a tutorial of the game and it is a lot of fun. Unfortunetly 
 its is all downhill from there. 
  
  After lvl 20 things gets a bit boring because everything is the same. Your armor will be a different 
 color but still look very similar. You will receive stronger version of the basic same skills as 
 you lvl up. You might be able to buy a mount around lvl 50 only to find out you are going at almost 
 the same speed. 
  
  Also what I find quite sad in this game is that if you wish to start a guild you have to go BIG 
 and having just a few members in your guild will not allow you to do anything in this game. 24 
 members is minimum to reserve a spot for you guild hall. 
  
  The crafting system is tedious and havesting isnt all that much fun even with random encounters. 
 Crafting isnt very rewarding in Age of Conan because people can find good enough gears all over 
 Hyboria. 
  
  In the end Age of Conan I couldnt justified paying 15$ per month for a game that is all about graphics 
 but not that much fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mg_roadster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is the funnest and most immersing RPG I have played. The environments and characters 
 are amazing and the combat is to die for. I don't understand why people gripe about this game so 
 much. I understand that it has had its faults. What MMO hasn't? I honestly think that people don't 
 like it because they are used to easy point and click combat systems. 
  
  Any bugs that I have encountered can be easily dismissed until they are fixed. As for lack of content, 
 I have had no problem with the amount of solo content until about lvl 75, but here are plenty of 
 group quests to do though. 
  
  The game is getting better and better with each update. If you have left this game, come back and 
 give it another try. The combat system has had a complete overhaul and the crafting (specifically 
 for alchemists) is much better. (much less ingredients to worry about) The crafted potions, etc 
 are better than what you can buy from vendors now. The 10/26/08 update is a step in the right direction. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeeb23
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I admit when this game first came out it wasnt quite "polished"
  This is why MMOs get such a hard time to produce after launch. Everyone is so much for WOW that 
 they tend to compare this to that. Does this game have the WOW fan base?? Hell no... but that doesnt 
 mean you shouldnt try it. 
  The graphics are amazing... very well done. The game runs much smoother than at launch (actually 
 silk smooth for my system and I dont have top of the line) . The soundtrack is just right. The combat 
 is what seems to be hit/miss. I personally like it. It is refreshing from just button mashing. 
 YOu have to be strategic and know what you are doing with your class to make it work right.
  I dont PVP... maybe thats why I like this game more... I have heard that PVP is not great on this 
 yet... howevery they are doing VAST improvements to that. 
  So, would I recommend this? Yes I would. I gave it 8/10 because I just cant rate this game a 9/10 
 when the fan base is so low (MMO need more players to interact with and make it more enjoyable) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrishRage
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  As a former WoW addict as of late I was desperately searching for a replacement. WoW had become 
 stale, the only thing that interested me was the PVP, which was some what enjoyable at best. 
 
  
  Hype Machine GO!
  
  Here comes Age of Conan. Quickly it gained hype from the MMO gaming base because of its unique 
 combat system, amazing graphics, Mature rating and Siege Warfare. It really seemed like it would 
 be the PVPer paradise. Blood and gore, decapitations, skill based combat and city sacking. Who 
 doesn't want to get into a huge battle with your mortal enemies and sack their city leaving it 
 a burning pile of rubble? WHO?!?!
  
  Well not me, but its too bad that its nothing like that in the game. Sure you can siege, sure you 
 can have battles, but its all instanced..... That's right! There was even an instance CAP. Each 
 zone could only hold a certain number of characters in it, in the same respect as Guild Wars. So 
 you would attempt to zone into instance number X of zone Y in order to sack your enemies city only 
 to find out that you cant get everyone in there because its caped. Bull.
  
  Like most of my other reviews being immersed in the game is key to its constant play in my book. 
 When you want to go do something that should be possible, but because of game limitations you can 
 not, its a pass for me. If i wanted to take my group of 11 friends and go grief a guild that's 
 trying to sack another guilds keep and can't because the instance is full, its a HUGE let down.
 
  
  The combat system is innovative and extremely fun.... for about 30 levels. After that its just a 
 button mashing experience. Auto-attack is boring but making the abilities you perform like DDR 
 is not a plus.
  
  Don't even get me started on crafting, or the terrible boring style of gear you can wear either. 
 Ughh
  
  
  
  So in short
  Pros:
  Beautiful Graphics
  Great Quests
  Different Combat System
  
  Cons:
  Instanced Zones
  Character Armor is awful
  Crafting 
 is ridiculous
  Combat system looses its charm pretty quick.
  
  
  PVPrs avoid this game, all others it might be a nice change, but I would still recommend skipping 
 over it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xun_Jiaxian
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Intro:
  I played in the closed Tech and general betas for Age of Conan so it really doesn't surprise me 
 to see it in this state Incompleteness. Every MMO seems to have rough launches, but Age of Conans 
 was rather good compared to a few others that I have experienced. I still have an active account 
 and belong in an active guild called Imperium.
  
  Graphics/character/gear
  The best graphics I have ever seen in an MMO. You can fully customize you character from the shape 
 of his or her body parts (even the boobies) to tattoos and scars. You can even bend your nose into 
 funny shapes. For all the flash this game offers your unique armor is very limited. My armor looked 
 exactly the same from level 20 to level 60 and then I got to wear fullplate from 60 to 80 but all 
 fullplate armor looks exactly the same except for the raid drops and the recent pvp armor that 
 was added. The funny thing is the npc have all sorts of awesome looking armor that player can't 
 get. This was a real let down for me.
  
  Guild cities:
  Guild cities were one of my favorite things to read about before launch. There are 3 tiers to guild 
 cities and your guild must collect tons of mats and money to progress your city. This feature feels 
 very incomplete to me. You have several building that don't really serve a purpose yet and no individual 
 houses for your guild members. You to get access to a vendor of each craft to buy common crafting 
 material and you also have a trader that lets you access the market. Other than that it is only 
 good guild meetings and RP events.
  
  PVP:
  PvP was the whole reason I got this game and so far I have very mixed feelings about it. The castle 
 sieges were never player tested in beta so I knew they would be full of problems and as it stands 
 they still do not function correctly today but they have fixed many of the issues. It is finally 
 possible to win on offense.
  
  The classes have been getting nerfed since launch but now that the gem nerf was placed in it seems 
 a bit more balanced and fun. PvP takes alot of skill in this game, you need to time your combos 
 and maneuver your character around the area to get the advantage. Group PvP is very fun if you 
 group with the right people and have solid communication. The satisfaction you get from performing 
 a fatality on an enemy is priceless!
  
  Community:
  I play on a RP-PvP server called Cimmeria. Every weekend my guild has huge rp battles with another 
 guild and some other guilds usually join in. The server is filled with many nice people since most 
 of the lame guilds moved on to Warhammer and other games. Most guilds seem to get along now and 
 set up RP events with each other. I am very glade I got to meet some of these fine people and it 
 is honestly the only reason I still have an active account.
  
  Conclusion:
  I still have very high hopes for this game, but I have become very bored with it recently. I see 
 a very fine future for this game and believe it can still live up to the potential it had before 
 launch, people just need to give it a chance to mature. I would recommend trying this game out 
 just for yourself and coming to your own conclusion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kay262
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 13, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Environment:
  The game environment consists of small instances and the worst thing is there is limited freedom 
 of movement, most the time you are confined to following tracks of various width, more similar 
 to Guild Wars than a real MMO. The environments in Guild Wars were a lot bigger though and you 
 could find occasional extras by exploring, not the case in AoC.
  The textures are really great, very realistic graphics with the exception of the trees which are 
 downright horrible and they spoil everything. Worst looking trees i seen in a long while, and that 
 creates a very unpleasant contrast to the superb textures of everything else (all graphic settings 
 were set to max) .
  The worst looking dungeons ever, 10 years ago they had better looking dungeons, not to mention 
 they are broken too.
  
  Classes:
  Very limited number of skills, you get an upgrade to an existing skill once every 5 levels or so, 
 and rarely a new skill.
  The achievement points system is extremely uninspired and boring, not to mention broken (some of 
 the skills/buffs dont do anything at all) .
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay consists mainly of following an arrow pointing to your quest goal. Very conventional quests 
 too. The main quest line often gets bugged and you wont be able to continue it.
  Customer service is a bad joke, i wasnt able to get a GM/CSR to fix my broken main quest in two 
 weeks, so i gave up.
  
  If you are new to MMOs or if you considered EQ2 or WoW too challenging, you'll like AoC, at least 
 for a couple of weeks before you get completely bored.
  One of the most uninspired games in MMO history.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riptorn
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  the computer you use to play wow will not cut it here. a good core 2 with at least a 8800 graphics 
 card is a must. You can drop your graphics to 2.0 but dont bother that cuts out the blood and washes 
 out the graphics. that being said the game that I played (casual player) was very good- I really 
 enjoy the day -night thing- and the combat while a bit confusing at times is more fun than wow 
 or lotro or eq2 or war, it seemed linear to me but that is allright, the best Rpg's (nwn2, baldurs 
 gate) were linear. this is the only game I have played along with Mass effect that has made me 
 want to get a better computer , a nice compliment wouldnt you say. I liked the voice overs in the 
 first 20 levels , I understand they stopped after that but thew will add more i am sure. he hype 
 made it sound like this was some women scantilly undressed in here-not really- but that is ok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vispyr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  AoC has everything it needs to be an epic success, however because of some very small yet important 
 things which it is missing, it never will take off.
  
  Long story short, the main attraction is its great new combat system which has worlds of potential. 
 However the game is hindered by lack of community, lack of feel-good charactor progression, and 
 lackluster and unfulfilling pvp.
  
  Combat and graphics are where this game exceeds the competition, however these things do not translate 
 into sustained gameplay. In the end, the game plays out more like a MMO Action game than a RPG, 
 and it does not command the same gamer base that it would if it had strenthened some core ideas 
 before it was released.
  
  7.5 on originality, mechanics, combat, visuals and audio. Points lost on community, bad pvp, and 
 poor char progression. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fkhashouf
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Fun to PVE and PVP offers a mix of varaities none of the wow grind in dungeons. Classes have unique 
 abilitiles. Graphics are amazing, combat system, and mounts are very nice. PVP and Siege is now 
 working and does offer a very nice play.
  
  Overall the game is fun, especially with the cool in game fatalities.
  
  The bad side, the 
 game was bugged as hell. Now is is more stable after latest patches. With server consolidtion going 
 on it will offer a better pvp environment.
  
  I think given time this can proof to be more fun than other grind mmos that need you to spend hours 
 daily to see one items dropping for you after 4 weeks or so and sometimes never.
  
  Given more pvp content would make this more to viable. The pve content is fair for now at level 
 80 but needs more soon. If you want an easy game with point click and skill Age of conan is not 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThresholdRPG
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 2, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Released May 20, 2008 by Funcom, Age of Conan is one of the latest fantasy MMORPGs. It is very 
 similar to World of Warcraft, Everquest, Ultima Online, and Dark Age of Camelot in theme and general 
 gameplay, but right there is where the comparison stops and things start to go horribly, horribly 
 wrong. This is a terrible, terrible game. For details on why, read here:
  
  http://www. brighthub. com/video-games/pc/reviews/5056. aspx
  
  Don't believe the hype. The one 
 thing supposedly good about this game, the graphics, are 100 shades of ugly brown.
  
  The gameplay is atrocious. Combat is boring. The combo system is an absolute failure. System performance 
 is horrendous. 5-10 minute load times are common. Stay away. Stay very, far away.
  
  Age of Conan is not the worst MMORPG I have ever played, it is just a very bad one. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukasz253
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  graphic and physic is great but gameplay is crap, many bugs and unbalanced classes are just big 
 problem, mage at 30 lvl can kill warrior at 40 this is just not right
  i think many MMos are much better like Wow or new WAR, plz don't buy Age of Conan for this price
 
  This game need a bug patch (now is 22 GB on disc) .
  NExt problem this game is end-game bocuuse when u lvl up at maximum lvl u just get boring and you 
 can only ganking and make other pvp battles. Many players are going uot from Aoc when they lvl 
 up at max lvl.
  graphic and physic is great but gameplay is crap, many bugs and unbalanced classes are just big 
 problem, mage at 30 lvl can kill warrior at 40 this is just not right
  i think many MMos are much better like Wow or new WAR, plz don't buy Age of Conan for this price
 
  This game need a bug patch (now is 22 GB on disc) .
  NExt problem this game is end-game bocuuse when u lvl up at maximum lvl u just get boring and you 
 can only ganking and make other pvp battles. Many players are going uot from Aoc when they lvl 
 up at max lvl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gooeykat
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  What isn't wrong with this game.
  
  - Graphics - best in the category
  - Sound - awesome musical score
  - Combat - fun, engaging, challenging, no auto attack!
  - 
 PVE - interacting NPCs that you can actually converse with (although nothing like a single player 
 RPG) . Many instanced areas for single players and small parties.
  
  What still needs work.
  
  - PVP - even after the latest patch with the reward system and leveling 
 implemented, it still needs work. Matchmaking is a joke, they need to get rid of it and just have 
 like a battleground system like in WoW.
  - Content - Tails off quite a bit beginning at around level 45.
  - Crafting - overly complex. 
 Crafting should be fun diversion.
  - Still no DX10
  
  I'm sticking with AoC, but am also playing WAR for my PVP kicks. AoC will get better with time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfile
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I am sure most of the older players have seen and remember very well the first movie, Conan the 
 Barbarian (1982) based on a fantasy world of Hyboria, written by E. Howard and made by Oliver Stone 
 and John Milius. As (and still am) a huge fan of Conan character and era of "cold weapons", barbarians, 
 mages and dark wizards at first i was a little sceptic about all those from movie (s) and comic being 
 implemented in game expiriance in shape of MMO rpg, genre that can be only played in multiplayer, 
 monthly subscription that can turn off any serious PC gamers, but hopefully ... i was wrong. Despite 
 all the bugs in Age of Conan and servers being unstable sometimes i still think this game deserve 
 more than 8,5 official score, so i am going to say it fully deserve 9,5 in my opinion.
  
  First 20 levels you will spend on a small island of Tortage, starting naked and unarmed hoping 
 to reach the first city on your map of Hyboria and you play a single player environment as you 
 try to form your character depends of which race you picked (Aquilonian, Stygian, Cimmerian) and 
 class (soldier, mage, priest) ...12 of them available to play with. After the part of beating Red 
 Hand leader, you are ready to face a multiplayer ONLY for the first time, you start your destiny 
 in huge city of Tarantia where you can see other players trade, practice, talk or join some Guild, 
 so it looks like you are in some real, breathing city and looks like there is complete economy 
 working. After first 20 levels your character is somehow formed and ready to face real challenge 
 ... Cimmeria`s Wild lands. In Tarantia you can find Conan`s castle, placed in a noble district later 
 in the game where you learn about your destiny and your past... it ends in a city of Kheshatta.
 
  
  Differences between classes are huge, mostly shows the power or weak spots when you join RAID/Group. 
 In Group, you join with other 5 players to ride with you in battle, in Raid you are with 23 other 
 players within 4 groups for which every need its leader to work. Few elite quests are meant to 
 use full strenght of carefully combined classes, otherwise it won`t work and you will be easily 
 defeated. In most cases, teamplay work better with good conversation.
  
  Graphics in game are fantastic, it only support DX9 and shader 3.0 max, but believe me, with all 
 the sliders maxed, you won`t need anything visually better, it goes on expense of your PC config 
 power though, so be careful or it won`t be playable. With expansion Funcom promised DX10 features 
 and new locations placed on maps that already exist. I played on both 1680x1050 and 1920x1080 and 
 i can say the game looks jaw dropping. 
  Music/sounds perfectly describe atmosphere although, i would like to hear some music from the movie 
 as well.
  
  Negative side of this game goes to loads of bugs (mostly seen when you are hit by an arrow while 
 riding a horse and you can`t get off and fight, and some bosses that are essential part of some 
 quest doesn`t respawn at all and you have to wait for another day or two ... and some problems with 
 making a raid, helps if you relog and regroup) but when you get used to those minor bugs you can 
 relax and fully enjoy it, i did and i am more then happy to say that i finished the game within 
 3 months.
  
  I honestly recommend this game even if you are not such a fan of this genre.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: m40p
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  First of all don't buy this game if your computer is crap. That's probably why people think it's 
 buggy, because i very rarely have any problems with bugs. If I've ever had any issues, the GMs 
 were more than happy and very quick to help. Second, the majority of the memory leak issues have 
 been fixed... I've yet to have any since the last patch. As for grinding... I have yet to do any. 
 I'm level 51 and haven't felt like I've had to grind anything. I just do the quests they ask me 
 to do so I'm never out just killing to level up. The quests are fun and the voice acting is good. 
 Right now most of the voice overs are in the begining 20 levels, but they keep adding more. The 
 graphics never cease to amaze me. The quests are very well written and often hillarious. Overall 
 it's a great game that will only get better.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daagon
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge Conan fan since I was young it was not an option for me to avoid this game. Luckily 
 I got a closed beta invite, and I had a great time going from 1-20 on multiple class/race combos. 
 Graphics are amazing! I felt like every time I logged in I was amazed by something new, like a 
 new fatality, or quest, etc. After the release I had experienced the "gray map", memory leak like 
 many where. It was frustrating at times since my beta experience was better. I gutted it out through 
 the patches, and I experience no more issues now for at least a month. A lot has been improved, 
 the graphics even look more sharp, more quests, and over level 60 content are added. My disappointment 
 is mostly with the population dwindling. A lot of people played that 30 days free, and were discouraged 
 by the technical issues, and rightfully so. Now I can hardly ever get into pvp due to lack of people, 
 almost no one is running dungeons it seems. I blame it partly on my odd hours, but this is much 
 more than normal. I hate to say it but if it doesn't improve I am going to have to close this chapter 
 on an excellent MMO. If you are thinking about this game its worth a shot to play, and if you have 
 it already, and were discouraged give it another a go. You will see immediately how solid and original 
 this game is. It is so enjoyable, and will be even better if a few more people start playing again. 
 The graphics, the combat, and lore/world make it a refreshing entry into a genre of point, and 
 click auto attacking high fantasy. The gritty , and bloody world of King Conan has all the potential 
 to be one of the greats! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad7414
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 24, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  During beta most testers knew AoC was not ready for release and communicated this fact to Funcom, 
 but our opinions went unheard. The first levels 1-20 are fairly fleshed out but that is where the 
 content ends. After lvl 20 you don't have enough quests to level up without major grind. The game 
 is totally bug infested, the list is too long to list here but they are so numerous that it totally 
 kills any "fun" or "immersion" you would have. The worst technical problem, IMO, is the memory 
 leaks, they make the game umplayable. Funcom has attempted to fix a lot of these problems, but 
 with one fix comes 2 new problems. Most of the promised content, from PvP sieges to DX10 to drunken 
 brawling were just left out at launch or were totally broken and unplayable. After 4 months of 
 waiting for game fixes/patches to make the game playable and putting up with delay after delay, 
 I canceled my subscription this month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dg3215
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Well after a few months of waiting I got AOC.. Wish I did not waste my money. Some folks may like 
 it and I will admit that it does have tremendous potential.. But so do a lot of epic failures. 
 Great graphics to bad most people probably do not have a good enough machine to run it to its full 
 potnetial. PVP is not worth talking about.. I also found that leveling was a problem for certain 
 classes that I tried out. It is also a huge file so install and initial download equals nightmare. 
 I also did like the sound effects they were great, and the way that quest givers had an animated 
 dialogue sequence with you, unfortunatly that ends at level 20. I have think the crafting professions 
 have great potential as well but it is a shame you have to wait for level 40 to start them. All 
 and all I would say that if you are going to pick between this game and Warhammer Online I would 
 try Warhammer out. To be honest though I do plan on revisiting this game in about a year because 
 it could end up being great once the glitches are worked out. I also had to deal with many broken 
 quests and that is one thing that I just cannot tolerate from a game, that is something programers 
 should always have working right when the lauch a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPlow69
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Ok there i was, standing in line with the box in my hand. I drove back to my house and put the 
 game in my Pc. I never really like the Conan's movie, don't get me wrong there, it was fun to see 
 pre-governer Arnold at the top of his shape, but the story and the world around the Conan's movies, 
 i never really got into it, they are a little empty (compare to Lord of the ring to show my point) . 
 But hey, it was a game, and yet nothing was really standing on the way of WoW yet. So i created 
 my character and started the game. I found myself into Conan's world right away, they fighting 
 system was more interactive to what i had experienced before, but the rest was really similar to 
 WoW. After i got out of the first city, i was questing outside in the vast land, and before i just 
 understand what was happening, i got killed by an assasin. Then i remembered a little thing about 
 the movie, something like trust no one exept your blade. Any one, anywhere can kill you. Danger 
 is every where. Then i got bored of the quests around lvl 25, it was repetitive, the fighting system 
 was getting sloppy and the numerous bugs in the game were getting on my nerves hard. All this to 
 wonder, what will happend at end-game? what does this bugs filled shallow game got for the end-gamers? 
 I started to wonder around forums to see that more bugs, sloppy raids, and weak pvp was ahead. 
 This game, from my experience with it, was for me, a strong proof that compremising gameplay on 
 graphics, just impress the early noobs like i was to this game. You can get the same result to 
 a see a 28 years old complete jock buying a sport car with the hard worked money of his dead parents 
 to go date 16 years old girls. I got impressed with that game to find out that it was a complete 
 mess, they probably threw a copy of WoW to their programmers and told them to make a steroid pumped 
 hollywood nice looking version of it... and that what you'll get. Does AoC worth playin? well yes, 
 it worth the look, does it worth the monthly fee and the dedication that MMO requires to climb 
 the gameplay? Not at all, no no and no again. With all the games that were released, i was just 
 expecting more from this game, the gaming industry is filled with talented and brilliant programmers, 
 designers, dreamers, and on, and that is the best they came up with? please, its an insult to what 
 games should be now, specially MMO'S. The bar is getting higher and higher in this area, so i just 
 wonder why should contempt ourselves with a joke like this game. You want to stop hearing about 
 WoW and see what talent and originality can lead ? take a look at War, they created a MMO of their 
 own, not just a cheap way to suck money out of gamers. its unacceptable, yes i'm demanding, but 
 so are they, to pay a montly fee on a game, you better be a high class game that keeps me playing. 
 It would had made a great single player game PERIOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comptrex
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  AoC has some interesting content and the M rating is sure to peak the interest of some gamers. 
 From the onset, this game is still riddled with bugs. Funcom did not learn from the Eve launch 
 it appears. To this day, toons still fall into rivers and have no recourse but to log out and back 
 in. The best thing going is the visual and the combat system. Even this will eventually bore you 
 to tears as you are swinging for endless eons only to lock up and end up dead. Constant quests 
 to long travel areas only to turn in the quest and have to return gets redundant. Why not be able 
 to get multiple quests instead of constant chains. 
  
  The visuals are pretty to see. The M rated material is nothing to get excited about. Overall game 
 play, when you can get a good hour going, is decent at best. 
  
  The day (multiplayer) and night (single) player options are a neat idea as well. But better integration 
 on when and why you need to switch could be better thought out. Overall, a decent game that will 
 hopefully only get better, but my money is going elsewhere until then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Lich-King
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 16, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 9
  Gameplay: 4
  Multiplayer: 5
  Storyline: 4
  Impression: 3
  
  Score: 6 (5.8 real)
  
  So close but yet so far away. When you run through the first 20 
 levels in Tortage you can be swept away with the gritty graphics, fun quest lines and well rendered 
 mobs and npc's. Once you leave Tortage well the wheels start falling off. There is just so many 
 things that are broken.
  
  While the graphics continue to be great the quest npcs just become cut outs of each other with 
 the occasional arm wave or draw the finger across the throat or head shake.
  
  The heavy instancing in Tortage does lessen but your tolerance for instancing starts pushing your 
 aggro buttons. Throw in all the running you have to do and you start to wonder why this just wasn't 
 a cross country trainer for the Wii. With money in short supply very few will have a mount at level 
 40 when first offered. I have one character now pushing lvl48 he has his first gold piece hmm still 
 2 gold short. My second character is lvl40 has 28 silver. No mount and running the same terrain 
 over and over again and instancing all in between and you quickly understand why some people just 
 enter a zone and ask someone to kill them so they can choose a graveyard point somewhere on the 
 other side of the map just so they don't have to run the map for the umpteenth time.
  
  Many quest lines are broken and a few of those broken quests really tell the tail of how incomplete 
 this game really is. For example the Stygian area has 2 large instanced areas that can be argued 
 that are the culmination for the whole area. The Black Fortress and the Pyramid. The Black Fortress 
 an excellant instance to explore but thats all you'll do there because I think I have only found 
 1 quest for it. The Pyramid's quest line is so broken you can do what you think is the right thing 
 and break one of the major quest lines and not even know it. The other major quest line is simply 
 non functioning. So you level in this area for approximately 15 levels go the final spot thats 
 been on the horizon all this time and its completely lacking in quests/ functioning quests. 
  
  The quests are so few in number it doesn't matter what class you start with you'll be unable 
 to keep any of it fresh for other classes because you have to go to all the areas over and over 
 again just to level your current character.
  At the later levels approximately mid 40s quests just dry right up and the grind is on. Unfortunately 
 most of your quests in the Field of the Dead are all grinds anyways. 6 of my current quests are 
 2 x kill 20 vanir/2x kill werewolves/2 x kill 20 bandits. Yawn.
  
  The pvp is simply old school Ultima Online. Yup they just took everything that was wrong with pvp 
 in UO and threw it here. Ganking/griefing, res points /zone in points / required mobs and talking 
 to npc's. Zero penalty so if they at first failed to gank, dont worry they'll be back in 1 minute 
 because theres zero penalty to gank and fail. Furthermore if they do succeed and you want retributition 
 good luck the gankers just move to a graveyard point and instance out to grief elsewhere. Sure 
 they added a buff bubble at some of the points in and out of instances, so just move off 20-30 
 paces wait a second or two and grief there. Is there anything more time consuming than just dealing 
 with gankers. Can you say forced grouping. And the worst of all forced grouping. Grouping for the 
 sake of doing anything in the game. Sure you can run solo, it just takes forever to get anything 
 done. Good luck if you expect to fit right in a share a set of npcs to grind or quest, you'll just 
 get ganked when your taking on a mob unless you wait it out for everyone to move off. Of course 
 some mobs always have crowds of gankers waiting and they never move off, go figure. Level 80's 
 pawning people 20 levels or more lower than them. go figure. Its not pvp its just ganking over 
 and over again, funcom said welcome to the brutal world of Conan. Its the only thing they got right 
 for all the wrong reasons.
  
  Give this game 6 months to a year for fixes. If you cant wait that long just hold off, your buddy 
 will probably be cool with you covering a months sub because they have no plan to continue playing 
 beyond the free 30 days.
  
  Class imbalances, combat set up is dull. Push a button wait then push a direction key then wait 
 push another direction key. Bah screw it just push 11111,2222,33333 on the direction keys it doesnt 
 matter. Run naked your gear sucks, feats broken, skills broken, crafting broken, seiges broken.
 
  
  Age of Conan is a gritty well rendered world and everything else was rushed to market. IMHO if 
 you pay a sub for this game in this condition regardless of the potential your a paying to play 
 an open beta.
  
  The Good:
  -the graphics
  -the sound
  
  The Bad:
  -buggy
  -some minor glitches
  -few quests
  -annoying quests
  -annoying and confusing skills, passives 
 etc.
  -only few players
  -you don't get Exp if you did half a quest like in WoW
  -almost no story
  -you don't feel amazing during the game like in WoW
  -combats are dull
 
  -the map is huge, but it's reduced in some places
  -it needs more than 200 patches to be at least awesome like WoW
  -after this, many would go back 
 and play WoW
  -plus other things which I can't be bother writting about 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javapookers
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  What started out as something beautiful and fun turned south extremely quick. My god, the first 
 20 lvls in the starting area were magical and rivetting to say the least. Though since I tend to 
 go at a slower pace, i started to see in chat from people that have lvl'd way ahead of me, complaints 
 about grey screens, crashes, and lack of material. At that time I was wondering; Wtf are these 
 guys talking about. 
  
  Well no sooner did I finally finish the opening area in Tortage and moved over to Torantia did 
 this game reveal its ugly face. Fps would jump from 60 to 75 down to 5. JERKY JERKY... all over 
 the place. Within an hour, Lo and behold; grey maps.....20 mins later Out of memory error?.... wtf!! 
 A problem that was never fixed as far as i could see and actually found the crashing became more 
 frequent at the most inopportune times like say during a fight with an instance boss........ Grrrrr. 
 
  
  Lack of material did not become evident until I lvl'd to about 45 and than later at 55, 65 & 70 
 and on. Are you kidding me, no quests for these lvls? So I complain in chat and the response I 
 get was too grind in the Villas in the Noble district. Give me a break.... does it get much more 
 boring than that?
  
  I could rant for another 2000 words but will not bore you all with an essay full of more negativity. 
 But i will say that initially starting out I would have given this game at least a 9 but that obviously 
 changed. Graphically stunning yes i will say that, but a game with so many system bugs, serious 
 ones at that (not talking about minor mob bugs or quest bugs) makes you wonder if you were still 
 participating in a beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angusmandude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I started AoC with a Ranger Called Berwin on the server Set PvE. Now dont get me wrong but I do 
 like Bows!
  As I entered the game I was impressed at the opening mimi-movie the graphics just stunned me! They 
 were so life like my mouth just dropped open with drool coming out! So do watch it once dont just 
 skip it. As I get too the log in page I was starting to think this game is'ent cracked up to what 
 it says it is like Fury.
  But I still login. I enter the character screen and I am there about to scream "Ah crap". I go 
 to Create my Character and name it after my old WoW character Berwin of Dath'Remar Hunter. But 
 the boat graphics got me thinking these graphics for a MMORPG are heaps great [better then retro 
 WoW I'll tell ya] .
  
  I chose Male and went through the races I liked em all I chose Aquilonians and start costimizing 
 my character.
  As I did I loved the interface to custimize your character! mmmmmmmm red hair.
  
  
  As I 
 log in to my character I go through lets say mmm how i put it boring yea BORING cut sceen! Again 
 that got me hopes down.
  I start to head to the girl hooked up when I stumble across more great graphics! I start talking 
 to her but cant hear a thing just a slight "blah blah wabba"
  So have your reading glass's ready you nerds!
  
  I love how you can reaply syaing yes or no! 
 That I love as in most MMORPGs you just get that quest box and says Accsept or Decline
  You can allmost say AoC is 3/4 Rpg 1/4 MMO but its not it can feel like it in your first 20 levels 
 but 20+ its an MMO.
  
  As you go threw your first 20 lvls the game seems very good plenty quests heaps of players hell 
 even toppless girls!
  But as you go to the real world of Hyborian its harder to level maybe not at your first 20 levels 
 but BE WARNED level 30 - 40 is a grind fest just get it over with as I hit 20 -30 not much happened 
 some nice quests and gorry quests and traveling quests so on it was a nice time but as you hit 
 30 there are no quests but those grey ones just finish em and at 35 it came easer as everyone loves 
 the dungion Sanctum great xp , quests , drops and more I was in about 6groups for it full runs 
 but then you hit 38 and head over too Field of the Dead *dun dun dunnnnnn* ....
  As you rember wanted quests in AoC that means wanted = Quests of 3k xp that can be done over and 
 over and boringly over again! As I say AoC needs a LvL30-40 area and 1 more 40-50 area!
  I have only hit level 46 and am so far having fun (not at 30-40 thats when many quit .. wimps) There 
 is not enough quests true but PvP is Brillient (Am talking about a patch comeing very soon in september 
 08 i tried it on test server) This is a game that will wipe WoW out.... if you got the requiments 
 to play AoC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fhl333
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  I have two high levels characters in AoC and with more than 100 hours of gameplay. If you are trying 
 to decide if it is worthy to join Hyborian adventures, stop reading reviews and posts and I'll 
 tell you why. In one side of the coin you'll find in most gaming websites that the game has in 
 average a high and outstanding score. On the other hand there are tons of gamer's reviews pointing 
 out the numerous bugs the game has, the lack of content in higher levels, a PVP broken system, 
 and even a boring combat system with a broken storyline. 
  
  So in the third month after releasing the game I decided to stop reading those posts of frustrated 
 gamers and bought the game since I hold myself long enough to experience all the hype about the 
 game. Was it worthy? I just cannot stop playing it everyday. Does the game still have many bugs? 
 Honestly, I don't know if it is because my laptop was specially randomized to play AoC, or Funcom 
 had already solved mayor bugs by the time I started to play, but I haven't experienced those problems 
 allowing me to have fluid and uninterrupted hours of gaming. Is the game lack of content? Only 
 in high levels, but until you get there, you'll have numerous quests by travelling from city to 
 city and town to town. That without mentioning more content is being added and I can certify that. 
 And let me tell you, I've been playing AoC every single day since I have it, and it is not that 
 fast to reach the cap 80 level, unless you don't have a live and anything else to do other than 
 play AoC 24/7. Is the PVP system broken? Right now yes, but it is supposed to be fixed very soon, 
 maybe already by the time you're reading this. What about the storyline? I have even read that 
 the storyline is broken after level 20 and others after level 40. Did those people really played 
 the game? The storyline is definitely not broken. You start playing with the main goal of finding 
 your destiny with which you travel through the cities finishing quests that by itself have a story 
 involved on it that gives you a convincing reason to do the quest. Is the combat system really 
 engaging? Of course, it is unique and engaging since through the levels you gain more combos and 
 abilities that keep you willing for more. In addition, there is a diverse character option that 
 allows you to experience different types of combos for every character and a totally different 
 armor and weapon set depending on the class. 
  
  So in overall let me try the question "is it worthy?" again. You know what, for $35 you can get 
 the game in Amazon allowing you to play a month for free. If you don't like it you can resell it. 
 But don't let that opinions from other people drag you away from experience by yourself this game 
 that in my personal opinion deserves a high score for quality and entertaining.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 9, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  When i first walked into Age of Conan, i fell in love. I love the graphics, the story line, the 
 battles, the character classes, everything. The questing was enjoyable while i explored new areas.... Then 
 i tried to PvP.... well, it took over 1hr to get into any PvP game and there was only 2 types to 
 choose from... I can get over that, as the questing areas are PvP too..... but wait, there needs 
 to be more then 15 players in my region. I would see 10 people tops in an area. While is was GREAT 
 for questing, as NO MOBS WERE EVER MISSING, all my PvP resources were depleted. If you enjoy nothing 
 but questing, and getting the odd gank/ganked, then this is for you. if you are looking for PvP 
 of any sort, AVOID. 
  
  Too much time has passed by for the fixes to save the game. while all games are expected to have 
 bg issues, months are not acceptable to fix minor issues. I constantly fell through the ground. 
 One area, the NPCs fell through the ground in a cave, and it took me over an hour to find a way 
 to scale the walls to get out. 
  
  Great game, players are quitting, may Age of Conan Rest in peace... hope it enjoyed the short life 
 it had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UberUltimate
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 7, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Played this game from the day it launched and quit about 2 months ago. Most overrated piece of 
 crap I have ever played. Graphics are good, but very uneven. The graphics aren't good if you compare 
 against what the game demands to play it smoothly. For that kind of hardware, you should get photorealism. 
 This game graphics is good technically, but sucks artistically.
  
  The music is the only thing about this game that is amazing from start to finish. Game play is 
 below average and the combo system is exciting for the first couple of weeks. Then it starts to 
 get annoying after a while since it takes you're focus away from what is happening on the screen 
 to your keyboard trying to match the sequence the directional buttons lit up. There is nothing 
 revolutionary about it at all. 
  
  The most annoying part of that combo system is if you fail the last button press, your combo and 
 all your damage goes out the window. Positioning yourself to max out the damage is also far too 
 important and often does bug out on you by giving back full life to your enemy if you move during 
 the combo. And why don't the enemies fall down when they are dead? They just stand there taking 
 more damage after their life bar has reached zero and this just makes the combat efficiency slow 
 down. You don't want to wait for your combo to end if there are 3 more enemies hacking away at 
 you.
  
  They launched an uncompleted game, full of bugs, worst crafting system I have ever seen in any 
 role-playing game, itemization is the biggest joke ever, stats has no real effect and the skill 
 system they applied with adding points to running, climbing etc....... aaaaargh..*bangs head against 
 the wall repeatedly in frustration*
  
  And now they are talking about another expansion. That's just an insult to all the gamers around 
 the world. They should concentrate on completing and fixing the game they already have before they 
 throw more salt into the wound. What should the expansion be called? I have a suggestion funcom: 
 AGE OF CONAN, THE REST OF THE GAME!
  
  This is my first review here on game spot and the reason is that I hate this game with a passion.
 
  I never felt like I have been lied to like this before.
  All media did was praising this game to the heavens and beyond before launch. They are clearly 
 corrupt or didn't play it through (to level 80 and test end game content) before writing their 
 reviews. Even the start area (Tortage) isn't good enough to give this game 8, 9 and 10 out of 10s. 
 7 out of 10 for tortage and 3 out of 10 for the rest of the game would be appropriate. They couldn't 
 even deliver what was on the back of the game cover for Christ sake! : (
  
  I'm never ever going to buy another funcom product for as long as I live. They just don't understand 
 what a good game requires to be successful and catchy enough to invest 100 eds of hours into. I 
 give this game a 3/10 totally. It should maybe have 5/10, but I just had to lower it to get the 
 average user score down from the 8/10, which this game isn't anything near to deserve. 
  
  People should be more demanding in what they call a complete product. This game doesn't even have 
 enough quests to get you to max lvl. You have to grind from lvl 45-50, 55-60, 65-70 and 75-80 because 
 the game doesn't have enough content. And when you finally reach lvl 80, you're lucky to have 3 
 solo quests left to do. Welcome to  
 Buying stuff like this and still defending it from negative criticism, when the flaws are staring 
 them right in their faces and are too many to count, will just make the game companies releasing 
 games earlier and earlier while relying on patches to fill in the holes later: (
  
  Gersjann 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidnolte
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Hi folks! 
  I have been playing AoC from beta to the present. Here is a summary of my thoughts so far:
  
 
  Good stuff 
  * The Combat system adds just enough twitch to be challenging without messing up play for the reflex-disable. 
 
  * Tortage is a wonderfully designed intro zone that makes starting new characters a pleasure. 
 
  * Funcom has captured the look and feel of the Conan universe perfectly.
  
  Not so good stuff 
  * Only 8 character slots! Doh! What were they thinking! 
  * Once out of 
 Tortage, the quests can get rather 'familiar' 
  * The loot is pretty much disposable. 
  * Mobs travel in mobs, which make certain classes very difficult to solo.
  
  I've got a lot 
 to say about AoC... far more than will fit in this space. Check out the full review at:
  
  http://noltegames. com/blog/? page_id=3
  
  Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OutOfUniform
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  My first impression of this game was high and for some of the same that stays true. However after 
 playing through the first 50 levels I have to say my disappointment has increased. 
  
  If your pc is not a good home built or market pc then you will miss out on a lot of well designed 
 graphics that this game has to offer. They spent a good portion of time designing this game to 
 be game eye appealing.
  
  The marketing system or selling goods and resources is weird and everything that you buy from the 
 market trader first has to go through the mail system, normally pretty fast but it is not direct 
 inventory.
  
  Harvesting for raw materials is all lvl based so in order to get the higher lvl raws you MUST be 
 at certain lvls in order to even be able to harvest the higher nodes. Does keep lowbie farmers 
 from hoggin everything up in the game.
  
  I had horrible connection issues from server side where I and my guild mates expieranced horrible 
 lag and constant connection disconnects. This is the straw that broke my back. I dont pay for a 
 10mb connection every month or game dues just to be kicked from the server as often as I was. I 
 know a few people that had some real nasty memory leak issues with the game that caused total reboots 
 of their machines on a daily basis. This plays out bad timing as well during raid runs with the 
 guild when your trying to defeat named and people keep crashing.
  
  I think that this game has and or had real potential but the fact it is hard to find groups and 
 that they spent little time on updates to make the game more playable and enjoyable is disappointing. 
 If you have a lower end pc I would say dont bother spending the money to upgrade just to play this 
 game. Right now it has a need for better endgame play. An overall ok time but not worth my pc upgrade.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SceaduHyrde
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Age of Conan: Hyborian Adventures is a fantasy-themed Massive Multiplayer Online Roll Playing Game 
 based around the myth barbarian legend conan. Developed by Funcom and published by Funcom. It was 
 released around midyear worldwide at May 2008.
  
  The negative: monthly subscription, still quite a few bugs and glitches after many, many fat epic 
 patches, huge patches, difficult to grind in populated server when a 70 could just kill a 22 during 
 questing, repeatedly and there isn't enough town guards to keep even 3 busy in alot of towns, no 
 SLI support from what I heard, does not support quad cores, same boring sequence and landing location 
 regardless of class and race chosen, can't edit character once made, after tortage; initial starting 
 location, there are no more voice input for all characters except Scryia in the new world; meaning 
 the characters won't talk, just stands still and you can only read the subtitles to know whats 
 going on, hard to complete certain normal/elite quests since game still lacks a good looking-for-group 
 system, constant 1-2 maintenance, approx five hours a week which kills people in other countries, 
 game servers are only in America and Europe.
  
  The good: dozen of classes to choose from, gender sex, facial, hair, body size, height, symbols/tatoos 
 are all customizable during character creation which there is many to choose from and is great, 
 offers many professions after a certain level, many dungeons to raid with groups, a lot of nice 
 items, mounts, huge amounts of quests.
  
  Overall: still a decent game if you like mmorpgs and paying monthly subscriptions based on a fantasy 
 barbaric world.
  
  I didn't spend time describing much about gameplay, I lack the will to describe every aspect and 
 flaws of this game with constant patches and things, but I've written based on my opinion straight 
 from gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kindreadth1
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 30, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Siege system non-functional/non-playable.
  Memory Leaks.
  Horrendous load times; to other zones as well as logging in constantly due to crashes from memory 
 leaks.
  Mage classes broken (read: Gem Stacking and Gem Duping non-functional for these classes, ie. bait)
 
  Gem stacking: everyone at 80 gemstacks dmg gems. They nerfed the ONLY counter to this, the defensive 
 gems. It's now who can hit first and with one combo the target dies.
  Gem duping: very apparent in the game and very easily done exploiting a bug. Google search it, 
 you'll find out how. If you don't may as well cancel your subscription or be one combo'd all day, 
 every day.
  PvP game with broken siege system, no pvp rewards, can't xp off of pvp, death means absolutely 
 nothing, no looting of players, etc. Once again another "PvP" game falling WAY short on delivery.
 
  Patches: Every patch those far has been to fix cut scenes and deliver content to zones that really 
 don't need it. They've yet to implement anything "pvp" related except for some minor tweaks to 
 certain classes and making other classes more linear in spec'ing (ie. Necros, worthless now without 
 pets making one tree almost not useable) . Along with these patches they've geared the higher level 
 content/mobs toward forced grouping and/or more grinding since you can no longer take on multiple 
 mobs (with most classes) . Feat trees are a joke. Most skills don't work, don't scale, don't do 
 what the tooltips says, etc. The game needs to be given to another team to start from scratch and 
 rebuild....
  
  I could go on for days about the bugs, tweaks needed, etc. but I canceled my account because I 
 didn't want to have anything to do with that monstrosity of a "game" anymore... including posting 
 about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICEBLUE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing since closed beta. Back then the game crashed every ten minutes or so. Since 
 then they have released several patches that have fixed most of the crash errors people have gotten.
 
  
  I think the game plays well, it looks incredible if you have the settings and machine that can 
 support the high end graphics.
  
  To date I still find they need to not worry so much about the PvP and concentrate more on the PvE 
 content which wil entertain most people and allow less monotonous grinding at the mid to upper 
 levels.
  
  Over all I play to stick around and see how things progress with the updates over the next few 
 months..
  
  Really not many other choices out there to consider unless you are into the cartoony look of WoW 
 or similar type games, which for me are hard to even consider after playing this game with its 
 graphics and fluid combat system.
  
  No Fan boi or Troll here just someone in the middle ground who thinks this is a good game just 
 lacking in some areas as of now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IneviTony
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are some of the best out there and the game play is entertaining, if you're into button 
 mashers. The down side to this game is after the first 20-30 levels you are left with nothing to 
 do but grind grind grind. I think this was a rushed title, they really should have taken more time 
 to finish adding quest/story content before releasing this game. This is simply a very overrated 
 game, nice to look at but the gaming experience leaves something to be desired. I would stay away 
 from wasting my money on this game, at least until they release an expansion that might fill the 
 void. As far as Funcom is concerned I think Anarchy Online is a much better title if you want something 
 from this company. The graphics aren't half as good AoC but at least you have tons of content and 
 things to do and/or get. In any case, like I said before try to stay away from this game if possible 
 until they do something about the lack of content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arieles
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 27, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This game was a great disappointment to me. When I saw the graphics and tried to play in the beginning 
 my computer couldn't handle it well enough so I built an entirely new system to be able to experience 
 it fully. At that point the game played quite well with really high frame rates though the still 
 existing memory leak would boot me randomly after about 3 hours of play on high settings regularly.. 
 more often if I changed zones a lot. I leveled one character to 80 and then found a serious lack 
 of things to do. I figured I could wait for more content so I leveled a couple more characters 
 to around 50 then realized that all of my effort was all for not. I could go do some instances 
 and get some armor but for what? There really is just no purpose at this point in that game and 
 no direction to any purpose if they have put one in there.. Sorry, but if I invest a lot of time 
 in a game I need a clear purpose. I did also play Warhammer Online for preview weekend and the 
 difference in the amount of things to do and the end game purpose is quite clear. I was very skeptical 
 about Warhammer and I was incredibly shocked at how innovative and multifacted it is (though don't 
 take this as a warhammer promotion, it was just an easy comparison) . Anyway, I wish I could have 
 said that about AoC. I feel I wasted my money now sadly. The graphics in the game were lovely and 
 I even liked the leveling process. After the leveling was finished though.. it left me feeling 
 blank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ediehunter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  is very good graphics good variety of arch-types classes. but alot of some of the classes needs 
 to be reworked. like the necromancer class. there alot of broken quest. that you cant finnish. at 
 all or you have to get a GM to help fix it. or to give you the completion of that quest. to get 
 the xp and quest item. lots of lag problems either do do with there end or the person playing the 
 game or both. not enough pvp content at all when you get to lv 80. i think that do to that guilds 
 cant fight each other till they hit tier guild city 3 and that both guilds leaders agree on each 
 other to go ahead and attack each other. there good amount of raiding. and as far as i heard it best 
 to completly avoid the PVP servers becouse at the begening you get ganked every time. and theres 
 no voice overs after you leave tortage the starting area unless doing your destiny quest. but i 
 heard and seen they been working on all those problems. but taking a long time to fix them. this 
 game shouldnt came out till late this fall or early next year. and it a must you need to have a 
 top of the line computer to see and play this game at its best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckizard
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 27, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Being an old-school Conan reader, I read the hype and pre-ordered immediately. Got into the open-beta 
 and saw a lot wrong with the game. "But its beta" so what can I expect? Well, come release the 
 problems were not fixed, and some even got worse. While the 1st 20-30 levels were incredible, the 
 fun died out soon after. I was searching everywhere for new content, dying for a profession that 
 would actually work, screaming for some gear that actually did something. I made it to 70 somehow 
 and couldn't take it anymore. There was nothing left to find, problems were everywhere and not 
 getting fixed, people were frustrated. The game ran fine on my computer and offered some incredible 
 graphics and beautiful scenery, but gameplay was just horrible. I've played a few MMOs (WoW, LoTRo) 
 and this was the worse so far. After playing some WAR already, I can't wait to dive in for good 
 because it offers a lot right off the bat and a never ending plethora of stuff to keep us addicted 
 for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hells_rebelion
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  This review is based on the fact that I played it 4 weeks after release and played it a total of 
 3 weeks nonstop.
  
  From my exp it's probably one of the buggiest games that got released on big hype. It wouldn't 
 have hurt them to keep this in production at least an extra 6 months maybe more. I'll list a few 
 of the LARGE amount of bugs I found.
  
  BUGS:
  -Grey map glitch
  -Monsters your level are sometimes impossible to beat (Mainly a balance issue)
  -Random invincible 
 monster attacks on villages
  -Resources don't show up on minimap
  -Broken quests (Balance issue mostly)
  -Random crashes/memory leaks
  and MANY more!
  
  
 The good:
  -Leveling isn't tedious
  -Graphics are nice
  -Voice acting..... for the first 20 lvls
  -Quests aren't all boring
  -Guild battles
  -Forts
 
  -Crazy looking mounts
  SO ON
  
  The bad:
  -PVP gets annoying with plenty of ganking
  -Armor/weapon models are slightly boring
  -Realms (Can anyone say guild wars?)
  -SLOW mounts
 
  -Maps get boring
  -Not many high lvl quests
  SO ON
  
  This is all really based on what I EXP after it had came out, they have probably fixed a good amount 
 of the bugs and broken quests. As for the boring armor and weapon models and slow mounts I'm sure 
 are still the same. 
  
  This is only a "GUEST PASS" try nothing more unless you can live with the bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gojomez
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Age of conan is a great game, with wonderful graphics and dozens of problems. Plagued with memory 
 leaks and geometry glitches, its shiny pretty world does seem flawed. Gameplay is awesome, aside 
 from PvP trouble with unbalanced classes and overpowered crafted gear modifications, the only true 
 problem with the game is lack of content. There are spans of levels in the game where you will 
 not complete any quests.... because there are none given. Lack of content is the biggest problem 
 with the game, and the complete nothingness to do at the level cap. most MMO's give you more things 
 to do at level cap then they did while leveling. This is not the case with Age of Conan.
  
  FUNCOM made a good game that needs content badly. Playing it us fun, but when there is nothing 
 to do, it gets stale quickly, and more than half the people who started playing at launch are waiting 
 for a good enough reason to reactivate their accounts.
  
  Graphics : 9 
  Would be a 10, but Dx10 support STILL isnt out
  
  Sound : 9
  Why do all the NCP's in the 
 game suddenly forget english after you leave the starting area? And then pick it back up again 
 in the late 50's?
  
  Gamplay: 10
  Best combat system in an MMO to date. Now all they gotta do is balence PvP
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dumnorix
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  The world felt too confining compared to other MMORPGs.
  The graphics were good, and the combat system was fun, but there just wasn't enough to do in the 
 world even though most of it was overcrowded with roaming monsters.
  The fact that the class/race system was restricted to by the Conan license may have had something 
 to with the games shortcomings. Maybe the world was so small because Hyborea was a little place, 
 but even if that's the case, they should have put the whole world on one map instead creating zones 
 that were linked by only ports and road exit points. 
  If you're not a fan of the literature, I'd recommend something else. I left after a month, and 
 most of the folks that I know who stayed longer have either gone back to their last MMORPG or have 
 left to wait for Warhammer (which I'm not even considering) to kick off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nauticalstrong
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  I've played this game since it was released and have a lvl 72 character. It seems Fun Com was filling 
 the gaps others complained about just before I got to them, so I never really experienced all the 
 issues others had. I play it on a newer rig running 64bit Vista with 4GB or RAM. It uses just over 
 1GB of RAM so if you are light on hardware it may cause issues. I was a WarCraft addict and in 
 my opinion, this game is far better -- especially with the feel of the world Fun Com created. It 
 is absolutely gorgeous on my 24" monitor. I am a big Conan fan and I really like the game and the 
 world Fun Com created.
  In fairness, the crafting system seems like a lot of work with little benefit and I've yet to figure 
 out how to easily inspect other players. With WoW you could just click on them. I've also not done 
 any PvP yet.
  Overall -- well worth the $15/month for the enjoyment factor.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHidden79
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Being a big fan of action based real time combat, i couldn't wait for this one to come out. The 
 images and hype that was around just made this one a must have. or so i thought.
  
  Now we all know online games usually start off rocky, those of us who were in on the launch of 
 other games such as EQ2 or WOW will know what im talking about. there were a lot of small things 
 that werent fixed until the 2nd or 3rd expansion. that being said, Funcom must be given props to 
 age of conan. 
  
  As you start the games the graphics are the frist thing to hit you. for an online game it is gorgeous. 
 the combat animations are very fluid, and the extra control you get over basic attacks does draw 
 you into combat a little bit more. you are in a way forced to pay attention to what you are doing. 
 no more falling asleep while mindlessly clicking the pre arranged buttons in the right order. and 
 the pace of leveling in the first few areas is pretty fast. especially if you know what you are 
 doing. so you are quickly rewarded with new skills to try out. 
  
  After you make your way through the jungle to the first main area you are rewarded with some great 
 voice acting, almost every NPC here has voice overs. and there are tons of quests within easy reach. 
 and several different locations to visit from sandy beaches, a fiery volcano, and some ancient 
 ruins with a view over the area that adds atmosphere i've not expereince in a game for a long time. 
 extremely vissually impressive. 
  even some of the ingame cutscenses are very well done. unfortunalty this aspect does not carry 
 through to all of the cut scenes. some of them look like they are made by amatures despite being 
 part of the main story line. 
  
  Itemisation is pretty weak, but that is to be expected at this early level so its not a big deal. 
 there story is all well and good, and you can easily and joyously play through the area of tortage 
 for a long time. reaching the early 20's. the only downside is that it takes quite some time. and 
 once you have done it with one character you are not really likely to want to do it again as you 
 have already expereinced it all. 
  
  as good as the first part of the game is with its voice acted quests. and the introduction to the 
 action combat system. once you acutally get out of tortage you do get kinda of dissapointed. the 
 voice acting has been largly lacking after you leave the introduction area. only the very few and 
 far between main quest has had voice acting. this is slowly being rectified and has been in a patch 
 mid-late august 2008. 
  
  early days in the new areas gave way to a host of problems, many people experienced system crashes, 
 and many areas where just incomplete, with rather noticble problems with area geometry and missing 
 non working npc's. several quests were also missing. these problems have mostly been fixed now. 
 and while the game post tortage (the city you will spend almost all you time in before being allowed 
 on the main land.) does a good job off making the world seem a little bigger. there are 3 main 
 cities to visit, and 3 main adventuring areas that are easily larger than tortage, for the next 
 20ish levels these are the areas you are expected to be in. there are enough quests if you look 
 carefully to keep you occupied the entire way and are willing to travel a bit. itemisation at this 
 point is still pretty poor. and unfortunatly does not get much better. 
  
  there was said there would be over 1500 unique armor pieces. but dont expect to go saying anything 
 but an extremely small fraction of these on your journey to level 80 (the current max level in 
 game.) supposedly most of these unique looks are saved for the end game content, instances and 
 raiding etc. 
  
  also unfortunatly after level 40, things start getting a little dull. there are very few areas 
 that you can actually spend time in. each tier gives you maybe 1 or 2 areas to adventure in. with 
 only one main adventuring and questing area for solo players post 75. and although these are well 
 made for the most part. quests start getting sparse. and the effort is not something youd wanna 
 repeat on character after character. these issues have been spoken off by the developers and are 
 in the process of being fixed. with new quests being quietly added with patches. there is also 
 word that there were a few areas that just werent ready for release. 
  
  When it comes to leveling it must be said that it is quite easy. as a solo player i managed to 
 reach 80 within 3 weeks. with almost no time spent in grouping. this has been changed a little 
 now making it take a little longer to get those last few levels before 80. its acutally still too 
 fast in my opinion. 
  
  Class balance is shocking as with most MMo's. there are broken feats everywhere, and constant changes 
 to classes and game balance. this is ofcourse to be expected from the beginning of an MMORPG, or 
 at least we are all used to it. 
  
  Crafting is an area which could use some love. (and developers have promised an overhaul) the bigger 
 buggs have been taken care off. so it works without crashing your game. but there is very little 
 incentive to craft atm with dropped items often being better than any crafted items. this aspect 
 is constantly being tweaked and is slowly getting better. but it is another aspect that seems it 
 was not really looked at until after release. 
  
  City building is by far one of the best aspects of the game. it is a real joy to watch your cities 
 rise out of the ground as you build them. and it is somethign that requires the aid of all your 
 guildmates. a real community effort. it is also a necessity for the higher tier crafting, youll 
 need a full level three city to craft top level stuff. this is somethign that will eventually see 
 many guilds die off and members migrate to larger guilds. tier 1 city is easy. even tier 2 is pretty 
 easy with enough members helping out. but a tier 3 city. is likely going to take you months to 
 build. you need a very very dedicated guild to make this work. right. 
  this woudlnt really be a problem if it wasnt for the fact that at level 80, as a solo player there 
 is practically nothing to do. you have been everywhere you can go and there really is nothign left 
 to see. only to grind the same old places and harvest the same old nodes over and over and over 
 again. even group and raids are limited to a few select areas you can go. the game starts off drawing 
 you in. then opening up the world to you, only to lead you to a very small world to be in. there 
 is no sense of exploring hyboria at lvl 80. it just feels small.
  
  the combat which was really fresh in the beginning is also less so by the end. even though you 
 seem to have control. its really just a dressed up point and click system. in this authors opinion 
 it is far more enjoyable then the other options out there, but still leaves me longing for my console 
 beat em ups. 
  
  there are people who will love this game. unfortunatly im not one of them. 3 months after release 
 the game is still too small to be any fun, and the features that dragged you in are not enough 
 to keep me there. what will keep people there is the well proven formula of leveling, and having 
 something to spend your time doing. getting that uber drop you want, perfecting that crafted armor 
 set you wanted, gathering enough for that next building for your guild. or some such.
  
  the engine has a lot of potential, but funcom could and should have spent a lot more time polishing 
 the post tortage game before release. all this being said. it will be interesting to see where 
 this game will be come christmas 2008. by christmas the game will have been out 6 months and by 
 then the wounds from its birth should have healed. this is still more of a preview than a review. 
 
  
  new players should be ok to try this now that the major probs have been ironed out. but if you 
 do. expect the rules of the game to change. 
  
  in closing i also want to mention PVP, unfortunatly i cant do much more than mention. during my 
 time pvp has undergone HUGE changes. none of which i have personally expereinced. but many friends 
 ive made in the game swear that the PVP is the way to go. it alliviates a lot of the boredom you 
 find in Solo PVE servers (at the cost of dying much MUCH more) . this is probably the part i would 
 reccomend people start with. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurse71
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 22, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  I was very disappointed! The pros: awesome graphics, fights are fun and graphic! The cons: Nearly 
 unplayable at times. Buggy. The interface locks up a lot, player gets stuck a lot, game hangs up. 
 Generally re-starting the client will fix some of these, but it gets to be very annoying! If the 
 game hangs, you will have to hard reboot your system because of the interface's poor design.
  
  I have a high end system, never experienced glitches like this in any other games. AoC really 
 feels like it was rushed to release, too many amateur bugs are still around that should have definitely 
 got killed in beta.
  
  This game has been out long enough that these things should have been taken care of, and really 
 makes me think twice when I see anything with Funcom's name on it now.
  
  Its really too bad, this game has the potential to be very good, and would be very fun to play 
 if not for the frustration of the silly glitches you will encounter. It may be possible that some 
 of these problems only apply in Windows Vista, but this game is certified for Vista, so it should 
 not matter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noclippin
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that I was rather unimpressed in the beginning of the game, it had a decent intro-movie 
 in the beginning which looked mediocre at best. The login screen was fine and the character creation 
 was just fine aswell, I went for a female aquilonian guardian granted that I was hoping to do some 
 pretty serious tanking (as it's called) in the later parts of the game.
  The first moments of the game were great, although not breathtaking. You start off getting to know 
 your interface, the fighting and so on and so forth (as any other game) . The fighting system seems 
 interresting at first, the abilities which you're given later on in the game forces you to perform 
 a combo, which can be part of 5 different direction attacks, this forces you to do simple 1+ step 
 combos which are EASILY memorized unless you're mental or "slow". At first I thought this featur 
 would add skill, balance and tactics to the PVP but it quickly (around lvl 10-15) became obvious 
 that this is just some idea Joe in the gameplay-department came up with while he was taking a piss. 
 The blocking system also makes you think "wow, this is cool" But granted that you're always able 
 to see (circle in the middle of the screen) how much you target is defending his different body 
 part, you are always pretty sure you'll be attacking the weakest spot, which forces you to just 
 leave your shields at standard positions all the time.
  
  Okay, so I went on, thought well of the game, or atleast i tried to.. The game was horribly buggy, 
 sometimes the world would get you stuck on completely illogical places, almost as if there was 
 a mountain in front of you.
  Every single fight is the same, atleast for the class i played, it was pretty cool killing a lot 
 of monsters at the same time, but it really didn't get me thrilled or anything.
  
  I quit Age of Conan at level 44 because I found it buggy, boring, amazingly incomplete, too simple, 
 the crafting system was ungodly and the mapping overall was just so unimaginary as a bad game can 
 be.
  
  I had a bit of fun playing the game, it kept me company for a good week, but it really didn't yell 
 "PLAY ME!" when i turned on my computer after school/work.
  
  I give Age of Conan a 6/10, for keeping me company.. and im being generous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kchendz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  - One of the best looking MMO of its time.
  - Unique combat system.
  - Feels good to decapitate mobs and your fellow players.
  - Full voice over for npcs on the newbie 
 island (ONLY) , pre lv20. Though there's a few more after that.
  
  The bad:
  - Bazillion bugs.
  - Very hard on your pc.
  - Very imbalance classes/professions.
  - Stealth 
 nerf classes; very shady devs.
  - No working crafting profession after two months of release.
  
  The ugly:
  - Did I say BUGS?
 
  - Lack of quests after lv50 forces you to grind mobs for xp.
  - Incomplete game.
  - The game gets worse and worse as you progress - lack of quests, broken quests, missing features 
 that were promised pre-launch, broken instances, broken npcs.
  
  I've played a lot of MMOs and this is the first one that I walked away pissed at the devs. It is 
 very obvious that Funcom focused all their man power in polishing lv1-20 contents for release to 
 make good first hand impression, and everything's a big disappointment after that. 
  
  I leveled a ranger to lv62, guardian 45, bear shaman to 38 and bunch of other classes in the teens.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blacklight2
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  The Good
  This game may have some hefty requirments but the game looks amazing on all high settings. The 
 combat system is really fun. Theres voice acting for the quests and they are really good. It's 
 rated M so all the immature kids arn't there like WoW. The fatalitys are the icing on the cake 
 in this game. There is decapitations, electricutions, blood gushing out of your throat and more. 
 Theres no little fairy creatures like elves in this game and theres a story to why your questing 
 around endlessly. The character creations are more advanced like tattoos and battle scars like 
 bear claws and tiger claws. You don't need to alt-tab to look at a website for questing since theres 
 markers on the map and minimap. The combos make the game alot more interesting and funner. You 
 can sprint in this game which makes it alot faster gameplay. You level alot faster than in wow 
 but for some thats a bad thing but i think it's a good thing.
  
  The Bad
  Technical issues may be a problem like grey all around the minimap when theres an update on the 
 loading screens. The loading screens are fairly long if you have less than 2g of ram. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: targetlkd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm not big into long reviews or internet speeches but this game deserves it. If you are seeking 
 a game where you can long onto anytime and PVP with anyone pretty much anywhere with no restrictions, 
 what else could you ask for?
  Nothing is better than walking up to someone questing and say anything you want or something like 
 this "hey im questing here, group up or die" and see what happens.
  Before the launch the 3 main features in this game were the combat, pvp, **** and I will tell you 
 the combat is great, the pvp is great and who doesn't love fatalities and blood?
  Sure the game lacks content and requires the best hardware to run mildly smooth on highest settings 
 but from where I sit I can see this is just the beginning and the crap promised by funcom will 
 come in time, why would they just give up and loose what they have been working on? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean0883
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  
  
  I dont speak as though i am an MMO afficianado, i used to think Shadowbane was a great game as 
 it was my first MMO, this is just a tiny review im putting together for people interested in playing 
 this game. When i decide to play a game i check forums for player reviews mostly because players 
 make MMOs. Even in WoW a dead community is a dead game. So like it or love it, its my opinion and 
 thats why i get to write it.
  
  When I first started to play this game, I thought it was great. The first 20 hours or so are great 
 fun and you actually want to continue to level, it's not until you die 50 times on a single quest 
 because a mob from across the map aggro'd along with the 2-3 you just pulled and was just enough 
 to take you down. Death means nothing in this game, but rebuffing and running back there can really 
 suck if the NPC you were after is in teh back of single entry area and the entrance mobs have respawned. 
 But even in Tortage after merchant on the boat asked me to go the Underhalls for the 50th (exaggeration) 
 time I was really hoping that it would be a trend for later levels, but had a strange feeling it 
 would. So I get to Connall's (spelling?) Valley and they do simliar things and my heart was crushed. 
 As an example, the dead bodies in the river that you run by 100000 x's before they finally have 
 you pull them out, was the one that stood out for me. I did have alot of fun in this game, but 
 it's a game to me that just feels rushed without a lot of time fine tuning. For example how did 
 this guy make it through QA and go unnoticed for as long as he has:
  
  http://img168. imageshack. us/img168/5321/whattehsx4. png
  
  The developers say that you cant 
 compare it to WoW because it's had more development time. So how do you mess up or completely ignore 
 the little things that make a good MMO? 5 years in development and you miss the things like the 
 diversity of rolling an alt. I dont know about you but i rolled one of each race in WoW just to 
 mess around in the starting areas and it actually felt refreshing to see something new. Now maybe 
 you can live with such a thing, but the way AoC did it is much to single playerie to me. And in 
 a case like that, id actually prefer to make the game diablo style, and make online optional.
 
  
  This game is not a complete failure, dont think im bashing this game. It's a lot of fun if this 
 is your style of game to play for hours on end. Just be warned of this little reflection of the 
 game i wrote and read up on more pros and cons, because they are pretty equal in weight.
  
  To me it's a good game to pay 50 bucks for and call it at that, but I can't see a good reason to 
 pay 15 monthly for it yet. To make it worth it to me they would have to rewrite a lot of the ways 
 things are taken care of (quests) and that would be to much to put in a patch.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: URTV_Rubedo
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I confess, I am a WoW fanboy, however even the most hardcore fans of the game can get bored of 
 the time consuming game. So i started doing my research and came to a conclusion that Age of Conan 
 was the replacement. I was even more confident with my decision with the reviews and game consumer 
 feed back, so I gathered up all my pennies and trudged to my local gamestop. After buying it and 
 spending a good couple of hours installing it, I eagerly awaited an immerse world full of brutal 
 combat, good pvp, and an overall good time. What i got, was something... unexpected.
  
  Graphics: (7.5/10) Okay I cant really complain here, the textures and environment is amazing, however 
 other than hardcore computer fetishists, I dont know many people who can support this games requirements. 
 And when you lower the video settings, it looks like a dull World of Warcraft.
  
  Gameplay: (3/10) The gameplay is probably the point that Funcom was bragging about with thier real 
 combat, but the only thing thats different than WoW (it uses the same UI and action bars for christs 
 sake) , are these retarded sets of arrowkeys that you mash hoping that you can out damage your opponent, 
 even as a caster.
  
  Customization: (0/10) First off, there arent any real factions, and the only thing you can pick 
 for your character is buff male, slightly less buff male, supermodel female, and slightly less 
 hot supermodel female. Oh yeah you can make a body tatoo but who gives a crap when you where generic 
 armor (which doesnt matter)
  
  Multiplayer: (lol/10) First of all every zone is instanced so unless your computer was made from 
 god, you have loading times everytime you enter a damn house. Oh yeah did i mention that you need 
 to solo play the first 20 levels? Wheres the immersion in that. In the X-Box version theres should 
 be an achievement for not quiting before level 20.
  
  Pvp: (3/10) Okay you finally get out in the world, congratulations for entering anarchy. Where ever 
 you are theres always some player trying to kill you at one point of another, and no real factions 
 makes it frantic and stupid.
  
  Maturity: (-10/10) The main selling point of this game that lures wow players is the so called 
 mature community. However, the moment you get in chat all you see are racial slurs and immature 
 spam and rants.
  
  Overall (2/10) : Congrats funcom for sucking. Trying to be different than WoW, just made you a black 
 sheep in its family where other MMOs ask WoW if they know him, and WoW will simply reply "No" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePatinator
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Age of Conan was always, unfortunately, going to exist completely in WoW's shadow, and the comparisons 
 were always going to be made between the two (either comparing the quality of the game or about 
 how stupid MMOs are from outside the playing group) . However, while the games do have their simularities, 
 I think that making such a comparison is not really doing Age of Conan justice, as it does a lot 
 of things in different, and probably better ways.
  
  The most obvious example of this is the combat. Basically, you know have 3/5 different directions 
 from which you can attack people (assuming you're not casting spells) instead of one, and your 
 character will not automatically attack, instead you will need to control every hit (avoiding enemies 
 blocks and such) . This is complemented by a combo system in which you (after using the ability) 
 must hit a sequence (or just one) directional attack button to pull off the ability. The system 
 is good, and keeps the combat fairly interesting and at the very least different. However, the 
 system does eventually boil down into using the same abilities again and again, waiting for cooldowns 
 to wear out, and thus gets a bit stale. It is not helped that classes (at least some if not all, 
 I didn't try out too many and only took one to a high (ish) level) only have a limited number of 
 useful attacks, even less so than even the most mundane classes in some other mmos.
  
  There is also the slight problem of the interface. in trying to be a bit different, Age of Conan 
 has somewhat screwed up in making it's interface. the usual actionbars are there, and it even has 
 a fairly strong customizable element to it in that you can basically manuver floating actionbars 
 around, which is a nice touch. Another thing that stood out (somewhat strangely) was the ability 
 to quickly and easily lock the actionbars with Shift-L, which came in very handy when fidelling 
 around with layout and fighting (which can often lead to moving attack directions or other abilities 
 by accident) . Unfortunately though, the interface has serious problems when you start getting reasonable 
 ammounts of attacks, even with the movable bars. The issue arises because of the unfortunate placing 
 of the health bars of you and your target directly above the main bar, preventing you from putting 
 one of your additional actionbars there (without losing a lot of functionality) . It also isn't 
 helped at all by the pointlessly large grids. All in all, it's a fairly simular interface to that 
 in Guild wars, and suffers from many of the same problems.
  
  Anyway, onto the game world. The game really is stunning. Even on medium or low graphics quality 
 the game looks very impressive. The environment in the distance is blurred out for a very cool 
 effect that seems to make it a lot easier for it to render large spaces. There's the occasional 
 shodddy looking object and a handful of pretty stale animation but apart from that the game looks 
 great. It is worth noting that there were a few noticable oversights on the gameplay fronts by 
 the world designers, wall jumping and, amusingly, waterfall-swimming-up are very easy to accomplish, 
 and there are a few locations in which any half witted player would use them instead of going around. 
 The sound also really is great, in particular the voice acting, which although is basically non-existant 
 after level 20, is very strong throughout all the quests on the starting island of tortage. The 
 voice acting and general story is filled with fitting barbarian-style touches, a fairly gratuitous 
 ammount of swearing and a few sexual references. The dialogue system also helps to make the quests 
 feel a bit more part of the world and not some wierd removed presence. The music is also for the 
 most part excellent.
  
  Anyway, on to where the game falls apart, the MMO part of it. There are 2 areas which are seriously 
 screwed up in this regard. The first of these is the social element to the game, by which I mainly 
 refer to the chat system. The main issue here is the ridiculously overcomplicated and impractical 
 tab based system, where you must be in certain tabs of your chat box to actually send messages 
 along the different channels, but in doing so stop yourself from seeing messages from other channels. 
 It just does not work as it should for a game that is all about playing with other people, and 
 is most definately not helped by the massive oversight of not adding Zone based chat, just a large 
 area general chat which incorporates a lot of different level zones. This, as well as the lack 
 of a dedicated "Looking for Group" channel, mean that finding a group for the many many group quests 
 that you are faced with, normally in blocks, is nigh on impossible. you either need to have someone 
 else in your guild, or hope that someone else appears who is trying to do the same thing but not 
 kill you on sight. This brings me to my second problem, pvp. While I'm sure the guild based sieges 
 would be absolutely awesome, the rest of the PVP in AoC is very limited. To put it simply, it's 
 just the stronger classes ganking the weaker ones (classes are very imbalanced, but I won't bother 
 going into this as it's basically the genre standard) . The battleground-like system is good, but 
 there are rarely enough players looking for a match to actually make one.
  
  All in all, I did enjoy my month or so in Age of Conan, but will be stopping my subscription for 
 a few months now, until the teething problems are gone and the new chat system is in. Although 
 it's not of the same gameplay quality of, say, WoW, it's different combat and extremely good opening 
 20 levels make it well worth playing for anyone who has or hasn't played mmos at length before. 
 Just be prepared for a few problems.
  
  Btw, I play a Dark Templar, who are apparently the most underpowered class in game. They are a 
 lot more melee heavy than their description suggests, and not as much like Death Knights as I'd 
 hoped : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alhenriq1
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin... I started playing this game when it launched. My friends called me up to inform 
 me we were all quitting WoW and switching to AoC. I was pretty excited because I just couldn't 
 take anymore Warcraft. I didn't know anything about this game so I decided to check the AoC website. 
 After seeing the videos and seeing the PvP system, I was hooked. I went out a bought a copy and 
 installed it as soon as I got home. I was extremely impressed with the graphics and character customization. 
 To top it all off, there was voice acting everywhere and you got to pick your responses when having 
 conversations with NPCs. Things were going great. The controls were a little awkward at first. 
 There was a help journal on the left, but this thing was like an encyclopedia o' help, so I decided 
 to wait and get the hang of it as time went on. Then came the down falls. Bugs everywhere! I didn't 
 start playing WoW until about 6 months after it had been out, and I kept hearing about how bad 
 their launch was, so I gave AoC the benefit of the doubt. Oh what a mistake. Once you leave tortage 
 there is nothing but ganking, ridiculously boring quests that have you do the same crap over and 
 over again, and yet again, more bugs. After rerolling several times and leveling up various characters, 
 I couldnt deal with it anymore. Characters were unbalanced, the game was doing nothing to keep 
 me captivated, the PvP system was not what I expected, there were level gaps lacking content, and... you 
 guessed it, more bugs. 
  
  Overall, this game had some pros. The graphics were great; the sound was excellent, even though 
 the voice acting stops after Tortage; and the controls were innovative, once you get the hang of 
 them (me and my friends found the easiest way was using the number pad on the right of the keyboard) . 
 However, this game was NOT ready for release. I was not about to pay $50, plus an additional $15, 
 to beta test a game. I'm going to try to wrap this up, but I would like to touch on a few final 
 points. The AH sucks, crafting is terrible, vendoring seems like something out of Ultima Online, 
 and making enough money for your mount is frustrating as hell. I could keep going, but if you're 
 like me, you hate reading super long reviews. I do not recommend this game, and I regret buying 
 it because you can't sell back PC games. Swing and a miss Funcom, swing and a miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper333
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  The game is beautiful to the eye and the blood oh yes the blood! the combination moves are nice 
 and all you can do with your character. So yes there are a few nice things about Conan but they 
 do not even come close to what is wrong with this game. #1 you cant finish missions. What good 
 is a game if you cant finish the missions. Oh I know they are working on it but im PAYING to play 
 not wait. Make the game free and no complaints here. the classes need to be balanced again and 
 the whole crafting is a waste of time and a pain in the but. Did I mention lag? I have cable and 
 pay for more band width and my system is smokin10 so I know its not on my end. In order to complete 
 alot of the missions it requires a fellowship and good luck finding enough people to team up with 
 they are all quiting the game. Every one of my friends that started this game has alredy quit and 
 gone back to WOW or LOTR. 10 thumbs down for this game and I want my money back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diomed011
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  Tortage is fantastic, unfortunately its only the first 20 of 80 levels; after that you find the 
 bugs and lack of content. This feels like the classic 'bait and switch' con-game. The combat system 
 is annoying. At fist the combos only require one or two extra steps but eventually you are required 
 to execute several (i. e. 3-4 or more) in order to complete the more powerful combos. This just 
 irritated me. It may be a new way of doing MMO combat but I don't think it is fun.
  
  The classes are fairly well done but many still had buggy or non-functional feats/skills/comobs. 
 Some combos cannot be used when they are gained due to thier insane stamina/energy costs. This 
 is the hallmark of poor design and lack of QA testing.
  
  The visuals are very nice, some of the best in the genre. The music and sound effects are spot 
 on.
  
  The casual-friendly policy of allowing solo'ist and small groups to succeed is wonderful and refreshing 
 when compared to the group-nazi approach of games like EQ and DDO.
  
  Simply put, Age of Conan is not a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoeCrusher
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 15, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  My own impression of Age of Conan, at least from a PVE perspective, is that it is rather run of 
 the mill and not terribly engaging. I did not do a lot of PVP so look to another review for that 
 perspective. Below I highlight my impressions with key aspects of the game. 
  
  Combat
  The new combat system was hailed as eliminating at least some of the mindlessness of other MMORPGs. 
 The reality is that while the goal was noble this can at be seen as an incremental change in the 
 way we interact with games rather than revolutionary. In PVE combat your combos and what not really 
 don't influence gameplay and combat devolves into hitting your 1,2 or 3 key rather than just clicking 
 your mouse. Sadly for me doing quests was the usual soul destroying grind that was rarely engaging. 
 Don't get me wrong, I applaud the attempt to change and make combat more interesting but the end 
 result was the same in this case.
  
  Environment
  Overall the environment was drab and uninteresting. Perhaps this was a concession to the world 
 described in the Conan books but it left me feeling flat. There was little of the "WOW that's different!" 
 feel nor anything that made me go to places I had never seen before just to drink in what the artists 
 had imagined. 
  
  NPCs
  These are truly dreadful, I must confess that I had very little desire to "talk" (there aren't 
 any voices) to NPCs and the fetch thisgather thatkill a dozen of .based on the quests they give 
 for a handful of coins and some xp.
  
  Instances and Grouping
  There are a few instances that require you to group up and then your really do need to have a healer 
 because the monsters are tough and the xp earned is embarrassingly low given the amount of time 
 you spend together trying to do key events. Given how fast you level, there is little incentive 
 to go through some of the instances over and over again in search of equipment because it will 
 all become obsolete soon enough. The differences between an above average piece of equipment and 
 epic are pretty minimal. Maybe at level 80 it would be worth doing.
  
  Economy
  I have mixed opinions of the economy as currency has little value once you have your mount. There 
 really isn't anything to buy and people don't buy many items from the auction house. This limits 
 the irritation of having Chinese Farmers camping out various locations but nerfs that aspect of 
 the game. 
  
  Guild Cities
  As of August 15, 2008 the cities are undeveloped content. There is so much that can be done with 
 them but for now they only serve as something to attack or defend in guild raids and have guild 
 members gather resources for its construction.
  
  Going Forward
  If I were you I would wait until at least 2009 before trying AOC. It is obviously going to take 
 Funcom time to develop content and perhaps address some of the shortcomings that I have listed.
 
  
  Regards,
  FOE
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: canigia1
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 15, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Seriously stay away. AOC is the first complete betagame that sold so much. Utter crap. Stay away 
 so games can get better. Because each year games are getting worse and worse and worse. Pay them 
 and they will make even worse games. Where does it end? And all this publicity and false promises 
 about features of the game that are not there and never will be.
  Many will say not to judge a MMORPG within the first months. I have to say that- AOC clearly shows 
 how it will develop. What do people expect? That suddenly this crappy, unfinished, INSTANCED, dead 
 world, boring, grinding based, sucky PVP, broken betagame will suddenly be the next MMORPG miracle-game? 
 HOW?
  In 1 year this game is dead and as of thi smoment it is supported by people who are not ready to 
 cry for their money... yet. Just stay away. Its not just frustrution you'll get but a deep digust 
 about how games came to be... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dRn
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  After numerous attempts to revive/end my WoW carrier, i finally thought i found a game to replace 
 my MMO craving. Quite a few of my friends started to play at launch and i jumped in too. But after 
 being overwhelmed by the very nice character customizer, I quickly found the game play somewhat 
 restricted. Thou it looked stunning on my above standard PC, I couldn't but help it to feel that 
 the game somehow held me back. Maybe it was the memory from my previous WOW carrier, but the fighting 
 and combo system felt weird and awkward and didn't give me a feeling of being in control of the 
 character.
  
  I tried most of the different classes but the more i tried the more disappointed i got. Several 
 similarities between the classes, balance issues and lack of proper itemization finally killed 
 my curiosity.
  
  I must admit i haven't played since the game launched and i never really went all that far into 
 the all of the classes, but due to the shortcomings of the obviously unfinished game, i never ever 
 want to try this game again.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JFFHawke
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 12, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I like most gamers came into AoC hoping for the next Big Thing, what I found left a lot to be desired.
 
  
  To begin with after playing the game for several hours it is obvious from the numerous bugs, glitches, 
 broken content or for that matter missing content, that this game was released well before it was 
 ready. This has become a staple of MMO launches, and frankly I grow weary of the trend. 
  
  From a technical stand point AoC shines if you have the hardware to maximize the experience, yet 
 the game wasn't optimized even more minimum specked systems, which is odd. When it actually better 
 to set settings to maximum to get better frame rates on a Minimum Specked system there is a problem. 
 Also another major problem is the launching of the game without DirectX 10 support, this is by 
 far one of my biggest complaints, as the box art displays the words "Enhanced for DirectX 10 & 
 Multi-core processors" and neither are supported. DirectX 10 Has yet to be implemented, and most 
 users have to disable at least one core when using Quad-Core processors.
  
  There are many things that never made any sense to me during my time in Hyboria, why did the Developers 
 out so much emphasis on the Tortage part of the game yet, once you leave the starting area the 
 game feels vastly incomplete, broken and pointless. To me I felt that they put a lot of development 
 into the first 20 levels to hook players, and then planned to develop the rest of the game months 
 later. This is another element that upset me.
  
  All in all I was deeply disappointed with AoC, and feel Funcom definitely ripped me off. If you 
 are reading reviews to determine whether or not you should purchase AoC, be warned. But please 
 judge for yourself, because there might be something worth your time. So be the judge for yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asonofsparda
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Age of Conan is a great new MMO. It is one of the new MMO's challenging WoW and by the way it is 
 going right now it very well could defeat WoW with time. There are few downsides to the game yet 
 they are very noticeable. If Funcom keeps there act together and fixes the few problems it has 
 though the game will be one of the greatest MMO's ever made. The graphics are amazing for an MMO. 
 The Combat is new and unique giving anyone that has played an MMO in the past something new to 
 look forward to besides the story and lore.
  
  The only problems the game has are bugs and lack of end game content. Funcom has been releasing 
 patches weekly/monthly for the bugs and are getting somewhat close to fixing it enough to let it 
 pass as having the average amount of bugs every game has. The main cause of the lack of end game 
 content is due to how easy it is to level up in the game and the fact Funcom had to release the 
 game a bit early; however Funcom has promised a PVP, End Game content, and bug fix patch that is 
 due to release sometime around September so that should fix quite a bit of what fans are griping 
 about and add more good feedback to increase the player base.
  
  In the end it is a good MMO that just needs a lot of polishing to become amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracos9000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I believe the reviewer for AOC must have only played a little past 40 because within that time 
 frame it does shine and seems like it will be a great game. However, after you reach 50 you start 
 to notice that the game is missing alot of its potential and content. As AOC stands now it is fun 
 till you start making your way past level 50 and from there on the quests are far and few and grinding 
 seems like the only viable option to reach 80. The biggest issue once you hit level 80 and discover 
 there isnt much for you to do. The pvp system has lots of problems and balancing is constantly 
 broken with each patch implemented. Itemization is horrible in the game and raid items are either 
 useless or craft items are better. I am not bashing the game it was fun for the few short months 
 I played it but it needs more to keep players playing past level 80. I believe it may repair itself 
 as time goes on but I couldn't agree with the review gamespot gave this game as it will be misleading 
 to many people. The game is exceptionally fun during the early-mid high levels but the fun factor 
 will take a nose dive the farther you progress ultimately making you feel as if you wasted much 
 of your time for no end result. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bad__G
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  After catching the WoW bug for a few years I was in the need for something new, AoC gave me just 
 that.
  The amazing and realistic graphics are a nice change from cartoon characters.
  On initial launch there were some in game issues which have been resolved. Actually they are constantly 
 taking feedback from players and tweaking the game.
  Of course there has been negative feedback from some for most people seem to be judging it soley 
 on it's comparison to WoW if you had a whole bunch of addons installed on WoW to make it playable.
 
  It is a seperate game with a similar feel but it is not a copy of WoW so there are some gameplay 
 changes that one will be required to catch on to.
  I am really enjoying this new game and look forward to what else the game will offer ad I continue 
 to get all my characters to lvl 80.
  I am not a piss in a bottle type player that does nothing but play games... I actually have a life 
 and game when time allows and this is a great way to blow off some of the daily grind.
  Thanks Funcom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yomama15
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw AoC on G4's 2005 (or 2006) coverage of E3 (back when they were still using that 
 thermometer to see how people on there website thought about the games on display, I thought that 
 it was really gay The next year, I also thought it was really gay But during late 2007 I had an 
 epiphany and realized just how much I hate WOW and how cool AoC was.
  Safe to say that I was dissapointed with the reviews everyone gave it.
  
  It made me realize 
 that they may be taking bribes or will be fired or killed if they talked too good about the game. 
 It also made me realize that "Morgan Web" is either an evil mastermind behind the severity of all 
 bad reviews, a dumb sole-less slut, and made me think Adam was either or to.
  
  Either way, I've takin time to review it my self and found that some of what these reviewers ahve 
 been saying were true. There are severe hic-upps, severe hic-upps even on a good machine, and annoying 
 areas where every other player that is'nt on your team can attack and kill you.
  
  But, since the game offers fatalitys, blood, gore, violence, real time combat, boobs, vaginias, 
 and other awesome **** and I hate WOW... I'm willing to look over these scars and get into 10 base 
 with the game. Infact, I'm still playing, and have gotten to 23 base with the nudity i it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azn_windsoul
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  Its been a month since I've had AoC. This review is from the eyes of a lvl 58 barbarian.
  
  Lets start off with the graphics. (highest settings)
  The graphics in this game is both amazing 
 and horrible - how?
  Well for starters, you will need a super duper computer to play this game if you want to CONSTANTLY 
 run it on the highest settings. Parts of the world - such as dungeons and water falls (the big 
 things) are done phenomenally but the details of the small things are just a pain to look at. With 
 these high graphic games its really hard to get the small details in. The lack of quality in the 
 grass, dirt, and what you walk really makes the game look dry. Then comes the fatalities - sure 
 its really cool ripping someone's heart out then eating it (it sounds cool - that's for sure) but 
 I think funcom did a really lousy job on that part, as the action doesn't look real at all. It 
 looks all bugged up and is actually a piece of **** One more thing I forgot to add - even on the 
 HIGHEST settings I am sometimes able to notice my characters sprite separate from the back ground
 
  
  Now comes the "next gen" combat.
  To be honest, the combat isn't much different from another MMORPG. Ok, maybe you don't get to auto-attack 
 things, but just standing there pressing 1, 2 or 3 isn't all that fun (even if you time it, add 
 the little role playing things) .
  When i play World of Warcraft, and I pull off a just in time heal with my paladin or able to stun 
 the other healer just in time with my Rogue, it feels rewarding. But when I do this in AoC, even 
 with a fatality it feels normal. In PvP - yes its alot more fun than the PvE combat of the game, 
 when 2 higher levels are ganking you, and you're able to kill them - it feels awesome - but every 
 game is like that - it's nothing special. The pvp mini games take forever to Queue, and the interface 
 for the Queue, guild list, and LFG system is very bad.
  
  Now For the Enviromental part.
  Exploring the world of AoC is a piece of **** It is dumb, stupid and retarded.
  EVERYTHING in 
 this game is instanced. It doesn't sound that bad but in reality it is. It's not even like a tunnel, 
 its more of a teleporting portal that your map can't map out easily enough to understand.
  
  Here's a little info that will help you understand a little bit better of what I will say next: 
 If you want to travel out of your current zone, you have to instance out of it, and before you 
 instance, it will ask you whether you want it in normal settings or epic settings (basically hard 
 mode) .
  (Scenario from the game) Your character reaches to the end of the regional map - so the boarder. 
 there is a gate there, and it should obviously bring you to the next zone right? Well, kind of, 
 it brings you to another zone, but now look on your map, you've gone from one side of the world 
 on your map, to some where totally away from where you before.
  Navigating in Age of Conan is more like memorizing the way rather than using your map - to me at 
 least, (I am no super expert with maps but i can understand maps pretty easily, but in Age of Conan 
 - i have no idea how to use it) . It is incredibly hard to use and understand - even for a lvl 58.
 
  
  For instances and dungeons, since everything in AoC is instanced, its nearly impossible to figure 
 out which place is a dungeon with the elite mobs that give you better loot. Which brings up another 
 point - when you kill a boss and that boss drops a rare item, the only sense of pleasure you will 
 get, is if you really look close at the item and read out everything. The game doesn't give that 
 rewarding feeling at all. Same with some of the bosses, you have no pleasure in killing a boss.
 
  
  Leveling: this game is all about grinding with a friend or 2 and you will be lvl 80 in 2-3 days.
 
  Money/Economic System: there is absolutely no point in have a gold, silver, copper or tin. I am 
 lvl 58, and the only thing i spent my money one was my mount
  
  There is ALOT more to talk about, but honestly, why go through all of them? Here is the summary:
 
  I bought this game, I had all my hopes up that this game would be the best. When I played it in 
 my early levels, I felt that this game was ok with some cool features but as i got into the around 
 lvl 20 or so, I got bored of the game rather quickly (a little less than 1 week) . I didn't really 
 want to play the game anymore, but considering I paid 80 bucks for this game I might as well play 
 it more and hopefully it will get better when I'm a higher level. So for the next few weeks I forced 
 myself into playing the game and forced myself to give it a chance. But I'm lvl 58 now, and I officially 
 hate this game. It was a waste of my time and money.
  
  All in all, this game may seem cool to some at first, but after 2-3 weeks it gets super boring. 
 The combat system isn't as fun as everybody says, the PvE, world lore/exploring aspect of this 
 game is complete **** And this game just doesn't give you the rewarding pleasure like other games. 
 It just doesn't make you want to turn on the game.
  
  Thanks for your time and sorry for my bad grammar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoMatrixOC
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 11, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  If this game had HALF the playability as it did Hype, well, I would still be playing it. How many 
 ways do I hate you, AoC, let me count the ways:
  1) BORING QUESTS: Well, I have played many MMORPGs, but never have I had to go back and forth to 
 the same people so very many times!
  2) LOAD and LOAD and LOAD, again: You walk into the bar, and you load. You move to night time quests, 
 and you load. You leave the bar, and you load. You ride the boat, and you load. I have, litterally, 
 spent more time LOADING this game than actually PLAYING the darn thing!
  3) BUG RIDDEN: OK, I DO remeber the first six months of WoW... I still have nightmares of being 
 DCd mid-fight... However, never did WoW cause my video driver to fail and reload, NEVER! Never 
 did WoW promise DX 10 graphics (at release) and STILL not deliver. Oh, and don't get me started 
 on ALL the bug ridden Quests that STILL plague this self-bloated title. 
  4) PROMISE (s) me Cities, and give me NOTHING!: OK, what happened to the Great PvP part of this 
 game? We wanted (and payed for) Guild Cities, and what do we get? GANKED... and GANKED... and GANKED! 
 Jeepers, it really takes a LOT of skill for 5 25s to kill a lvl 14 Necro... How, again, does this 
 equal Guild cities and a better PvP than WoW... Answer: NOT! 
  5) Months of anticipation, and they want me to pay $50 AND a monthly fee?: Only one thing to say 
 about that; "A FOOL and his money are soon parted!" 
  I gave AoC a 6.5... but I was being KIND. Honestly, I would give it a solid FIVE, and it only gets 
 that for the music! LOL 
  If you haven't bought this monster, don't bother. If you own this game, CANCEL and send a message 
 to Funcom! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tialian
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 7, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  First let me say I come from a PvP guild that chose to roll on a PvE server during early access 
 simply because the PvP rule set seemed to be a complete after thought on the part of the devs.
 
  
  The GMs in this game are not only not knowledgeable about the game, but most of the time they have 
 no power to help you with your problems as they are VERY restricted. So basically you petition 
 a GM just so he can tell you hes sorry that he can't help you.
  
  There is still raiding content that is broken, and unfortunately if you are on a PvE server this 
 is your only source of end game content because people rarely queue up for pvp mini games. There 
 are 3 tier 1 raid bosses and each has a one week cool down, so if your guild is able to do a raid 
 3 days out of the week then you are most likely out of luck for the other 4 days. The only thing 
 to do now is grind, either gold or resources for your guild. To me grinding is the most boring 
 thing to do in a game.
  
  As a PvP guild on a PvE server we were hoping to still get plenty of PvP from the border kingdoms, 
 but the downside of the border kingdoms is the only time you will see PvP there is if there is 
 a siege going on - and in addition to this sad fact, if you aren't apart of the attacking guild 
 or the defending guild you are kicked out of the zone.
  
  The launch of Age of Conan was probably the smoothest I've seen from an MMO. The game was almost, 
 if not completely playable from the moment the servers went online. There is plenty of things to 
 do and plenty to see, until you hit level 55...
  
  Past level 55 or so you will run into several cases where there are no more quests to do and you 
 are forced to grind some levels out so you can get high enough to do the next available quests. 
 So basically you will likely grind from 55-60, 65-70, and 75-80.
  
  Its not all bad though, the combo system is awesome, the graphics are superb, the pvp is fun when 
 you can do it. The downside to this game lies in that it was released before end game content was 
 finished and before the PvP rule set was thoroughly thought out.
  
  Everything else is sure to be fixed in time... in the future... with a patch that will fix some things 
 and break other things. Don't worry though, the next patch will fix the things the last patch broke, 
 while breaking new things.
  
  If you wanted to play this game at the time of this writing I would say, go for it... but be prepared 
 to take a break after a month or two when you run out of content. This game needs time to develop 
 more content for both PvE and PvP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treade
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 5, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  This game had the MOST potential and the biggest fall. Masses are quitting as they made an amazing 
 game but never finished it. Once you reach Level 80, there is literally nothing to do. The "sieges" 
 are still broken to date and the PvP is meaningless. You don't lose anything on death.
  
  never-mind that since they started adding things, you now get "memory leaks" on your computer that 
 causes AoC to crash every 1\2 hour to 15 minutes.
  
  The classes are all unbalanced because rather than pick and a plan and stick with it, they listened 
 to everyone at the same time and made the classes neurotic.
  
  Overall, the biggest let down is the fact that they promised many PvPers the ultimate game and 
 it ALMOST lived up to it in that the PvP servers are Free For All, but see everyone wants to hang 
 with the "cool kids" and practically the whole base joined PvP servers and then whined when they 
 got ganked.
  
  So funcom stabbed us in the back and started making restrictions on PvP and thus ends their reign. 
 The masses will leave until a game comes along with the graphics of AoC or WoW and the ruleset 
 of Ultima Online. 
  
  Do not buy this dying game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: velvetkloud
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  The '9' that I am giving this is only based on the first 40 levels. I may well come back and change 
 this over the next 40.
  
  I decided to bite the bullet from the start and put myself on the Corinthia PvP RP server. Reason 
 being is I felt that a world like Conans should be full of constant, potential risk, I wanted to 
 always have the uncertainty that I could be attacked by anyone else at almost any point. I chose 
 RP as I thought it would be less likely that you would get people 'taking the piss' with it being 
 PvP and when you were attacked it was more likely that it would fit in as part of the game world.
 
  
  So far this has been pretty much true, and I am certainly glad I picked Corinthia, it is a good 
 server and i would recommend it to anyone, even if the idea of a RP server puts you off. There 
 are varying different degrees of roleplay that people stick to, and apart from a few disagreements 
 over 'non conanish' names, I haven't seen any real issues raised from this.
  
  Anyhoo, the game.
  So far I have really enjoyed myself, the combat is the area people familiar 
 with these types of games will notice first. It is a lot more interactive with you having to decide 
 which side to attack depending on how the enemy is blocking. I find this a lot more involving and 
 immersive than previous methods, though it may not appeal to all as it does complicate things that 
 little bit further and you cannot just rely on stacking a load of skills and watching it unfold.
 
  
  The graphics are great, probably too good as I reckon it has cut out a percentage of potential 
 players due the requirements. The music is also very nice and fits in with the world perfectly.
 
  
  The quests are all enjoyable and the dialogue in particular is very good, I have laughed out loud 
 on quite a few occasions due to some particularly amusing exchanges. You often get a few different 
 responses so you can tailor your manners depending on your character.
  
  On the down side there are obviously still a few bugs and issues present and the balancing needs 
 adjusting. However this is all expected this early on and the developers seem commited to continually 
 improving the game. I would also have to disagree with others critisism of the ticket system for 
 reporting bugs and problems. I have used it on a few occasions and had no problem, and if it is 
 responed to when your offline they will email you. Yes the ticket only lasts 4 hours but this, 
 so far, has been plenty of time and seems sensible.
  
  I think there needs to be different starting areas as it is a bit strange that everyone in the 
 world was on the same boat which sunk in the same area and expereinced the same first 5 levels 
 of story! But hey ho.
  
  I also at times have issues with finding my way around, particularly when travelling to different 
 areas, as the people you need to speak to to travel are not clearly marked until you are nearby.
 
  
  There are other bits and pieces that have both pleased me and that I can think need improving but 
 I wont bother going into too much detail. 
  So far Conan has been a very positive and enjoyable expereince and would recommend it to fans of 
 these mmorpgs and those new to the genre.
  
  Hopefully the developers will continue to improve the game. Similarly I hope that more people become 
 involved, there are quite a few players within the game but there is so much more potential for 
 this world. Where are the guilds of raiders roaming the lands, causing havoc? Where are the guilds 
 of bandits holding poeple up for money? Where are the fueds and fights and assaination attempts, 
 murders, betrayals and all the other dodgy dealings that should be occuring.
  Conan has potential for all of this and it is up to the players to realise the true scope that 
 this world has to offer.
  
  Vk
  (VelvetKloud - Assassin - Corinthia)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kweni
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  as far the level i am, the first 20 levels in signleplayer are awesome, butin the day it's a pain 
 in the ass, after level 20you can go off that stupid noob island.
  and after the island you can get in th real world, and it's awesome.
  Grafics:
  I think the 
 grafics are awesome!
  i mean, in aug they will release a patch with directx 10 so i can't tell you much atm, but for 
 the guys who doesn't have direct x10, the efffect now are awesome!
  so i give it a 8.5/10
  Sound:
  At the signleplayer ther were some nice voice acting!
  but after level 20 you don't 
 have voice anymore so that's less...
  so i give that a 7/10
  Story:
  The story is not bad, i can't tell much about it because i skipt the most of it.
  x/10
  Gameplay:
 
  The game play is awesome!
  the combat system is realy nice, the finishing blows and combo's are realy nice.
  and most people 
 say the game is buggy, but i think it's not buggy.
  Ther are some bugs, but wow had pretty much bugs to! in the begening, so they will all be fixed.
 
  That was my review, thanks for reading.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ychi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Now isn't that odd? I had several buddy keys but the Dev's refused to let all of us use them? Their 
 argument was that they wanted to focus on supporting their customers. Hmm I think its more like 
 they did not want people to play unless they have shelled out the $60. Otherwise what could it 
 have hurt? It means that more people could find out for themselves if AoC was right for them. Good 
 games get good customers...
  
  
  Overall I liked AoC and played for about 60+ days. I was willing to put up with the many issues 
 such as:
  
  The bugs - its a new MMO, this is normal and so I looked the other way, Very poor chat interface, 
 broken crafting system - try gathering something and you will find after after tier 1 resources 
 and several other items it becomes more than a serious chore.
  
  The thing that ruined it for me was the customer service and their view on us a customer. What 
 speaks volumes is their ticket system will auto expire your in game petition in 4 hours... Yes 
 that means that if they can't be bothered to get to you then poof! Your ticket is gone. That is 
 wrong you say? Too bad, put in another ticket and try your luck again?
  
  This very decision on the developers part and on Funcom's was callus to say the least and unprecedented. 
 The overall majority of every MMO's out there used a ticket system where if you get logged out, 
 dropped connection, etc. It did not matter, they sent you an email with your issue and a way to 
 reply to keep the support rolling.
  
  For AoC sure you can email contact them but they never respond, also they do not offer phone support 
 either. That was the game killer for me and I voted the best vote possible: with my wallet - cancellation 
 of subscription.
  
  The other final killer - gold farmers were alive and well. No big deal? Try having the same accounts 
 and player names spamming people over and over again for buying/selling gold. The gold sellers 
 were reported several times over but the devs/GM's did NOTHING. It went on for months. Even worse 
 you had to go though a full report process to report them, sorry no right click player name and 
 select spammer. Oh and as you know, if its 4 hours and the GM's have not responded... too bad, 
 try your luck again.
  
  
  So did AoC have anything positive? Well sort of...
  
  I think the most revolutionary thing they have done is proving clearly that you can have a healing 
 class and that they should not be stuck in the heal botting role. As a matter of fact you get lots 
 of bonuses by participating in combat vs hanging back and mashing the heal buttons all day. There 
 were several bonuses handed out depending on what talent build you selected as well. Example was 
 very nice mana regeneration bonuses for yourself and your entire party, bonuses to damage, stuns, 
 ability to park mobs, etc.
  
  So class innovation? Yes definitely.
  
  Also wanted to mention music and sound. This was really well done! My hats off to all the people 
 involved as they created a sound engine that adapted. If you were wandering in the open desert, 
 then you heard the "I am on a journey" themed music. When in combat the theme sifted nicely and 
 fit the mood.
  
  Important: this is one of the best ideas in some time - variation of the combat sounds. Ok why 
 is this a big deal? Try swinging a sword at monsters and after awhile the same thunking sounds 
 will get on your nerves. The guys handling the sound varied the effects and did a really awesome 
 job managing to keep if feeling fresh.
  
  
  Another item AoC did fairly well was capture the simulation of being there in some distant past. 
 The character models, textures, architecture, overall art was quite good and captured the feel 
 of each side nicely. In one group you felt like you were in ancient Egypt, another the pantheons 
 of Greece, and another the Celtic/barbarian hordes. 
  
  Active combat was a nice try but where the dev team missed the boat was when I watched all the 
 forum, and live chat going out about players macroing with their G15 keyboards and other similar 
 devices. That's just awesome. So combat is boring because you keep mashing the same keys over again, 
 then AoC changes it up to try to keep it interesting. Then people want to simplify it so they macro 
 and now its back to perfect combos with one key press. So in summary, the devs did try to keep 
 combat interesting but it was destroyed by the very people who whined that combat was boring. Brilliant 
 job - destroyed by players +5 AoC devs +0
  
  Guild management was a real pain, we did not have a working bank for players for almost two months. 
 Supposedly there was a dupe bug out there and the devs turned off the banks until they fixed the 
 issue. We also could not put anything up in the marketplace or mail items. Is this sounding familiar? 
 Anarchy Online had the same issue with dupe bugs, like putting a no trade item in a bag then selling/handing 
 that bag to someone else etc.
  
  Also group management did not run smoothly either, trying to add someone to a group the player 
 name was... case sensitive. Another good example: add a friend /cc addbuddy playername ok so please 
 explain why /friend playername or right click on the chat window to add them as a friend was so 
 hard to implement??
  
  I could keep going but I think most get the picture by now, AoC was not finished. 
  
  Even 
 worse the hardcore was already at 80th level inside of 8 days. Normally no one would really care 
 because technically that was such a small percentage where the rest of us would take several months 
 and enjoy our time leveling.
  
  So where was the bad part? Those same high level players complained that they ran out of content 
 around 65th? Huh? Many stated that they were forced to grind the rest of the way on whatever they 
 could find. Oh great so when did the devs ever plan to give us this content? Well after about those 
 two months some content did show up but it was really thin. Really they were too busy stamping 
 out bugs I guess.
  
  
  So is there any reason to play AoC? My advice is to wait and see, check the forums both official 
 and most importantly other open public (where the AoC mods can't censor out something they don't 
 want you to know) locations to get the truth and see if its worth your hard earned $$$. That way 
 you are familiar with the downsides and know abut the things that interest you best.
  
  Happy gaming out there! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: julienmarr
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I played WoW from Feb 05 until April 08 and played Warhammer Online Beta a lot the past year... 
 so I know a bit about mmorpgs. The game is fairly uninteresting, I just didn't have a desire to 
 keep going, and bugs and clips and errors and continual patches and server kicks really destroyed 
 my motivation to continue on playing past the 'free' 30 days. They have an interesting way of doing 
 solo quests with the 'solo at night, group by day' which was ok... but it feels like an empty single 
 player game.
  
  Also spent many hours being ganked which didn't help... I used to play on a wow pvp server and 
 I never got camped for no reason like I did in AoC so often for so long. Levelling seemed unintuitive 
 and felt unrewarding, gear did not feel special at all, quest rewards were rubbish there was just 
 so little ingame motivation for me to keep playing.
  
  I only got to about level 15.
  
  At least the ch1cks are hot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 31, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Speaking as an tester and seeing this great game go from great to terrible with each new patch 
 is very heartbreaking, Funcoms patch rollout plans are so incredibly moronic it makes me angry, 
 and to make matters worse they don't listen to any of the playerbase especially when very important 
 issues arise. Alot of players need to understand that Age of Conan is heavily unfinished and Funcom 
 decided to release at least a year, maybe two years before it should have really hit market and 
 because of that, the players are paying to play a beta, consider the 'old beta' the alpha testing 
 :rolleyes:
  
  Any potential new players, seriously do not get AoC until most of the issues have been fixed, this 
 could take at least, "at least' 6 months easy, proberly alot longer, that is if the game doesn't 
 completely die before that happens as the playerbase is rapidly shrinking with people quiting enmasse, 
 especially so once Warhammer Online and the new WoW expansion is released, AoC will just cease 
 to exist at that point unless they pull of a miracle.
  
  BUGS/EXPLOITS
  
  The biggest problem with the game are the insane amount of bugs, balance issues and exploits which 
 unfortuntely the latter has been left to fester for so long that I don't think the game will ever 
 recover unless a complete server wipe is done, exploits have been in since day 1 and once alot 
 of people, especially gold farmers found them its been a mess. And with each patch, has come heavy 
 nerf hammers in attempts to fix it, unfortuntely they have become far too nerf happy and whacking 
 everything without stopping to think, I mean right now, the Dark Templar class is a complete joke 
 since its been nerfed so many times without provocation.
  
  The list of exploits is huge, needless to say without a wipe any future fixes would not achieve 
 much, especially for players who amassed thousands of gold due to the Epic FoTD bugs. The so-called 
 PvP patch which has now finally arrived on on testlive (Promised at launch BTW) is so buggy and 
 also full of massive exploits, its going to take along time before thats even in a playable state, 
 and forget all the other stuff that was promised, FC has been pretty thorough in trying to sweep 
 all that under the carpet...
  
  Itemization/Crafting
  
  None existant, its improved slightly after launch as everyone was complaining since everyone, and 
 I mean "EVERYONE" looked identical to each other, you bearly could tell a Conqueror from a Bear 
 Shaman, so they tossed the players a small bone in the form of a small itemization patch, and since 
 that time ~ nothing, zip, nadda just promises from FC that its coming, maybe in a years time?? 
 To make matters far worse, in the most recent patch they have become nerf happy again deciding 
 to nerf practically the whole game, mostly because certain gem sets was overpowered but since they 
 'couldn't fix it in a reasonable time frame, they had to nerf all the armor sets clear across the 
 board, including raid gear which wasn't even that great to begin with, making endgame even more 
 useless now.
  
  Crafting, is just a joke ~ it was released at launch without any testing at all, it wasn't even 
 in the beta so that alone should tell you how bad it is. At least after 6 weeks, Yeti Bile was 
 finally added so the alchemy quest line could be finished, at least they did that :sarcasm:
  
  In closing, Age of Conan was once a great game and had a great future but Funcoms lack of insight 
 and action cost them the future of this game, right now its doomed to failure, no ~ doomed to epic 
 failure and will be a stern lesson to any MMo company who decides to release there product early.
 
  
  /10char
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1rish
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  A month has come and gone, and i got dinged with my first $15 payment for Age of Conan. It's official, 
 I'm commited to an MMO that isn't SWG.
  
  Admittedly, I'm a self-professed sucker and instant fan boy to any game that hypes itself to compete 
 in an already dominated genre (Go Underdog!) . SO I've been cheering for AoC long before it became 
 the first-string stud. 
  
  But Here's the breakdwon:
  
  The GREAT:
  All 120 of us who played Planetside can remember massive battles against hordes of enemies in exotic 
 continents with direct consequeces to our player, or guild, or faction. AoC's Battle Keeps seem 
 to be a strong echo of the glory that is Massive PvP. Few things in this world are more satisfying 
 than pummeling a small snow-hare into bloody oblivion with a spiked mace whilst horseback. But 
 even fewer stand to compare to hurling swords into your enemies gut from afar, and slowly and gorily 
 retrieving your blade from their ribs as they scream in agony. Beautiful.
  
  Which brings me to my next point. The graphics are beautiful. Literally. And not in the 12x anti-aliasing 
 100 meter view distance video game way. They are beautiful. Take the time from your maiming and 
 beheading (if you can) to climb a mountain, blast the setttings to full, and take in the view. 
 Its your town's best makeout point.... x100... with 24x antialiasing... and pixel shading and bloom 
 effects.... NO matter which mountain ( or hill or that matter) you choose to climb, the view is 
 equally impressive. Urban sprawls are detailed, run down and opressive, the snow capped mountains 
 are forboding, snowy, and even mountainlike, as opposed to being green pixel mounds with white 
 pixel crud on top that seems to pass as background in most cartooney MMO's. It all seems solid, 
 and provides an awesome distration to the problems in the game.
  
  The animations (when they work 92% of the time) are solid and satisfying. the sound is perfectly 
 synced to whats going on around you and each blow you land is beautifully reverberated though your 
 speakers with an approving gush of blood, cracking of bones, or hoarse scream. (audibly, of course 
 not literally, that'd be gross...)
  And OH the soundtrack! If you have ever wished to have your own epic theme song accompany you wherever 
 you went, this is the closest you will get; aside from hiring the London Orchestra to play Carmina 
 Burana's 'O fortuna' for you every time you walk into work. 
  
  FATALITIES! You can decapitate and dis-member everything you fight in an animation sequence that 
 leaves blood-splatter on your monitor. It NEVER gets old.
  
  Throw it all together in a pot with nudity, adultery, drinking, And you come out NOT feelign like 
 a Bad-ass womanizer in dangerous lands felling ancient beasts... then check your pulse... you might 
 be a republican.
  
  The BAD:
  
  Instancing sucks. Maybe im old-school EQ, but the instancing in this game is abundant and rediculous 
 in nature. Let me see if I can paint the picture: If a basic adventure zone is 'overpoulated', 
 it clones itself to allow a less competitive and confontational play-time for all. No bum-rushing 
 to the resource nodes before someone else gets there, and no out-numbering a rival group to steal 
 their killing grounds. Furthermore, 4 guilds are allowed to own a city in a given (and designated) 
 area. After those 4 guilds have occupied their zones, a new instance is spawned and other guilds 
 are allowed to build their cities. So, in theory, theres hundreds of parallel universes with the 
 exact same terrain laid out with guild cities and strongholds located in the exact same locations. 
 To Funcoms credit, It IS well executed to the point of flawlessness, and it does, indeed, support 
 its intention of allowing every player to actually PLAY instead of trifling with political layouts 
 and camp-rights. But, it really robs from the involvement and escapism that I find in the MMO's 
 fantasy setting.
  
  So here's the issue: If I want to adventure with my friends and collaborativley collect rat pelts 
 for copper, I want to do it without having to ask:
  
  "what instance of this zone are you in?" 
  "1?" 
  "ok, let me re-zone." 
  
  I honestly 
 believe it syphons from us, even if remotley, some of the interactivity we could be experiencing. 
 Gone are days of stumbling onto fellow adventureres with the same quest, competing for sought-after 
 resource nodes, or challenging rival guilds in the same zone for killing rights. If I'm in zone 
 1 and theyre in zone 2 we both missed out. It leaves the game feeling lonely and impersonal directly 
 trading efficiency for character. 
  
  The world seems small. I can honestly say I've seen the world at lvl 40. Not exciting. But definitley 
 room for growth on the map. Currently, there are 3 NPC cities, 3 player city zones, about 6 'adventure 
 zones', and maybe 15 dungeons. And now, with a the most current patches, the seems to have shriveled 
 a little more. Now It's possible to get to ANYWHERE in the game world with a few easy clicks on 
 an NPC. Why buy a horse if I can teleport everywhere? 
  
  Mounted combat is of little use, and shaky at best. But hey! I can fight from my horse! Even if 
 it is in a swift, drive-by, flailing nature. It's still innovative and unique if not prefectly 
 executed. At its very least (and best at this point) it provides an adversion to the trek you'll 
 make to some far-of adventure zones (oh wait, nothing is far off in this game) . Snow-hares and 
 badgers beware! 
  
  The Everything:
  Overall, AoC is as solid as an early-state MMO can be. The Bad points are apparent and abundant, 
 but funCOM is communicative and working diligently and quickly while patching every week. The good 
 outweighs the bad 2:1. And if you factor in the future developments coming soon, the ratio spans 
 further, if not exponentially. AoC is like that small local Steak Place with a great menu and service, 
 but a smaller clientelle base, competing against McDonalds... that's, well... McDonalds.
  Aoc has a strong future in it with happy customers. Even if it hasn't served 1 billion burgers 
 to date.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gonrain
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 31, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  This game is a waste of time. I unfortunately found that out the hard way, leveling a character 
 to 80. Having played through broken feats, broken quests and poor in-game customer service, I still 
 gave this game a chance at 80. Un-interesting PVE. Non existing PVP system, what is the point of 
 playing this game? 
  
  I bought this game for FFA PVP and the "huge" sieges. Sieges didnt even work until a couple weeks 
 ago and they are still terrible. With low server population with the exception to a couple servers, 
 FFA PVP sucks. If you're lucky you'll find someone your level looking for some PVP. On most occations 
 it just becomes a gank fest and whoever gets the jump (everyone can stealth btw, wtf?) or lands 
 the first combo (most melee classes can one-combo classes not wearing heavy armor) will usually 
 win. The combo system is flawed, as anyone can preload a combo run up and one-shot fatality you 
 (you loose control of your character in the fatality animation) . Using your shields isn't even 
 the best defense, circle strafing and jumping combined with lag is where its at /sarcasm. PVP also 
 has no rewards and minigames are a joke. 
  
  Once you hit level 50, the game becomes a grind fest, only obtaining a couple new quests every 
 few levels. You then left to grind villas over and over and over and over until you reach 80, then, 
 well, there is very little to do. The lack of content and super easy raid bosses ruin the PVE aspect 
 of the game.
  
  Don't waste your time or money like I did, wait for something else to come along, or continue playing 
 WoW, LoTR , DAoC, EQ, or whatever else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknyarth
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  I bought this game after playing in the stress test weekend. It was fun and interesting. I liked 
 the combat and the graphics were amazing. Aside from ridiculously long load times, it was a really 
 cool experience. I had to try more.
  
  When the game was released I was way into it for the first twenty levels. It was one of the better 
 MMO experiences at that point with the nice mix of single player content and stuff to do with friends 
 out in the world. I spent the entire weekend slamming my way through to 20th level.
  
  That's when the game stumbled for me.
  
  I got to my starting city and was jarred by the sudden 
 lack of voices. I get it, there are a lot of NPCs and to voice them all would be crazy. Still, 
 going from all voices to none was a bit dramatic for me. Yeah, I read that they added a whole bunch 
 of voices to the game after the fact but I was already kind of done at that point.
  
  The world felt unfinished. The city was huge but it didn't feel alive. It reminded me of EverQuest 
 2 in the fact that there were two starting places: wasteland and grassland. There wasn't enough 
 variety early on. When compared to some of the games that are ridiculously popular (like World 
 of Warcraft) it's hard to be that enthralled by a game that is inconsistent with the content.
 
  
  Leveling up is a good example of this. You can go a couple of levels receiving nothing but some 
 talent points then all of a sudden you receive multiple skills. It makes me wonder who tested the 
 game and for how long. I understand that all games go through balancing after the game comes out 
 but this system at its foundation if flawed. After 10th level in World of Warcraft, a player has 
 something to look forward to every single level. Talents impact the game dramatically in that. 
 Age of Conan isn't really like that.
  
  I make comparison to World of Warcraft for the fact that this game really needed to make a dramatic 
 impact in the play base of the juggernaught. I know many players that rushed to Age of Conan only 
 to return within 3 weeks. The problem with all MMOs is a simple one. A game designer has to answer 
 an important question: Why should I leave my established MMO to start over on the less stable new 
 game?
  
  Age of Conan could answer that with innovative combat and gorgeous character design. I firmly believe 
 that the graphics are the best of any MMO out there. When they establish the missions and balance 
 the character leveling experience, Age of Conan will easily be the game it deserves to be; one 
 that could give World of Warcraft a run for its money. 
  
  Sadly, by the time that happens it may be too late. With Warhammer Online just about to come out 
 and the World of Warcraft expansion on the way, Age of Conan might have had its day in the light. 
 Without the firm establishment necessary to maintain some momentum, this could go the way of Auto 
 Assault or Earth and Beyond.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RX220
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  Too many bugs at this stage.
  Definitely getting more and more angry as time passes.
  Grey Map bug, if your any of your maps topology goes all grey, you must
  restart the game, or 
 it's going to crash.
  If you let it crash, you will get a 40+ meg download when you next log in.
  I sometimes have 
 to delete all my shader files (2) in the root of the install directory to even get into the game.
 
  The trading post is terrible versus other games atm, just barely tolerable.
  Not enough storage space yet, IMHO.
  You have to use your bank space to store things and for 
 items for sale.
  Bugs with mail system, gems, quests, memory leaks, weird downloads restarts with no real explanation, 
 etc etc.
  I don't think I'm too picky really, but I have been playing since early release and too many major 
 bugs have not been addressed since that Mid-May launch.
  So I have to give this game a 6.5, if they fix the bugs, it's worthy of 9+.
  I currently have 
 a near cap character, so I have played the game a lot.
  I'd recommend a 3850 or 9600GT video card as minimum to run the game nicely, and 2 Gigs of RAM 
 at least.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jzalesski
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 29, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Broken Components...
  While there are always many "teething issues" with the game that will most likely be fixed if given 
 enough time, AoC is also hampered by three fundamental problems that are unfixable.
  
  1) "Disjointed Game Wold
  The game world is designed as a set of zones that are not physically 
 connected to each other, and you constantly run into barriers - usually visible, but sometimes 
 invisible - and both types prevent you from exploring the local area any further. Major bits of 
 the scenery are just set pieces - pretty, but just background graphics. Major parts of Old Tarantia 
 look majestic, but are in reality inaccessible, and same thing repeats in the other two starter 
 hub areas - Conarch Village is probably the best of the bunch, but it is surrounded by an impassable 
 wooden stockade, and the only way to venture outside is to use one of the designated zone points. 
 Khemi being a small island is surrounded by water you are not meant to cross - and if you do, you 
 find out that everything beyond the island is just fake."
  
  2) "Misused Instancing
  
  And here you can build your very own city - just like every guild can, in their very own copy of 
 the area. Instancing done wrong. Funcom also took the easy route in balancing the spawns and quest 
 content in relation to the amount of players roaming each area. Instead of a single dynamically 
 adjusting game world where you can meet your friends if you just walk to the same spot on the map, 
 every non-city zone in the game is instanced. Depending on the player load, there can be easily 
 8-9 identical copies of a zone up at any given time, and each of them has so few players that you 
 might mistake Age of Conan as a single player game. When trying to group, fiddling with instances 
 destroys the last remaining illusion of an immersive game world. Yet at the same time Age of Conan 
 dumps the universally accepted fix to avoid boss camping and most dungeons are public instances 
 that get copied just like the outdoor zones - so it's highly likely that the end boss of your dungeon 
 is being camped by a Chinese gold farmer. Same instancing continues in zones set aside for building 
 player cities and keeps. You can pool resources and build up a great city, but most likely only 
 your guild members will actually visit it. It appears that the whole city and keep building business 
 is nothing but popping up buildings in specially constructed areas designed for those "massive" 
 instanced and pre-arranged PvP battles. I'm sure Funcom had great plans going in, but the actual 
 implementation can only be described as weak."
  
  3) "Kindergarten Economic System
  Finally, Age of Conan has a fundamentally broken economic system. While you gather up money in 
 the traditional ways - completing quests, looting coins and selling all that looted junk to NPCs, 
 there actually is almost no way to get rid of all that money. Items do not decay, and you do not 
 have to repair anything, you do not pay for skill training, travel is free and in general there 
 are no constant "money sinks" to keep the inflation in check. Sure, that best mount costs 150g, 
 but once you have it, then what? Only simple way to spend money that I can think of is by buying 
 consumables such as health and mana potions. In a way the "economic system" of Age of Conan reminds 
 me of the toy economy of Anarchy Online - that other Funcom game well known for runaway inflation 
 and utterly silly prices for anything remotely rare or valuable in player-to-player trading. You 
 may hate all those small money drains present in most MMOs, but if you play Age of Conan, sooner 
 or later you'll learn what's on the other side as everyone is rich and there is nothing to buy 
 with all that money. While there are plenty of other bugs and minor problems that will get fixed 
 over time, all these fundamental issues drag down the gameplay score as they run so deep that they 
 would require major re-working of the game and it's highly unlikely to ever happen. "
  
  Check outhttp://www. yougamers .com/reviews/19142_ age_of_conan_ hyborian_ adventures-page6/ 
for more rewies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhajduk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  First let's start off with a little bit about my system, since we all know that this game is renowned 
 for its instability and general laginess on lower-end PC's. 
  
  My System:
  
  Intel Q6600 (Factory default - no overclocking)
  Nvidia 9800 GTX OCX (Factory overclocked)
 
  4Gigs 800MHZ DDR2 Kingston RAM (Factory default - Not even sure how one would go about overclocking 
 RAM; a sure sign I shouldn't try)
  Creative Xtreme Audio Soundcard
  Windows Vista Home Premium 64-Bit
  Sky 24MBpS Internet Connection 
  
  As you can see this 
 system is a pretty heavy hitter, running Crysis more or less smoothly at highest settings. So I 
 was glad to see that Age of Conan runs exceedingly well, averaging around 35/40FPS on all sliders 
 maxed (a custom setting higher than the Highest graphics preset) . This may sound very unsurprising 
 to first-time MMO-ers or those fresh off World of Warcraft (afterall, the machine cuts through 
 Crysis like a warm-knife through butter) , but MMOs are generally a pretty laggy affair (City of 
 Villains has massive lag spikes on the above machine, and Everquest 2 is barely playable on high 
 settings thanks to a hideous lighting engine) .
  
  The Review:
  
  Graphics - This game looks superb. The graphics easily rival the majority of games out today and 
 run stunningly well too (considering the sluggish way many MMO's handle) ! I've yet to have the 
 FPS drop below 25, which is very impressive. 
  
  Sound - The sound is very good, authentic in nearly all zones. The musical score is great and, 
 better yet, you can choose how often it plays (in a manner similar to Titan Quest) ! So if you like 
 the added ambience, set it to 'loop' or 'frequent' setting, if you just find it an annoyance then 
 set it to 'off' or 'less frequent'.
  
  Combat System and Classes - Combat works very nicely on all classes. The classes are a little unbalanced 
 right now (as can only be expected of such a new MMO) but all are relentlessly fun to play and, 
 if played right, can all be very competitive in PvP. I wont bore you with the details of class 
 balancing issues or the system itself (as info on both those things can be found in abundance elsewhere) 
 suffice it to say, I've rolled a Guardian, Tempest of Set, Necromancer and Conqueror and all have 
 been a great joy to play both solo and in teams.
  
  The Community and PvP - As all veteran MMO-ers know, a community makes or breaks an MMO. The community 
 for this game is a very mixed bag right now (playing on a Roleplay Player versus Player server) 
 with some people randomly PKing (Player-Killing) others and some players ganking (fighting where 
 there's no challenge - unfair numbers or levels) mercilessly. However such incidents are relatively 
 few, especially compared to how the forum goers portray it. RP (Roleplaying - essentially acting 
 your character) is flourishing nicely, I myself am a member of a large RP Guild known as the Black 
 Ring. If you're looking for good fun RP with some nice RP PvP then look no further! AoC has it 
 in abundance.
  
  Quests - This is a funny business, there's a massive amount of quests for the lower levels (those 
 between 1-50) and then they sort of peter out. However, Funcom has been absolutely great so far 
 at fixing and patching the game - delivering large weekly patches that radically alter the world 
 for the better. I don't doubt that more quests will be added. I've been on over 10 MMO's for between 
 3 - 30 months each and every single one has had massive issues at the start that have dwarfed AoC's 
 problems (Vanguard anybody?) .
  
  Bugs - I've seen three so far and all have been graphical and in no way game breaking, or even 
 game altering. Every time I've found a bug I've used the very good petition system and the bug 
 has been resolved within a week. Game Masters (the people who attend to your issues in game) are 
 exceedingly fast and polite. Despite the huge amount of players online I've never had to wait longer 
 than 30 seconds for a GM to get in touch with me over an issue I've raised (and there truly are 
 a massive number of players - despite what some moronic lie spreaders may claim - numbers on my 
 server tend to dwarf Lord of The Rings Online's number by many hundreds and ever server is at a 
 very similar load) .
  
  The Straight Dope:
  
  The game is great fun and has a huge amount of potential. There's a lot of angry fanboi's on either 
 side of the 'this game sucks' argument and the forums are abuzz with slanderous comments. So take 
 this review as an unbiased truth. I'm loving the game, I think it's truly immersive and just plain 
 fun!
  
  If you're considering getting a new game then try it! What's the worst that could happen? You get 
 a month free, so just cancel if you don't feel as enthusiastic about the game as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecilam
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 25, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  The main reasons I quit were:
  
  1) People hit level 80 in 3 days. 
  I'm sorry, even if they stayed awake for 24 hours a day they should NOT have been able to do this. 
 It's beyond disgusting. Did this game get beta-tested? Oh wait, yeah I was in the beta, at the 
 very end. Maybe this game is all about PvP, so who cares how fast they rise. But then, why even 
 have levels if this is possible? Just have everyone start out at level 80.
  
  2) PvP was thoroughly broken at launch.
  I played on a server that was "culture-PvP", which really 
 means, "racial-PvP", but they can't call it racial, heh. Even with 1/3 of the players not able 
 to attack me, spawn-camping was HORRIBLE. Wait, what year is it? I'm level 15 being ganked over 
 and over and over again by a level 25 who is just sitting at the rez spot? With no way for me to 
 escape the vicisous cycle? (oh wait, yeah I can close down AoC and restart and make a new character)
 
  
  3) Demonologist pets were broken at launch.
  I was so hyped about the demonologist pets. I mean, a succubus following me around and helping 
 me kill stuff? AWESOME. In actuality? My pet did about 2pts of dmg. Yes TWO. My nukes did 125+. 
 The next pet gave a hit point buff that was so small I had to look four times to see if the text 
 was right. They don't tank, their nukes are like mosquitos, and their buffs are like worn out baseball 
 caps. Oh they SAY They've fixed the pets now, but I haven't even bothered to check. HUGE disappointment
 
  
  4) There is NOTHING fun about combat for casters.
  Oh yeah you get to blow up stuff good. Oh sure, the fatality of someone screaming and burning to 
 ash is fun. But there are no combos for casters, it is all click click click click the same button 
 over and over again. I don't know about you, but I can't remember the last time I played a game 
 where you only had ONE spell to cast. Oh sure there are others you can cast, buffs and so on. But 
 you really will end up only ever casting your best nuke in combat. Over and over and over again. 
 Combat for melee types was WAY more fun, but then combos are broken for them...
  
  5) All the mature content was removed.
  I don't know who the BLEEP lets their little kids play 
 a game like Age of Conan, but they should be sent to Parents 101 camp. Why on earth are we removing 
 MATURE content for a MATURE rated game? Why are parents complaining about MATURE content in a MATURE 
 rated game? Almost all of the mature stuff has been pulled out of the game, thanks to parents complaining 
 about what their little kids are seeing. Real nice. So, thanks to great parents like those, you 
 might see a nipple or two, but forget having sex with a prostitute (which you can do in many OTHER 
 games, I might add) , bribing guards, or just taking off all your armor and streaking through Tortage. 
 It's almost all gone, except for the gore. Which seems weird to me. Why is it so much worse to 
 see naked people than decapitated people? You see mostly-naked people on the covers of magazines 
 in every store... but I digress.
  
  6) Equipment?
  There's... wait, there's cool equipment in this game? Where? Did someone find some? 
  
  The 
 best part of the game was the single-player content in Tortage. I had more fun up to level 20 doing 
 my own thing. After that, it was all downhill.
  I quit at level 30, and I'm so ticked off and how cheated I was that I don't think I'll ever go 
 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oflow
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  I played AoC from launch and cancelled my account last week. i do have a lvl 80 character and multiple 
 characters that are lvl 25.
  
  The game is fun at first, but suffers from the MMO syndrome that all MMOs suffer from nowadays: 
 it was rushed to release with too many bugs, the developers not delivering on half of what they 
 promised, then bending their original intentions via patches to try and be more like WoW to sell 
 units. 
  
  At this point, players are jumping off AoC like a sinking ship because of all the inherent flaws 
 and failed promised made by the Funcom developers, who are releasing patch after patch of fail. 
 Its like they dont even test the patches before they go live. They have finally implemented a test 
 server, but the game has been live for two months and they cant seriously expect paying customers 
 to act like beta testers. Only the hardcore fanboys will hang in. 
  
  AoC will be a good game if they actual add a large number of much-needed fixes, but in the games' 
 current state it will take 6+ months (probably a year to be honest) for these to be implemented, 
 and by that time WAR, Spore and the WoW xpac will all release and basically send the final torpedos 
 into this sinking ship.
  
  These are the major problems with AoC:
  
  1. Not enough content. One poster below me mentioned there are plenty of quests, but he only got 
 to level 21 which just gets you out of the newbie zone with all the voice acting, which is as he 
 said great. The problem with the game comes at level 50 or so, when you hit the wall. Beyond level 
 50, most of the zones are unfinished and there arent enough quests to level, so you are forced 
 to basically grind mobs for the next 20+ levels to gain xp like in a Korean MMO. Which is incredibly 
 boring. To be fair, Funcom is adding a new zone and new instance to help this level range, but 
 its too lil too late for all the people that suffered thru the 50-70 grind, and also doesnt change 
 the fact that there is barely any content for these people at the level cap, so they wind up being 
 bored spending all their time ganking lowbies. I am a fan of pvp, but designing your game so that 
 people have no incentive to do anything else but camp lowbies for fun is poor design.
  
  There is barely any level 80 content. I can understand that they dont have a huge number of endgame 
 raids at launch, but the few raids that they have are bugged and broken, forcing level capped players 
 basically into a state of nothing to do. 
  
  2. Too many bugs. I'm middle aged and have been playing MMOs since the MUD days and have pretty 
 much played them all over the years. I understand MMOs all have bugs especially at launch, but 
 AoC has some *HUGE* bugs that should have never have made it out of testing:
  
  a) The biggest bug is that stats dont currently work. Many players have done testing and have proven 
 that the stats in the game actually dont do anything so your gear means nothing. The developers 
 did a lot of softshoeing but finally admitted on the Euro forums that the stats are currently broken.
 
  
  b) There is an error in the code that makes female characters attack animations slower than male 
 characters. This one is is almost game breaking as it wasnt discovered until a few weeks after 
 launch and again the developers were in denial until again it was actual proven by number-crunching 
 players. To make matters worse, in the latest patch, the developers basically hotfixed all melee 
 combo attack animations so they move slower but do more end damage to try and compensate for the 
 difference in male-female dps. What this actually does though is slow down melee combo attacks 
 to the point where a combo takes 10 seconds to perform, which is incredibly horrible in a game 
 where 1-2 shotting people in pvp is the norm.
  
  c) The melee combo system is flawed. While fun and novel at first, as you get higher level the 
 melee combo system creates a huge imbalance in pvp between casters and melee. Basically to use 
 any special ability, melee characters have to activate an ability then perform a series of directional 
 moves to activate the combo. Now the discrepancy comes from casters not having to perform combos 
 to use their abilities. So casters can click 1 button and nuke you, while you have to wait 10 seconds 
 (due to the recent attack speed change) to get off a combo attack. What makes this bad is that 
 a caster can currently cast 2-3 spells in the time it takes you to get off 1 melee ability, and 
 half the time your melee ability wont work because the caster is circle strafing around you and 
 you have to keep them in front of you and in range (while pressing 4 other buttons for your combo) 
 to get your move off. It makes healers incredibly overpowered since all the heals are 1 click HoTs. 
 A healer can usually get off multiple heals before a melee character can even hit them. This flawed 
 system basically makes the pvp a game of 1-2 shotting (due to people slotting all +damage gems) 
 with whomever gets the drop winning.
  
  d) The seige warfare (its big selling point) is currently broken/bugged. Seiges currently are not 
 working and for the massive amount of cash players have to pump into building battlekeeps, in its 
 current bugged state you can lose your keep even if you win battles due to bugs in the code. Not 
 to mention people randomly get ported out of the battles, and if there are more than 40 people 
 participating the game usually crashes. The actual towers and smaller areas that were supposed 
 to be incentive to actual perform seige warfare dont work, so basically the seige system doesnt 
 work. There is no reason to even do seiges as theres no rewards and the costs dont justify even 
 building a keep.
  
  e) The endgame raids are bugged. The current raids are bugged where sometimes players get ported 
 out of the instance. This causes your raid group to be locked out of the raids, sometimes up to 
 2-3 weeks since the developers dont have a set timer on the raid timer resets and wont actually 
 tell the players what it is. On top of this, riading is almost useless anyway since crafted gear 
 is better than raid gear.
  
  f) The crafting system is bugged. There are a number of bugs that make crafting almost useless 
 since the turn-in quests used to advance your skill often get bugged and will take your expensive 
 materials and still not allow you to advance in your tradeskill. The game also doesnt allow you 
 to change your tradeskills once you pick them.
  
  3. Patches breaking more than they fix. While the developers have been quick to respond to issues 
 with patches, most patches currently break more than they fix. A few patches ago, the necromancer 
 class was almost totally gutting by a major patch. The developers are catering to complainers on 
 the forums and making reactive nerfs instead of fixing actual problems. When I say problems, I'm 
 talking major issues like the last patch doubling melee attack speed and at the same time making 
 keybinding stop working. The developers have made a number of promised for fixes, with a major 
 WoW-like pvp patch that was supposed to go live in June but has been pushed back to August. 
  
  4. Memory leaks. The game has a number of memory leaks that cause major problems, like crashes, 
 gray maps and being booted. There is also a bug that randomly makes your latency spike up to 10k 
 every so often. There is also an issue where the game makes ATi cards only work at 30% efficiency, 
 and the coding of the game is made so the game actually runs better on high settings than low for 
 whatever reason. I'm not a coder, but these seem like major issues that shouldnt have made it out 
 of beta.
  
  5. The developers caving to the whiners. Much of the mature content was nerfed a few weeks after 
 launch due to player complaints (basically parents complaining about nipples and swearing) so much 
 of the promised content has been toned down or has been omitted like the barroom brawls that were 
 promised. To be fair, much of this is probably out of their hands as stockholders want more sales, 
 and PG sells a lot more than M.
  
  6. The pvp doesnt work. This was supposed to be a pvp based game, but in all honesty I didnt really 
 pvp until I reached level cap. 95% of all my fights during leveling were getting killed by people 
 30+ levels higher than me. The game world is designed poorly so high level characters are farming 
 in the same zones as people 30 levels lower than them, and level capped players have nothing else 
 to do but gank. I dont mind being ganked but never actually fighting anyone my own level for the 
 most part was pretty lame and boring. The game was advertised with mass pvp and being able to level 
 off of pvping, none of which is currently in the game. There are pvp mini games (sort of like WoW 
 arenas/BGs) but no one ever plays them.
  
  All in all, AoC could have been a good game, and might actually still become one, but its going 
 to take at least 6-12 months to implement fixes for all thats wrong with the game in its current 
 state. The developers are chosing the normal 'fail' route though and trying to add more content 
 instead of fixing the broken content they have. They even have announced an xpac at E3. Maybe the 
 xpac will be the other part of the game they didnt include at launch?
  
  I know their hardcore fan base will probably stick it out, but most people are quitting the game 
 due to all the problems I mentioned above. Lots of people (including myself) dont really want to 
 quit because we see the potential, but in its current state the game just isnt really playable/fun 
 as it should be. Many people often state they will try to come back in 6 months to see if its improved. 
 
  
  The problem with this idealist view is that like I said earlier, there are some monster games on 
 the horizon (WAR, Spore, the WoW xpac, Diablo 3) that will come out in this time. Why would people 
 go back to a buggy game when they can play games that probably wont have these problems and actually 
 be good fun?
  
  In the MMO world you basically get one chance to make a good impression. AoC should have stayed 
 in beta another 6 months and released the actual game it could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VIP-Jerry
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to say whats wrong with this game cos there is not enough space here to write it down. 
 If i tell you that i cant think of 1 thing that is cool in this game or done better than in some 
 other mmo i think it sums pretty much everything about AOC. Im not talking about bugs here. (Grey 
 map, ctd every 30min, bugs, bugs, bugs just visit official forum) . Moderators deleting posts and 
 topics from desperate and angry customers, but there is so much complains that they can not delete 
 all of them.
  Game is hyped before release, full of false promises - directX10, huge PvP thing, mounted combat, 
 minigames and when i found out that this and tons of other things was all lies i just couldn't 
 believe what kind of scum Funcom pulled out. 
  In my country false advertisement is a crime not sure whats it called in Norway.
  
  P. S. Can 
 you imagine they officially announced expansion pack
  
  Fool me once, shame on you! Fool me twice, shame on me!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reason
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Could not wait to play this after all the hype, but Conan leaves you feeling cheated of your money 
 because after bashing your way through 30-40 levels for the first free month you come out with 
 no story, no satisfactory feeling you have actually gotten anywhere in the game, bad frame rates, repetative 
 questing and a conatant searching for those illusive elements that made such great RPGs of the 
 past so GREEEAT!!!!. The truth of the matter is they just dont exist in this game ... period. Yes 
 the combat can be addictive at times but great combat did not make those great role players of 
 the past so good. Avoid this rubbish unless good graphics is your fix, or unless its improved with 
 future content but i cant see it. When are online roleplaying games going to introduce real money 
 to fight over if fighting is their bag? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airman1027
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 20, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  For some reason the latest MMO's that have come out have some serious problems with being finished. 
 There really is no excuse to have features that are on the box not working. Age of Conan is full 
 of features not working or not implemented. I have cancelled and will not resubscribe. It is just 
 the overall poor business practices of the recent crop of gaming companies that is getting to me.
 
  
  It is ok to have a game that starts out small. Maybe they should have released the Tortage instance 
 and then increased the world size. I dont know, but the game is broken, dont waste your time. I 
 guess gaming companies are just happy sucking people in, haveing them pay $50 for the game, then 
 $15 for the second month and then oh well. If people stay great if not we got their $65 which is 
 a good chunk of change.
  
  This was the last MMO I will play at release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadrikerXIV
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  I had been anticipating the release of Age of Conan months prior to it achieving gold status. While 
 I did not have access to beta I did manage to get into the Early Release program and capped 80 
 in less than a week.
  
  The games finer assets contributed greatly to the hype; one of the first games to support DX10, 
 innovative combat mechanics, exciting end-game raiding content, mature rating, bar brawls, etc. 
 Unfortunately, after release the developers over at Funcom decided they wanted/needed to pull the 
 plug on most features that were advertised. In fact, a handful of features listed right on the 
 box don't even exist in the game or have been toned down significantly.
  
  Though AoC is still young and going through a fine-tuning process, most of the issues being ironed 
 out should have been taken care of before the IP went gold.
  
  At this point, paying to play is just like paying to test out beta.
  
  The devs continually 
 implement patches that do more damage than good; test realms weren't used, let alone introduced, 
 until just a few weeks ago.
  
  As a matter of fact, most gamers ended up quitting the game not because of the actual game, but 
 because of the developer. Which brings us to the main issue at hand and the source of my review.
 
  
  Compared to the industry standard, Funcom's maintenance of their IP and their customer service 
 are horrendous. Prior to public release and into the first week, Funcom's official forums were 
 brought down due to their lack of crowd control. Complaints and technical issues flooded the forums 
 which in turn gave a lot of bad publicity for a newly released mmo. When the forums were finally 
 reinstated Funcom asked its consumers to ignore all negative testimonials and that there was nothing 
 wrong with their product.
  
  When I bought the game I was optimistic and confident. However, Funcom's ignorance has proven time 
 and time again that AoC will not flourish any time soon. The lack of communicaton was always a 
 major issue; patch notes weren't introduced until after people had petitioned and complained. Ghost 
 patching is another issue, an extremely annoying one at that. To this day, infuriated gamers constantly 
 rant and fume about the latest, undocumented, stealth nerf. When these nerfs cause too much of 
 an uproar in the community Funcom comes around proclaiming the so-called nerf is actually a "bug 
 that snuck in" during the patching process.
  
  The customer service and support offered from Funcom is nearly non-existent. Email inquiries are 
 never answered, with the exception of the automated response message. In-game support is arguably 
 harder to get than epic items off bosses. A petition system is used to get in touch with a GM. 
 Players wait hours on end within a queue which more-often-than-not times out or resets without 
 any given reason. After several hours, if you actually do manage to get in touch with a GM you're 
 introduced to their limited repertoire of issues they can assist you with.
  
  In most cases, if you bring up a bug or technical issue the in-game GM will direct you to the website 
 and ask you to submit an inquiry via email. Which, as I wrote above, go unanswered about 100% of 
 the time.
  
  
  Age of Conan is pure visual eyecandy with a refreshing combat system. Unfortunately, the game is 
 unpolished, incomplete and released several months too early. This is one mmo that is definitely 
 worth looking into further down the road, however, considering how sluggish Funcom is at addressing 
 real issues, I wouldn't expect that time to come anytime soon. Your time is best invested elsewhere 
 until then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACougar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Age of Conan got off to a rough start; Funcom had promised us all a Lamborghini and then delivered 
 us a BMW. An amazing product, but not one which could truly compete with the product for which 
 we were all salivating. The game is small; there are far too few zones, way to little content, 
 not nearly enough different types of gear and equipment. The game is very demanding, even on high 
 end computers. Performance for most people in heavily occupied zones isn't acceptable so a lot 
 of work still needs to be done to bring the game even close to its full potential. 
  
  That said; let's talk about the game as it is now.
  
  The graphics are nice; the interface 
 (with the exception of chat) is groundbreaking and makes combat a complete blast. In over 25 years 
 playing computer games, I've never had as much fun killing stuff. The world, while still small, 
 completely absorbs you lots of nice touches that round this game out and make it a bit more realistic 
 than all that have gone before, blood, gore, nipples, some guy urinating of the edge of a pier. 
 This game goes places no other game has gone, and performs better in some ways than I every thought 
 was possible It's an incredible game that still pales in comparison to its potential.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrishCyanide
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 15, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I purchased the game and took my toon up to level 43. I cancelled my subscription due to the fact 
 that the lag got worse and worse. After technical support failed to respond to my e-mails after 
 two weeks, I went to the forums and asked for advice. Thankfully, plenty of gamers assisted me 
 in my issue. I bought more ram, and a better video card even though my gaming system was fairly 
 new.
  
  500 dollars later, I took my toon up to nearly the level cap until I couldn't take it anymore.
 
  
  To put it quite bluntly, this game needs work. It's a great concept, a great idea, and there are 
 a lot of fun aspects to it but the bugs and lack of content are truly what ruins the entire experience. 
 The world is also very small. 
  
  You don't purchase a car with flaws and problems while the dealer promises fixes later on down 
 the road. And that's exactly what I've dealt with - driving this video game off the lot with issues 
 all over the place. 
  
  If you plan on purchasing this game, wait for a couple of months and come back - read the forums, 
 and see what people are saying. Due to the fact that close to a million copies were sold and the 
 cancellation rate is at about 50% now, I'd say this game failed in a big way. 
  
  Every game will have a solid core of players, unfortunately this one just doesn't cut it... yet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tawnybaka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  In spite of its bugs this game is extremely fun to play. The combat is innovative and nothing beats 
 the sight of blood from a fatality splattered across your screen. Each class has nice visual effects 
 for its attacks/spells, with unique fatality animations for each. The bugs are frustrating, however, 
 and are often ones you'd think any programmer who passed Basic Coding 101 would catch. It is the 
 most buggy MMO I've ever played, but I keep playing in spite of it because the combat is such a 
 kick. (Being a woman, it's not the sight of virtual breasts that keeps me playing.) Once you hit 
 50, expect a grind. Quests peter out and it gets harder to level without doing the same endless 
 repeatable quests, particularly if you like to solo.
  
  Crafting starts at level 40, which seems late. That's also when you can get a mount, but it's hard 
 to come up with the 3 gold needed unless you do some strategic auctioning. As for the crafting, 
 be sure not to pick architect as one of your two professions unless you're in a guild and the guild 
 doesn't have one yet. It's really expensive and you'll need the whole guild's support to buy the 
 mats you need. Farming the resource nodes in the game can get really frustrating, since you need 
 to get one rare item to advance to the next tier, and that rare item has a less than 1% drop rate.
 
  
  The devs have promised more content for levels 50 and up to help with the leveling grind, so let's 
 hope they deliver soon on that promise. Otherwise they'll lose a lot of players who get tired of 
 the same old quests and quit long before they reach the 80 cap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tetrasoft
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  One of the few online games that I was looking forward to its release. Truly a next generation 
 MMO with great ideas and a vast amount of lore to draw from. Sadly however this game made me feel 
 less connected. I had the feeling of a cross between GuildWars and Everquest 2 with a dash of Shadowbane 
 tossed in. The instancing and layout of the zones really disconnects a player from others. It led 
 me to feel as though I were playing a single player game but paying a monthly MMO fee. The actually 
 storyline and destiny quest were great the first time around. But sadly they are the same more 
 or less each time you go through. I mean at least each class could have started in a different 
 start area. Instead every single character you create will start out on the same beach and pretty 
 much step for step walk the same exact path for a great portion of the early levels. The nighttime 
 feature is a great idea giving the player a chance to bring some RPG feel into an MMO game. That 
 helped pull me in for a short time, but that was cut short as everything else seems to pull you 
 back out. In short the game was a great attempt to make a online game something new and not same 
 ole same ole. I loved the combat system but the lack of magic in the lore led to pretty much every 
 character to be basically the same to a certain point. The stat points seemed pointless. Climbing 
 was a great addition that I must say was nicely done. But trying to group with your friends really 
 brings out the feeling of Guild Wars as you have to find the instance they are in to join up. WoW 
 may be over 4 years old and its graphics aging but I can say that it is far more seamless than 
 this attempt. I am no Blizz fanboy but you have to give credit where it's due. Great attempt and 
 a good start but this game really need another year to really be anything that a MMO player will 
 take seriously. Great concepts but fails to deliver a hook that made me wanna stay around for more 
 than the free month. I give this game a 9 out of 10 for the pure creative concept and graphic quality 
 and battle system... but a 3 out of 10 as a MMO with a hook for playing longer than a month. Simply 
 lacking that certain feel that makes you want to spend hours playing it. Call me old fashioned 
 but I'm a true D&D type I guess... I'll take dwarfs, elves, orcs and humanoid diversification any 
 day over this human from that region choices only. I know the Conan lore and this game is true 
 to the lore but falls short for what I love in an MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  Well you can take girls tops off and that speak for itself about this games maturaty. i think this 
 is the best MMO for now. wating for warhammer but for now Age of Conan is the best MMO out there 
 now.
  
  Good: Well its the crysis of MMO's. The game really does it well when its says its a mmoRPG game, 
 the essence the mmorpg games is finally here and the game plays like a online rpg game, instead 
 of a game based on just plain kill talk walk die, the game plays like a rpg, zooming in on NPC's 
 that talk to you like neverwinter nights or the witcher. The fact that the company is constently 
 working on patches and trying to fix the many bigs in the game is just great. The fight system 
 is cool and brings a new kind of fighting system to the MMORPG range, but maybe stealing it from 
 the witcher? The many classes makes every class seem fun, exciting and new. Music soundtrack is 
 not something i like to touch on much because normally games just ahve 2 or 3 tracks that keep 
 repeting, but AoC has tons of soundtracks. maybe 2 - 3 for each zone where you go into, also there 
 are soundtracks for when you wait for the loading screnes. and that brings me to the bad stuff.
 
  
  Bad: Well first of all, there are loading screans, not alot like the witcher, but still theres 
 quiet a bit for a MMORPG game. but its can be easily overlooked. There are also still a lot of 
 bugs still in the game, like somethimes while your walking through maybe a hill or a steep bumb, 
 you get stuck and cant move and get dragged back to the same spot til you stop completely and wait 
 for a few seconds. The water ripples look a bit weird because its jsut sudenly ends at a point, 
 but its still one of the few games that have ripples in the water anyway so, cant really be picky. 
 The map keeps stuffing up!!!! is annoying as all hell because you have to restart the game for 
 it to work again. One more glitch is that when your ping goes high, which happens quiet a bit, 
 you cant attack but while your standing there and trying to fix your internet, the eneimy NPC's 
 can still attack you. it gets very annoying when this happenes, especially at the high levels, 
 maybe through the 35- 60 mark.
  
  Not sure: The fighting can be a bit easy at times, you can kill 2 charcters that are maybe 3 -4 
 levels higher than you. 
  
  But if you dont mind these glitches in the game, and have a pretty damn good pc, its a great game. 
 WoW has met its match. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chardian30
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  AoC started out quite well. There were the usual bugs you'd expect with the game but as time went 
 by, things started to go down hill. Upon reaching lvl 80 at present, you have 2 choices - roll 
 another character or grind.
  
  Graphics - Great, many of the zones are beautiful. Though of course there is the problem that many 
 people complained of needing to buy new video cards in order to play the game. You'll also find 
 that if you group with a Necro or any class with lots of graphic intensive spell casting, you're 
 fps will drop dramatically.
  
  Sound - Perhaps the best I've ever heard in a game. If there was an Oscar Award for game music, 
 AoC should/would win it.
  
  Playability - Good, as long as you have a computer with the grunt to use it. The game is amazing 
 up til lvl 20 and you leave Tortage, the rest is like a late addition just so that people have 
 something to do. The problems include bugs, bugs and more bugs; A chat system that was designed 
 to be different simply so Funcom could say it was; Professions are still bugged - despite promises 
 to fix them; and you will, on occassion, run into an invisisble wall when running/riding through 
 the middle of a zone. Also, be prepared to spend 15 minutes riding between the high level zones 
 - say you're playing in Khes and join a raid to go to FotD, it's a fair distance. In some cases 
 you're better off travelling by suicide - kill yourself at the start of a zone and then selecting 
 the res point on the other side of the instance to rez at.
  
  Developer - One of the worst I've ever seen. They are actively deleting negative (often constructive 
 criiticsm) posts in the forums. Do not respond to posts or messages. GMs are next to useless but 
 will suddenly appear to dance with people. For every bug they fix, 3 new ones are introduced as 
 a result. There was even a patch a few weeks back that they installed onto the European servers 
 first which effectively killed them. Funcom then proceeded to install that patch onto the US server, 
 even though they knew what would happen. 
  
  AoC has so much potential but if you want to play an MMO where you can develop your character and 
 continue to do so for a couple of years, AoC is not for you - or me. Do not believe the hype about 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acemaniac
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I would not even recommend this game to my worse enemy,.. Yah the game has great graphics and sound, 
 but that is where it ends. I have been playing since launch and i must say that the first 20 levels 
 was great. But once you leave the noob island that where you notice all its flaws INCLUDING Funcom's 
 lack of communication.
  
  1.) Stats on gear are broke.
  2.) Crafting system is a joke and also broke.
  3.) Petition system is pretty much none existant, 
 after 4 hours your petition will be auto deleted and chances of a GM answering your petition withing 
 the 4 hours is next to none. Even IF you do happen to get a hold of one by some merical they cant 
 help you.
  4.) Most the classes are broke.
  5.) Getting any response from a Dev or anything on the forums about critical issues is none existant.
 
  6.) The EU servers have a RP-PVE server but the US servers do not.
  7.) Guild citys are broke.
  8.) PvP is broke.
  9.) Sieges are broke.
  the game is missing 
 loads of content, meaning there is a huge lack of quests forcing players to have to resort to grinding 
 for 10+ lvl's throughtout the 1-80 lvl range.
  10.) The harvesting system is broke and is a huge grind fest.
  11.) Character feats are broke.
 
  12.) Invisable walls every where.
  13.) Very linier game.
  14.) Loads of PvP spawn campers.
  15.) Memory leaks galore, crashes and BSOD.
  16.) The UI is 
 something that looks like it was made for a game 10 years ago.
  17.) You try and solo a elite boss that is 20+ lvl's below you he will still kill you,.. grey bosses 
 scale with the players lvl.
  18.) There patches since release have been a joke, they have not addressed the serious issues of 
 the game, only nurfed everything and change stuff that is not even broke, Also there patches break 
 TONS more stuff.
  19.) NO DX10 as stated on the retail box.
  20.) All the gear pretty much looks the same from lvl 1-80.
  
  I can continue to go on but 
 im to tired to,.. all-in-all this game was nothing but hype with absolutly no substance to it once 
 you leave the noob area. I would highly recomend passing on this game! And chances are it will 
 continue to be a huge failure just like "Anarchy Online", hence why that game is free to download 
 and free to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate22692
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  Awesome Graphics (if you have a decent PC)
  Real Time Combat
  It's CONAN so there is Blood and Boobies Galore
  Good Voice Acting and Music
  
  Cons:
  
 Graphical Flaws (Pop in)
  Performance issues in some areas
  Unfinished PvP
  Lots of Bugs
  
  If you like MMOs or just like RPGs you should wait a few months and check this 
 out, by then many of the bugs should be squashed and the problems fixed. In time I think this game 
 will become a much larger threat for WoW as it will appeal to people like me who haven't played 
 MMOs before and hate anything that doesn't have real time combat. This game feels much more like 
 Diablo or Hellgate than WoW or LoTR Online with a larger role placed on action. System requirements 
 are a little steep so make sure you have a Duel-core processor and decent video card. I'm running 
 it just fine with a 4200+ X2 and a Geforce 8800 GT. Check out Gamespot's performance guide before 
 you buy if you aren't sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazyeye78
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 11, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  Initially I would have given this game a high rating, now a few months later it is a different 
 story. The Developers are doing everything they can to slow people down to get to end game simply 
 because they haven't finished endgame. If you are looking for a game to casually log into to do 
 some quests, chat with friends, help Guild out, this is completely the wrong game.
  
  Recent nerfs involve making old elite bosses kill everything even much higher levels. The easiest 
 example is if you have played WOW for a while I'm sure you have run a friends alt through VC. Well 
 try in this game and the first boss will kill you. All grey quests no longer give XP, this would 
 be fine granted they had enough quests through each level bracket and not force level grinding.
 
  
  With the way Funcom is handling Customer feedback, I would recommend not giving them a dime til 
 they learn that the customer base is more important than being prideful and sticking with "What 
 they think is a good idea".
  
  Save your money and stick with you current MMO. This one will be very niche soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  As of 10th of July 2008
  
  To put it very gently, I'd say AoC promised a lot, but delivered far too little for it's own good. 
 The launch was somewhat solid regarding the content that was there, but not what we expected.
 
  
  There's some good things in AoC:
  - Fighting demands a bit more concentration than in your average MMORPG, so it's not all that boring, 
 even while there isn't all that many skills to get after lvl 20.
  - Graphic-wise it's probably the best looking MMORPG there is right now, IF your comp can run it. 
 The foliage for example is excellent, you could actually hide in the grass (on RP) , if everyone 
 would have to keep it on.
  - For a starting area, Tortage is excellent. The main quest line varies a bit depending on which 
 arch-type you're playing. Sadly even this gets bland when repeating multiple times with other characters.
 
  - Animation is mostly excellent, at least on humanoids. Horses look better than in any other MMORPG, 
 too.
  
  ... and then there is, of course, some bad things to mention:
  - Some level ranges lack quests.
  - Tradeskilling, compared to other MMORPG's, is a mere joke. 
 We need more stuff to do (a new set of weapons with one weapon for every weapon type on lvl's 40 
 and 50 just ain't gonna cut it) and actually spend some time with it, instead of being able to 
 make certain sword at a certain adventuring level without putting any effort to it tradeskil-wise.
 
  - There is barely anything else to do than kill stuff. And people.
  - PvP is there, but basically without a cause or a point.
  - Guild cities in a closed instance 
 just ain't gonna work.
  - Itemization in general. In 50 levels of being an assassin, I think I've used perhaps 6 different 
 types of clothing (in appearance that is) - 5 of them in Tortage alone. So we're still waiting 
 on those 1300 other armor pieces of the promised 1500 we haven't got yet.
  - GUI isn't exactly mod-friendly. But it is hidious instead.
  - No vocal dialog after Tortage, 
 except for the main destiny quest, which happens far too rarely by the way. Every 10 or 5 levels 
 would have been much better.
  
  There's still a lot of things I haven't mentioned, like memory leaks and bugs (basically something 
 you can expect on a MMORPG launch, more or less) , class inbalance (for example, I suck at PvP quite 
 a bit. But when a lvl 44 Guardian attacked my lvl 50 Assassin and beat me silly, it felt a bit 
 wrong. I mean, sure, I can accept being beaten by a lower level guy who knows what he's doing, 
 but we hit roughly the same amount of damage against eachother, and I lost 100% of health, he lost 
 around 5%.) which one of those things that never get "fixed" as well. But all those can be fixed 
 
  next week for all I know... or not, as it usually pans out.
  
  But despite all these things it lacks, it's still a pretty good MMORPG for what we have right now. 
 Then again, we'd definetely need some good PvP system, more stuff with different graphics (and 
 perhaps more sense making stats too. Having your defense go up from 0.1 to 0.2 doesn't seem to 
 be that much of an addition really) , much much better tradeskilling, an open zone player city (or 
 cities, one on each of the three continents) where different guilds could put up their guildhouse 
 and backyard or something, more RP-related things (emotes, places to hang out other than taverns, 
 etc) and so on. And yeah, fix the damn Hide already, tired of being seen by dead people.
  
  In the end, I'd say Age of Conan is worth a try. But in the same sentence, I might add that it 
 might be even more worth to wait a bit to game to flesh out some more.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: malagant
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 9, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  I lvl'd my priest up to 5 then completely lost interest in the game. The atmosphere is so "fake"... 
 Warcraft is miles and miles ahead. It does look very nice from a graphical point of view it s very 
 well detailed and perhaps way too much for such a video game. Full of flaws the world enviroment 
 with glares and shadows effect completely unnatural.
  It also seems pretty easy to lvl, even thou cant really say nmuch on that as i havent really kick 
 in myself much.
  Playing this In my opinion is a waste of time that you subtract from WoW.
  Also the character seems more to be flying rather than walking or running while in the game and 
 this contribute to give a wierd atmosphere to the eviroment... and enviroment where you always 
 know what to do who to kill when to do ... pretty much like car racing videogame (say GP3) with 
 full assistant on (brake, shifting and traction) .... really cant think of something as humiliating 
 but, perhaps, it is only the 1st part of the leveling to ease you in the "learning curve", so i 
 dont want to judge the whole game but bring to readers my very personal idea of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyro77
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  First off, this is hands down the most gorgeous looking MMO ever made. The water reflections, particle 
 affects, open landscapes and character models are jaw dropping. The musical score is of the kind 
 you expect in any of the Conan movies which is a great compliment in itself. 
  
  Now for the issues that make Conan a sad barbarian. The classes are horribly imbalanced though 
 this is to be expected. How many MMO's release with balanced classes at launch? What is not forgivable 
 are the bugs the game released with. The crafting system is broken. Not an exaggeration... its broken. 
 The bragged about siege system is broken. The grouping and chat system is abysmal. The bugs are 
 too numerous to name but the game breaker me were the memory leaks and constant crashes even on 
 a high end system. 
  
  Now even if features actually worked, there is absolutely nothing to do once you cap at level 80. 
 Honestly the only way to level after 50 is to grind it out.
  
  The bottom line is the game has potential. Its potential that cold have been realized if the game 
 had not been released prematurely. However, in its current status the game feels hollow and unfinished. 
 If you don't want to pay a monthly fee for what feels like a game in its beta, I suggest waiting 
 a couple of months for Funcom to work out the kinks, add the features they promised, and add end 
 game content.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vangard247
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game I thought it was simply awesome. The combat system was innovative 
 and felt fresh. The game looked stunning and the game itself was unashamedly targeting the adult 
 market. 
  
  After playing for a while though AoC has now lost it's sparkle.
  
  It still looks awesome and I still like the combat system but there doesn't seem to be a whole 
 lot to do other than hack n slash. Having to wait till 20 to start gathering resources and then 
 40 before tradeskilling is a game mechanic I simply don't understand. There is just not enough 
 depth to the game as a whole. 
  
  Also, and I understand this is beyond Funcom's control, despite the game rating and the adult themes, 
 a large portion of the community came across as annoyingly immature. 
  
  "What is best in life?" - Certainly not Age of Conan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgtogi
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 6, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Rather than focus on the issues of maturity and Funcoms abysmal customer service, this review focuses 
 mainly on game play. Age of Conan is a good game but the game is not the breaking game that neither 
 Funcom nor the fanboys would like you to think it is. The games content is very front ended and 
 by the time you hit level 30 you have experience most of what the game has to offer. The game is 
 great until about level 20. You have lots of quests, an immersive story and a good variety of places 
 to visit. Than once you get off newbie island quality takes a nosedive. 
  
  The noticeable thing is that almost all the NPC's lose their recorded voices. This would not be 
 so bad if the game would tell you about it. I spent a good twenty minutes reloging and searching 
 the forums to find out if I had an audio bug or what. Quests diminish in quality and quantity has 
 you increase in level. Some dungeons are unfinished and in some case unbeatable. Every play a game 
 where you are killing things your level only to have bosses spawn from their corpses and kill you. 
 This kind of stuff that happens at higher levels and it is not a bug because I can repeat several 
 times. I bet you game developer is laughing about this one but I am not please
  
  There was one day where in the span of an hour. I broke 6 quests, walk thru two walls, died several 
 times and spent the rest of time confused in maze not knowing where to go because my mini map was 
 broken. I asked for help in chat and players told me it was broken. Why keep broken content in 
 game? This is just poor game design. Bottom line of this game is it fun for about a month but it 
 takes a serious fan to want to continue after that. I about 3-4 other people that share this opinion 
 as well and we have all decided to quit the game and wait for better more promising games like 
 Warhammer for example.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JordanMJ
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  The biggest problem with reviewing this game is that it's still in Paid Beta, so it's difficult 
 to review without wanting to bash my skull into a wall. That's right, reviewing this game is going 
 to bring back the painful memories of me playing this game.
  
  I don't mean to say it was ALL bad, it just wasn't the most pleasant of experiences. I ran into 
 several bugs, client crashes, server crashes, and all sorts of pleasant other roadblocks that made 
 me want to tear out my hair in a fit of anger and pain.
  
  On to the gravy. The first 20 levels of the game are virtually 'tutorial mode'. The game throws 
 you off of the incredibly detailed character creation ship, and into the very first quest, a quest 
 that takes you through the first 5 levels of your Age of Conan experience. Voice acting exists 
 for every NPC you're able to engage in dialogue with, but I'll touch on that later. After hacking, 
 or spell-casting your way through the quest, you end up in Tortage to begin more questing. There's 
 never a short supply to do in the starting area, and there's even a single-player 'destiny' quest 
 chain that keeps things interesting with a great single-player storyline.
  
  So there you are, below level 20, the first 20 levels are great! Sweet, voice acting in quests?! 
 No shortage of quests?! This game is going be saaaweeeeeet! Right? Ok, maybe not so much. The first 
 20 levels are probably the greatest part of the game (let's hope that changes. Quickly) . Once you 
 leave Tortage, the voice acting for non-destiny quest NPCs... disappears. Instead, you're left with 
 voiceless conversations that render you helpless. Oh well, the voice acting was good while it was 
 plentiful, at least.
  
  To the quests! Quests are nicely done, every quest gives you a mini-, map indicator of where to 
 go for any certain part of a quest. This makes questing quicker, easier, and less painful to do. 
 Quests are the same as any MMORPG of course, so don't expect very many unique quests. And, luckily, 
 you won't have to search through monster poo to get quest items. The biggest problem with quests 
 however, is that there isn't enough of them. 20-47 (without grinding, grouping, or instancing) is 
 riddled with quests. But when you hit level 47, things start slowing down fairly quickly. There 
 are a lot of quests, don't get me wrong, but it just feels so much slower than 20-47, and you end 
 up running out of quests in the zone that meets your level.
  
  This brings me to the greatest flaw of the game; the number of zones. There is a painful lack of 
 leveling zones; you get Tortage, the zones outside the 3 starting cities, 20-40, a 40-50 zone, 
 a smaller 40-50 zone, a 50-60 zone, a 60-75 (a bit misleading, there are maybe 3-4 level 75 quests 
 there) , and 1 70-80 zone. The lack of questing zones, and slowwww quest goal respawns make questing 
 tedious as you climb up the ranks.
  
  Luckily, to combat this, there are villa quests. Villa quests are a set of 5 quests in the Noble 
 District which are on a 5-ish hour cooldown, and offer to the most half a bar whenever you do all 
 5 of the quests. in order to do them, you simply need to do the pre-requisite quests. Planning 
 your villa quests can make leveling overall that much easier, as you can save your other quests 
 you can only do once for higher levels.
  
  Combat is the most unique part of Age of Conan.... for melee. Melee combat consists of hitting arrows 
 to attack in a certain direction, upper right, middle, upper left, lower left, and lower right. 
 Combos are a sequence of 1-4 different directional attacks. After pushing the final attack, the 
 combo goes off, and deals sometimes high damage to the enemy. Combos are cool to watch, but there's 
 the major flaw. in order for the combo to deal full damage, you need to sit through and watch the 
 whole animation, and you're not able to do much else while doing so, and some combos can last a 
 ridiculously long time, and deal annoyingly small damage.
  
  This leads into the fun part; PvP and balance. Melee combat is unique, but in PvP, that's the MAJOR 
 FLAW. Casters are the same as they have always been, one button casts. This right there makes PvP 
 incredibly unbalanced in Melee Vs. Caster combat, although most casters would probably disagree, 
 as you will learn if you choose a melee class. If you're a Melee going against a caster, you're 
 in for a very difficult fight, if you're a conqueror going against anything, quit, and reroll something 
 else.
  
  I haven't had the opportunity to test out sieges, but I've heard from other players that they aren't 
 'solid' yet. I will do my best, however, to portray it;
  
  "Damn video card, how dare it blow up on me."
  
  The hardware requirements for this game aren't 
 bad, but they're misleading. If you want to play this game and enjoy it, you should expect to have 
 some pretty powerful hardware, if not, you get to enjoy the game on the lowest possible settings, 
 which isn't horrible, but you probably won't be able to experience 30 vs. 30 player sieges.
  
  There is a whole hell of a lot more to cover, but I hardly have the motivation to create the 
 Great Wall of Text to say the same thing over and over again. This game currently isn't exactly 
 great, but it's got so much potential. The main problem is the patches seem to create more problems 
 than anything else, but the game is in paid beta, and has only been out for a month. As it stands 
 now, however, I'd advise anyone to take their time to get to 80, and take it slow and steady.
 
  
  One final warning, and this mostly applies to WoW people; if you went to this game to find something 
 different, new and exciting, you're going to be disappointed right now. Do NOT let the hype of 
 this game make you think it's a good idea to currently abandon your current WoW ambitions. I'd 
 suggest waiting for this game to at least come out of paid beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solaskaze
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I don't think I've ever played such a buggy game.
  Flaws are rampant everywhere from server-client freezes, network lags (almost always fatal - lag 
 goes up to 9.8s, which actually means infinite ... until you are kicked off) , client side memory 
 leaks, unknown client side errors now caught by funcom and sent back to them (but this process 
 freezes the game for several seconds, and it happens a LOT) , graphics flaws (missing helmets, wrong 
 color hair, entire floors missing, etc.) , login state chaos (login sometimes randomly fails, esp. 
 after a crash) , to the quests themselves.
  The latter is the kicker: some premier quests - there really aren't that many - are completely 
 broken. Of note is the final Pyramid quest in Stygia. A long, drawn out quest, multiple levels 
 ... and the final quest is completely broken.
  How that got past QA - or was allowed to ship like that - is a downright mystery.
  And infuriating 
 to those who spend time, expecting it to work.
  
  The gameplay was supposed to be novel with the introduction of dynamic shielding (which requires 
 that you also be in the right position) ... but at later levels, and even at lower ones, it really 
 doesn't work. Switching your own shields typcially can't be done fast enough to block incoming 
 blows more efficiently, and, at later levels, mob shields are all but ignored since combos are 
 long, and take multiple strikes (their shields can move 2 or 3 times during the combo) . It is more 
 efficient to focus on efficient combo sequences - and pretty much ignore custom shields or where 
 your enemy's shields are (PvE) .
  combos themselves are nothing more than an extension of attack sequences you plan and mash buttons 
 on. Nothing new there.
  And the feat trees per class seem rather muddied and unfocused. It's hard to be exciting about 
 reaching any particular feat tree tier.
  
  Perhaps its AoC, perhaps it's the server (s) I chose, but the IQ and basic manners of people in 
 this game are substandard for a large portion of the population (not everyone) , to the point of 
 being just plain silly: ninja killing is rampant (all it would take is for that person to invite 
 you into a group before running right past you and killing what is obviously your final target, 
 as it is theirs as well) ... so much so, I saw one person try to ninja a boss right past me ... 
 and die rather than ask for help or invite. I then stopped and watched. Then they did it again. 
 And again - I logged off at that point.
  PvP is a free for all model, even on RP servers . Since there is no racial or home based "forced" 
 camaraderie as in other PvP MMOs, the natural result is no roleplaying whatsoever, and rampant 
 grief killing. Funcom aims to fix the latter, but the date is unknown.
  
  Next, the economy, higher-level gear and level setting, and visuals are just plain missing.
  
 "green items" - I suppose these are supposed to be decent, since their are frequent quest rewards 
 - drop so frequently, some don't even bother to pick them up, let alone sell them. Even some blue 
 items suffer the same fate. There's really nothing of interest to buy anyway, save mounts, which 
 are ridiculously expensive.
  The visuals on the gear - very similar to mobs - has little variance. You will be killing vanir 
 and bears and spiders for 30+ levels or more, and a level 60 decked out won't look much different 
 than a level 30 (on a rare occasion, I have noted a distinct difference, but it is uncommon) .
 
  Gear is "level set" every ten levels, which means a 48th level gear set might be worse than a 
 40th, but a 50th will be significantly better - it's a cliff every 10 levels, which doesn't work 
 very well.
  
  On the positive side:
  the graphics are just plain gorgeous. You run out of scenery pretty quickly (out of actual landscape 
 at about level 50 or so) , but what's there is top notch.
  working quests, and combat, are, if not novel, at least on par with other MMOs.
  the background 
 music is outstanding.
  
  overall: a mixed bag. player beware. rating can be bumped by one or so with the generous expectation 
 that funcom will fix the blatant flaws in the next 2 months - there is no guarantee.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uzzzi
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 5, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I have made my best effort to stick with this game knowing that at launch there will always be 
 tons of problems, which there were. But 2 months later game play is still very abysmal with all 
 the crashes, disconnects, memory leaks, constants patches that break more than they say they fix, 
 lack of working content, once you hit level 80 there is nothing left to do, and customer service 
 is some of the worst I have ever seen. They use a petition system that requires players to stay 
 in game in order to manage how the petition moves through their system. If you get stuck some where 
 and are unable to move well you just need to sit at your keyboard for at least 4 hours while your 
 petition get routed around and eventually gets to a GM. I have never seen anything like it before. 
 I do plan to check back in about a year to see if any of these problems have been addressed. Hopefully 
 by then it will be out of Beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wispluII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  Hy. I'd like to introduce myself. I'm a simple guy with some issues.... naaa.... that's not the word, i 
 think errors is the right word... anyway i don't know too much English but i like their history 
 so don't piss off on me because of that. i kinda know the games before i play them. and this one 
 surprises me. because it will be a great one. I'm sure of that but.... the videos and the images don't 
 look too great in my eyes and i would prefer a difference between players like... i don't know... maybe 
 wow or... Lord of the Ring Online mean there are many races u can chose and many classes these game 
 only got classes and some customisation but i won't recognize anyone from their eye color or their 
 nose so it will be a little difficult for someone to make his char stand up in the crowd.
  I agree with the producers and i don't think u know their lately projects.... well i will tell u 
 some. maybe u heard of Anarchy Online, Carmageddon, reservoire dogs, Wacky Races... and the most beautifull 
 of them is Dreamfall and his ancector Dreamfall The Longest Journey.... well there isn't much to 
 say about it. i mean about this project that said:"We will make Blizzard cry"and i don't think so... couse 
 Blizzard didn't only showed us what he can do but they showed us what a game is. and the most dissapoiting 
 thing that i always hated when i passed trough a game maded by Blizzard is that they don't do the 
 old fashion anymore... and they were the last ones who could do that. k... i said what i had to say 
 and i didn't mean to say that this game dosn't deserve the money... not just that.... couse what 
 they said about it.... that Blizzard will go down with the Crown behind them and the history ahead.... but 
 i think.... I think it will worth the money even more thatn u think it will. it is the first MMORPG 
 in Dx10 so... let's give him a Hola in our top ten.
  
  oo... and who knows maybe they will make Blizzard cry but only in a game photo or a damn video couse 
 those guys are ... i don't know the word... maybe.... unerrored 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milosan
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. The graphic and environment are setting todays standing in the MMO genre. Like 
 all MMo launches, The game is a little buggy, a lot of game ability's and feats don't work, but 
 this doesn't take away from the game much at all. 
  
  By level 50+ there is a lack of quests available, funcon will be implementing more quests in the 
 near future. Grinding is still a quick form of leveling and you will need to spend some time doing 
 this in the later leveling. 
  The level of gore is fantastic, you wll enjoy ever fatality move countless times, never to get 
 bored of lopping someones head or driving a weapon into the chest only to then laugh in their face.
 
  
  I do await weekly patches to see what they have added next. Each patch makes this game i step forward 
 to being the best MMo ever. In say that, it will take time to getting Age of conan to a polished 
 level. I just hope people have the patients to see how much potential this game has.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netharos
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  There are two ways to approach Age of Conan. You can look either at what it has the potential of 
 becoming, or what it actually is in its current form. After five years in development, and promises 
 of glorious features such as battlekeeps and PvP sieges, the final product renders an incredibly 
 unbalanced scale between what is "just around the corner", and what players can currently experience. 
 
  
  You can find endless reviews describing both the merits, and severe technical problems with the 
 current build of Age of Conan. The important thing to consider at this moment in time, at least 
 in my mind, is the question, "Is it worth getting this game right now?" After completing my free 
 month subscription, and choosing not to renew, my answer is no. 
  
  Here is why:
  
  1) My system consists of a GeForce8800GTS, 4 Gig of RAM, and a 2.8ghz Intel Dual Core processor. 
 In theory, this slightly exceeds the reccomended system requirements. In actuality, the game continues 
 to haphazardly produce a fps wave length, with crests at 75fps, and troughs as low as 9-10fps. 
 Add a well-documented lag spike into the mix, and it is hard to deny that there are some serious 
 problems with the software. Fanboys will continue to insist that your machine is outdated, which 
 brings me to point #2.
  
  2) The fanbase. Imagine a throng of predominately juvenile mentality (these may be 30+ year old 
 children, I don't know) , who constantly tell you to "go back to WoW" if you even mention that you're 
 having performance issues. I know the biggest losers always type the loudest, but the most obnoxious 
 thing about these guys is that they somehow think playing an M-rated game automatically makes them 
 mature. I don't know if it's FunCom's individualistic approach this MMO or what, but people just 
 seem a lot more selfish too. The fanboy response to everything here is, "Well, it's better than 
 WoW!", and on that point I'd actually have to disagree. Yes, there are kiddies and j-o's by the 
 barrel in WoW these days, but I remember the first year or so in WoW being much more pleasant than 
 the crap AoC has managed to degenerate to within the first month. PvP (read gank-fest) servers 
 seem to be the worst. 
  
  3) Funcom apparently doesn't give a rat's about your little problems. Now, I know all developers 
 feel pride, and like to boast perhaps more than a little about their accomplishments, but I've 
 never seen such flagrant resting on laurels while conveniently ignoring all of the lower scores 
 and issues brought up by other critics. Worse yet, FunCom ignores the playerbase -- especially the 
 NA one. The Wiccana server is a perfect example. From day one, player's kindly petitioned to get 
 an RP-PVE server. FunCom's eventual response was to give an RP-PVE server to Europe only. Makes 
 you feel wanted, doesn't it/
  
  4) Lastly, as a fan of Conan and Robert E. Howard, I find thematically this game takes way too many 
 liberties with the license to be seen as a serious contribution to the lore and literature. I realize 
 that some of this is unavoidable with the nature of MMORPG's, but I would site LoTRO as a much 
 better example of being innovative while not straying too far from the universe it's supposed to 
 be set in. AoC just doesn't feel "authentically Conan" in my mind. Having big boobs and even bigger 
 amounts of blood spraying in not enough alone to tap into the soul of REH's world. I know others 
 would disagree, but I would say fans expecting to (finally) find a faithful translation of Conan 
 into multimedia will be dissapointed yet again.
  
  In conclusion, I offer this evaluation as yet another echo in a sea of warnings. Save your money. 
 If nothing else, wait and see. I've personally given up due to the negative experience I had at 
 launch, but perhaps if you wait, and if FunCom gets their act together, you may have a much better 
 experience than I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  The first 20 levels remind me of a cross between Guild Wars and Neverwinter Nights. The main quest 
 is single player, the rest is an MMO. It is all based around a city called Tortage. You will be 
 forced to advance through the main quest to leave, and you will have side quests to help you level 
 along as well. After being held captive in Tortage for 20 levels, forced to do boring quests, you 
 get to leave and get out in the real world. If you were unlucky enough to choose a PVP server this 
 is where you will be ganked repeatedly for no other reason than someone started out before you 
 and therefore is a higher level and therefore they can. There is no PVP honor system in place, 
 no reason to PVP other than to make someone else's game time miserable because they can't complete 
 a quest without getting ganked by someone 20 levels over them riding around on a horse obviously 
 bored as you are. If you chose the culture war server, welcome to the world in which there is a 
 war between the three cultures, yet you can all join in the same guilds. Oh yea, you can't attack 
 anyone from your culture. This makes so little sense it is flat out stupid. 
  
  The game really is no different than the other WOW wannabes that have come out since. The initial 
 wow factor (no pun intended) was there, but in the end unless some major changes are made expect 
 this game to go the way of others such as Vanguard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: formul2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Age of Conan is a MMORPG similar to World of Warcraft, Lord of the rings Online and Vanguard.
 
  It follows the same formula as above games but tries to bring new elements into it. The question 
 is then if it beats its predecessors.
  
  The launch of Age of Conan was very smooth. Hardly any downtime on the servers besides planned 
 patches. Sadly the game do required and still do require many updates and patches since the game 
 is riddled with bugs. Not that any other MMORPG didn't have any bugs at launch, but its a shame 
 that it has become game industry standard to launch unfinished MMO games with the attitude "We 
 can fix that later, after launch".
  
  Graphics
  The graphical presentation of the game is the best yet in a MMORPG hands down. Just the distance 
 of the view is astounding. If you climb to a high point then you can actually see the entire region 
 that you are currently playing in, small villages, forests and mountains in the skyline. The monsters 
 and animals you fight is truly amazing to see, they are so detailed and so well animated that you 
 sometimes go "Wow!" when encountering them for the first time. The negative effect is of course 
 that it takes its toll on your computer to render all this, but even at the lowest resolution the 
 game looks fantastic.
  
  What truly bothers me though is that the different areas you play in looks all the same, almost 
 blend. Sure, you have the plains, deserts, rivers and hills, but come on, be creative. I can understand 
 that the world of Conan is mostly wilderness but even then, you can come up with creative landscapes 
 and 
  unique areas. Even the equipment you wear looks the same. The gear looks almost the same from early 
 levels and far into the higher ones, which is a shame because I do want to stand out amongst the 
 crowd, the look of ones armor and weapons should be an eye popper when wearing that hard-to-get-rare-equipment.
 
  
  Sound/Music
  Its easy to hear that Funcom has put lot of effort into sound effects and the music in Age of Conan. 
 Sound effects are believable and distinct, wich immerse you further into the game. The music is 
 excellent and some songs are like sweet lullabies and once in a while you just have to stop and 
 enjoy 
  the music for while. 
  
  Gameplay
  So here is where lot of the new stuff comes in. The most notable and most talked about feature 
 is the combat model that Age of Conan use. instead of just targeting a monster and then hit the 
 mouse button until it dies (either the monster or the mouse) , doesn't really work here. You have 
 to keep attention to where that monster shields himself. The idea is that you should hit him where 
 his shield is weakest, and that weak point changes during the battle. The combat skills you use 
 require you to hit several keys in a 
  predetermined order, so called "combos". This require more attention from you than the normal mouse 
 smashing. Another fun feature is that you can actually do combat from your mount, whether its a 
 horse, rhino or mammoth. 
  
  As most MMORPG's Age of Conan have guilds where you and other players join together. Whats uncommon 
 though is that your guild can build your own cities, which is a welcomed feature. Besides that 
 they are amazing to look at, these cities gives your guild certain bonuses or benefits. Not only 
 can your guild build a city, but it can also build itself a battlekeep which other guilds and players 
 can lay siege to, which leads to massive PvP battles.
  
  Otherwise the gameplay follow the standard formula of MMORPG. You do quests and from that you gain 
 experience and level up your character. The classes you choose from is based on the standard arch 
 types of classes. You have your tank, rouge, mage and priests. Though every archetype have 3 different 
 classes that distinct themselves within the archetype. Age of Conan features resource gathering 
 and crafting which also don't differ much from other MMORPG's.
  
  Actually I had expected more new gameplay features in Age of Conan. I feel that so much more could 
 have been done to the game world for example. Why not have NPC factions attack each other in massive 
 battles or have factions attack player controlled areas and take over such strategic points so 
 that players would feel that they were part of a larger battle that would sway back and fourth.
 
  
  The PVP is not much to talk about. Besides the Battlekeep sieges, PVP is limited to minigames on 
 PvE servers, and senseless ganking on PvP servers. I'm quite sure though that Funcom has plans 
 to extend and evolve the PvP experience, which really is needed to make PvP enjoyable.
  
  The community in Age of Conan is somewhat more mature than in other MMO's. The age recommendation 
 is 18+ due to its mature content, both in ways of brutality and nudity.
  
  Conclusion
  As with many other MMO's Age of Conan has lot of potential. Many games of this type don't blossom 
 until some year after launch or even longer. The trick is to keep a large player base until that 
 happens, because without players and funds that come with it, development slows down and the game 
 will wither and die. The destiny of Age of Conan depends on how quickly Funcom addresses the immediate 
 problems and bugs, and thereafter how fast they can flesh out the many areas of the game that needs 
 to be attended, like PvP, high level content, crafting and Guild Cities/Battlekeeps.
  
  Right now its hard to recommend Age of Conan with its many bugs over for example Lord of the Rings 
 Online or World of Warcraft. If and when the most showstopping bugs is routed out, Age of Conan 
 is easily the best MMORPG out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bafucin81
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 3, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Anarchy Online for years and I liked it a lot. So what happen to Age Of Conan? 
 I think this is the worst MMORPG I have ever played. No wait, Pirates of the burning sea is number 
 one... second AoC.
  
  Nevermind, AoC look good when you read about it on the box and look at trailers. The problem is, 
 you will not enjoy it when you play the game... it's not there yet...
  
  Mature game it say, sure it's a lot of blood and brutal action... and yes guys you can now see 
 Females boobies... yay... or not. Nothing special.
  
  Quests are boring. Clothing are ugly, weapons are the same. Nothing is cool or special... its so 
 boring I'm about to sleep. Nothing wakes me up...
  
  PvP is not working, Quests and so on and so on...
  
  The first area that you enter is also 
 boring and have no life. Bad for a game if they like to keep players. Going over to nighttime makes 
 the game even more empty and boring............
  
  UI is bad.
  
  Chat is also bad.
  
  There are not fun emotes... after five years and nothing here... hello Funcom?
  
  Game 
 is very very bad and I don't think they are going to fix it. Funcom you failed. Like the Stormtroopers 
 say... move along!
  
  Age Of Conan: 2 Points of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gwarpup
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Ok so the AOC foundation is there and quite strong. But it so far fails to pass another hurdle 
 which is Longevity, Addictive Hooks, Competition, and a real RPG sense of reward/accomplishment.
 
  
  They are busting their ass to improve the game though and are regularly takign feedback and fixing 
 things. I think they will do their best to keep improving the game and even redesign parts of it 
 in time to fix its failures. But for now, it just isnt near as fun as it should be. Ill explain.
 
  
  Unlike most RPGs that use an easily identifiable system of Percentile increments that you can Quantify 
 and judge how you are increasing in a variety of ways. AOC uses mostly a Decimal system that makes 
 no Sense whatsoever. A level 10 Quiver of arrows for instance will have a .02 bonus, (what does 
 that mean?) and a Level 20 Quiver will also have a .02 bonus and the only difference is how much 
 you can sell it for. There is no Quality in items, they dont break or decay. So you dont often 
 feel higher lv items are much at all better than lower lv. Its very hard to tell if any of your 
 abilities, stats are getting any better using this archaic decimal system. The slope of improvement 
 to most abilities is so slight that if you were to put a marble on it after 10 levels, the marble 
 would not move. At Lv 20 the marble might start to wobble a little and at Lv 30 it might barely 
 start rolling. 
  
  Most all skills you gain are just slightly more powerful versions of the skills you start the game 
 with. Some animations may be different, but the effects mostly the same. Many of your talents you 
 wont see any effect difference at all. 
  
  Items are terrible. You rarely care about completing quests because your rewards will be so minimal 
 that you dont really care about the items. Random drops are 99% useless or again very minimal. 
 
  
  Overall it just lacks the addiction commonly found in MMOs that push you forward by offering another 
 carrot to lead you forward, while engrossing you in Lore. Oh and Items have 0 lore in AOC.. Not 
 even a minor description. You can't even find letters or books that are readable. There is no description 
 of scrolls, maps, letters, books, artifacts, nothing. They are just generic little icons to fedex 
 to someone or sell to a vendor. Most everything feels very generic, there is no Charm or mystery. 
 But alot of cliches to bore you. No cursed items, or things that make Conan Comics mysterious and 
 foreboding. Sometimes a quest does some suprising thing, but its very rare. And again their is 
 hardly ever a decent reward or anything to find exploring on your own. 
  
  The game needs work, and Funcom are constantly improving the game, but Itll be a good 6 months 
 I think till the game is really interesting enough to play through to about Lv 40 and above. Even 
 below that you will get really bored pretty fast as you hope to find things to draw you back to 
 playing your character. The game definitly needs more Cowbell, as they say, and I dont mean Graphics 
 quality. WOW has a ton more "Cowbell" pushing 1/4 the pixels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLastRevenge
Rating: 1.2
Date: Jun 29, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  This game stands nothing against WoW. Maybe AoC is a compilation of the best things in all MMO's 
 - but here all of stuff is boring as hell. Dynamic? Ha, pressing a direction of hit is not dynamic 
 for 50 years now. Cities came out of nowhere right near you. Map is loading (sic!) , press map button 
 - map appears - and it's loading! No fun living in this world, it becomes more boring with every 
 second. Big arrows pointing from where you took a hit - WTF? Grey people wearing grey armor fighting 
 grey overgrown *dunnowhoitis* under grey rain... Bugs? All MMO's had bugs on release. High performance 
 PC needed? No problem, i bet people can read what is written on the box. The true miss of this 
 game - it's not living. So consider buying something more worth your time. It's a hell lot of nice 
 MMO's, don't believe the hype. And it's a little bit hard due to amount of issues and bugs. I just 
 lost my money when bought it - i'll never install this again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JwresB
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  The early bits of Age of Conan gameplay are fairly well polished, and the only big flaw in the 
 trek to level 20 is that the starting area Tortage is all there is, and should you want to start 
 a second character, you get to do it all over again with little room for variation. Most competing 
 games provide numerous starting areas to bring variety for the early bits of the game when you 
 are learning a new class. In Age of Conan, you better like your first or second one, as leveling 
 up the third through Tortage is like walking on broken glass for ten hours. As every other review 
 in the world has described the day/night system and partially single player experience that is 
 Tortage, I won't bother repeating it. It's a good starter area - just wish there would be three 
 or four different ones that are just as good. 
  
  After level 20, you get sent to your homeland based on your race. If you were adventuring with 
 your friends, you will probably end up in different areas. Fortunately it's fairly easy to re-group, 
 and you get to pick from three different adventure areas as you continue your journey. Each of 
 the level 20+ zones has a set of quests that begin from the related city "hub" zone, and your destiny 
 quest NPC tells you to come back when you hit level 30 - and so the real game starts. 
  
  Character art, animation and spell effects are even more detailed than the scenery, and while there 
 is some visible "skating" and "rubberbanding" when other players move around you, animation and 
 movement is far more realistic than in Lord of the Rings Online. It can't quite touch World of 
 Warcraft, but what it loses in animation quality and smoothness, it takes back in the amount of 
 detail and texture quality.
  
  When you venture beyond the mid-level zones, things get slightly more uneven and at times there 
 are fairly annoying visual bugs in the scenery - floating objects, missing or misplaced textures 
 and visible polygon seams. They are not a game-breaking issue, but they betray the rush to get 
 the visuals done in time for launch, and in a way they stand out more than they really should simply 
 because the scenery is otherwise so beautiful. 
  
  The most obvious innovation in Age of Conan is the melee combat. While spellcasting is very much 
 standard stuff, melee is far more twitch-based. Collision detection, no autoattack and melee swings 
 that hit based on positioning - with multiple enemies getting hit if your swing connects all of 
 them is definitely new. This also means that every swing of a blade comes only if you press a button. 
 This fresh take on MMO combat is probably the reason why so many have praised the game as "new" 
 and "fresh", but once you have spent couple of evenings spamming couple of buttons constantly to 
 fight off even the weakest trash monsters, the practical benefits of an autoattack system become 
 apparent. 
  
  While there are numerous "teething issues" with the game that will most likely be fixed if you 
 give Funcom enough time, Age of Conan is also hampered by three fundamental problems that are pretty 
 much unfixable. 
  The game world is designed as a set of zones that are not physically connected to each other, and 
 you constantly run into barriers - usually visible, but sometimes invisible - and both types prevent 
 you from exploring the local area any further. Major bits of the scenery are just set pieces - 
 pretty, but just background graphics. Major parts of Old Tarantia look majestic, but are in reality 
 inaccessible, and same thing repeats in the other two starter hub areas
  Funcom also took the easy route in balancing the spawns and quest content in relation to the amount 
 of players roaming each area. Instead of a single dynamically adjusting game world where you can 
 meet your friends if you just walk to the same spot on the map, every non-city zone in the game 
 is instanced. Depending on the player load, there can be easily 8-9 identical copies of a zone 
 up at any given time, and each of them has so few players that you might mistake Age of Conan as 
 a single player game. When trying to group, fiddling with instances destroys the last remaining 
 illusion of an immersive game world. 
  inally, Age of Conan has a fundamentally broken economic system. While you gather up money in the 
 traditional ways - completing quests, looting coins and selling all that looted junk to NPCs, there 
 actually is almost no way to get rid of all that money. Items do not decay, and you do not have 
 to repair anything, you do not pay for skill training, travel is free and in general there are 
 no constant "money sinks" to keep the inflation in check. Sure, that best mount costs 150g, but 
 once you have it, then what? Only simple way to spend money that I can think of is by buying consumables 
 such as health and mana potions
  
  Age of Conan is a great MMO but with it's problems it makes it not as good as it could be, though 
 Funcom should fix them soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 28, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  The game is good dont get me wrong, but it is not finished to listen to Funcom... IT IS NOT FINISHED. 
 the biggest problem is class balance, it maybe the worst ive seen in a pvp game. It is horrendous. 
 The bugs limit a lot of things right now, ill admit its a minority, but Funcoms patching seems 
 so random. They dont address the real problems. Im not sure what their priority list is but it 
 is not the players, not even close. 
  
  Funcom said the game is right where they want it. This should inferiate the players who pay for 
 this game. It is not even done let alone polished. 
  
  I would wait for Warhammers review before you invest in this one. Or until they fix it. It is a 
 pvp oriented game, so if you play choose barbarian. Not assassin or ranger, which suck so bad it 
 is laughable. 
  
  The game is fun especially for the first 40 levels, but the lack of content cools things off towards 
 the end. Im at 77, and getting sick of Funcom's BS. I have played every mmo you can think of, UO, 
 EQ, AC, AC2, EO, WOW, SWG, SG, AO, MO, Daoc, and more. This game is good, but far from the best. 
 It is new and that is that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skablade
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  This review is based on my personal experience from levels 1 - 80 on a PvE server. Experiences 
 on a PvP server will differ.
  
  Okay, first thing to mention is that this game has high minimum and recommended specs. If you want 
 to play it at full whack with AA and max draw distances, we're talking a 500+ machine. The game 
 still has DX10 to be re-released and Funcom has promised us multi-core support for quad core processors. 
 At the moment, the game only makes use of 2 cores, so performance will get better eventually.
 
  
  Also, this game is far from perfect, there are a lot of technical issues but Funcom has proved 
 themselves as being dedicated. In the first few days alone, almost 1 gig of patches and fixes were 
 released and since there have been updates multiple times a week with convenient downtimes (04:00am 
 - 08:00am UK Time on Mondays and Thursdays) . In a lot of these patches, Funcom have broken many 
 things aswell as fixing others, for example some quests do not work, there are some objects you 
 can walk straight through etc. But this is normal for a recently released MMO from my experience. 
 NOTE: This game takes up over 25gb of harddrive space so make sure you have enough room!
  
  Even with all these issues and imbalances, the game is still fun in the most part of the levelling 
 experience. 
  
  You start the game with a deep and detailed character creation screen where you can choose from 
 the 3 races and good variety of the 12 classes available. Each class falls into one of 4 archetypes;
 
  Priest Archetype: Priest of Mitra, Tempest of Set and Bear Shaman.
  Rogue Archetype: Assassin, Barbarian and Ranger.
  Soldier Archetpe: Guardian, Dark Templar and 
 Conqueror.
  Mage Archetype: Herald of Xolti, Necromancer, Demonologist.
  Once you've fiddled around with the customisation you enter the game with a cutscene where you 
 meet Kalantes of Ibis. You are tasked with many objectives on the way to entering the city of Tortage 
 where you are able to fight and explore this rich, beautiful and exotic landscape of the Barachan 
 Isles. Tortage, for me, was an incredibly polished and enjoyable experience which never felt like 
 a grind. The quests are the same format like kill x, collect y and escort z but they are all enjoyable.
 
  
  After leaving Tortage, I quickly realised that the game in unfinished and with frequent crashes/memory 
 leaks/server crashes I became frustrated. The quests were fun and I found myself levelling quickly 
 through the different areas. But, this game only features a fraction of Hyboria. The map prepared 
 by Robert E. Howard boasts over 20 nations/kingdoms and yet this game only features 3, leaving 
 some of the most vivid and fantastic areas out which were feature in the Conan novels.
  
  At least the combat system in the game works really well and it's easy to get used to and proves 
 to be fun and engaging and a breath of fresh air on the MMO market. I will not go into detail as 
 you all probably know already. 
  
  How enjoyable your experience is depends on the class you choose as there are still many issues 
 with character balancing. My Tempest of Set was nerfed in an update whereas other classes were 
 improved and this shows that Funcom is working hard behind the scenes to get the balance just right. 
 The petitioning system in game is substandard. I've only had to petition a few times and I didn't 
 get the help or answers I needed and all I got was an apologetic GM who knew less about the game 
 than me.
  
  There were stages in my levelling where there was nothing to do but grind for example in the late 
 level 40's and 70's. In the late level 70's, you almost always have to resort to getting a group 
 together and grind for 10 hours to get the last few levels. I struggled with finding quests and 
 I didn't want to start in the next area because I was still many levels from being able to complete 
 the quests there but I stuck at it grinded for this minority of a time. 90% of this game was an 
 awesome experience and it didn't feel labourous in this part of the game, but there are some level 
 ranges where it is impossible to level without having to grind.
  
  At level 80, Funcom nerfed the epic raid gear so 90% of the level 80's crafted gemmed sets with 
 full +damage gems in. This caused massive imbalance in PvP and most melee classes could 1 shot 
 the casters and then they nerfed the melee classes making most the players very unhappy. They are 
 also nerfing the gems once again later this month and this has already caused thousands of players 
 to leave. 
  
  The endgame aspect of the game is only god if you are in a progressive guild with 24+ level 80's. 
 There is nothing to do at the endgame apart from grind resources for your guild's tier 3 city and 
 raid. The raid dungeons are pretty challenging there are 3 tier 1 dungeons, 1 tier 2 dungeon split 
 into 3 parts and a further dungeon in tier 3. Currently my guild has completed tier 1 to the point 
 where we can clear all the dungeons and bosses in just one 5 hour session and already we are clearing 
 our way through tier 2. The bosses and dungeons are only challenging for a week until the strategy 
 is nailed into your brain and it becomes easy and tedious.
  
  Age of Conan is a game with stunning graphics. The soundtrack is fantastic and the score for the 
 different areas really match the atmosphere and setting. The game implements a new combat system 
 that proves to be more engaging than others in different games.
  
  If you can look past the technical issues and be patient, you will enjoy this game massively. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  First of all, I have never taken so many screenshots as I have while playing Age of Conan (a. k. a. 
 AoC) . I have a great computer (while it lasts) and was able to really appreciate the AMAZING graphics 
 and art in this game. 
  
  Here is my calculation of the score:
  
  10 
  MINUS 2 
  PLUS .5 
  =8.5
  
  10? 
  Well, AoC is technically amazing (see screenshot comment above) 
 and the gameplay is solid, with the added benefit of a pretty cool combat system. Classes, story, 
 character creation, quests and other MMO standards are done well. 
  
  MINUS 2? 
  Here's the problem: it's all been down before. AoC is an excellent and shiny MMO that does the 
 fundamentals pretty well but lacks anything extra to motivate a person to continue playing it. 
 At least that's how I felt. 
  
  Sure the graphics and action are great... sure guild villages will probably be cool and the PVP 
 is fun... however, there simply isn't any angle/feature that pulls a player back to play after the 
 beauty and visceral action gets digested. 
  
  In fact, AoC is pretty shallow when compared to games like World of Warcraft. It's almost like 
 a really long version of Guild Wars, however even the crafting feels less satisfying than Guild 
 Wars. 
  
  PLUS .5? 
  Honestly, an "8" would feel adequate however I have to give AoC some boost to separate it from 
 the plethora of other "8" games. Why? One reason: the graphics. They really are something that 
 have not been seen in an MMO before. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: groovus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  THIS, is the kind of game I have been waiting for. GIANT staircases that lead to dungeons that 
 look awesome. Landscapes you just want to climb the next hill to see what the next breath taking 
 scenery looks like and see what mobs await you. And a combat system, that is FRESH and original 
 and F. U. N. cutting down waves of baddies, reminds me of Diablo in a way. First off, I played World 
 of Warcraft when it first came out, it was a fine game. But in no way, shape or form is it better 
 then Age of Conan. IMO. Yes, there are problems with AoC, and give them a few months to iron out 
 a few things. but after you see what I've seen and experienced in AoC, there is NO COMPARISON. 
 none.
  I have had Conan since it came out. I am on the brink of level 30, so this perspective is coming 
 from someone who has had it awhile. For the past few days, I have been journeying around to the 
 other areas of the game. And I was compelled to tell other gamers on the sheer AWESOMENESS of what 
 this game holds.. As I said, if you could just see what is in store when you really get into it, 
 it's simply amazing. The artistic team, landscape designers... who ever created these areas, people 
 and creatures is brillant. This game is just downright beautiful. 
  The combat is hands down, one of the best systems I have ever seen in a MMO, or a game of this 
 nature. It's just plain fun. Taking on 2,3 or even 5 guys at a time just feels satisfying. And 
 as I said, it just has a Diablo type of feel to it. Very addictive, I think I'm trying to say. 
 I will say this... it is miles better then World of Warcrafts system. You cannot argue that. I felt 
 in WoW, I would do about 3 different combos (I was mainly a warrior) and that was it. You will 
 must def be on your toes and changing your attacks in this game. 
  BOTTOM LINE::: I solo alot, I want a game I can jump into, have a great "playground" to run around 
 in, have a good time killing monsters, get some loot, meet some people to quest with or help, explore 
 a BEAUTIFUL landscape, basically just have a great gaming experience with. Age of Conan FINALLY 
 brings what I have been looking for. A MMO world that looks and feels immersive. Yes there are 
 some things they have to work on. But in 6 months to a year from now, I think this will be the 
 best MMO out on the market. I believe it already is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gen_verenov
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I'm a veteran WoW player. I'm a veteran LOTRO player. I even played a bit of EQ2, SWG (before and 
 after the sony incident) , CoH/CoV, DAoC. I liked some of these games. I have to say that I spent 
 the longest with World of Warcraft and Lord of the Rings Online. I loved WoW, but the community 
 got pretty immature/bad toward the end of my play. I loved LOTRO, especially the community, but 
 the game just could not hold my interest like WoW once did. My wife and I had been looking forward 
 to a new MMORPG that the both of us could play together and enjoy. Oh, didn't I say? Yeah, my wife 
 and I are adventuring buddies :P. Anyway, we signed up for AoC beta over a year ago. Of course, 
 we didn't come close to system requirements, and devs at Funcom probably got a good snicker from 
 my dxdiag. txt file, so needless to say we didn't get a chance to play beta.
  So, AoC finally releases. I hear good things and bad things. I buy 2 copies (one for the wife, 
 one for myself) , and cross my fingers hoping that I didn't just throw away 100 bucks. We didn't. 
 AoC rocks. Let me say that from the get-go you notice that this is going to be a *different* game. 
 You start with literally no abilities. You're shipwrecked and have a pitiful excuse for a weapon 
 (broken oar for blunt/2h users, or a broken bottle for the other classes) . However, no matter the 
 weapon, you can absolutely kick serious butt with your beginning attacks. Also, I have to point 
 out that the combat *flows*. I saw a video from beta showing melee combat and it seemed really 
 slow-paced. Funcom has fixed this. Combat is fast, messy, gritty, and *very* involving. You're 
 constantly clicking buttons/combos/abilities, etc just to take down an enemy or to just survive 
 the encounter. My wife and I both had our reservations when hearing that the combat was real-time. 
 We're getting up in years (compared to all the younger whipper-snappers that usually make up the 
 majority of the gaming communtiy, hehe) and I have to admit that my reaction time is quite a bit 
 slower now than when I was 17-ish. Let me tell you that my reservations/worries were laid to rest 
 after playing for a just a few minutes. AoC's combat system is very forgiving for us older-timers 
 (snicker) . Yet, it's fast enough to keep the game flowing at a good pace, while at the same time 
 allowing you to feel that you're not just spamming the same two buttons over and over again.
  AoC has awesome graphics.... even on my current setup/rig. I do not have a super-gaming machine. 
 I did build new pc's for my wife and I. Specs are as follows: AMD Athlon 64 X2 4200, 2 GB Dual-channel 
 800mhz RAM, Sparkle 8600GTS card (there are other specs, but those are the main one's) . I am able 
 to select High Settings, disable shadows and bloom, and I run *most* areas (including Old Tarantia) 
 around 20fps. Outside the city of Old Tarantia (as it is absolutely massive in size) I usually 
 run around 50fps. Now, I'll be honest. There are areas within the game that absolutely *destroy* 
 my frame rate.... without a good explanation as to *why*. For example, I can enter a noble's villa 
 (for a quest) in Old Tarantia's Noble District and literally drop 20fps. I can then exit that villa 
 (who the heck wants to try to complete a quest at 1.9 fps??) and enter a *different* villa and 
 actually have a 10fps *increase* in performance. Funcom still has their work cut out for them, 
 but by and large this game is awesome. I recommend it to mature players. I also recommend that 
 the aforementioned mature players find a good/friendly/active guild to join with. I hear that one 
 of the best one's is Legends of Valhalla on Set Server (wink-wink, nudge-nudge) .
  
  Pros: Great graphics. Great Sound. Great gameplay/questing (Funcom currently in the process of 
 adding quests' for the *dead zones* of leveling) . Great strides in bug fixes. Overall decent community.
 
  
  Cons: Bugs that are prevalent in a newly-launched MMO (although, I think it comes in second to 
 LOTRO for launch stability) . Some *dead zones* of leveling (i. e. levels 48-55 are spent much of 
 the time grinding instead of questing due to there not being a decent amount of quests available 
 for those levels) .
  
  I give AoC a 9 out of 10.
  
  BTW, I attempted to go back and play WoW for a bit after attempting AoC. I was bored to tears in 
 20 mins due to how *slow* WoW now seems to me. I'm afraid that since playing AoC that it will be 
 this way due to their very involving real-time combat system. I'm hooked! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fionn
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Age of Conan has only a few merits. 1: It looks beautiful (if your computer can run it, and have 
 decent frps) 2: Has a great combat system stolen from Everquest 2, and they add in fatalities for 
 the gore effect. 3: The huge 30 gigs you have to install are all centered around little cut scenes 
 here and there. 
  
  Age of Conan is not ALL THAT AND A BAG OF CHIPs: It is actually quite limitied.
  1. The PVP system 
 is a joke. The warrior classes are useless, and the range classes lock and pwn everyone. The Priests 
 are overpowered as well as the rangers/barbarian (rogue classes.) hence PVP is broken in the game, 
 and the other classes are usually 2 shotted from afar. The other thing is everyone can hide, yes 
 with perception this will limit what you can do with it, but a warrior or priest should not be 
 able to stealth up on you like a rogue should. 
  2. The Game is filled with lots of bugs and can crash your system frequently. Frame rates in certain 
 areas can drop down below 20. Most likely coming from the server side and not the player.
  3. Character Creator is a piece of crap and you have very limited options on what you can do with 
 a characters face before it looks fake and not even human.
  4. There is only one race.. HUMAN. No other races, so you are stuck looking like everyone else 
 where in most all other MMORPGs, there is a variety of different races and looks.
  5. Your inventory is very limited, in one of the patches they added twice the bag space, but considering 
 your main inventory can only hold like 16 items, you leave almost everything laying on the ground 
 unless its worth selling.
  6. No emotes in the game, you are limited to just some fancy hellos and greetings that make the 
 character act out the action. You cannot create your own emotes.
  7. PVP is everyone against everyone, and no places to hide. This can be a positive or negative 
 to people based on how they like their pvp. The biggest problem is when you try to help out another 
 player in PVP, your aoe spells can destroy the person you are also trying to help making you a 
 enemy instead of a friend. 
  8. Everyone tends to wear the same looking brown armors and weapons. No diversity in how players 
 look.
  9. Casters are all black - egyptian looking. This is not a race thing, its a preference thing. 
 In the Conan movies themselves, the casters were white as well. You basically have to be a dark 
 skinned caster to have any casting abilitiy in the game. The only exception is the Priest of Mitra 
 who can be Cimmerian. Other than that.. Necros, Demonoligists, Tempest of Sets, ect ect.. All black 
 egyption dark skinned Stygians. This is a huge negative. 
  
  This is just a sample of all the issues I have seen with this game. 
  
  It lacks the fun of 
 World of Warcraft, and it lacks the scalabilitiy of EQ1. I pick these 2, because no matter what 
 anyone else says. EQ made MMORPGs what they are and what made it such a great genre, and WoW defined 
 what makes the mmorpg enjoyable raiding or soloing. EQ has the most content and flexabiity in any 
 MMORPG to date, WOW, has the excitement and playability that makes it the best as well. Every other 
 MMORPG to date has to examine these 2 games and its impact on the market... what makes a MMORPG 
 playable and fun, and how content should be established with a player driven community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregyoungottawa
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Short and snappy review:
  - linear start of game is frustrating, especially if you want to try different classes you have 
 to go back to "go"
  - almost no multiplayer interaction until you get to the highest levels - clearly this game was 
 designed for hardcore basement monsters - casual players need not apply
  - the combat is OK, and certainly better than WoW but doesn't do as good a job at options as DAOC 
 did. - graphically very nice.
  
  Sure - I only played until about level 12, but those hours were unfulfilling and no fun. Sorry 
 Conan - pretty to look at but nothing new.
  
  What could they have done?
  - more choices in character development - more styles, spells - now you have no options
  - a 
 reason to engage other players instead of a solo game where you see other players run by once in 
 a while.
  - solve the age old problem of how to engage lower level players (e. g. people with day jobs :) 
 in the world
  - give a way to start a new character without having to go through the starting quests squaredance 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkeval
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  (Warning: Some would possibly classify this as a rant. Others might see through the sarcasm. Some 
 will agree and others will disagree. This post has no intent of harm, only explaining my feelings 
 and giving some sort of review of my experience, although some might come out a bit negative - 
 I've tried to stay as positive I could regarding this but it wasn't easy. Reading it is entirely 
 voluntarily and at your own discretion. I apologize in advance if you find it a bit brutal in any 
 way.) 
  
  I've decided that level 27 is as far I can go in Age of Conan. I'm so tired of quests and pve now 
 that I want to puke whenever I consider logging back in. It's got great graphics, lovely quests, 
 pve is fun (considering it's pve) , but there is a limit on how much I can do the same stuff over 
 and over again and when the limit is reached I just can't take it anymore. I refuse to continue 
 doing something I'm not enjoying anymore, and AoC is not giving me a choice to do something else. 
 I'm not doing another quest and I'm not killing another mob. Call me a quitter. 
  
  So that's it, I've tried AoC and for me it was just another single player game that goes right 
 into the shelf to collect dust. Yes, I said single player game because the majority of the players 
 I met in there were not interested in doing anything else than single player quests. Single player 
 quests give the best rewards. The best equipment comes from quests, and is not tradable, so I don't 
 even have a choice to buy it if I'm sick of doing single player quests.
  
  In so many ways DAOC are just too much superior to AOC in what matters most to me. 
  
  I've 
 tried to flag myself for all the various pvp options (minigames etc) , with no luck getting into 
 one single game in several days. Maybe I should've gone to the PvP server, you say? I've tried 
 Camlann (European DAOC PvP server) , and I have no reason to believe AoC PvP is any different. A 
 chaotic mass slaughter of low levels, everyone attacking everything that moves with no hesitation 
 (on the contrary from the RvR servers) . If I weren't so sick of Tortage and having to do everything 
 in there over again, maybe I would at least try it once. 
  
  Maybe (you never know) when pvp has established on Ymir and most people are lvl80, I might come 
 back to try out the endgame if there is a kind soul who can PL me to 80 (as leveling myself all 
 those levels are just too much of a grind for me) . That is not to be taken as begging or anything, 
 I'm not asking. 
  
  Hmm this still came out a bit too negative, but I don't know how else to put it. Also it might 
 be a bit harsh to judge this game at this early stage, but it's not as if I've got any choice, 
 is it. Hope I haven't been an inconvenience after all this.
  
  
  
  I decided to stop my review there, and I've written an appendium for those who would be interested 
 in reading on about more reasons for why I got bored in Age of Conan:
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/users/darkeval/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-25452248 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  VERY little about this MMO is different than every other one out there. For one, I am sick and 
 tired of the: Talk to "x" NPC, go loot "x" amount of items by killing "x" amount of mobs, return 
 for "x" reward/xp. Why can't developers come up with different ways to level instead of recycling 
 the same old methods from all other MMO's that I have grown tired of? I'm at level 21 and just 
 get bored to death over the thought of leveling all the way to 80 by using the exact same method 
 as I have used a million times in a plenty of different games. In the end, it seems like all these 
 games are the same but with different skins. Give me something new. Give me something different. 
 
  
  The "new" combat system isn't really even that different. The only thing different about it is 
 that it requires you to hit a few extra keys for your specials... half the time they don't even 
 register and you end up not performing your special. The UI and chat are horrible and most groups 
 do not last long at all if you are lucky enough to find one. Most areas are instances.... but they 
 aren't private so groups will camp them and of course this may block your progress for god only 
 knows how long. 
  
  Strangely enough.... I really didn't run into any bugs at all. Game worked well for me and it did 
 have beautiful graphics even though the directx 10 version hasn't hit live yet. The story line 
 is decent... but I really don't care for it. 
  
  I wasn't a fan of WoW so it's no wonder why this game wasn't for me. I want a game with depth and 
 complexity instead of a game that's just full of the same, boring, long quests that have been in 
 every other mmo for the past 5 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Hyborian Adventures is a new MMORPG from the developer funcom; Funcom's previous MMORPG was Anarchy 
 online, a game which this reviewer did not play. This reviewer has only played one other MMORPG, 
 Star Wars Galaxies. Back when SWG was actually different from the other MMORPGS.
  
  Now, "Age of Conan Hyborian Adventures" comes along and looks like it could be different, promising 
 new action & fancy graphics. Unfortunately the addition of blood, gore, and boobs does not make 
 the game different enough to keep me from playing any other MMORPG that is more polished.
  
  Ok, sure the combat system has been tweaked from that of other D&D style RPG mechanics. Players 
 utilizing physical attacks, such as rouge or solider classes, are required to complete a series 
 of button pushes to complete any of their combo attacks. Where as Magic wielders (priests & Mages) , 
 simply push their desired combo button and have it auto cast for them.
  
  The game fails to provide a rewarding crafting, or social aspect. Instead focuses heavily on PVP 
 or PVE combat. Severs are divided into two categories PVP & PVE. On PVP servers new players are 
 griefed at spawn in points until they eventually give up and try PVE. In PVE players participate 
 in an over-glorified single player game, with the option to play co-op & to participate in multiplayer 
 matches. Unfortunately at the time of writing, my server, OMM, has an allergic reaction to PVP 
 matches. I have never actually gotten to play one on it. Having only been able to queue up for 
 a match with seven other people. We never get the magical eighth player required for a match to 
 actually occur.
  
  Age of Conan has some of the best graphics of any MMORPG, which should help its immersion factor. 
 Unfortunately the awesome graphics mean that zones will be fairly small, and heavily instanced 
 to maintain playable frame rates for every one. The sheer lack of scale of the zones and lack of 
 other players in the instance does not portray the land of Hyboria as an epic world, but rather 
 makes it look like a Hollywood back lot set.
  
  Age of Conan, has some potential but it is suffering from a lack of higher level (50+) PVE content, 
 broken PVP combat (on PVE servers) , and lack luster social & crafting elements to the game. As 
 with most MMOs the early adopters have to suffer through the growing pains, but I don't think a 
 player would miss much if they just wait a couple months before trying the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Xander
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  This game is brilliant, for a MMO release it's been the most stable I've yet seen of any new MMO, 
 and if you take the time to truly enjoy the existing content sure to leave you quite satsified 
 at most level's even when the content wears thin, the innovative combat system, beautiful visuals 
 and captivating sound's make's even grinding a pleasure.
  
  Like all new mmo's Age of Conan is far from complete, i suspect a good 30-40% of the quest's beyond 
 a certain level are yet to be in-game, but that's a darn site better then most MMO's at release 
 and already new content is annouced as incoming within a month, of course their are bugs, technical 
 glitches, some annoying a few game-breaking forcing a relog, the odd broken quest, though most 
 are fixable with a bit of sense, the worse requiring a petition but with a constant flow of bug 
 fixes and balances from funcom the game is getting ever more stable and balanced on a bi-weekly 
 basis, give the history of MMO releases it's hardly a suprise.
  
  What is surprising is how stunning the game is, from low to high settings it looks beautiful, and 
 providing your pc is mid range+ gaming pc from the last year or so will run the game perfectly 
 and if your holding on to your old one this game is the reason to buy a new one, and yes that's 
 right gaming pc dont buy some POS from pc world and think it'll run as you'll be in for a surprise, 
 this isnt a game which is designed to run on old hardware but the beauty of the game more than 
 makes up for this, not to mention knowing we'll be still enjoying these visual's for many year's 
 to come.
  
  The quest's that are there are fun and even when they appear standard MMO types, somehow appear 
 more fun to do and acheive in the world of hybroia then they do in many other MMO's, with all the 
 new content that will be flowing into this game over the next year until the game as it is will 
 probably be complete and time for them to work on an expansion, anyone who's played and truly explored 
 this game will be truly exited on the prospect , my main is lvl 74 as of writing this so I can 
 safely say it has been one of the most fun MMO's i've played in year's merely levelling up even 
 at release, the mind boggles over it's potential in a year's time.
  
  Highly Recommended, bear in mind for many folks who arent use to a new MMO and the quirks that 
 come with playing them i recommend you hold of another 5 months or so at least so you can begin 
 to get the full measure of the game, but I cant see this game getting anything but far better, 
 so if you can deal with a few bug's and balance issues to get to play something innovative go play 
 now, if not wait 5-11 month's and be prepared to be blown away by it :)
  
  UPDATE- alas on pvp servers, it does ultimately become barely playable for pve content due to pvp 
 ganking madness, and on pve servers the lack of a consensual duel feature and the fact only one 
 map has free (pvp server style) pvp and the only other type of pvp is mini-games is a big, negative, 
 the game is absolutely amazing to play up to lvl 40-50 then its content narrows whilst they are 
 working on that it is noticeable and end-game content at this time is not sufficient to keep one 
 constantly playing, hopefully in a few months it'll pick up but i'm updating my review and lowering 
 my score to reflect my current opinion of the entire game after playing since release, i've played 
 allot less lately i'll probably start playing again in a few months and hopefully they'll have 
 added more stuff by then, still great potential but alas, whilst initially not to bad just lvling 
 and first playing end-game content, after a while it currently gets boring fast, hence the -2.5 
 score hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xi101xi
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I bought into the hype and purchased this game. I was ready for a new MMO. That was the biggest 
 mistake I've made in a while. This game was flat out a waste of $49.99 and I wish I had never purchased 
 it. There's very little content, and the content that is in the game is very lacking and shallow. 
 A LOT of things do not work. The game lacks any type of real balance in both PvP and PvE. For instance, 
 if you are PvPing and playing a caster, just run and gun because the combat system is so clunky 
 melee people will have a difficult time doing combos on you. 
  
  Also, the game crashes a lot and has many glitches and game stoppers. I spent an entire day trying 
 to fix an issue that prevented the game from starting up. I was just playing and out of the blue 
 the game crashed and would not relaunch. Turns out the auto-patcher corrupted a file and I had 
 to manually delete the file to make it work again. Funcom did NOT assist me with this. I had to 
 rely on other users as Funcom has NO telephone support.
  
  Hell, I would write a long winded review of this and go much more in depth, but I'm tired of wasting 
 my time with this product. I would wait at least 6 months before buying this, and even then I don't 
 know if it will be ready. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syv_helix
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  If you have no pills, knifes, bridges to jump from this is the way to go!!!
  
  I have never reviewed a game in my life.. butt this is necessary !
  
  Lets start my journey 
 with AOC highborian (Death wish) adventures!
  OMG, I start to install the game.. ,,,,,... ZZ Zzz z z zZ ,,,,, When i woke up the next day it 
 wanted CD 2.. .... zZ Z... z. zz.. z.. I got my girlfriend pregnant twice before it was finished... 
 And yes i had a smile on my face because i finally got to start the game... The first thing i se 
 when i press the AOC. exe i se a dos window appear and it serrated to puke Errors.... Cant find 
 this and that error my ass... I got it fixt when i updated the game by pressing the update. exe 
 .. So here comes the first IDIOTIC thing with this game.. Why could they not link the update exe 
 to the Aoc. exe ??? retards.. after the update the aoc. exe was linkt to the update file... Its like 
 you wipe you own ass before take a ****
  
  The game starts... finlay, In the character screen the first thing you se is a man stuck in the 
 wall next to the people rowing the boat ?? nice first impression.. Part 2..
  
  you the lamest cut scene IN YOU LIfe.. And the stupid (funcom/eidos) haven't made any way for you 
 to skip this, Its a boring, ass cutscene when you are drowning forever !! and every time you make 
 a character you must suffer this scene, The funny part is when the man coming to talk to you kneels 
 in 0,0005 sec, like funcom had no time to make a movement more ugly, This is only 5-10 min in the 
 game and i found more glitches in the game then 5 - 10 months in wow.
  
  here is a comparison... If you want a juicy burger, you go to Burger king or Mc Donald's... If 
 you want a second hand, burger somebody have taken a dump in, You go to FUNCOM because they got 
 the special for twice the money and less the taste with there new burger : Big Highborian ass adventures...
 
  
  If you want me to review this game further.. mail me = ) syv_helix@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkLotusX
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  While MMOs are, for better or worse, expected to have bugs upon their release AoC goes well beyond 
 that by presenting us with a nicely polished first twenty levels and then a incomplete, broken 
 and poorly designed game for the remaining sixty levels.
  
  There are some good points to AoC, the attempt to approach combat from a different angle using 
 directional attacks, directional shielding and active blocking etc should be encouraged, as it 
 has been far too long since a MMO really had a serious attempt to break the EQ approach.
  
  Also as mentioned the first twenty levels are well done, the quests are nicely designed, with VO 
 and for an MMO are actually quite engaging and make you feel as if you are playing a single player 
 RPG instead of a MMORPG. You could even argue that past the starting area and up until around level 
 30 the game manages to hold a reasonable standard of gameplay, although you do start to lose much 
 of the immersion and you do start to see the polish lacking compared to Tortage.
  
  Beyond that though the game starts to wither and die, you will hit large patches of time in between 
 levels where there is no content and only grinding available to you to get to the next level. You'll 
 also go from having a large selection of zones to explore to being pigeon-holed into one or possibly 
 two zones for your level range.
  
  A major contributor to this problem is the game having far too many levels upon release, 50-60 
 levels instead of 80 would have been much better suited to the amount of content (zones) they launched 
 with.
  
  Also plaguing the game is a host of problems with the in game stats you have on your armour and 
 weapons. Many of them just don't work at this moment and others are poorly balanced with each other. 
 In addition to this the itemisation in general is poor, at the time of writing this, you will go 
 from level 1-80 without seeing much of a change in your characters appearance at all.
  
  Other problems include the game being poorly optimised, patching which has mostly succeeded to 
 break more things then fix and class balance which is simply non existent at present.
  
  In conclusion the game was just release far too early, unfortunately for Funcom this will probably 
 cause the game to lose many of the high number of players they got on launch. If you are looking 
 to get the game, I would advise against it at this moment, unless you don't envisage yourself reaching 
 level 40 before September.
  
  The game has potential and with 6 months of patching, might reach that potential, but until then 
 stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasancath
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Asheron's Call -like, but with better graphics, sounds, and naked chicks. If you like to kill stuff 
 (your own level) 3 or 4 at a time quickly, solo quests that give great look and xp, and just basically 
 have some fun in combat (i. e. combos) , you'll like this game... yes, past level 20... I have a 
 40 necro and still diggin it.
  
  Cons:
  Most things are fully fleshed out and bug-free, but there are still plenty of bugs, mostly graphics 
 related (especially if you tweak too much on the settings) . Some item description problems. Some 
 lag problems (ping bar goes through the roof sometimes for no reason ... whole group I was in had 
 it happen) .
  
  Beefy on HW reqs, but it can be mitigated with some adjustments to graphics until you get some 
 better hardware (try scaling down view distances some) . 
  
  Summary: I just rolled off WoW last spring and tried EQ2 for a couple months... fun level with 
 those just not up to par with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rosicross
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Well the game is very pretty and it runs smooth on my system. Both of those are good points coming 
 from Vanguard.
  
  The combat is new and I like the style. I have fun running around smashing heads and I think the 
 content is good. There is some issues but I think that most of them will be worked out over time. 
 There are some bugs still in game, but nothing too bad.
  
  Leveling is pretty fast... but from what I understand the game really takes off end game after lvl 
 80. I am only 56 so I can't comment on that yet. I think that the siege combat is going to be really 
 interesting and I know that the mounts and PvP are really enjoyable.
  
  All in all I think this was a good turn out from FC and I think I will be living in Hyboria for 
 a long time... at least till Darkfall comes out.
  
  Hope to see you there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: green_day_d
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Much like a majority of MMO's AoC needs time to progress through patches and the like. I cant quit 
 understand the negative reviews people have been posting. i've played to level 20 so far and although 
 there are an excessive amount of quests which can become a little confusing. However this game 
 is interesting and extremely innovative with combat. i was pleasantly surprised at how intuitive 
 and easy to pick up it was.
  
  Its unreasonable to assume that a game on such a large scale could b perfected before release. 
 Its taken WoW hundreds of patches to reach where it is now and Age of Conan has alot more to deal 
 with. Given time to expand and adapt, i believe this game could be a truly impressive title and 
 well worth a fan of the genre's time.
  
  I think its important to play the game for a solid chunk of time to truly get the gist of it. As 
 long as you don't give up strait away its really quite awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_GundamRX78
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  We all know that for a number of years "Age of Conan" has been hyped up by countless media sources -- 
 even Gamespot. Finally when the game came out I decided at the last minute to pick up the limited 
 edition. That was a big mistake, and I'm still regretting it.
  
  I really wanted to like this game -- I really did. But I just can't find anything to like about 
 it. Okay, it's a beautiful game, it runs well, and it looks great. The combat system is different 
 (not great, but different) , and it's interesting seeing a more "mature" game. But simply put, the 
 game just isn't fun. At least I don't think so. You always seem to be doing the same thing over 
 and over again and there's never any end to it. Once you get out of town you're bashing in a monster's 
 head with your mace or slicing off some guy's head with your sword; there's nothing else to the 
 game. It lacks any sort of depth to really draw me in. There is no out-of-combat content at all -- 
 at least none that I've found.
  The default control scheme I also find to be extremely uncomfortable. Pressing the 1, 2 and 3 keys 
 to do different weapon angle attacks is awkward and uncomfortable, and clicking the little buttons 
 with the mouse is even more uncomfortable. I've been trying to set up a different key set but because 
 you can't customize all of the keys (like the mouse buttons) I have yet to find anything more comfortable.
 
  
  Questing alone or in a group is a challenge and frustrating because you have to compete with the 
 other players to get that spawn you need for your quest, and the spawns are fairly slow so that 
 makes it even more painful. If you're on a PvP server than it's even more difficult for if you're 
 waiting for a spawn and someone else comes up and wants it, they'll call in their high-level buddy 
 to kill you and than they take the spawn and you lose out. 
  
  And what happened to this "deep character customization system"? I'd call the customization system 
 anything but deep. Yeah, you can customize various options on your character, but not really all 
 that many to make a truly unique-looking character.
  Than there's the armor... Well, again there's really no customization there. You wear whatever 
 is best, you don't really get to choose your look. 
  
  All-in-all the game is "okay", but it's not great and does not live up to all of the hype about 
 it. The voice acting is good, the graphics are great, and the game has some interesting features... 
 but it just isn't enough to make it a truly good or fun game. 
  World of Warcraft has nothing to worry about. This game is disappointing.
  
  This is a game 
 to check back with in a year and see if it gets any better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtblackburn1
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 21, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I took part in the technical testing of the game, then the beta testing. I got the game when it 
 was released and have cancelled before having to pay any monthly dues.
  
  Here is why:
  
  A. Innovation is limited to the first person mode you can access.
  B. Guilds are limited 
 to a weak one size fits all model. You must have a guild of 25 or more people, then you can build 
 a city. If you only want to play with a few friends, tough there is nothing for you. With so many 
 options, there was a lot they could have done such as: Guild of five can only build a tower, guild 
 of 10 can have a village with their tower, guild of 15 can put a wall around their village and 
 tower, etc..., but nope it is all about groups of 25 or more building cookie cutter, identical 
 cities.
  C. Customizability is far behind may older games. For a "ground breaking" new MMO it sure has little 
 to offer in this category. They could have had guild cloaks, guild or personal symbols on shields, 
 armor breast plates, mount's armor; dyes or paints to customize colors of armor, however there 
 is nothing. Just the same armor as everyone else that looks very much the same as you level up 
 and move into new items/armor.
  D. Combo attacks, a long string of buttons that take too long in battle to be effective.
  E. 
 Crafting, try to get some resources in the game, there isn't much available and what there is, 
 gold farmers monopolize.
  F. Quests, HUGE deadspots where there are few quests available, mostly in the 30's and in the 50's 
 (levels) .
  G. PVP vs PVE, the devs have stated that their main focus is PVP, however play on PVP servers is 
 ALL about high ranked groups ganking low ranked players at spawn points, very juvenile.
  H. Instances, the game is all small territories that you have to instance in and out of.
  
 
  End result, if all you want is awesome graphics this is for you. If you want a deep, interactive 
 world that captures your imagination stay away. Other than graphics and an M rating this game is 
 years behind WoW, Guild Wars, etc, etc... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nulllogic
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  The only reason some of you are not giving this a better score is A. your PC lacks the ability 
 to play this game at its fullest. B. you dont like MMORPG's to begin with. C. Your a WoW addict 
 that likes to play with dolls and loves cartoons without substance.
  Glitches aside this is the best MMORPG ever created for Solo playability and for Group game play. 
 Playing MMORPG's for the past 8 years and many different ones at the and never been engaged enough 
 to play up to the final level until now. This is the right MMORPG for just about everyone aside 
 from immature kids. The pvp gameplay and arena matches are unlike any other MMORPG tod date, and 
 the combo system gives the game that edge that makes it a lot more skill intensive to keep up. 
 Simply clicking will not do and that in itself makes a game batter then the previous iterations 
 of MMORPG's. EQ2 had something similar, but the game lacked a lot. WoW is a dated game with cartoonish 
 characters and a very uninteresting story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cacagrande1
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  AoC isn't what i though it would be. My most concern is with the graphical bugs and glitches... TONS 
 OF THEM! If it isnt the game constantly crashing from that stupid memory leak, its the textures 
 not loading properly. They stay in low resolution when settings are actually cranked up all yhe 
 way. What gives? The worls are constantly stuttering and freezing, even in a decent rig like mines. 
 The graphics arent even that good and im getting low frames in many places. The water is the only 
 neat looking thing in the game.
  The gameplay is fun, but with slow leveling up you have to quest, quest and quest some more wich 
 gets afully boring after a while. Skills are awfully simple since everything is done for you and 
 getting new skills is even worse cause u have to max out all your feats on one skill before actually 
 moving to another, which makes it time consuming.
  Funcom has ALOT of things to fix before making this game acceptable. The problem is, I dont see 
 many steps being taken to solve them, since they actually get worse and worse. My advice is to 
 wait a few months till everything gets balanced out. Even then i dont think its worth the 50 dollars, 
 20 at the most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finaticd
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 19, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I have played many RPG and MMOs, this game is quite lacking.
  
  I kept playing the game in hopes it would get better, and to recoup the sunk costs of my AoC purchase. 
 But now that the free trial is running out....
  
  The only thing this game has going for it is graphics. Even at release this game is broken beyond 
 reason and not well thought out. 
  
  Issues: No content, it's linear and is not much group content... often times you are given one zone 
 for 10 levels. Bugs, all games have those but not to the extent. For instance female characters 
 swing much slower and do not have the range of males. The game finally added stats, that don't 
 affect much in game. An MMO where stats don't help and in PvP many stats are turned off? Many of 
 the feat tree skills do not work at all for all classes.
  
  All classes are the same, except 3 can heal and 3 can tank. There is a big issue with Melee Vs. 
 Caster. Most classes can one shot each other, however if that doesn't happen.... then there are 
 long 10 minute + drawn out duels were neither player can kill or even hit each other.... the jousts 
 are not really engaging at all.
  
  The game unfortunately, isn't able to handle the epic battles that are at the crux of this game. 
 Soon they are implementing a system, to deter world PvP, where if you kill another player to often, 
 that player can kill and loot your items. There is a lot more wrong with this game but you get 
 the idea.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xefier
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  This game was a total letdown past level 20. The first "noob" area, Tortage was well scripted and 
 a delight to play one time through.
  
  But once the game thrusts you into the next city, you feel overwhelmed with boring quests and boring 
 monsters. To me, it felt as bland as a japanese mmo like lineage from this point. I have played 
 about 20 MMOs since Everquest 10 years ago, and this one falls near last.
  
  PVP is a joke, mostly because it doesn't really exist on PVE servers, i've sat for hours waiting 
 for a match because only 15 people were wanting to play at any given time... PVP servers are also 
 a joke, because it is a gankfest of level 60+ killing level 20s.
  
  I liked anarchy online a lot better, I think funcom was drinking quite a bit when they released 
 this game with many of the promises lacking. Don't waste your money, wait for warhammer online. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steffen_P28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Age of conan is a great game, its fast paced compared to world of warcraft and you have great control 
 of what directions your hits come from, this is a nice new addition to the MMO , the grapchis too 
 are fantastic if you have a computer that can run everything at max settings, however .. it requires 
 a lot of video memory and ram not to mention a or some powerful processors, .. my system is and 
 AMD 6000+ dual core processor, 4 giga byte ram, and two Geforce 8800GT in Sli (it turns out that 
 the game isnt able to run on sli systems untill a patch fixes that and according to a GM i spoke 
 to then it wont be added untill around august, so i have disabled it and only use one graphics 
 card.) the client keep crashing giving an error that isnt mention on a forum and that the GM apparently 
 cant explain how to fix, since im still struggeling with it , it says "out of memory" and then 
 a long error code, offering me to shut down the client and ending the game. That is the most annoying 
 thing about the game. A piece of advice when it comes to choosing servers , on the Pve servers 
 people in general are helpful and open to questions you might have, and are willing to talk about 
 most things. 
  for your own sake, unless you like being ganked (spawn raped over and over again by people about 
 5 to 10 lvls higher then you in groups then stay away from white sands isle on the pvp servers.) 
 and being met by a lot of very rude children that considers it fun to harass others any way they 
 can. 
  well... back to the game, its in general awsome, but it still has too many bugs, but in time it 
 will no doubt become one of the most popular MMO out there, it has a lot of fun things to do no 
 matter if your in to pvp or if you just want to pve. so far the lvl 50+ content is a bit slim a 
 lot of people complaint about lack of content end game. but patches are being added to fix that 
 problem.
  anyway.. i highly reccommend the game once it gets a bit of time to "grow" and get the major bugs 
 ironed out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeingo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  i love this game. the combat is awsome and incredebly brutal. it is really addictive at least for 
 me. if you arn't big into combat this might not be the game for you though. i like this game because 
 its finally an mmo with immersive combat where i can be a warrior with out getting bored. outside 
 of combat though you sort of just run from point a to point b so liking the combat aspects is a 
 must. if you do then this is the greatest mmo ever and once they patch out the glitches (like falling 
 through floors etc.) then it will be perfect. one other problem i have with the game is that there 
 doesn't seem to be a wide enough variety of armors, this might be because i havn't progressed far 
 enough in to the game but it seems like there is really only four types, cloth, light, medium, 
 and heavy. in those classes theres only one or two to choose from. pvp is also pretty fun but there 
 seems to be a lot of lowbie killers in this game. but overall this is a great game and you should 
 try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyBird1940
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  
  
  The aspects I mostly enjoy are...
  
  Targeting: You can kill multiple enemys at once if they are near eachother in your line of sight 
 with melee weapons without any AOE spells/skills. Targeting is pretty decent, if you walk up to 
 one guy it automatically targets him, then if you look at somone else it targets them instead. 
 But I have had minor problems with targeting wich resulted in death a couple times its not perfect 
 but its pretty damn good and the best system in an mmo ive seen so far.
  
  PvP: Its f'ing awsome, I play as an assassin and its very satisfying to slit another player's throat 
 in a gory fatality. PvP is very much skill based unlike most other mmos your gear doesnt make much 
 of a difference unless your facing somone of your skill level. The only problem i've seen is that 
 its almost impossible to get into the PvP minigames, I dont know how the matchmaking system works 
 but imo it doesnt work at all or nobody uses it.
  It will take awhile but when guild vs guild city battles begin this is what the end game will be 
 about and I cant wait its going to be rediculously awsome.
  Oh and watch out for the 12 year old gankers.. how did they get this game? stupid parents..
  
 
  Combat in general as a melee dps is great, graphics rock sound is nice espesially hearing the 
 blood splater accross the ground after a fatal blow. I also love how different areas have a different 
 story to them which all ties in together sometimes. Grinding seems like less of a chore and more 
 fun though theres enough quests for it to not be necessary, at least for 5-10 levels at a time 
 maybe 1 or 2 once in awhile, even then at level 50s it only takes a couple hours to grind a full 
 level.
  
  Bottom line I've played alot of mmos including eq, daoc, wow, ao, eve, potbs and a couple more 
 i'm forgetting this one takes the cake. I'm very heavy into PvP and this one does it for me, if 
 your more of a PvE kind of person then wait for warhammer or somthing.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eizenstahl
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  This will be a short review.. I hope. Im not saying this is the truth, but its the way I feel after 
 36 levels (My truth :p ) . I just cancelled my account.
  
  
  The good:
  
  * Landscapes are pretty much awesome, especially in Cimmeria (no I havnt seen all zones.. not even 
 close) .
  
  * A new way to get new players in to the game (the 20 lvls of tutorial) . Its far from great, but 
 its not that bad either.
  
  I like the mapsystem (but it bugs out all the time) .
  
  
  
  The bad:
  
  * Character animations. Too fast. Everything is on speed.
  
  * Blood/Fatalities. 
 Adds nothing to the game. If feels like a coverup for something bad (the rest of the game) imho. 
 It just feels like its there to lure the kiddies into thinking the game is 'uber'... when its really 
 pretty lame
  
  * Bugs... (The new MMO's disease) . Skills not working... memory leaks... crashing... to name a few. 
 Some bugs are bordering criminal (skills not doing anything for example. Core things should, at 
 a minimum, be working) .
  
  * Button-smashing extravaganza. Its totally insane. 5-6 buttons to make 1 skills or spell 'go away'... insane.. just 
 insane.
  
  * UI. Probably one of the worst yet. Yes, even worse than Vanguards default UI imho.
  
  * Grouping. 
 Everyone is more or less soloing, but I have never played a more chaotic group-play ever. No one 
 knows what is players and what is mobs (especially around the Vanirs in Cimmeria) , everyone looks 
 the same. At one point there was 3 groups at the same 'camp', it was totally insane... so sad. No-one 
 knew what was what, where to run, what to kill, what was hitting who.. and so on. Very group-unfriendly 
 in its current state. As a tank its a total nightmare.
  
  * FedEx quests r us. It feels like I've been running for 36 levels.
  
  * Gear. About the same 
 as grouping. What is what... what stats is best... is that lvl 30 heavy armor-piece the same as that 
 lvl 36 heavy armor-piece? Same 'stats'.... same looks.... A real turnoff.
  
  * Gameplay wise.... Its just not fun to play. I cant put my finger on why, but its so painfully 
 obvious that this type of gameplay has been done before... only better. If you like running around 
 alot, and an insane amount of button-smashing... maybe you like it.
  
  * PvP. Havn't tried. If I want a PvP game I play BF2 or Wolfenstein.
  
  
  
  I can list 
 more 'bad stuff', but I end it here.
  I cant recommend this MMO to anyone.. since I think that there are atleast 3 other MMOS out there 
 that is better, bigger and more 'done'. If you want more of the exact same junk you're playing 
 atm, only buggier and with a hell of a lot more button-smashing... then maybe this game is for you.
 
  
  I had high hopes and expectations on this game... but it wasnt even close.
  It feels abit like an console game disguised as a PC game (which it sort of is) .
  Gamespot reviewer 
 is once again full of it (been several insanely high scores for pretty dismal games the last 2 
 years or so) or he smoked something illegal while writing the review, because this game is no way 
 near a 8.5, not even if it had been bug-free.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilduckyblabla
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  The graphics are really nice and the enviroments are fantastic, but the lvling isnt what is should 
 be, this game is really boring if it comes to leveling, quests are boring and such, if you wanne 
 quest while having fun do it in a group, this game is also not that addictive compared to World 
 of warcraft well thats my opinion. I had more fun playing world of warcraft then this. They say 
 the PVP system is nice but there is nothing good about doing pvp when your low lvl (since the leveling 
 is boring)
  I should suggest you atleast give it a try as it isn't all bad, trail version will be coming shortly. 
 But really isnt getting a Super B from me. This is the first time I review a game to please don't 
 kill me for my spelling I try my best to type proper english as I'm from belgium. I hope id said 
 some usefull stuff that can help people! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slowpoke68
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  After playing AoC for one month and cancelling my subscription here are my impressions.
  
  Game is buggy. Too much too list.
  
  Game is incomplete. Doesn't support DX10, shader 3.0, 
 moderately supports sli... all promised features. Engine not anywhere near optimized.
  
  Game is thin on pve content... this is a pvp focused game obviously, but this has the weakest pve 
 since Horizons.
  
  Given its a pvp game you would think that would be strong. PvP is horribly imbalanced with godmode 
 and gimp classes. What is hilarious is the same imbalances remain that were detailed in the beta 
 pvp weekend. Only one mini game that anyone plays and it is just a dreadful map. Melee system screwed 
 in pvp. 
  
  Customer service.... worst since EQ2 launch. Non existant. In game petitions not answered for days, 
 0 support from devs on myriad 
  technical issues.
  
  Community... an mmo is only as good as the community that plays it. Although I did meet some very 
 nice people, this on the whole is the worst mmo community I have ever been a part of. Was hoping 
 the M rating would draw a well, more mature crowd... but man its like they imported the dregs from 
 barrens chat to make up 80% of the community.
  
  I will check back and see where this game is in six months but right now it feels like I'm playing 
 one of my friend's son's console games. It needs a lot of work to even be competitive in today's 
 mmo market. 
  
  The good:
  
  The combat in this game is meaty, the fatalities are awesome, the graphics (although not optimized) 
 are good. The sound is the best in any game I have played. The Tortage campaign was great the first 
 time around but uggghhh, god help you if you are an altoholic. A lot of the ideas which haven't 
 been implemented sound good. Hopefully this game is salvageable and will improve with time.
  
  Bottom line.... save your money for now and check back sometime down the road.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CatAtomic999
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  To put it bluntly, this game has technical problems. There are plenty of bugs and some important 
 features are currently unavailable. However, the game itself is engaging enough to keep a lot of 
 people playing through the bugs and rapid patching process, so I suppose that's a kind of twisted 
 compliment.
  
  AoC's graphics are great (but demanding) by MMOPRG standards, the combat is fresh and brutal, and 
 the music is some of the best I've ever heard in a game. The overall art direction is spot on, 
 faithfully reproducing Robert Howard's barbaric Hyboria. The countryside is filled with impaled 
 bodies, the combat is full of beheadings and sadistic finishing moves, and the blouses are full 
 of oversized breasts. 
  
  It's Man Heaven, but it's not finished.
  
  It's like Funcom is racing to craft some great oak furniture to compete with the IKEA crap that's 
 cluttering the market... but right now it's covered in wood chips and they haven't started *thinking* 
 about sanding it, much less polishing it.
  
  So anyway, this game is far from perfect, and certainly not finished. It's also the most entertaining 
 MMORPG I've played in a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robsonbmw
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  It's a weird feeling when everytime you want to write a review for this game you come up with a 
 different title, you want to include different things that started irritating you all of a sudden, 
 things that you didn't notice at first and even more... things that you loved are actually becoming 
 things that irritate you. This review is written when I'm a level 56 conqueror. I may not have passed 
 this game, I may be only half way but there are things that I can definetely summarize knowing 
 that I won't change my mind no matter how my character evolves.....
  
  I must say that I was really looking forward to this game. All this hype regarding plenty of innovations, huge 
 world to explore, hundreds of quests, the most bloody battles in history. All those screens, videos, trailers. I 
 was really waiting for this title. After all you can't play  for 
 ever and the opportunity to play alongside living comrades.... yes, that was it!
  
  So I didn't hesitate and bought the game as soon as it appeared on the local gamestore's shelf.
 
  
  I must say that I was absolutely stunned at first. This game was beautiful! All of the environments, NPC's 
 your hero were very nice and highly detailed.
  
  Totage beach looked very nice but it took me a while before I really started roaming the world 
 due to the lenghty tutorial at the beginning.
  This game felt little bit odd with regards to the interface. It was a first time when I had to click 
 on 3 different types of cursors to perform a hit. Turning the camera was odd as well. Usually in 
 any given game all you have to do is to move your mouse in order to move your camera. In this game 
 I had to hold my left mouse button to move it around. So it took me a while to move and fight properly 
 because I had to change my habbits. Many times when I wanted to move the camera all I did was moving 
 the mouse cursor.
  In overall the interface is kind of odd at the beginning and it takes some time getting used to 
 it but after a while it suddenly becomes user friendly and whatever you do, you do it automatically.
 
  
  So after fighting couple of crocodiles and after this whole familiarization with the game I started 
 my real adventure and what an adventure it was! ( at least at the beginning)
  
  The environment looked very nice, With all the settings maxed I was able to admire the graphics. The 
 jungle of Tortage area looked detailed and dense. It actually felt like a real jungle. you almost 
 felt this humidity in your room. Then Tortage... hmmm.. another stunner. Beautiful and detailed city 
 with plenty of things going on, water looked almost perfect, buildings were varied. this city felt 
 live and reach in content.
  But after you live tortage the game starts letting you down with the content. All of the areas of 
 the main world like Old Tarantia, Wild lands of Zelata, Cimmeria with conall's valley and Field of 
 the Dead look empty and it feels like the programmers designed these lands with to much haste like 
 they didin't have to much time to polish them. My adventures led me through Aquilonia with Old tarantia, Wild 
 Lands, Border Range through Cimmeria with Conall's valley, Field of the dead and Eighlophian mountains 
 and I must say that it's Tortage that I feel most sentimental for. I don't know... maybe because 
 it was the beginning of my and my mates' adventures where everyone was green and didn't know where 
 to go or how to defeat the demonic pict? I think the reason I liked Tortage the most is that it 
 felt more detailed, it felt nicer as if the programmers paid the most attention to Tortage to make 
 a very good first impression. Anyway the mainland could be more detailed and polished.
  
  The battles are involving. You have to use 3 cursors to perform a hit. The higher is your level the 
 more combos are available to you and of course every class has it's own. The combos feel good and 
 just right. Every battle is unique. It's not another point + click + see how your comp generates 
 the result .In this game every battle is a different strategy. There's many different buffs to chose 
 from. You have to be carefull when applying these as you won't be able to use every buff there's 
 available. Every buff adds different bonuses but many of them exclude each other so if you apply 
Inspire the Ranks" you won't be able to applyMarshal the ranks".
  
  There's many different combos that you gain while advancing in levels. To successfully perform a 
 combo you have to time your hits and every combo has couple of stages. To perform a succesfull combo 
 you have to hit the appropriate cursors in the appropriate time. You can't be to fast and you can't 
 be to slow. It takes practice to master it but it's very easy to get the overall feeling to it. What 
 I love about the whole fighting system is the Fatalities! Man.... you can decapitate heads and arms 
 at the same time, you can stick your blade in your enemy's body then laugh at him then brake his 
 neck and at the end remove your sword or hit his stomach and while he bends from his pain finish 
 him with one powerful hit. The blood splashes all over the screen, total hardcore!
  But what dissapointed me in this whole battle system is that there's no real dodging and hit avoiding. Before 
 this game was released I read things like: ' The fight might even take couple of minutes due to 
 the dodging and hit avoidance which make every battle unique and unpredictable and each battle 
 is unique". There's no dodging in this game or at least whatever dodging there is it doesn't make 
 any sense. Why? Because even if you jump to your left or right the enemy will hit you anyway or 
 even if you decided to fall back the monster will hit you even if it's 5-10 meters from your hero. So 
 what you basically need to do in any battle is to hit your enemy as hard as possible and to finish 
 him as soon as possible which after a while makes the whole combat look more like a typical hack&slash 
 rather than a strategic fighting. The fatalities themselves are more randomised than one would have 
 thought. I get this impression that fatalities are randomly generated and occur only if your enemy 
 is weak or is couple of levels below your hero's level. Nevertheless it's even better that you won't 
 cut somebody's head every time beacause this way it doesn't get boring and having a fatality from 
 time to time is a nice addition and every time it occurs it's highly satisfying.
  
  At first I was considering to give this game a strong 10 but after gaining 50th level I decided 
 not to.
  One of the many irritating things in this game is the repetitiveness when it comes to the in game 
 items. The armor, weapons, necklasse etc. don't actually make the diffference. They only add small bonuses 
 to your hero's stats and sometimes I didn't feel that my new sword did much more damage. Wearing 
 different armor or wielding different types of weapons feels more like a show off rather than helping 
 your hero with anything. The true and sad thing is that the only real factor that affects your possible 
 success in a battle is your level and the level difference between your hero and your hero's enemies. Many 
 times I couldn't beat a guy who was 5 levels above me but as soon as I was 2-3 levels above him 
 I was totally destroying him even though I still had the same outfit. It kind of feels like Oblivion 
 where it didn't matter what you were wearing because the chances were always even as the enemies 
 advanced in levels the same moment you did.
  
  Even the drops from beaten enemies are useless and many times while wandering the different areas 
 of the game you'll encounter plenty of loose loot not taken by anyone. Sometimes if you're lucky 
 you'll find something usefull but the sad truth is that the best equipment is the one you get from 
 completing quests which makes visiting armor or weapon merchants unnecessary because they usually 
 offer much worse equipment.
  
  Another irritating aspect of the game is the trade. In Conan's world you have 4 types of currencies. Starting 
 from the lowest value you get : Tin, Copper, Silver and Gold. every 100 of tin gives you 1 copper, every 
 100 copper gives you 1 silver and so on. In this game selling items makes sense only until level 
 20 because in this period your enemies drop small amounts of money so every sold item makes a difference 
 but later on when for a 50th level cannibal you get 10 copper and for selling a unique sword you 
 get 2-3 copper it makes collecting things useless because the amount of copper you'll get from 
 3 beaten enemies ( which will take you about 3 minutes ) equals 10 unique swords sold. So now calculate 
 yourselves. Is it worth it? Is it worth running with 10 swords in a rather small inventory around 
 the whole area with hopes of selling them to a merchant when you know that you can get even more 
 by defeating the mob?
  Another irritating thing that is connected to the trade is the mount prices. I'm talking about rhinos, mammoths 
 and horses. To get the lousiest of horses you first have to spend 1G to buy riding lessons then 
 spend another 2G to buy some old wreck of a horse and the most expensive of horses cost around 
 150G!!!! I'm level 56 and so far I managed to collect 2,5 G so the rest of calculation is yours 
 : (
  
  The game has plenty of quests. The first 20 levels have spoken quests. The dialog is ambitious and 
 the voice acting sounds very convincing but as soon as you leave Tortage the voice dissapears and 
 all you see are those written dialogs which is frustrating because spoken dialogs added more to 
 the overall climate of the game and the game itself felt deeper and more alive. After getting to 
 the mainland you hear nothing and all the quests have to be read while the NPC's stand paralyzed 
 performing the same boring mimics.
  As I said before you'll find plenty of quests in the mainland but the negative side of those is 
 that most of them are all about go there and bring me that or go there and kill the boss and his 
 minions and after that kill even more bosses which makes the story very pure and not connected 
 to anything. The only quest with a good story which was developing over time making you looking 
 forward to it's ending was the night mission in Tortage. The rest is just some chaotic questing 
 during which most of the players don't even know what's going on and what the actuall land's lore 
 is. So you basically load as many quests as possible and you try to complete them to gain more points 
 to gain higher levels quicker.
  The frustrating thing about those quests is that you have some stupid limitation regarding the 
 amount of quests you can take so many times before taking another quest in you path you have to 
 finish another one to free one quest slot or you have to delete one of your less important quests 
 which again is irritating because if you traveled many miles for the deleted quest you'll have 
 to do that again.
  
  And to summarize the quest topic I must say that although there are loads of them in the level 
 range 1-45 then after that the amount of quests constantly decreases so you are left with only 
 the toughest of them, ones that you won't be able to complete alone so you have 2 options: You'll 
 either start grinding which isn't satisfying because let's say you'll get 1200exp points for killed 
 enemy that has a higher level than you but then to gain another level you need another 300.000 
 points which makes leveling a crusade or..... get a group of players who will fight alongside you.
 
  There are many quests called between players as" epic" which means that the monsters in those 
 quests are tough as hell and even when your level is much higher that theirs for example : you're 
 55 and the mob is 40 you won't be able to kill it by yourself and considering that finding a decent 
 group isn't easy and even if you find volunteers it's very time consuming before everyone gathers 
 in the same instance, you're destined to be the grinder at some stage and this is a total bull.
 
  I understand that MMORPG's are by definition for multiplayer action but those quests should be 
 easier especially when there's no other alternative. Every hero should be able to do every quest 
 solo as well even if it means having much higher level than a simple mob. But this way if you won't 
 find a group you will have to leave those quests and grind in the meantime.
  
  The game is also bugged as hell. Colisions with invisible rocks or walls, servers crashing every 
 once in a while or server laggs. Not stabilized areas where the framerate suddenly drops to 14FPS 
 even though in the more crowded areas it's in the 30-60 ratio.
  
  But in overall Age of Conan is a great game and it's only a matter of time that it will nicely 
 blossom. It has full of potential and despite it's many irritations it's still one of the best RPG 
 games of all time for me.
  Moaning about server crashing and plenty of post release bugs doesn't make any sense because every 
 huge MMORPG won't be perfect at the beginning. WOW had the same problem and how it evolved? Exactly
 
  
  So for now I would recommend this game only to the hardcore, blood thirsty and savage RPG gamers 
 who won't be dissapointed only if they love to venture and explore a huge world and who are patient 
 enough to at least pretend not to see many of this game's shortcomings. It will be fixed though 
 and from what I have read this massive world will be constantly expanded.
  
  So see you all on the battlefield!! 
  Swift Hunting!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid-poker1973
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  My first review of this game was scathing due to the fact that Funcom's customer service is horrendous 
 at best. That hasn't changed. The pitiful service from funcom is the only thing keeping me from 
 giving this game a higher rating.
  
  Having said that lets get to the details of the game.
  
  CoA is, for lack of a better term... potentially 
 an amazing game, but it's not quite there. The game was released too soon, due to several reasons 
 that I've researched over the past two weeks, the main reason is funding.
  
  So keeping that in mind, here's what you can expect from your purchase. 
  
  ~If you have technical 
 problems with installation, running etc. FORGET getting help from the company that released the 
 game... period! You're best bet is the amazing people that hang out the the forums. ALL of my technical 
 problems were handled and resolved due to OTHER PLAYERS and NOT funcom employees.
  
  ~The game is buggy, choppy, and a serious hardware check for you system. If you're unsure about 
 weather or not your system can handle it.... it probably can't I've got a relatively new, high end 
 system and I still have trouble getting smooth game play.... plan on upgrading your system after 
 trying this game out.
  
  I can't completely run Conan into the ground because the game itself holds MUCH promise. If they 
 can manage and resolve the LARGE list of flaws, bugs and incomplete content and gameplay then the 
 game will become EPIC....
  
  But right now it is far cry from smooth and polished. Give it a year and people will be raving 
 about Conan being the next WoW.... the next MMO juggernaught.
  
  Until then, patience is a MUST if you're plan on joining the world of Hyboria. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Judge_Omega
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  No real improvements gameplay wise from this monster. I am definetly not happy with this game and 
 wish i could get a refund. My list of qualms with this game are many:
  4 hour installation.
  5 minute start up screen+.
  Even on its lowest settings this game is 
 laggy.
  No equipment helps your stats more than 1% for at least the first 40 hours of gameplay. (not much 
 of an incentive to get 'decent' eq)
  EXTREMELY limited options available to the player- basically you have couple of weak long lasting 
 buffs, attacks, and a couple of damage spells, and MAYBE a snare. 
  Trying to do anything 'tricky' is impossible as the game gives creatures a basic full heal if they 
 are out of combat for more than a second.
  If you are a fan of WoW, you'de prolly enjoy the hundreds of hours of grind, but imo wow has much 
 better options available to the player.
  The graphics are absolutly dreadful with anything but a top of the line system.
  Bugs run rampant 
 in this game. So many i could fill a small book.
  One of my biggest issues with this game is its total lack stability, memory leaks every where. 
 Expect to crash every hour or so.
  My biggest issue is ,of course, the gameplay though. Nothing more than pressing a series of attacks 
 over and over agian. With no end in sight.
  Overall this game is VERY unfinished, in a another year or so when the bugs are worked out and 
 they have a stable game, i will give it a decent rating of 6 or 7. But as for now, i cant recomend 
 this game to anyone. An absolute rock bottom 1 rating from me for how things stand now. So i ended 
 up giving this game a 3.5 for the average of what it could be, and what it is.
  Shame on the developers for releasing this game so early. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilson336
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Plus:
  +beautiful graphics and audio
  +engaging melee combat
  +fatalities
  +Varied classes and play styles
  
  Minus:
  -high hardware requirements
  -New MMO with new 
 MMO glitches
  -Some class balancing still needed
  -Some aspects of the game world not yet implemented.
  
  
  I know this game has has hundreds 
 of reviews already. Let me first say, throw out the scores of 10 and 1. Tens are the fictional 
 perfect game.. it doesn't exist. Ones are the people with technical issues that are frustrated and 
 upset. That being said, let's look at what we do have...
  
  The game, as Funcom has stated in print, is not complete. Nor should any MMO ever be complete. 
 It should always be changing and growing. At this young point in it's MMO life, AoC is still solidifying 
 the core world to build upon. That being said, several features that were talked about still are 
 not functional: DX10 being the most talked about. There are also the typical launch bugs that I 
 have seen on several other game launches (Lord of the Rings, Everquest 2) that many people take 
 as a personal affront, and unfortunately for Funcom, causes some cancelled accounts. 
  
  However, despite a lot of nay-saying on the forums, both here and the AoC boards, AoC sold 1 million 
 copies in the first two weeks of release, and currently active subscriptions are estimated around 
 400,000, which would place it in third place for active MMO subscriptions, behind World of Warcraft 
 and Final Fantasy Online. So there must be something going on, right? Let's take a look at what 
 it may be, and whether this will cause AoC to grow or diminish.
  
  1. System requirements. The big noisy gorilla in AoC's room. A lot has been made over system requirements. 
 However, if you are old enough to remember back to the release of Everquest 2, a similar squalor 
 was raised for EQ2's heavy requirements when compared to other games on the market at that time. 
 EQ2 was the first game I played that required me to upgrade from my integrated graphics card on 
 my motherboard. It is nice that Funcom is thinking ahead and will have great graphics, and in a 
 few years the requirements will be laughable when compared to new games coming out. However, right 
 now it is a sticking point for many would-be buyers. To add to that, the graphics engine is not 
 yet optimized, causing frame rates to suffer on a lot of machines. I am running on a mediocre Duo 
 core 2 @3.01GHz, 3GB RAM and an nVidia 8500GT on Windows XP. I can get 35 fps on high settings, 
 but I have to disable shadows and water reflections, and turn down my resolution. So the game is 
 very playable on a mediocre machine, as long as you are willing to adjust for your aging equipment 
 (such as my 8500) . As usual, XP seems to be more compatible with the game, even though it lists 
 Vista in the recommended specs.
  
  2. Undelivered features. Directx10, prison system, going to hell if you die under certain circumstances, 
 spellweaving, battle keeps, and buddy keys. These features were all mentioned by Funcom and were 
 not in at launch. The prison system has been scrapped for a new, mysterious system that has not 
 been unveiled yet. Going to the underworld was scrapped. Spellweaving is almost completely fixed 
 (hopefully) . Sieges in the game can't take place until characters can build tier 3 cities, and 
 there is currently a bug with that process, that Funcom has said will be fixed "very soon". Buddy 
 keys are "coming soon", and there has been no further word on DX10. This is a letdown, but conversely, 
 Funcom is currently patching twice a week, and seems to be making considerable effort to down down 
 bugs and make fixes as they arise. One of the biggest in game gripes, that of items with stat bonuses 
 not working, is set to be fixed with the game patch on June 16th.
  
  3. Instances. It is not unusual for an MMO to have instances. What is different in AoC is that 
 when you enter an instance, it is not just you in there. The instance will fill up with other players 
 and parties to a set level, and then another instance will open and populate. It is good from the 
 point of view of seeing other players and making the world alive, but bad if you want to go in 
 an instance and farm.
  
  4. Active combat and fatalities. I find active combat to be a blast, but some people do not like 
 having to press a key to control each weapon swing. You definitely have to pay more attention to 
 combat than previous MMOs, but there is no real skill that you need to develop, you just need to 
 pay attention. The quasi-random fatalities are undoubtedly terrific, with each class having unique 
 fatalities that change depending on level and weapon or spell used. The faltalities are not just 
 cosmetic either, as you and your group get a small buff each time you perform one.
  
  Since we all love comparisons, let me state the following:
  If you compared AoC in it's current 
 state to WoW in it's current state, AoC would lose in almost every category except graphics quality 
 and fun in combat. However, remember that WoW has a 3 and 1/2 year headstart on AoC, and WoW, along 
 with every other MMO, has had similar problems in infancy as AoC has now. The difference with AoC 
 is we now have an established champion in WoW to look at, so every fault in AoC is magnified. I 
 believe that AoC will grow and be a strong contender in the MMO world... but the only thing that 
 will ever topple WoW and it's established playerbase, is WoW itself. That being said, I am having 
 just as much playing AoC in it's infancy as I was having playing WoW with all of it's polish. Both 
 are more fun to me than the myriad of other MMO's I have played: Tabula Rasa, Lord of the RIngs, 
 The Matrix, EverQuest 2, Star Wars Galaxies, Dark Age of Camelot, and the original Everquest.
 
  
  I personally am keeping both AoC and WoW. AoC for me, and WoW for my son. It all comes down to 
 preference. If you don't have the time or patience to ride out a new MMO while it develops, AoC 
 is not for you, or you should wait until a time down the road when Funcom comes out with a free 
 trial. It seems to me that a lot of AoC's issues are "not yet" problems rather than "just plain 
 stinks" problems, and what is implemented so far is a blast to play. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Geek94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  Age of Conan is the best MMORPG I have ever played! It is absolutely Amazing!
  
  Graphics - Incredible, Great detail and atmosphere, 10/10 graphics for an MMORPG. The only downside 
 is you need a pretty powerful PC to play it on high settings.
  
  Gameplay - 10/10 Great gameplay! The combat is in real time, unlike other MMORPGs, you need to 
 pay attention when your fighting where as in WoW, you just right click, and press a few buttons 
 to kill an enemy, in AOC you must use 1, 2 and 3 to attack in different directions. You must attack 
 where the enemys weak point is (Where they are not blocking) For maximum damage) The combat is 
 very gruesome and fatality moves are excellent if you love blood in a game.
  
  The one thing i didnt like is that all Races started off in the same place - Tortage. Though tortage 
 is great, if you want to make another character you must get through tortage again and can get 
 boring.
  
  Another great thing about AOC is the character customization, It is Very detailed, showing scars 
 and even freckles. You can choose your characters fitness (Fat, Skinny, Muscular) and markings 
 (Scars, tribal markings etc) and if you want you can go into even more detail by choosing your 
 characters facial features, like nose length etc.
  
  Overall, Age of Conan is the best MMORPG out there, and is definitely Worth Buying!
  
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallofman1337
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  At first I thought this game was going to be a blast, but now that I think of it, all I ever liked 
 was running around half naked with my womens underwear showing on my character. Lets start off 
 with the price.
  
  I have to admit, this is an average price for a good game, 50$ at best buy, this game supports 
 direct x 10. This game is also enhanced for multi/quad core computers. great graphics, I would 
 give a 3/5 for its value/price.
  
  The gameplay is very tedious, unless you like killing alligators and crazy Mayan hunters with fish 
 hooks in their noses. (Lol)
  
  The world maps make you feel like you are trapped in the Pirates of the Carribean sequel. *shiver 
 me timbers*. Where are the gorgeous cities and characters as seen on back of box. The NPC's are 
 paralyzed zombies with bad scripts. Vendors have nothing but crap and I do not want to wear orange 
 plaid gear (WTF EIDOS) ? 
  
  This game is like Tomb Raider game with a Barbarian and lots of alligators.
  The only good thing 
 about the game is that you can run around with your clothes off and dream of Lara Croft. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killingspree303
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Age of Conan is an MMO made out of the Conan universe. The world is a barbarian place, where epic 
 battles takes place, and monsters awaits. The game starts out on a island called Tortage, where 
 you create your unique looking character, and plays through the single-player story of the game. 
 After you've finished the story, you travel to the mainland to explore the rest of Conan's world.
 
  
  The game is outstanding from other MMOs, because of it's gameplay and single-player story. The 
 combat system is unique, because you can steer where your character hits, shoots etc. The movement 
 system is also unique, since you can't go through other players like in other MMOs.
  
  The server types of Age of Conan are PvP, PvE and Roleplay. The PvE and roleplay servers are great, 
 but the PvP servers are very unbalanced. In areas where you can attack each other, you will be 
 killed instantly by other players. In spawn areas, you are very likely to be spawn killed. Of course 
 you can play in these areas without fighting other players, but you are very vulnerable.
  
  The graphics in the game aren't bad, but currently the servers only run on DirectX 9. When Funcom 
 is ready, they'll have DirectX 10 servers up too. But for now, it's pretty good.
  
  The bad things in the game are bugs and of course, unbalanced PvP. There are way too many bugs 
 Age of Conan shouldn't have. There are graphical bugs, and some places bugs effecting npcs or players.
 
  
  Overall, the game is great. Unique combat system, riding system and so on. But because of bugs 
 and unbalanced PvP, the game isn't perfect.
  
  EDIT: It's been a year since I played Age of Conan, and I've returned to it. It has been improved 
 in several ways since I left, but there are still some bugs bugging me. But the most improved in 
 Age of Conan is the PvP system. Funcom has been balancing PvP, and one of the improved things is 
 for instance, you are invulnerable at the resscuration point. And if you attack and kill a player 
 that is a few levels beneath you, you get murder points. If you have murder points, you are considered 
 criminal, and cannot buy and sell items to merchants. You can either gain experience or lose PvP 
 experience to lose your murder points. But if a low level player attacks you, and you kill him, 
 you get no murder points.
  
  I think Age of Conan has been improved a lot, and players that were disappointed with it, should 
 give it another try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racinmason101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Ok first things first! All these reviews about poor support and broken games are just lame! When 
 I first played World In Conflict I thought it was broken because my comp would crash everytime 
 I ran it turns out that my video card was on the verge of breaking, after I got the rma back from 
 bfg it ran just fine and turned out to be one of the best games I have ever played! Now with this 
 game you need to have an up to date comp! With a very high windows performance index! The game 
 requires at least a 4.0 and recommends a 4.8. I have a 5.4 out of 5.9. I have never had any problems 
 with this game! UPGRADE YOUR PC!!!! Now onto gameplay and graphics. I love the gameplay esspecially 
 with the xbox 360 controller it makes it fast paced and more precise! I absolutely love this game. 
 I will agree it is young and needs time to mature but wow was the same way it was very bland and 
 basic when it was released blizzard has had many years to debug and add content. Give AoC the same 
 amount of time and it will blow wow right off your HDD! Oh yeah and the female players nudity is 
 great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nexideus
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  Well i had the opertunity to play it, and when the open beta got underway it was fun, however, 
 when the game came out, thier were big problems and still is, alot of people get large lagspikes 
 due to ISP and AoC interaction, in some cases it has been sorted in others it hasent.
  
  Game is Graphicly stunning on high settings and and the environment is breath taking, even on medium 
 to low you still get good visuals.
  
  The Combat system is fairly easy to get use to and very quick to pick up, how ever if you play 
 long enough and in pvp as well youll notice the shortcomings, especialy when pvping, for example 
 a melee vs ranged, now we all know ranged gets the advantage early but in close they shouldnt be 
 far weaker, thts some times true although not always, if you say use a melee hit on a target and 
 he moves away it wont hit the target, you just waisted your stamina or mana points, this happens 
 constently at times in pvp. 
  
  Also the starting isle of Tortage is about the only finished area ingame in terms of content and 
 enjoyment, as soon as you get off it, and hit mainland home city's your going to find it harder 
 especialy on a pvp server due to all the ganking or spawn camping at the Respawn Runes were you 
 resurect.
  
  You can lvl fairly fast up until around lvl 40 then it realy hits you, thiers alot of things to 
 do from 20-40 but once you get to 40-42 and onwards your going to have to do more mob grinding 
 them questing.
  
  Instances in themselves are not finished as such work wise, as quests are either broken in thier 
 or mobs get buged as well as bosses droping nearly nothing at lvl 60+ higher at times although 
 that might have changed now i wouldnt hold my breath.
  
  PvP genearly hasent been introduced yet in terms of City to City pvp with sieg engines etc, and 
 the pvp minigames lack enjoyment at times.
  
  Ability's and spells and Feat's can be bugged as well as broken or not fully implemented.
  
 
  If you play a caster like Demonologist or Necromancer youll find your spells dont get higher dmg 
 needed as you lvl, you might see only a +4 +6 dmg extra on certian ability's thats even like 10 
 lvls up from your previus it could be only up by a factor of 10.
  
  In all the game could have been a big hit imo, but unfortunatly imo they baught the game out 4-5 
 months to early, probably either to rumors of Money shortage to keep developing or due to the fact 
 that other Major MMO's are due out soon such as Warhammer Online or Stargate Worlds, and Wrath 
 of the Lich King (Blizzards Expansion to WoW) which would have probably lead to a much lower income 
 of customers in all.
  
  The game for my part has surived and is surviving on alot of Hype, yet that dose not make up for 
 its unfortunate drawbacks and bad play at higher lvls, and also the lack of poor customer service 
 when some thing bad happens and you got to wait several day's in a que, some times being thrown 
 out of the Que due to you not being no and the GM cant do anything then.
  
  Peronal score out of 10 in varius area's for this game id give:-
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 
 10/10
  Content: 4/10
  Enjoyability Factor: 5/10
  Learning Curve: Low/Medium (pends on your intake of info) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zosopage78
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the many examples of why opened video games can't be returned to the store 
 you purchased them from. The store would have countless amounts of opened AoC games with wasted 
 validation codes that could not be resold to more unsuspecting and future disappointed AoC victims. 
 I couldn't play for more than an hour or two at a time. Nor more than about four to five hours 
 a day because of the let down I felt from purchasing this game. Just to put that time frame into 
 perspective, I used to play WoW at least forty hours a week. Forget the hype, save your money, 
 and either wait for another MMO or go back to WoW. With over 16 yrs of online playing, this is 
 the most disappointing PoS I have ever purchased IMO. I'm just hoping I can find some idiot at 
 one of the 10 local wal-marts that will overlook my copy being opened so I can get my money back. 
 Period 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  I have gone from MMO to MMO while playing WoW, hoping to get away from the tedious, everyday grind. 
 I enjoyed WoW since launch, and it was the best MMO on the market. Every time I tried a new MMO, 
 all I ended up doing was getting more immersed into WoW, where the depth was.
  
  You can see by my rating that AoC has done the impossible. Now, I haven't rated WoW, but at this 
 point it would be biased. However, if I were to do so back in its prime, it would probably beat 
 an 8.5. But I'm also not reviewing AoC in ITS prime. This is just days after launch and I am completely 
 engulfed by the game. The atmosphere is fantastic, the sound is speaker blowing, and the graphics.. 
 Oh my, the graphics. They make my eyes orgasm. But you will need a very heavy rig to get the full 
 effect, which I can almost say I have covered. I'm running a 2.7ghz Core 2 Duo with an 8600GTS 
 256mb and 3gigs of RAM. And I only get 30 FPS max on the multiplayer setting. Half of WoW.
  
  I assume that they are going to address the framerate issues at some point, if possible.
 
  
  I'm not going to tell you which class to play, because each has its own appeal. Right now I'm enjoying 
 my Priest of Mitra and my Assassin. However, I do feel that the game severely tipped toward melee 
 after all the effort they put into the combat system, which IS overhyped. I love combos that melee 
 gets, and I've yet to experience Spellweaving, as they disabled it for PoMs due to an unreleased 
 bug/glitch.
  
  In all honesty, the game just feels fresh, and fun to play. Killing is fun, fatalities are absolutely 
 just plain cool.
  
  Now to my few complaints.
  
  Free for all player versus player. This is a disaster right now. If you do not have the patience 
 to deal with getting spawn camped by players 5+ levels higher than you, do your best to grind out 
 your levels during the night time (single player) portion of the game. As melee, you have much 
 more of a chance to put up a fight as you can keep moving and attacking. However on my priest, 
 I'm pretty much dead with very little defensive ability, and no powerful heal quite yet.
  
  The UI is another terrible downside, although this will certainly see an overhaul, and I would 
 be very pleased if they completely ripped of WoW's interface. The minimap at this point is not 
 very friendly to someone logging on for the first time. I didn't bother to read the manual because, 
 well, who does? There is A LOT of clutter on your map that you can only sort out what each thing 
 represents as you mouse over. Eventually you'll get used to it, but it is still annoying to see 
 a million little marks on your map.
  
  Overall, a few days after launch, AoC is at its worst. But if this is really its worst, then I'm 
 never going to log on WoW again. I love WoW, I love my friends I made there. I love the enemies 
 I made there. I love my epics, and I love, most of all, the forums. However, AoC, right now, is 
 better then where WoW is, right now. I can only hope that when AoC reaches its peak, it will be 
 as amazing as when WoW was at its peak. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelgen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  From all the reviews that I readied I saw a lot of people tell that game not finish and because 
 of that this game is bad.
  from my big knowledge of the MMO all the game at the start always not finished like the best game 
 WOW at the start ( I started to play from 1-2 months after the game was release) he crushed frequently 
 and the game wasn't full in quests for lvling (and u can ask a lot of people about that ) . And 
 a lot of other games were the same.
  
  From what i see AoC have very big potential for the future.
  
  What I like in game:
  
  
 the combat system very fun it not only push 1 button and the skill (ability) is trigger u need 
 to push sequence of buttons for triggering the skill.
  
  The graphics of the surrounding, mobs and NPC is amazing much better then other MMO that I played.
 
  
  What I hate is the pvp you wait a lot of time for 2-10 minutes fight but i think it will be better 
 when more people will want to pvp.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilbrtfan
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Had high hope for this game. Am veteran and guild officer for UO, EQ, EQ2, DDO, VG (avoided WoW 
 like the plague) .
  Basically the game is over-instanced (instances within instances) , very vanilla (many classes play 
 the same) , and just doesn't excite me.
  Granted, the lore is well represented, and the graphics are great, but the candy doesn't make up 
 for a lack of substance, and this game lacks substance.
  Funcom has managed to take a luch vibrant world, and translate it into a visually appealing blahfest.
 
  I don't know why they chose to make 80 levels of advancement since very few really count, and 
 its easily possible to zip through to end content in a couple weeks (despite a lack of content 
 in some of the middle levels) For proof, look at how many have already maxed their toons even though 
 the game has only been out a month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RK-Mara
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  It's been five years since Funcom started working on Age of Conan and now after many lengthy delays, 
 AoC is finally out and ready to be judged by players and reviewers. Funcom's first MMO, Anarchy 
 Online, had one of the worst launches in MMO history and subscriber numbers dropped faster than 
 in any game before or after. Will Age of Conan face the same grim future as Anarchy Online or has 
 Funcom learned their lesson?
  
  If you are familiar with the work of Robert E. Howard or Schwarzenegger's spin-off movies, you'll 
 know what to expect: blood and boobs. That alone doesn't sound very revolutionary but the fact 
 that Age of Conan is the first MMO to have M rating gives it a new contrast. That plus a whole 
 new real-time based combat system are the keys for a next generation MMORPG.
  
  You will immediately be astonished by the amount of customization that can be done to your character, 
 everything from tattoos to age and nose angle to bossom size can be changed with sliders. You won't 
 find anything better from other MMOs or most singleplayer RPGs for that matter. Though don't expect 
 to find any hairy green monsters from the character selection, you only have three human races 
 to choose from as there's no pixies or orcs to be found in the low fantasy world of Hyboria. All 
 of the three races have their real world counterparts: Stygians are the mysterious Egyptians, Aquilonians 
 are the noble and civilized people of Rome and Cimmerians are the mighty northern barbarians.
 
  
  As soon as you've created the character of your choice, you will be amazed by the quality of the 
 graphics. Lush green jungles, fearsome Picts with the amount of small details closer to singleplayer 
 titles than other MMOG's - the visuals easily top any of its competitors. Naturally this reflects 
 to hefty system requirements, and if Lord of the Rings Online and World of Warcraft ran well for 
 you, there's no guarantees for the same in Age of Conan. 2 gigabytes of ram is almost a must, and 
 the low settings are unacceptably choppy for low-end systems, while still looking ugly. Unfortunately 
 some of the areas don't stand up as well as others. Especially in instances you can smell the scent 
 of copy paste and lack of detail.
  
  As polished as the newbie area of Tortage is, you already feel the lack of variation after creating 
 your second character. Unlike in many MMOs, there is only one newbie area, and you have to go through 
 the same process with every new character. At least after leaving the newbie area, players are 
 sent to their homelands so it's recommended to create a character of different race each time.
 
  
  The basic gameplay isn't much different in Age of Conan. Actually, the only real difference is 
 the collision detection and lack of auto targeting in melee. What it basically means is that all 
 of your melee attacks can hit multiple targets in front of you rather than only the one that you 
 have targeted. This brings a small new tactical aspect to the game as you have to worry about positioning 
 more. Also, the combos, which are executed by pressing the direction keys in the correct order, 
 are a nice addition and unless you want to end up at the closest graveyard, you'll have to fully 
 focus on playing the game. Though with casters there isn't anything as refreshing going on and 
 spell casting works the same way as in every other MMO, with the addition of spell weaving at later 
 levels. During spell weaving, caster's damage output is increased at the cost of stamina drain, 
 and if you run out of stamina, the weaving stance quickly drains your health to zero.
  
  Conversations and quests are mainly very well written and some of the quests are even quite funny. 
 This should come as no surprise as Funcom is also behind the fantastic Longest Journey series. 
 As an example, an underground gang has kidnapped Fabio's princess and the protagonist is paid to 
 rescue her. After fighting your way through several gangs, komodos and crocodiles in the sewers, 
 you'll find out that the princess is just a cute little puppy. Rescuing a puppy doesn't exactly 
 fit the picture of my evil necromancer. 
  
  Quests are mainly the usual kill X number of baddies and collect X number of goodies, which we've 
 used to live with ever since EverQuest, although the possibility to actually converse with alternate 
 lines is a nice and fresh change from the normal accept/decline-option in MMOs to a more singleplayer 
 feeling. Sadly, the quest sources suddenly dry up near late thirties and you spend half of the 
 time searching for working quests. Sooner or later you'll have to become acquainted with Mr. Grind. 
 Fortunately Grind is a lot more forgiving than his brothers in other MMOs. The amount of experience 
 points you gain is a lot more considerable than in most other games, though with the maximum level 
 of 80, there are quite a few levels to grind. Luckily there are few quests that can be repeated 
 as many times as you want - boring, yes, but effective.
  
  Even as beautiful as some of the areas are, all of them feel more or less artificial with mountains 
 bordering every region and predetermined passages to other areas. Talking to a guide will immediately 
 teleport you to some distant land, making the world feel a lot smaller than it actually is and 
 a major part of the immersion vanishes on the way. Fully instanced world comes with other problems 
 too. Rather than adjusting the spawn rates to fit the number of players currently in the region, 
 Funcom divides all players on different carbon copies of the same area, making you unable to see 
 or team up with most of the people on the server. There are often dozen copies of the same area 
 running at the same time and if one instance doesn't have enough players, the server bluntly closes 
 it down kicking everyone in the instance out of the game. Getting disconnected three times in a 
 row, just to wait three minutes in a queue after every incident, artificial walls and bugs don't 
 exactly help the immersion either.
  
  Servers are divided to three main types, PvE, PvP and Culture-PvP. Player versus Environment and 
 Player versus Player servers also have roleplaying variants. PvE is your normal carebear server, 
 where players can't attack other players outside PvP specific areas. PvP on the other hand, is 
 pure free-for-all gankfest. And it's not going anywhere for a while, as the number of players stuck 
 between levels 50-80 is growing all the time. Whine even a bit about the raping, or anything else 
 for that matter, and you are lucky to get even one friendly reply. Not exactly the kind of community 
 you'd expect from a Mature rated game. Culture PvP is the strange middle ground, where you can 
 only attack players of different culture. I wonder if Funcom gave the idea much thought before 
 implementing it, as Stygians are mostly mages while Aquilonians and Cimmerians don't have mages 
 at all. Just think what it would be like if Horde had no mages and Alliance wouldn't have anything 
 else.
  
  Fortunately the servers itself have been very stable and during the month of playing, I haven't 
 experienced almost any lag at all and the servers have only been down for patch maintenances. Ignoring 
 the bugs, this is the stablest MMO launch to date next to Lord of the Rings Online.
  
  It won't take long before you find out that Age of Conan has effectively no death penalty. If you 
 die, you end up at the closest respawn point with a very minor debuff. And if you happen to go 
 back to the same place, like you usually do to finish the quest, you can click your gravestone 
 to get rid of the debuff. If another player happens to kill you, there is absolutely nothing to 
 lose, no item repairs, no XP loss and not even a debuff, you won't even lose your active buffs. 
 Although anything more than a strong debuff might be too cruel after getting ganked three times 
 in a row.
  
  During the very first weeks of early access and launch, most bosses dropped no loot at all, so 
 there was no good reason at all to kill them. Funcom has fixed some of that, but still the majority 
 of boss drops are worse than item rewards from ten levels lower quests; my necromancer had the 
 same robe from level 15 to 45. That was until I found out that most of the robe bonuses had no 
 real affect, as there are also some very interesting character development issues. For example 
 bumping your run speed skill doesn't seem to have any real affect on your running speed and as 
 long as your casting concentration is higher than zero, your spells won't be interrupted so spending 
 more than one point on concentration is currently a waste of points. In addition, some feats don't 
 work properly, and increasing base stats has no real effect on the inflicted damage meaning that 
 two barbarians of the same level are nearly identical in terms of damage. 
  
  And that's not all, there are even more problems with the basic mechanics. Does it sound right 
 that female characters swing their weapons about a quarter slower than male? That means female 
 characters make about quarter less damage over time than males. Sprinting works like in any other 
 game, or at least it should; you sprint until you run out of stamina and repeat once your stamina 
 has regenerated. Unfortunately stamina regeneration is not percentage-based, whereas stamina usage 
 is, so the higher your level is, the less you can sprint, because at lower level your stamina regenerates 
 to full a lot faster than at higher level.
  
  There are also some minor problems with the user interface and especially the group part. If a 
 party member ventures more than 50 meters far from rest of the group, he completely disappears 
 from the map and there are some silly occasions in dungeons when the group tries to find the lost 
 herd. Depending on whether you are an old-school RPG fan or want as user friendly experience as 
 possible, the fully fledged GPS system will either be a pro or con for you. The same can be said 
 about customizabilty of the UI, or the lack of it. Some might want every help possible while others 
 prefer everyone to have the same tools at hand.
  
  The bugs alone wouldn't be a problem but when half of the promised content is nowhere to be seen, 
 there is quite something to complain about. Where did drunken brawling go? Or most of the end-game 
 content? Especially guild cities don't currently seem to have any real purpose and that was one 
 of the biggest selling points of the game. And unlike the game box claims, there's no real support 
 for DirectX10, as it was left out just before the release to be added later this year through a 
 patch.
  
  As far as the in-game customer support goes, Funcom appears to be caught off-guard by the popularity 
 of the game and there are basic level problems with the in-game support tools that don't exactly 
 help the issue. Petition response times are often counted in days, and you have to stay online 
 for a response to be possible; if a GM happens to get to your problem at 4 AM while you are sleeping, 
 you get a reply stating that as you weren't online the GM couldn't help you. Your petition is then 
 closed and you get a suggestion to re-petition the issue - back to the end of the queue. There 
 is also no phone support for billing or account problems, so if you can't log in, your best bet 
 is to send an email and pray.
  
  Good audio can save a lot and Age of Conan is definitely not lacking on that field. Fantastic music, 
 great sound effects and good voice acting in the newbie area  audiovisual side is definitely the 
 strong point of Age of Conan. 
  
  There is definitely a good ground to build on here but in its current state, Age of Conan is not 
 worth the purchase or the monthly fee. The game sure is fun until level 40 or so but I have better 
 things to do with my time and money than wait for the next patch that will hopefully fix all the 
 problems. For now I'm canceling my subscription and hoping for a better tomorrow. I can't wait 
 to see what the game looks like in a year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cruster
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  sort and to the point look i have been playing mmo for a long time
   to say this sims online (lol)
  im a truckdriver 
 not a game maker.
  I play games for fun i do have a life. ok now to the game from 1-20 the game
  Is fun and has 
 alot going for it . from 20-on it feels like guild wars stay on a path run here run there. u leave 
 the noob area at 20 get to the main city
  Walk to the gate cant leave out the gate thats a joke the map is all zones.
  eq2 did this and 
 now look what happen the game has little to no players.
  I no sonny did it to them self but thats a story all by its self.
  the game is bug to the max 
 need a real good computer to run it and no my review is not my compter is not good i have 2 quad 
 6600 2.4 with gt 8800
  it run fine at 125 fps. it just dont feel like a mass world it feels like gw
  sorry im not playing 
 a zone world for $15 mon. when i can play for free in gw
  and no i do not play gw or wow gave wow up 6 mon ago. the game would of been one of the best but 
 devs just dont listen to players we are the ones that pay to play not them
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkruss
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  The gameplay of Age of Conan really has potential, but unfortunately the entire experience is marred 
 by the most technically inept implementation ever. The installation goes refreshingly fast, but 
 that is where everything starts to fall apart. While the program occupies 2 DVDs worth of content, 
 you will immediately log online and download almost 3 DVDs worth of patches that take HOURS to 
 install. Pray you have a fast fast fast computer and really high speed broadband. 
  
  Once the system is installed things start out OK. It is not as user-friendly an introduction as 
 World of Warcraft (the current "gold standard" of RPGs) , but you'll figure things out quickly if 
 you've played an MMO before. Continuing to play, however, is hit-or-miss. I have about 6 friends 
 trying this game. Every one of them has had frequent crashes. On my system, the game freezes after 
 about 5 minutes of play , guaranteed. 
  
  There is NO customer support for the product. You can e-mail FUNCOM, but don't expect to get any 
 reply at all. I've posted in the forums and no one has reported ever getting any reply to a question, 
 whether its about a technical issue or possible fraud capturing passwords. This is just unacceptable.
 
  
  The game advertises on the bos to be "DirectX 10" compliant, yet its been announced that DirectX 
 10 support will not be implemented until the fall.
  
  This game is not worth your time, money , or frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oozubek_TR
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  You'll feel like a beta tester
  
  the moment you start the game and you'll not believe your eyes. After all that testing and development 
 period, despite all the promises and the strong Conan brand, what you'll have in your screen will 
 be broken, half baked, incomplete, crude, unpolished game. 
  
  You'll be alone
  
  "always check the tech support forum section before you buy the game" and in the case of AoC, there 
 is none! enter the official forum site and see it with your own eyes. there are many even sticky 
 notes where pages long begging remain unanswered.
  
  You'll be overrun
  
  Thanks to the unbalanced classes, you will end up with a pawned character which can not tackle 
 with a player many many levels below you!
  
  
  You'll get lost
  
  Terrible quest guidance and poor texts will take away all the joy of questing from you as you will 
 not be finding where to go, how to go.
  
  
  You'll get bored
  
  The terrific atmosphere of Hyboria was unfortunately transferred soo crudely that at the end you'll 
 be staring the screen devoid of the joy that you used to get from Conan comic books.
  
  
  You'll wait till this broken game improves
  
  It's crystal clear that this game was supposed 
 to be on the stored on Dec 2008 yet rushed by the incapable management. so like us, you'll be waiting 
 patiently with a nave hope that the game will improve. 
  
  so my message is keep your money in your pocket till you end up seeing comments like this
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzymn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  I'm a little disappointed with the game, i played till lvl 80, always thought it would be more 
 fun once i reached lvl 80. But once 80 there's nothing fun to do.
  
  I dont intend to pay 15euros so i can get into a mini game every once in a while.
  Guild cities 
 serve no purpose, unbalanced classes, lots of grind while lvling.
  
  It looks great, sounds great, hype about it being revolutionary? it's BS. Plays alot like wow, 
 classes are even more unbalanced. And you cant do allmost anything at 80. Crafting is broken...
 
  
  Try it out if you want to but... imo if you stick to whatever game you'r playing now it wont be 
 much difference. Maybe in about 6 months it might be a good game, now it feels empty.
  
  I loved it for the first 45 lvls then it got boring. At 80 i didnt feel like playing it anymore... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to rehash much that has already been covered, but I have played this game through 
 to the end. Many of these people who say it is stable and bug free are playing low level characters, 
 where the game is definitely more polished.
  
  Advertised as being in the game but absent:
  dx 10
  pvp gear, levels, and xp
  class balance 
 (some classes are 10 times more powerful than others in most situations)
  1,500 types of armor (everyone is identical with drab grey-brown crap)
  Many, many other things...
 
  
  AOC has the most awful gear system I've seen in any game, ever. A 20th level character can disable 
 an 80th level character by pressing one button. 2 rangers, switching up their cooldown times, can 
 run around keeping an 80th level incapacitated (rooted/stunned/etc) indefinitely. Sound like fun?
 
  
  PvP is badly balanced and was thrown in months before release. It shows. The class balance is non-existent. 
 The technical issues are rampant. I could go on for 20 pages about the bugs. From crashes to characters 
 becoming unplayable, it's got a long way to go. I had a character become unplayable because quests 
 can bug out and leave you trapped. They've fixed a lot, but again, there is a LONNNNG way to go.
 
  
  I was building a guild city and all of my materials became unusable and money vanished. I waited 
 for 3 days for a GM. I made sure I was logged in almost the whole time... Sad, I know. I was ticket 
 number 181. After 2 days, I was 159. I logged out for 3 hours and suddenly it said "You have no 
 petition in the queue." What the hell? 
  
  The worst gm /customer support I've ever seen in my life, no question about it.
  
  Even when 
 the bugs are fixed, the world is very linear and instance packed. It's not got much depth. The 
 combat looks cool, the graphics are solid, but I need more than that to get into a game. 
  
  If you like being one-shotted by characters 40 levels lower or knocked down for an hour by 
 people 60 levels lower, try out the pvp servers. No skill required. Just roll up the appropriate 
 class and press 1 button and you're good to go.
  
  As far as I am concerned, the game in its current form is unplayable. Avoid this like the plague 
 and pick it up in a few months when it will hopefully be in a worthwhile form.
  
  Don't get me wrong, this game has a ton of potential, but it is definitely not in release shape. 
 It feels like an EARLY beta. I've lost 100 silver from money vanishing in the bank. I've had 50 
 hours worth of materials vanish and/or become unusable.
  
  Oh, another great feature is the Knights of the Old Republic RPG style discussion screens. When 
 a conversation screen opens with an NPC you can not break out of it. Sometimes, when you select 
 your replies, it will pause for as long as 10 full seconds. I've been in the heat of battle and 
 had an NPC run up to me, force open a dialog screen with me, and trap me in a conversation. Meanwhile, 
 i stood there like a retard, trapped, as blood poured everywhere. You can't break conversations, 
 and it's the WORST.
  
  You sit there saying, "How is your uncle willy? has he found his ring?" as 20 people gang rape 
 you for an hour. Moronic.
  
  I can't believe this game was play tested for so long and there are so many OBVIOUS design flaws. 
 There must be retarded people on the staff at Un-Funcom.
  
  My friend took the game to two computer science professors and their verdict was, "This is very, 
 very sloppy coding."
  
  Yep, Funcom kicks butt. Expect the next 6 months + to be spent fixing their slop.
  
  I didn't 
 cover the positives here because there are tons of fan boys out there gloating about how it is 
 the best game ever. I've played almost every MMO on the market and have been gaming since Pong. 
 If you're 12, you might love this game in its current state. If you're a more hardcore gamer, you 
 should hold off on checking this out for at least a few months.
  
  Rating: 5.5
  Technical state: 1.0
  Graphics: 9
  Audio: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paganizer
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  I have actually enjoyed the game so far, but once you have played the game for a while (50 lvls 
 now) and gotten past the initial "wow, this looks great", you start to see what is beneath the 
 surface. Or more precisely you start seeing that there is actually nothing beneath the nice graphics.
 
  Stats, skills are not working.. most do nothing! feature trees consist of maybe 50% broken skills/spells 
 etc. Tradeskills are bugged, keeps are bugged, pvp is pointless (no risk/reward) , balancing is 
 non-existant (of course when basic mechanics like stats and features dont work balancing is out 
 the window) , everything is instanced.. everything. I could go own.. the issues with AoC are plentiful.
 
  The game is not even close to finished.. it's several months or maybe a year away from being close 
 to finished.
  
  Even if everything is fixed and the promised features (which are mostly missing) are implemented, 
 I don't see AoC ever becoming a great game. Dividing the whole world into seperate instanced zones 
 just takes too much away from the game. You never get the feel of being in a big world with lots 
 of people around you. It feels like a singleplayer game more than an mmo. Constantly loading screens 
 when traveling to new zones, and all these zones are instanced. That is the worst thing for me, 
 because that is something they will never be able to fix. Better luck next time Funcom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robodobo2
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  Age of Conan it truly the best multi player game till now. you start of on a slave ship, and build 
 your character with multiple characteristics. this gives u many choices from soldiers to prieats, 
 with different voices, facial marks and so on. making all the players in the game 100% unique. Then 
 you continue with a short single player game, which acts as a tutorial and a preparation for the 
 actual game.
  
  Then u r brought into a cool city with other players, but you could still continue a single player 
 story. Furthermore, the game offers many quests single player and multi player, which are both 
 interesting and entertaining. The quests are practically unlimited.
  
  Another cool thing about the game is its massive world. i ve been playing for a very long time 
 and i ve traveled to many places. At a point in time i looked at the map and i ve noticed that 
 i ve only seen like 5% of it ! Although you can t really just go into the world since you d be 
 killed by tough monsters and stuff. therefore to truly be able to travel wherever you want without 
 any fear you have to be at least level 50, at least.
  
  The Game also has great graphics, especially compared to other multi player games. Therefore it 
 has very nice views of mountains and so on. The sound effects are also exelent. although the downside 
 is that you need to have a very good internet connection and computer.
  
  The game play is Age of Conan s true highlights since it is original. instead of just clicking 
 on an opponent and the character attacks it itself, you have to fight it by attacking from various 
 sides and using many various combos. It is also really cool and bloody, like when you chop off 
 heads. You could also improve your skills and add abilities. But it takes pretty long to get one 
 ability, since you start adding abilities at lvl. 10 .
  
  The only real disadvantage is the crashes, but funcom is fixing many of them. If it wasn t for 
 the crashes i would definately give this game a 9.5. In the end this is an impressive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenfeen
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 10, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  So close but yet so far away. When you run through the first 20 levels in Tortage you can be swept 
 away with the gritty graphics, fun quest lines and well rendered mobs and npc's. Once you leave 
 Tortage well the wheels start falling off. There is just so many things that are broken.
  
  While the graphics continue to be great the quest npcs just become cut outs of each other with 
 the occasional arm wave or draw the finger across the throat or head shake. 
  
  The heavy instancing in Tortage does lessen but your tolerance for instancing starts pushing your 
 aggro buttons. Throw in all the running you have to do and you start to wonder why this just wasn't 
 a cross country trainer for the Wii. With money in short supply very few will have a mount at level 
 40 when first offered. I have one character now pushing lvl48 he has his first gold piece hmm still 
 2 gold short. My second character is lvl40 has 28 silver. No mount and running the same terrain 
 over and over again and instancing all in between and you quickly understand why some people just 
 enter a zone and ask someone to kill them so they can choose a graveyard point somewhere on the 
 other side of the map just so they don't have to run the map for the umpteenth time.
  
  Many quest lines are broken and a few of those broken quests really tell the tail of how incomplete 
 this game really is. For example the Stygian area has 2 large instanced areas that can be argued 
 that are the culmination for the whole area. The Black Fortress and the Pyramid. The Black Fortress 
 an excellant instance to explore but thats all you'll do there because I think I have only found 
 1 quest for it. The Pyramid's quest line is so broken you can do what you think is the right thing 
 and break one of the major quest lines and not even know it. The other major quest line is simply 
 non functioning. So you level in this area for approximately 15 levels go the final spot thats 
 been on the horizon all this time and its completely lacking in quests/ functioning quests. 
  
  The quests are so few in number it doesn't matter what class you start with you'll be unable 
 to keep any of it fresh for other classes because you have to go to all the areas over and over 
 again just to level your current character.
  At the later levels approximately mid 40s quests just dry right up and the grind is on. Unfortunately 
 most of your quests in the Field of the Dead are all grinds anyways. 6 of my current quests are 
 2 x kill 20 vanir/2x kill werewolves/2 x kill 20 bandits. Yawn.
  
  The pvp is simply old school Ultima Online. Yup they just took everything that was wrong with pvp 
 in UO and threw it here. Ganking/griefing, res points /zone in points / required mobs and talking 
 to npc's. Zero penalty so if they at first failed to gank, dont worry they'll be back in 1 minute 
 because theres zero penalty to gank and fail. Furthermore if they do succeed and you want retributition 
 good luck the gankers just move to a graveyard point and instance out to grief elsewhere. Sure 
 they added a buff bubble at some of the points in and out of instances, so just move off 20-30 
 paces wait a second or two and grief there. Is there anything more time consuming than just dealing 
 with gankers. Can you say forced grouping. And the worst of all forced grouping. Grouping for the 
 sake of doing anything in the game. Sure you can run solo, it just takes forever to get anything 
 done. Good luck if you expect to fit right in a share a set of npcs to grind or quest, you'll just 
 get ganked when your taking on a mob unless you wait it out for everyone to move off. Of course 
 some mobs always have crowds of gankers waiting and they never move off, go figure. Level 80's 
 pawning people 20 levels or more lower than them. go figure. Its not pvp its just ganking over 
 and over again, funcom said welcome to the brutal world of Conan. Its the only thing they got right 
 for all the wrong reasons.
  
  Give this game 6 months to a year for fixes. If you cant wait that long just hold off, your buddy 
 will probably be cool with you covering a months sub because they have no plan to continue playing 
 beyond the free 30 days.
  
  Class imbalances, combat set up is dull. Push a button wait then push a direction key then wait 
 push another direction key. Bah screw it just push 11111,2222,33333 on the direction keys it doesnt 
 matter. Run naked your gear sucks, feats broken, skills broken, crafting broken, seiges broken.
 
  
  Age of Conan is a gritty well rendered world and everything else was rushed to market. IMHO if 
 you pay a sub for this game in this condition regardless of the potential your a paying to play 
 an open beta.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben61704
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Let me say I AM a WoW fanboy, even though I am burned out and no longer play it. I have not been 
 able to get into any other MMO since WoW. Blizzard spoiled me. when I first tried Age of Conan 
 I didnt like it. Of course my PC sucked. I had a 2.0 ghx, 1mb Ram system ang got about 15 fps on 
 medium. Well, I upgraded and spent about $1000. I needed to do this anyway, my rig was 3 years 
 old. I now get about 80-120fps (insane I know) at 1900X1200 with all settigns high and OMG I cant 
 stop playing. Beautiful (except for ugly Stygia, blech) . Great gameplay. Great PvP. Fun and numerous 
 quests. I'm HOOKED. IF you have a high end system, you will be blown away. I have neevr taken so 
 many screenshots. The lighting is amazing. the zones continue to look different all day long because 
 of the position of the sun in the sky and the weather. If you commit to play to level 20 and leave 
 the starter area, you will start to understand that this game is EPIC in size and possibility. 
 The zones are huge, the mobs are unique, the sounds are amazing and really immerse you, the musical 
 scores are legendary, the classea are uniqe and fun to play. Dont fight it, dont compare it to 
 anything else you have played. Just let it suck you in and you wont be able to leave. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: malcombexs123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  This review is aimed at most of the aspects that slip under the radar when it
  comes to reviewing a classic game such as this.
  Things like being thrown entirely into the game 
 world where hours pass like
  minutes - simply not enough time in the day to play. The detail in the animations of the avatars 
 are amazing, making you practicaly able to read 
  your pvp enemys body language. which becomes essential so you dont start a fight with someone who 
 means you no harm and also gives you and idea who is looking for trouble. To this point i would 
 strongly recomend you try a pvp server- dont listen to storys about ganking - pvp works and its 
 outstanding as it brings its own quests to you, such as tracking an enenmy through the desert and 
 watching, while hidden for the right moment to strike and issue your own justice in the form of 
 a revenge killinng. It also adds an element of suspicion to all you quests and travells through 
 Hyboria. (Simply - priceless) .
  
  The combat is fantasic , well balanced and forces you to think carefully about what you are doing 
 and who you are attacking - every engagement
  is different. On the pve side of things the quests seem different to other mmos as you actually 
 feel you are on a quest and not just a chore also
  ive noticed on my pvp rp server more and more people actually role playing
  and doing it well. The 
 mature nasty tone of the world lends itself well to both role playing and none rping as players 
 can be very nasty if they so choose -but that only allows true heroes to let them selves be known 
 by there actions in helping you when you least expect it. Every day in Hyboria is an unepected 
 adventure - Fantastic
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth-revan
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  (Special note, I am now scoring every game I rate a 5, because I think a numerical score shouldn't 
 dictate whether you like a game or not. The thing that should dictate your liking a game is whether 
 its Sh! t or not.)
  
  
  First off, the game has a highly interesting game world. All of the quests at their worsts are 
 relatively interesting, and at their best highly compelling. The fact that quests are shown to 
 you through interactive dialog (some Voice Acted, some not) makes it more compelling. The quests 
 all come down to the standard MMO type stuff, like killing X creatures and getting Y item, but 
 the way they are delivered to you makes it seem more like real people are delivering the quests.
 
  
  Combat wise, its so interesting that it makes these standard quests fun. I actually felt a sense 
 of accomplishment in killing boss monsters that I hadn't had before (in WoW, or any other MMO) . 
 And things like decapitations, heart eating, slitting your enemies throats, etcetera, make killing 
 standard enemies very interesting. It just feels good to deliver a decapitation in the game that 
 I cant really describe it.
  
  Now the main issues. The system requirements are horrible. My computer is old yes, but I accept 
 that if I have to turn down every setting to get a good 30 FPS sometimes. What I don't accept is 
 that the game is so horribly optimized, that turning settings up occasionally gives you better 
 FPS! I have never played a game before, where turning up the settings actually make it play slightly 
 better. Though don't go in thinking if you turn it up on max it will suddenly play better, because 
 the FPS rate still completly blows.
  
  As for technical problems, there are a lot. Content slows down a halt at level 40 and 50, lots 
 of texture pop in, broken quests, many many bugs, graphical glitches. The game has so many issues, 
 I cant list them all.
  
  So the best course of action is wait 3 months. In 3 months, most of the glitches will be fixed, 
 content added, bugs squashed, and the game will be more realized. Its not unplayable if you buy 
 now, but know that there are quite a few problems when you go in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkey_Eyes
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 8, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Too much hype is the best way to describe this game. The graphics are good and so is the combat 
 system, but it feels very empty and incomplete. The grinding is very long (longer than warcraft) . 
 The content is empty and boring from 1-50 (the level I got to) . I played hoping for it to get better, 
 but I couldn't stand it. I recommend coming back in a couple years to see if they fix things up. 
 The player ratings I am seeing all seem to be fan boys giving high reviews because they were so 
 sure it would be a good game that they don't want to feel stupid with their funcom hats and shirts 
 with age of conan replicas covering their walls.
  
  Conan has so much potential, but it will take many patches and hopefully a lot of content patches 
 will come. The combat system is cool, but it still feels like it lacks something. Playing a caster 
 is very boring. Spell-weaving looks semi-interesting, but you have to go through many painful levels 
 to be able to do it. I will come back in two years and give it another shot, but since boob size 
 is their top priority (funcom actually said this) , it might take a while for the game play issues 
 to be addressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisomahony
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for AoC for a very long time. And then that day finally came, I picked up my 
 collectors edition at my local game store and having already been in the early access I was lvl 
 16. 
  
  Enough chit chat, AoC a absolute great game to say the least. I am a MMO vet. Eq, CoH, L2, eq2.... etc, 
 I know what it takes to craft a MMO, and Funcom did just that. Ya it has bugs even Eq still has 
 bugs. And ya the game doesnt come with Dx10 right out of the box ( you gotta remember that this 
 is the first Dx10 MMO and they want things to run smooth) but AoC is pure fun and furious. I'm 
 not going to write the a straight biased review saying YA AOC!!!! GET IT!!! But really I am happy 
 that AoC lived up to it's hype and right now the game can only get better and better.
  
  AoC is the best MMO hands down, I am glad that the wait was worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conan1985
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  First off im a PVP lover i dont mind being ganked or killed... keeps a sense of suprised in the 
 game. However on Conan i quickly realised a few things if the person runs you wont be able to catch 
 or kill them as a melee class. Some classes are a compelete joke in pvp... such as all mages who 
 can be one shotted by any ranger and probably assassin and barbarian aswell.
  
  The pvp system is poor at best the battle fields have no matching system, there is no way to stop 
 runners as i stated. The idea everyone can kill anyone is fine but it gets to a stage when it gets 
 silly. The pvp at the moment is full of flaws and seems half finished with only one decent class 
 that can stop runners which is Ranger. The rest will simply be run away from if they are winning.
 
  
  Leave this for a few months im sure it will make all the diffrence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghasst
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  The game is addictive in all its glory yet deep down in the nitty gritty there are countless flaws 
 waiting to be fixed. The class balancing does not appear to be too bad yet there are aspects of 
 each class that needs to be addressed and corrected. Issues with stamina use currently make it 
 unfair for soldier types as sprint drains a % rather than an amount. Therefore both mage's and 
 strong soldier types run for the same amount of time yet mage's can fill their stamina bars up 
 quicker. 
  
  The game itself promises to be more than what it currently is but with the current poor support 
 its hard to see when they will be on top of the problems. The US forums along with support seems 
 to vastly out weight anything of the like for anyone in the EU. Maybe there are more gamers to 
 appease in the states but a move this unbalanced could see a great percentage of EU players leave 
 the game for some time.
  
  I am still enjoying playing the game whilst still recommending it to friends. Though if changes 
 are not made in the shortcomings then this will be a game to be shelved till more positive reviews 
 about the patches are made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmp91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  I found AoC to be a brutally refreshing take on the MMO genre. IMHO most MMO's are very similar, 
 it is the little things that make the difference, and usually those "things" are different for 
 each player. It all depends on what is important to you.
  
  Most that have trashed this game so far are either fanboi's of another MMO or have had tech issues 
 due to an outdated system. It has always been known that you will need a high powered system to 
 play this game at it's fullest, if your system is not, expect issues.
  
  For what I am looking for in an MMO, this game fit's me better than any other I have tried (SWG, 
 WoW, LoTRO, AoC) .
  
  The graphics are stunning, the combat system keeps you alert at all times, and the storyline is 
 enthralling. 
  
  Yes there are some bugs that need working out but I am confident that Funcom will fix these in 
 time.
  
  My biggest issue with AoC so far is the crafting system. I would like to be able to start my profession 
 earlier than level than 40. As much as I enjoy the combat, it 's nice to take a break from it and 
 do some other things in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: analgrin
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing this game for a while now and so far im impressed.
  Ive played WoW, LOTRO and now ive been seduced by this beast of a game.
  
  The combat is very 
 imerrsive, you have alot more control when compared to the likes of WoW. With this game you can 
 dodge attacks by double tapping in a diredtion, Block attacks simply by holding X although you 
 will slowly use stamina doing so.
  Hot keys 1,2 and 3 make you slash your weapon left, overhead and right respectively. Alot of your 
 main moves are triggered with a simple touch of a hotkey or click in the action bar. Some of your 
 more special moves are started in the same way but then then appears a short combination of key 
 presses on screen which must be pressed on order (using the 1,2,3 keys) 
  If you happen to mess up the combintaion its not all bad as each key press still slices into your 
 foe causing damage. Oh and of course if you finsh with a critical hit you will serve up a fatality 
 move on your opponent like chopping a limb of head off all with plenty of blood splatter to wash 
 it down with.
  
  For defence everyone has a 3 shield system, this is 3 shields (no really...?) that you can move 
 to your front left and right using CTRL plus the 1,2,3 keys. Personally i just leave them evenly 
 spread but you can move all 3 shields to one side that will greatly reduce any attacks from that 
 side.
  
  Getting started in the game is even easier than the already simple systems of Wow and LOTRO. As 
 in the early levels you cannot craft, gather resorces, or do any proffesions which i think is a 
 good move as you dont have to worry about if your progressing in these skills enough why you try 
 to find your feet in the game. You learn to gather at lvl 20, and you learn crafts at lvl 40. I 
 havent got any higher so dont know what is still to come (The lvl cap is 80 at the moment)
  
  The graphics are cool, way better than those other 2 games i keep mentioning but this will 
 push your system.
  Im lucky enough to have a powerful system. I run with all gfx options maxed (of which there are 
 plenty to choose from to tweak performance) at a resoution of 1440x900 with FSAA off and i get 
 a steady 40-50 fps with peaks of 100+ but it can very occasionally dip to around 15-20 fps but 
 not for long and only when things get really busy onscreen.
  
  Im running it on a Pentium Q6600 processor @3Ghz with a Geforce 8800GTX and 2GB ram under vista 
 (I would have a vista score of 5.9 but my harddrive brings it down to 5.2) .
  
  Yes there are bugs in the game at the moment, im suffering from a memory leak that causes the minimap 
 to corrupt after almost 2 hours play followed a minute or 2 later by a crash to desktop.
  Im not too worried though as almost everyday there have been patches, although they are now planning 
 to slow to 2 larger patches a week. I know this because of the excellent automatic updater that 
 starts before every game. Its very informative about fixes, and other changes and what the developers 
 are planning for the future. 
  More importantly is incredibley fast at downloading the neccessary files; the first patch of 700MB 
 only took 15 mins to download on my 8Mb internet connection
  
  The sound is good too although the voiceovers for NPC's stops at lvl 20 which is a little annoying 
 only because up until then the voice acting is rather good and its a shame that it stops but im 
 sure this will be addressed eventually.
  
  For me the only faults i can find in this game are its bugs but these are getting fixed as quick 
 as i stumble upon them. 
  
  Is this game better than WOW? For me... now.... yes... and soon its going to blow it out the water.
 
  
  Ignoring the bugs for now im going to scor th tis a 9
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dematrix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  well then this is the game for you.
  
  pvp: some of the best concepts ever done with balancing of characters focused on the pvp portion 
 of the game. *something wow will nvr get right* the seiging and mini pvp games are fun and addictive 
 with tons of room for adding and improvement.
  
  combat: the revolution is here, with a near realtime concept the combat is fluid and fun. you truely 
 feel as though you are the one doing the pounding and the fatalities are all that is satisfying 
 expecially on real players. 
  
  music: is entralling and immersive, it gives all parts of the game that extra feel of glory and 
 blood.
  
  world: semi immersive, unfortunately due to the high graphics and combat system we may never see 
 this pan out as a full world game that you are use to in wow. the game uses instances instead even 
 when going into a bar and/or inn making the world feel distached and somewhat frustrating.
  
  graphics: some of the best yet, when you have the right equipment in your comp the game is 
 fully beautiful with awesome shading and indepth detail to forward and background making all that 
 you do more entertaining such as staring at some boobies or cutting a head off... and some arms.
 
  
  questing: many of you will actually sit and listen or read what is being said to you as the game 
 has a added depth to your story and others. with cutscenes, spoken dialog and cinematic look the 
 game makes you feel apart of the story. not to mention the game allows you to lvl very quick compared 
 to some other cash milking companies. its almost like they want you to get to the end game stuff 
 to fully enjoy all the game has to offer.
  
  see you on tyranny
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcdrag
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  First off, before I bought the game, I didn't expect much from it. I read all the feedback from 
 everyone I could find and for whatever reason I trusted the information on the internet. I expected 
 5 minute load screens everytime I changed zones, crashes and lag spikes galore, and 10fps framerates. 
 I decided to try it anyway and I can certainly say that all these claims are false. I'd also like 
 to state that I am a recovering WoW addict, and most of my review has World of Warcraft in mind. 
 
  
  What I'm playing the game on: C2D E6400, 2GB 667 Ram, 7900GS video card
  Current Class: Dark Templar - A tank that wears mail and can't use full plate armor, but makes 
 up for it with various life leach and health drain spells and attacks. At level 20 I'm currently 
 converting like 12% of my damage to health.
  
  Stability:
  So far I've been disconnected from the server because of lag one time. Maybe I've been lucky but 
 I honestly got disconnected more and experienced more lag spikes on WoW. Don't get me wrong, it 
 is not without bugs. However, most of them that I've found have not effected gameplay at all. For 
 instance, some mobs I've noticed might move towards you without moving their legs, or other similar 
 graphical bugs. I don't find them to be to big of a deal. The only bug I've come across now that 
 has effected gameplay is that sometimes it allows me to get 2x buffs from frenzy stance (+50% damage 
 given +50% damage taken -100% chance dodge) . Multiply that by two and I die in under 5 seconds. 
 This has happened twice now from the time I got frenzy stance at lvl 15 until now (lvl 25) . If 
 you don't stance dance though this isn't an issue. Apparantly, any buff that should overwrite another 
 (battle stances, auras, etc...) can on occasionaly stack with the buff its supposed to overwrite. 
 Hopefully this bug will be fixed soon since I like to change from frenzy to defensive stance in 
 the middle of combat quite often.
  
  Graphics:
  Just because you can run WoW on high, doesn't mean you should try it with AoC. From what I've seen, 
 its slightly more of a resource hog than CoD4. I play CoD4 on medium settings and I play AoC on 
 low settings and get about the same frame rates (45ish) . That being said, even on low, they are 
 far better than any other RPG I've seen. I can run it on medium settings, but the results are somewhat 
 choppy (15-20 fps) .
  
  Gameplay:
  Although the combat is different, it isn't incredibly different. Basically, to use melee skills, 
 you must complete a combo attack. However, it isn't like street fighter where you can expect combos 
 to be 8 buttons long that you have to memorize. I haven't gotten any combos longer than 3 button 
 presses yet at level 25. I think the longest combos are like 5 button presses and all the buttons 
 show up on the screen and you have plenty of time to press them. Furthermore, enemies have strong 
 sides and week sides and you have 3 regular attacks. Attacking the weak side does about 3 times 
 as much damage as a strong side. It doesn't take long to get used to but I can tell that there 
 is much more room for skill to develop than there is in WoW.
  
  Quests:
  The initial quests (lvl 1-20) take 2 forms, daytime and nighttime. The daytime quests are multiplayer 
 quests. However, I didn't find any quests that take more than 2 players to complete. I had to group 
 for a few bosses but generally you can clear the way to the bosses solo and most bosses you can 
 solo. There are also nighttime quests, or destiny quests. These quests are more lore focused and 
 take place in single player mode in which you are basically in an instance all by yourself. The 
 storyline is told through these quests and I can say that it is incredibly interesting. I haven't 
 done much after leaving the initial city at lvl 20 yet to really speak on that other than just 
 to say that after lvl 20, you are thrown into a more traditional MMO setting where day moves to 
 night in real time, and you are stuck in multiplayer mode. 
  
  The Bads:
  Instancing kind of sucks, but honestly I don't think its as bad as many people made it out to be. 
 Basically, on one server, there are multiple instances of the same zones. Each instance holds x 
 amount of people before another instance is created. I kind of like it because it alleviates that 
 need for instantly respawning mobs when you're questing. I despise some of the mobs in that zone 
 in hellfire Peninsula near kazzak in World of Warcraft. You kill 5 mobs and barely survive, only 
 to have 2 more respawn instantly. Secondly, its not like only 5 people are allowed per instance. 
 I don't know what the limits are but from what I've seen I'm guessing 25+.
  
  The next somewhat bad thing about the game is load screens. They are incredibly common but most 
 take less than 10 seconds on my PC and the very large zones seem to take slightly longer (15-20 
 seconds) . 
  
  Installation: Some people I've talked to said it took them 2days + to install and download patches. 
 For me it took 3 hours. Total space on hard drive = 30gb so you may have to clear off some of the 
 porn on your drive. Don't worry though, you can always create a female character to you're liking 
 and run around bare chested.
  
  Balance: I played a Necromancer to level 10, and found that I could do as much damage with my staff 
 as I could with my spells. If I found this within my first few hours of the game I only assume 
 that necro isn't the only class that's screwed up. 
  
  Lack of Polish: You'll notice early on that things could run more smoothly in the game than they 
 do. However I don't really see it as an issue. I just look at the fact that I played WoW for 18 
 months, and I still go backwards whenever there is the tiniest pebble in front of me when I use 
 blink. Since launch funcom has cranked out one major bug fix patch and is soon to release another. 
 Not bad for 2 weeks work IMO. The areas above level 20 are slightly more buggy than Tortage (the 
 initial zone) is.
  
  Overall:
  This is the best MMO I've ever seen other than WoW. If you've got a computer as good or better 
 than mine, and you're tired of the same daily quests and same four BG's, I would highly suggest 
 giving it a try. I have no idea if I'll keep playing it when WotLK comes out this winter, but for 
 now, its far better than impaling the emisary of hate for the 86th time. 
  
  Overall Score 8.0 / 10
  -.5 for various graphical bugs
  -1 for gameplay bugs
  -.5 interface 
 is crap 
  -.5 for class balance issues
  +.5 for boobs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hadrian3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  for the most part, the game delivered what it promised. if it had all the features that were discussed 
 during development, this game would be a 10. with future content patches, this game will only get 
 better. but it will need more features added to keep its playerbase happy for the long run. this 
 is a game for casual players. 
  
  if you play MMOs for 10 hours per week, then this game is for you. if you play 10 hours per day, 
 you'll grow bored fairly quickly. but even casual players will need to see more content added in 
 three or four months. because of the linear, storyline style of the leveling process, rolling multiple 
 alts doesn't offer much replay value. 
  
  the game is beautiful. combat is innovative and a positive step beyond /afk fights. 
  
  PVE 
 works as intended and is better than previous MMORPGs, but, as in all MMOs, PVP will require a 
 bit more balancing before it is just right. it remains to be seen how much fun large scale sieges 
 will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nodashi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  First of all - I'm in love with AoC. The graphical violence, the dark, cool setting, the great 
 "spine" that the destiny quest gives - I love it all.
  
  I'll not talk about graphics here. If you're reading player review, you saw videos in the gamespot 
 review first. And yes, the game is gorgeous.
  
  No, the quests are not original. But they are well-written, well acted (in those that are voice 
 acted) and overall has the right feeling about them. Unless you simply don't read the quests you 
 will not feel you're doing dull handwork while you level up.
  
  The combat system... oh, the combat system. That's a complicated subject.
  
  In PvE it really 
 shines. It's great in tandem with the fatalities cause in every fight you try your best to chop 
 someone's head off (and that's done hitting your enemy with a combo last move - works around 10% 
 of the time) . You don't get bored killing those thousands of NPCs cause you can behead them.
  
  But.
  
  BUT.
  
  The combat system is a very messy factor for PvP. Making combos while 
 chasing people sprinting from you is FAR from easy. Caster classes (specially priest, with heals 
 and the same armor as barbarians) are really OP right now, cause they can spend all their stamina 
 running and then turn around and kill you or heal.
  
  (in time - if you never played AoC, non-magical classes use stamina both for running and to make 
 combos)
  
  It could even work if the game only had melee classes, so everyone would be forced to deal with 
 the same difficulties... but as it stands, you can simply reroll a tempest of set. And you'll have 
 a great experience, but without the gratification of taking some heads.
  
  I actually see no solution to this except make every melee class able to put a hard, long-lasting 
 ensnare on their target. It would pretty much ruin class diversity tough.
  
  I think the root of this problem is - the combat system was CLEARLY built to be used in consoles 
 controllers.
  
  The game has other problems as well. Many many bugs, some memory leaks (not too many tough, you'll 
 find people are often exaggerating about those) .
  
  Other than that, the game is nearly perfect. You MUST see the graphics (if you have a machine that 
 handles it, let me make it clear) .
  
  So, there's a TON of potential and some problems to be solved, and then the combat system that 
 is, the way I see, the game's best asset in PvE and it's worst flaw in PvP.
  
  If Funcom manages to deal with those, AoC will be the new standard for MMOs from now on. If they 
 don't it will be a terrible loss, but I can guarantee no serious PvPer will be playing AoC after 
 some months. A system where either one side is stunlocked to death or the fight always ends with 
 someone fleeting (or a priest winning) is not really interesting on the long run. On the other 
 hand, if it IS solved - decapitating your player-controlled opponent is REALLY thrilling.
  
  Another scenario is AoC becoming a PvE focused game. But the siege system and keeps (et cetera) 
 makes it highly unlikely.
  
  Lemme say it for the last time, the game has huge potential. If you can live with the fact that 
 it's not a really polished product right now and need some time to reach it peak, go ahead and 
 grab it. I did and I'm addicted to it. But if you can't, wait one or two months and see what happens.
 
  
  I'm giving AoC 8.5 considering all the problems I stated. Without them, it would be a 9.5. But 
 they do exist and are serious concerns to the game longevity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoxOfPocky
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  I've play quite a few MMORPGS (WoW, FFXI, Guild Wars, and various free mmos) so I have quite a 
 high expectation specially for something that carried so much promises such as Age of Conan. However, 
 when I actually got the game and played it, there's aspects I like and others I feel lacking... 
 To get straight to the point, there's the goods and there's the bads...
  
  Goods (+)
  +Graphics - AoC provides a gorgeous environment for you to explore and adventure with your buddies. 
 Seeing how it takes up almost 30gig of your HDD, it better provide that much.
  +Fighting Mechanic - Aside from your usual click to perform a skill like most MMORPGs, AoC allows 
 you to take actual control of how your character attacks. For example, you can press one button 
 to do left swings, right swings, middle swings, then at lvl40 lower right and lower left gets added. 
 Furthermore, when performing skills an indicator appears and direct you on what swings to perform 
 to activate the skill. This aspect allows you to feel a bit more engaged in the combat itself rather 
 than sitting and watching your guy auto-attack with the occasional press a button to do a special 
 move type of thing.
  +Fatality - This game isn't rated M for nothing (alright aside from the perverts who make female 
 characters and strip their clothes to run around bare-chested) . Anyways, when you perform a skill 
 to kill your enemy there's a chance of performing a fatality. When this occurs, you get a little 
 scene of your guy performing a kick ass maneuver which ranges from decapitation to various other 
 gory actions. Additionally, fatalities give your character a boost in damage and restoration of 
 stamina for a short duration.
  +Mounts - Alright, you might say "Other games have mounts, so what?" Well... other games do not 
 have RHINO and MAMMOTH!! Enough said, lol.
  +Customization - I should have mentioned this earlier... but yea... I'm not the type to care how 
 my character looks since armor will cover it anyways. However, for you maniacs with an obsession 
 to go into details, you can customize your characters ranging from the usual race, gender, hair, 
 and face to tatoos, eyes depths, eyes position, nose curve, nose height, mouth width, mouth height, 
 and etc. If you're not satisfied with that level of customization then you should go outside more 
 often.
  
  Bads (-)
  -Game Requirements - I mention this in the bad because the requirements to play this game is a 
 bit absurd. Unless you have a good computer you can expect long load times, lag, and waiting for 
 NPCs to load on your screen. Not to mention being unable to enjoy the lust environments.
  -Loading - Oh yea, expect a lot of loading. When you go from the town to outside, load screen. 
 Go from one zone to the next, load screen. Go from the town itself to... let say... a tavern for 
 a quest, load screen. LOAD SCREENS ARE ANNOYING!! I hope your computer can load fast, otherwise 
 you're S. O. L.
  -Bugs/Glitches- Oh yeah, there's quite a few of those. Some monster not spawning correcting, items 
 not stacking correctly, storage not allowing you to do some various things, and various others. 
 It's just some problems that need to be addressed and fix soon, but then again, it's a new game. 
 Give it time I guess...
  -Combat - I know I seem contradictory of myself; however, the combat can become a problem sometimes. 
 For example when you pull up a skill and the indicator comes up, and sometimes, your swings become 
 unresponsive and your skill just don't initiate. Secondly, it's very much a hate or love idea. 
 If you're into the traditional MMO where you auto-attack and press a button to perform a skill, 
 then AoC might not appeal to you.
  -Grouping - Okay, there's a way to find members and groups and w/e. It's just a bit obscure and 
 irritating to use. I am use to being able to go and list myself as LFG (Looking for Group for those 
 of you that doesn't speak MMO, lol) and go about questing and get an invitation from someone who 
 wanna do the same dungeon as me. But in AoC, you can put yourself as LFG, but can't really ascertain 
 that you put yourself in the right dungeon and secondly, most of the time you're looking for the 
 group rather than the group looking for you. It's just a bit difficult to use is all I am saying. 
 They need to make it more user friendly. Then there's the issue of party members indicator on your 
 map/mini-map. If you travel a certain amount of distant away from your group, the party member 
 icons on your map/mini-map doesn't show where your party members are. This gets so irritating especially 
 when you have to constantly read out your coordinate just so your teammates can find you on the 
 map.
  -Fatality - Alright, I know I mentioned it as a "good", but sometimes fatalities can get annoying. 
 For example, when you're fighting 3-4 monsters your level, and randomly your fatality goes off 
 and you engage in your little gory scene. During that time, the other 2-3 monsters are hacking 
 away at your HP. All I can say is /gg at that point.
  -Auction House - When I think of auction house, I think of you put up an item. People bid on it, 
 and if someone wants it badly, they pay the Buy Out price. But in AoC, you put of an item for "X" 
 amount of money and people just buy it for "X" of money. Thus, you have to constantly adjust your 
 item price to see what is suitable. Secondly, the economy is so random, one person can have one 
 item for 2copper and another person can have the same item for 5silver (the currency goes, lowest 
 to highest, Tin- Copper- Silver- Gold) . Being that it's a new game, it's just really confusing 
 to recognize what price is suitable for any item at the current time, so prices for things are 
 all over the place.
  -Money - It is ridiculously hard to make decent money in the game as a casual gamer. For example 
 as mount cost 1g to learn the skill and 2g for the mount itself, 3g total. You can get a mount 
 at lvl40. I have a lvl40, he has 60silver, so yea... wtf? The quests do not reward enough money, 
 monsters do not provide decent amount either, the auction is in disarray because no one knows suitable 
 prices for stuff, tradeskill materials can't be sold to NPC, and monster drops sell for crap to 
 NPCs. Thus, leaving you with very little options... beg, kill mobs nonstop, pray to god your auction 
 sells, or stick to walking.
  -Grinding - There's instances... there's quests... but honestly, it's all grinding in the end. 
 Seeing how the LFG interface is crap, most of the time you'll just stick to questing and solo grinding... 
 it gets tedious, seriously.
  -Equipments - Meh, they're relatively unimaginative. From lvl1-40, all I saw was basically the 
 same armor styles being reused over and over just with different names and specs. I want my guy 
 to look cool or something not like a lvl1 even though he's lvl40! 
  
  So in the end what does it come down to? The game is good, innovative in some aspects, but it lacks 
 various aspects which really draws people in and keep them playing. Now I am not insulting the 
 game or anything, quite the contrary, I actually enjoy the game and hope it improves as time progresses. 
 Just right now, I don't feel like I am getting my money's worth. $50 for the game follow by the 
 $15 a month fee, I expect something more satisfying and thrilling than fatalities and a bunch of 
 guys stripping their female characters and making them run around nude. I recommend the game if 
 you're the MMO type who aims to try everything. As for the casual gamers, I say don't get it right 
 now. Give it time so the game population increases, bugs/glitches get fixes, and various interfaces 
 which are user unfriendly gets dealt with. Seriously, if it's going to develop into something amazing 
 it'll last for years to come and it won't be too late to grab a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbadwolf83
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Seriously i can't say enough about this game. I true love the game play, the story, the graphics, 
 and from what I hear the game gets better as you level up more. So I am really excited about this 
 game. So far I have had no technical issues so far but then again I am only level 9. LoL I know 
 I still a noob. But I have played many other mmo's and I knew with the first few levels if the 
 game was worth anymore of my time. The only other mmo that got me hooked was world of warcraft. 
 But I always felt that there where things missing in world of warcraft or that could be improved 
 to have a better gaming experience. Warhammer is also coming out in a bit, it seems like fun. But 
 it looks to me like a battlefield2 version of warcraft. Which really wouldn't be an mmorpg, it 
 would be more like an mmofps lol. So of the mmorpg's to date and still to come the one that feels 
 the most complete in every way is Age of Conan. I have yet to hit level 80 and see what the end 
 game content has to offer, but I have a good feeling its going to be bad ass!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larinx
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  The best thing about this game is the music. The character graphics are good but the surroundings 
 are pretty standard. The initial story that takes you up to level 20 is ok but not amazing and 
 most of the quests are pretty boring ( travel to here, pick this up travel back etc.) . I was really 
 looking forward tothe first mature rated mmo" but have been disapointed by this unfinished piece 
 of work. The amount of mature content is laughable so far, the odd swear word and some blood ooooh! 
 I am only half way to the level cap of 80 and this game may improve as you hit those higher levels 
 but I doubt it. I have played other mmo's and this one sucks at the minute, I am not going to subscribe 
 for 10 months or how ever long it takes them to bring this game up to scratch. A shame and waste 
 of a good licence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo98765
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Age of Conan is sorely disappointing and overrated to me. Quests are not nearly plentiful enough, 
 and offer nothing new to the genre. The introductory chain of quests which get you to level 20 
 were well written but painfully over-scripted, and the voice acting was annoyingly cheesy and full 
 of strained fake accents.
  
  The world feels very claustrophobic and constrained, with far too many load screens and too many 
 compartmentalized areas. The scenery is grim and dark, and on my PC, textures sometimes didn't 
 pop in until my character was upon them (for example, ramps would appear to be a smooth sheet until 
 underfoot, then became visibly made of individual planks) . Other reviews have celebrated the small 
 touches such as prisoners left to rot in their chains... the problem is, these touches lose their 
 impact because they are over-placed, and also are part of the unreachable scenery, not part of 
 the environment. Death animations were similarly desensitizing after a short time.
  
  Combat is NOT the original concept made out to be. It is a hybrid of Diablo style mad-clicking 
 and WoW style actions on timers. Combos are a new touch but hardly interesting... after the first 
 part of the combo is triggered, the next piece is prompted directly in the middle of the UI! The 
 chance to develop varied strategies didn't present itself to my Herald of Xotli... once I figured 
 out the "right" order of combos, I always used it, only having to vary whether it hit overhand 
 left or right based on enemies' shifting shields.
  
  PvP on the PvP server is a pointless gankfest... fun, but chaotic and with no other payoff than 
 the thrill of the kill. I didn't participate in the other activities since they seemed to be higher 
 level than I achieved. 
  
  Overall, Conan didn't compare at all to LoTRO or WoW for me, and isn't nearly in the same league 
 for fun and innovation that EQ was in its heyday. Visually, it shares a style with Guild Wars, 
 with which it also shares the frequent episodes of being a vacant, empty MMO world. GW offers far 
 more strategic challenge due to its limited abilities toolbar per instance. and is cheaper at retail 
 and free to play. CoH/V is more visually appealing and offers more to "do" outside of running directly 
 from quest to quest. Offline RPGs like Hellgate and even Diablo are more fun and more convincingly 
 "grim". This game is very low on the RPG spectrum for me, and has no chance of getting even one 
 paid month out of me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kashgar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  Lots of little "oh wow" moments where you come across some unexpected nice detail. Great group 
 dynamics when adventuring as a party. Each new valley, city, beach is a discovery in itself. You 
 find yourself pausing to admire the vista.
  
  Yes there are some issues, but not any more than any other game had at this stage - even games 
 renowned for polish such as World of Warcraft.
  
  The game was built with heart and soul and you can see the evidence throughout. 
  
  The difficulty 
 level is not much different from WoW except that you must direct each swing of your sword (no auto 
 attack) so there's more input involved and full collision detection between characters makes the 
 game harder in itself. But it also makes it feel more real. Each character feels like he or she 
 has "personal space". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zinderin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  
  The game is gorgeous. The approach to combat is unlike any other game. It is something that you 
 can easily become addicted to. In a nutshell, its an adult version of Guild Wars on Steroids.
 
  
  But the blue screens are constant, even on the super-rigs. 
  
  People can't get into the game at all ... and FunCom is doing nothing to help them. No response 
 to emails to support, no comments on possible work arounds in the forums (other than to say they 
 are monitoring it) .
  
  Crafting is completely broken ... tier 1 harvestables can't be harvested, some aspects of crafting 
 cause you to crash, and if you put certain crafted items in your inventory they will.
  
  Quests are completely borked ... you spend hours trying to complete a quest to find out it doesn't 
 work. Escort quests where the NPC to find and escort never spawns, bosses to kill that won't register 
 the kill, items to steal, but not enough are spawned in the "closed" instance to meet the quest 
 requirements.
  
  Servers, just lock up out of nowhere and stop responding. Requiring you to quit the game and log 
 back in.
  
  Group mechanics that randomly drop characters, or won't register that you're with the group (this 
 can sometimes require you to completely shutdown your PC and do a cold boot) .
  
  Many fixes/patches actually break more than it fixes (can you say SW: G?) 
  
  Guild mechanics 
 are incomplete. Guild City mechanics are incomplete.
  
  There are virtually no quests beyond level 60. In other words, 60-80 is basically a grind in one 
 zone ... and there's so many people grinding they are PvP'ing each other over the mobs.
  
  And then there is their GMs. Apparently they use volunteers to filter their petitions ... and while 
 there is nothing wrong with that, the real GMs are so busy with bugs, you can wait serveral days 
 to get a GM response, only to tell you they can't help you, and that you'll need to repetition 
 and word it another way. BAM! Your petition is cleared, you drop to the bottom of the queue. You 
 repetition, wait days, and get the same response. No one in our guild has yet gotten a response 
 from emailing support. In fact, for the first week, their support site wasn't even online. You 
 got a 404.
  
  I find myself having Dejevu over this game. I've been through this before with the first launch 
 of WWII online. 
  
  I'd wait a couple of months on this game and see where they are at then.
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sot7thD
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 5, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  This is all personal opinion and everyone has their own, so id you don't agree then don't flame 
 me and just accept we have very different tastes in MMO. Also this is really just a launch impressions 
 review because mmorpgs evolve over time but for me to like it they'd have to do the impossible 
 and make it seemless.
  
  My reasons behind my score of a 6 is because while I can't stand the game I do think it is a above 
 average mmorpg so i'm only going to take marks away from actual faults that arn't of my opinion.
 
  
  I also will say that I will be coming back to review AOC in the future once they have fixed some 
 of my problems I have with the game atm.
  
  
  
  
  I bought AOC and I didn't care to get past level 10 and I know you people will say omg the fun 
 happens at level 40+ or w/e but then that's a serious design flaw having to waste weeks of my life 
 playing a game I don't enjoy just at the slight hope I might enjoy it at level 40+. Also Funcom 
 havn't seemed to optimize the game for the 3870X2 series which should be able to max the game out 
 but I'm having bad stuttering issues and 15 FPS running on medium settings..... Theres bad memory 
 leak issues with my GPU and my system memory which takes the game ages to load and crashes non 
 stop on me and while my Nvidia friends seem to play fine... on ATI I can't and this is nothing 
 to do with ATi's fault it's Funcoms dumb optimization. I've had problems patching too and connecting 
 to the sevrers and just has been a big mess for me but when I finally get in game all the crashing 
 and stuttering starts and 5 min long load times like.
  
  My system;
  
  3870X2
  4gb DDR3 1600mhz
  QuadCore Intel overclocked to 3ghrz
  Creative Xfi 64mb
  
  Anyways my 
 problem isn't with the tech issues really seeing as I put up with them in SWG lol.
  
  So with AOC I just found the game to be really unfun due to what I thought was a poor combat system 
 and a ugly UI which just seems sooo cluttered and dated, specially the Inventory screen which was 
 HORRIBLE. The whole system just doens't appeal to me i dunno why but I just found the combat generally 
 unfun, I didn't like the shield system and I didn't like the Chain spell system in EQ2 and I still 
 don't like Funcoms take on it the combo systme in this game.... I prefer all my spells to be their 
 own like in WOW. Also I thought the combat animations were very poor because of how long they take 
 and while It looks good in videos If i tried to run away while he was doing a attack it looks bizzare 
 like I'm sliding across the landscape and he's doing some move lol.
  
  I really don't understand this whole offline component to a MMO because I play a mmo to play withother 
 people from the start and I just didn't like the whole offline thing because it felt like a POOR 
 single player RPG and would have much rather just played with friends all the time. Problem is 
 though you have to use the single player to level up because it gives you an advantage over playing 
 online which I would have atleats thought it would have been the other way round to give people 
 a incentive to group up in a mmorpg heaven forbid you actually play with other poeple in a mmorpg. 
 This is a problem WOW started really because that game is "play alone together" meaning everyones 
 online in the same server but everyones solo'in because it's faster. I just don't get why you'd 
 play a mmo to solo, you're meant to group up with people and if you want to solo go and play a 
 offline game.
  
  Also I don't see the need for 3 human races which all look the same, I don't know the conan lore 
 but I would have much rather a nice diverse different looking set of races like you get in other 
 mmo's such as WOW. I also found the classes to be very bland and not fun to play..... In WOW you 
 create a character and you just know what class you want to play because they're all so different 
 from eachother and they're all fantasticly fun to play with kool spells. My time in conan however 
 trying out different classes I just found them all to be rather bland and there wasn't one I could 
 find that I liked... It was like logging into EQ2 and having 16 (i think) uninteresting classes 
 to choose from and theres tooo many types of each. With EQ2 it's like why do I need 4 different 
 types of tanks or 4 different types of priests etc etc? I also found the character models to be 
 way tooo Doom 3 plastic looking which put me off even further.
  
  In my mind mmorpgs should be totally seemless and that's what in the end put me off the game because 
 the maps were soooo small and whenever I wanted to go into a building or though a gate I have to 
 go to a loading screen which just isn't very fun. Games like WOW and SWG were soooo fun because 
 it's totally seemless and that's what really brings a community together and builds up the immersion. 
 However In AOC it feels sooo lonely all the time which just isn't nice and eurgh I dunno just hating 
 all the loading screens.... even when you get rez'd you go to a loading screen!
  
  I didn't even see any sign of crafting or a player economy everything was looted which is a shame 
 and didn't seem to be any crafting........ i was told it starts mid way through the game but again 
 WTF? I want to craft and build a player economy and not have to combat all the time! Brings me 
 onto another thing all there is to do in this game is COMBAT! Theres nothing else to do and no 
 social mechanics too youc an play the entire game without speaking to anyone which is such a shame! 
 Again the PVP isn't very fun too because all that happens is the immature community want to spawn 
 camp you for hours and I have no problems with open world PVP because in WOW it was very fun but 
 because the zones are soooo small you can't go quest somewhere else and it ends up as a cluster 
 **** Cause of the zones too it's too easy to get away because you attack someone then they click 
 on the gate and zone out and it's like FFS! Atleats in WOW it's totally seemless and you can chase 
 them across the entire map. I have to say the PVP arenas too are very boring and theres no purpose 
 to them... no end goal but wiping out the enemy, I would have prefered missions in the PVP and 
 stuff like that. I just couldn't like this game and this is a statement to how poor the mmo genre 
 is but it's probably in the top 5 mmo's ever and I hate it but also 99% of the other mmorpgs out 
 there are much worse. However my review score will reflect my fun in the game and I just hated 
 nearly everything about this game and didn't have any fun... It symbolizes the horrible poor direction 
 the genre is going to and I doubt it'll take notes from actualy good mmo's out there like SWG pre 
 cu or UO in the 90's or EVE Online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polarskill
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Look around you in your room right now.... ok done? Notice how thier is a world outside of WoW.
 
  
  Good.... Now start writing reviews on AoC not how it compares to a very old and very buggy at the 
 start game.
  
  OMG AoC is waaaay better it doesnt have half the system problems lagg issues and it doesnt have 
 half the grafical content.
  
  As a person who played WoW in its beta stages and enjoyed the game i say to my fellow gamers MOVE 
 ON.
  
  I hate when new games come out and they get flammed for problems WOW HAD but, for some reason WoW 
 is infallible ohh hail allmighty World of Warcrack.
  
  I have been warcrack sober for 2 years isnt it about time you are sober?
  
  Trust me you feel 
 better.
  
  
  Now to the nitty gritty.
  
  
  This game is an overall great game one i actually look forward to. The classes are all diverse 
 but still hold that viceral combat feel.
  
  My first toon was a barbarian and i stuck with him. Personally i felt that the barbarian dished 
 out a ton of dammage with the right combos and i chose the 2h wepon spec.
  
  In all i give this game a perfect score but needs improvement in the Lag issues and memory leak 
 that is common in most if not all MMO's at their onset.
  
  In all i wish you a good day and may crom have mercy on your WoW currupted souls.
  
  
  Ohh 
 and btw the people posting on this site with no previous posts or brand new accounts are all people 
 who work for Blizzard; how i know this? My friend works for them and told me they are actually 
 paid to make new accounts on sites like this and spit down on new up and coming games.
  
  Not good behavior for a gaming company. I mean come on really think about it brand new accounts 
 ALL with bad reviews. Thats sad.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Age of Conan: Hyborian Adeventures is a new MMORPG for the PC. For those of you who have no idea 
 what an MMORPG is it stands for massive multiplayer online role playing game. SO it follows in 
 the foot steps of such games as guild wars, hellgate london and of course World of warcraft. Unlike 
 these games though it does do alot of things differently which is a nice change. 
  
  The Good: One of the big things it does right is having so many different classes to choose from. 
 There are four major classes and then 3 sub classes in each. EVery single one gives you a totally 
 different game experience which is very nice to see. The 12 sub classes are very orginal and unlike 
 more MMO's they dont just focus on the regular tank / healer / warlock / mage / assasin kind of 
 thing. They have classes that can fight and yet heal at the same time, rogue classes that can be 
 silent yet still do alot of damage and wear great armor. The Graphics in the game are also very 
 nice to see, the world looks great, the character designs are very detailed, and the carnage that 
 takes place in Hyboria is very gorry and intense. The combat is also new from other MMO's because 
 instead of simply just clicking on a target and your guy will begin to attack him you actually 
 have to push the keys to make your guy attack. There are also combos which if you hit the right 
 keys in the right order will let you do a brutal finisher move. If there is one problem with world 
 of warcraft it is that leveling up takes alot of time, people who have lives will probably find 
 themselves never getting past level 40, yet with age of conan the leveling feels alot smoother 
 and easier. So you can still have a life yet still level up. ALso the pvp is pretty fun and im 
 sure that in the future it will become even better. 
  
  The Bad: As soon as you start up the game you will find that there are quite a few different glitches 
 in the game which at first wont bother you to much but soon it will begin to tick you off. But 
 then again glitches and bugs can always be fixed with patches. Another problem is the lack of bag 
 space in the game. As you kill your foes they drop loot, and you will want to pick up that loot 
 so you can use it later or sell it for money. Sadly there is a huge lack of bag space so you will 
 be finding yourself having to run back to vendors to sell your stuff every so often. Now this is 
 a M for mature game, and one of the reasons for that is there is alot of nudity. And when i say 
 alot i mean alot, all female characters in the game can actually take off there chest armor and 
 thus expose their breasts. Now for some guys this may be a bonus but believe me after a few hours 
 of being in a town and all the little kids just run around naked you will wish that they had never 
 put in the boob feature. Oh well thats really not the games fault its more the 14 year olds who 
 the play games fault. 
  
  All in All: Age of Conan is a great game that has a chance at beating WoW for MMO of the year. 
 The game is very fun, has many classes, alot of neat quests to enjoy, some nice pvp, and some beautiful 
 graphics. Any fan of MMO's will probably enjoy this game alot and even new comers may find a home 
 with this game. This games main issues can be fixed with simple patches in the future and when 
 that occurs watch out world of warcraft you might have a fight on your hand. ANd hey isn't it about 
 time that WoW had a fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterg500
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 4, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  
  I leveled a toon up to level 21 to get a good feel for the game.
  
  Things I liked:
  +Combat system is fun and addictive. 
  + Best mmo graphics ever seen.
  +quests are fun and 
 there are plenty of them.
  
  Things I didnt like:
  
  Its not an open world like world of warcraft. Instead its a series of sever instances that you 
 get ported to from various people or items. Which means in any given play session you can see over 
 45 loading bar screens.
  
  You cant turn off the quest giver narration. Its cool at first but soon it gets very very annoying. 
 
  
  The first 20 levels you are trapped on the noob island and you cant really do anything other than 
 combat. 
  
  the feats and talent points are sort of lack luster. From level 1-21 I didnt feel a sense that 
 my character was getting stronger. 
  
  Gear doesnt seem to matter much.
  
  Its very hard to solo quest. VERY hard.
  
  Its got a great combat system going for it. But 
 Ill check back in a year when its had a little time to grow and fix several issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oapik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Theres alot to say about AOC but i will keep it simple. By far this is one of the best mmo's out. 
 The game has only been out for 2 weeks and already its amazing. This is definitely one of the very 
 few mmo games that was ready to be launched by its set date. Yea there were a few bugs and still 
 are but hey what mmo game doesn't start out like that. Combat wise this game takes a different 
 approach. It isn't just your point n click mmo game this is actual combat where you hit your keys 
 in the direction to attack and do combos and where you attack makes a big difference in the matters 
 of life n death. Theres just too much to say about this game that would take a long time to go 
 through. The game does have fatalities which is awesome wether it be igniting a foe and seeing 
 him burn while screaming or slcing their neck with your shield then impaling them with your sword. 
 There are different variety of fatalites which is really great. The game does not bore you because 
 of how involved it requires you to be. In this game grinnding is actually fun and always is. The 
 idea of leaving areas wide open for PVP is also great incase some1 makes you mad or runs up and 
 grabs your loot you can right away chasem down and killem. The PVP has a Lineage 2 type of feeling 
 and DAOC which is most impressive but wuts different bout AOC is that if you get killed in PVP 
 you dont drop your loot or lose xp which is magnificant. Graphics wise this game is one of the 
 best out there with its engine even on low settings it looks great but i do recommend high settings 
 because you will be thinking WOW! (the word not world of warcraft) Soloing is also a capable thing 
 in this game but it will take a lil longer but hey at least you can do it. I highly recomend this 
 game to anyone and everyone. You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesse1977
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  In this game you will find graphics that are unsurpassed by any other MMO out as of today and fighting 
 mechanics that just make MMO's fun again and force you to pay attention to each and every battler 
 instead of just going on autpilot. Just please give it a try and make it to level 20 and you'll 
 see how much fun this really is. Oh and tweak your video settings to insure your getting at least 
 20 FPS and have full visuals. You can always sacrifice distance for a number of options and still 
 not really have much of any impact on the visual quality. 
  
  Ok evidently I need to type more so that my review will be excepted but I also need to go to work 
 so I hope these happy faces will suffice. : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : 
 ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : 
 ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : 
 ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zarfeen
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Conan is worth the buy but don't ditch the girlfriend or put the 24 hour Chinese 
 restaurant on your speed dial just yet. There are a reasonable handful of additions to MMOs that 
 Conan does right. Things like clearly marked quest objectives on your map with a big X. The ability 
 to easily change zones; boss mob being camped? Changed to a fresh world zone with fewer people. 
 You don't have to run all the way to a capital city to PVP, queue up to join pvp matches and get 
 teleported from anywhere in Conan.
  
  Unfortunately there are numerous areas WoW got right that Conan just left out of their play book. 
 No flight paths; you'll find yourself running through three or more zones constantly for quests 
 making quests take additional hours of time. The current PvP system is a joke. Even WoWs was a 
 bit sub par compared to DAoC and other games but Conan's is down right awful. Aside from your original 
 backpack you can only have ONE extra bag for loot that is incredibly expensive and holds almost 
 nothing compared to how much you pay for it. 
  
  I could go on but what's the point? For those looking for a great MMO think of Conan as a mediocre 
 pacifier until Warhammer Online. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: machineman
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 4, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Let me first say I have followed the game for over 2 years, and was in the closed beta. I desperately 
 wanted something to dethrone WoW. This is not it.
  
  The combat system was clearly designed for console gamers, and requires no strategy or skill to 
 use. It's simply whack-a-mole, executing combos is as simple as looking at the screen and pressing 
 the keys they tell you to press. It really is spammy and there's no getting around that.
  
  The world looks great, but the main gripe here is its all instanced. You can't actually walk from 
 one land mass to another. Your character is basically put on rails with very specific entry and 
 exit points for zones (and tons of loading screens) .
  
  If you expect an open world MMO like WoW, you will not find this to your liking. Glorified Guild 
 Wars is a bit more accurate.
  
  I guess these are my 2 main gripes with this game, and they are large gamebreakers for me.
  
 
  - machineman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFL
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  At first I figured this would be just another hack and slash fantasy mmorpg that i'd get bored 
 of within a week. Boy was I surprised. Coming from a PVP server's perspective, I'd have to say 
 that this is the most exciting game I've played in a long time. Free For All PVP is hardly common 
 in games of this type these days and I don't ever get sick of seeing players fall to my mighty 
 blade. Even when I die 5 times in a row and start to get a little annoyed, I just laugh a little 
 and remind myself why I rolled PVP. Can't get enough of this extremely Mature game. The best part 
 is that the game started out pretty solid, but in this type of setting, there's always new content, 
 fixes, updates, and the development team has been doing a great job addressing the issues that 
 are most important. Soon we wont even remember the annoying little bugs that are bothering most 
 people. Anyway I'm out, off to play AoC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zallo
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  This game did take alot of leaps to seperate itself and i respect that.
  Im not saying I despise this game or anything its just well unamazing.
  I was ready to give this 
 a try heck even quit WoW for it if it was truly amazing like i heard. Went to a friends (Who is 
 in love with it but he never played wow this is his first mmo) Set down started playing thought 
 hey not bad the gore is nice for a change story is good runs well hey this is pretty fu... WTF 
 JUST HAPPEND did this game just crash on my friends amazing comp that can run CRYSIS FULL SETTINGS 
 no cant be it was just a glitch im sure it will be fine. So we waited awhile and the game starting 
 working well agian. I told myself to look past the new game jitters it was having and went on to 
 look at really mattered the combat and things that you can do when not in combat. The PVP is awsome 
 but the PVE is pretty lacluster and very dissapointing. On top of that theres nothing to do but 
 quests and kill things... o well thats what these games are meant for but it would be nice to do 
 something else for once. Well I guess I was dissipointed in the fact this game wasnt enough for 
 me to get of the WoW but mabye just mabye in a couple months this game will have some patches that 
 will draw me into it more. Well all in all this game isnt bad but isnt the best WoW still has a 
 lead on it but I can still say it beats playing EQ or GW lol.
  
  One more thing I dont know if anyone else experienced this but at one time in the game my arms 
 dissapered wich ussually isnt a good thing but they came back after logging out and back in.
  
  If you do like this game Have fun with it its worth playing if you can work past the flaws 
 and dont like WoW.
  
  Cheers all have a good time doing whatever the heck you want to =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: world69star69
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Age of conan, is the only mmo, that has pulled me in, and i have tried a lot, eq2 was my first, 
 which would be my 2nd fav, lotro, wow, guild wars, vanguard, eve, silkroad, runescape, etc.. I 
 was bored with all of those, especially wow! Age of conan is a different beast all together! 
 
  
  For one it uses a skill based combat system, that uses strategy and tactics, along with gear, so 
 even people like me who work, can still put up a fight. The gameplay is truly fun! There are fatalities 
 and bonuses you get and everything takes attention or you will fail, no auto-attack here! 
  
  The graphics are astounding! The environments are massive and unique. Take oblivion's environment 
 graphics, and multiply that by 1000 in terms of variety and that is what you get in aoc. The models 
 and animations are top notch! The woman are actually hot! in this game. You will find yourself 
 starring at your (female) charcters ass bouncing around in a thong and her bare breasts jiggling 
 too and through, thanks to the nudity with in game physics. The mature theme and rating makes this 
 the only mmo that isn't bogged down with kids, so there is a really mature community.
  
  Questing is fun, and fully voice acted for the first 20 levels. And its nice that all the quests 
 are themed to the game to mean something. Each class has a different main quest line. 
  
  My only complaint is gear, there I have only gotten one blue ( rare) item in 26 levels and that 
 was from the main quest, dropped items are kinda sucky, but I am sure they get better later in 
 game, Craftingi also doesn't start til level 40 which is a drag as well. 
  
  Pvp is fun if you do culture pvp, which is realm vs realm. Stay away from the free for all pvp 
 though unless you like being ganked by everyone you see, and spawn camped. 
  
  All in all aoc is a must buy! If you haven't tried it, I suggest you do, you won't regret it. Oh 
 if your a wow, player and you try Aoc, just go and cancel wow now, you will not want to go back 
 to that crappy looking boring game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cacolaco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  The story is amazing, especially for an mmo, but the thing that impresses me the most so far is 
 the combat gameplay. I am using a demonologist right now, and WOW... What a fun class to play! 
 I have never had this much fun to start a mmorpg. Usually I have rolled 3 or 4 different classes 
 before I reach level 10. This is easily the most interesting and fun mmorpg I have ever played, 
 and I have played all of the major ones. This game is one of the few in recent memory that has 
 lived up to the hype. Sure, the hardware requirements are somewhat high, but an XBox 360 version 
 will be coming out down the line, so I am sure that the user base won't be affected greatly by 
 that. My advice: Try it! At least head to a fansite forums and see if you can mooch a 7 day pass 
 off of a subscriber. If you like mmorpgs, but have never been satisfied, you have to try this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfezza
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game has the potential to be great, but is definitely not there yet.
  
  pluses:
  
  The combat is really engaging, enough so that I've even had a "nag death"* which has never happened 
 in other mmo's. The graphics are gorgeous. Fatalities never get old, with a perverse guilty pleasure. 
 The story is interesting and compelling.
  
  Minuses:
  
  No DX10. Some classes (assassin, priest) feel wrong, which I know is highly subjective, but hey 
 it's my review. Everyone starts in the same place. I cannot stress enough what a bad design choice 
 I think this is. It knocks off a point to a point and half. Twelve classes and three uh races have 
 about 80-90% overlap on quests. Most areas are like grand central station.
  
  I think this game will turn out to be pretty good, maybe even excellent.
  
  * nag death - when 
 spouse/significant other bothers you while playing leading to toon death 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokobil
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 3, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Character creation: 
  
  You can't have space in names. So your name will be "onewordonlyname" . 
  
  Graphics: 
  
 
  On a high end system the graphics are better than the other MMOs out there. They cannot compare 
 of course with single player RPGs graphics not Oblivion's and the like but not even Morrowind. 
 They are better than WoWs but well WoW has still far more character in it's graphics. Perhaps this 
 is because it's easier to make cartoonish like graphics with less textures compaired to the AoC 
 graphics that try to imitate a more "reality" enviroment. So although WoW graphics are inferior 
 they are able to rapresent WoWs world better than AoC achives in it's own world rapresentation 
 goal.
  
  Sound: AoC has very good sounds. Especially the initial music that seems inspired by Mozart's Requiem 
 (dies irae part) really captures you. The sound really helps into the immersivity into the game.
 
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  The new combat system is positive and offers some variety from the usuall click click click but 
 not perfect. The actual goal the player has to achieve is to watch the opponent's defence bars 
 and hit at the side the foe is less protected. It sure offers more interactivity but it is not 
 a real breakthrough but more of an additional task. What keeps mattering are the "combo" shorcuts. 
 "Combo" is another word for spell like abilities. They are not actual combos. They are just named 
 so to make an impression. They are used exactly like the correspondent WoWs class spells and special 
 attacks. The highly advertised fatalities of the game although pleasant to watch they are not some 
 kind of super attacks that kill but only visual rapresentations of final blows that trigger this 
 special visual effect aka "Fatality" . PvP is a joke since what happens in pvp servers are tha 
 certain groups camp the passages and the only way to move around is stealth. Although stealth drops 
 the stamina bar preety fast so is not a very possible option for non stealth specialist classes. 
 Genearly there is lack of flexibility you chose a class at the begining and you will stick with 
 it's ways till the end. I prefer much the flexibility of Guildwars or Eve online were you can try 
 different strategies.
  
  The actual difficulty is at the way you control the character When you get attacked by multiple 
 enemies you actual defence will be to kill them faster than they kill you. You can't use the enviroment 
 in any way and you lack any actual defencive moves (you can press X in attempt to defend but its 
 random based and is counter productive trying to guess where the foe will hit you from to move 
 your shields toward one side) Run runing will lead you to more foes the ones you just killed a 
 couple of minutes ago but they are by now respawned... So if you see that you are going to lose 
 a battle, well there is no way you can avoid death. Runing won't save you if you are deep into 
 an area. The spellcasters work exactly like in WoW and there is no way you can kite. What will 
 mostly happen is to shoot 1 or 2 spells before they reach you then you pray that your slowed casted 
 spells will be able to kill them first.
  
  User interface: 
  
  Is almost identical to WoW. The lvl up works like WoW although at least here you are granted the 
 abilities for free . On each lvl up you automaticaly get the new aditions. After some lvl you also 
 get feat points just like in WoW. 
  Shortcuts etc just like WoW
  
  Storyline/immersion:
  
  Seems more convincing than WoWs but in the end the goals are similar 
 to WoW. Kill 10 of these gather 10 of that. The problem with the game is that it feels much more 
 zoned compaired to WoW that feels completely open. Also there are no indications warning you how 
 hard a foe will be so you ll have to find out the hard way. 
  
  
  
  Bugs:
  Occasional crashes. Sometimes you may stuck into something ,gets fixed by reloging. Official forum 
 had a bug they woudln't recognise the name i had set. Still they don't work for me and many others.
 
  
  Conclusion
  
  All in all is not a bad game but it lacks character and it also lacks the feeling of a real world 
 society composed of players. The world feels very static and empty everyone runs around trying 
 to do quests and earn xp. I would hope of a more RP credible enviroment like that offered by some 
 online player mods in Neverwinter Nights. In the end i don't see the reason to prefer play AoC 
 instead of Oblivion or Morrowind. Of course AoC is an online game but in the end of the day what 
 you are doing in AoC is soloing around with a bunch of others that happens to solo around in the 
 same area as you as if it's some kind of competition on who will reach higher lvl sooner only to 
 rise lvl be happy about it and go kill monster type B with the new skills in the same exact way 
 as he did before. I find the way battles and group PvE happens in Guildwars were battles are far 
 more frenetic and fun and because there partying with is a "Must" people get used to cooperate 
 right from the start. That way they learn to have fun together which is what an MMO should aim 
 to anyway. Anyway bottom line is "been there done that" although the diversity is pleasant at start. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bltizkrieg
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game when it first it came out.. I really like this game bu sadly I really cant play 
 dues to losing connection. I only was able to play at least 4 hours game play and thats it.. I thought 
 I was only one having this problem but I was wrong.. there so many players out still cant play the 
 game.. The only thing funcom just keeping saying open your 7000 ports.. Which they are open and I 
 even called my internet provider to see they aren't blocking them.. Funcom couldnt respond to over 
 thousands players that having this same problem.. The funcom devs they dont really help.. So what 
 I am try to say.. Wait 3 months before you buy this game because there are still alot of bugs.. By 
 that time they should have all clean up... The losing connection to the server is really pain. If 
 you get that pop up you will able to play the game again... Good graphics and great gameplay and 
 storyline.. but bad Services.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BornGamer
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 3, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  There's not a lot I can add to the mixed reviews already posted, apart from to express my opinion 
 that the hype surrounding Age of Conan's release is based largely around the fact that many MMO 
 gamers are desperate for the "next big thing" and that this feeling will rapidly fade as AoC's 
 shortcomings become harder to ignore.
  
  I needn't rehash what's already been said at length of AoC's flaws (in short - buggy, linear, lacking 
 content) and it's fair to say that the game will improve over the next several months. However, 
 immersion appears to have been compromised in the name of simplicity in order to make the game 
 playable on a console and the result is that the "hook" that all MMO's are supposed to have just 
 isn't there (for me, at least) .
  
  As someone who's all for innovation in gaming, I was very eager to try out the new combat system, 
 which succeeds on some levels (it's different, you have total control over your character) and 
 fails on others (far too little variety) , becoming more of an immersion-breaking routine as combos 
 are introduced to your repertoire and leaves too little room to "mix it up" as I like to do in 
 traditional MMO combat.
  
  While Age of Conan is by no means a bad game, it will prove of little interest to anyone who's 
 played a major MMO in the last 3 years for more than a 3-month stint.
  
  I'd suggest dropping $50 on this only if you HAVE to find out what you're missing. I did and in 
 my opinion, it isn't much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynamicforce21
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  How does Gamespot decide to review games? And even more importantly, how do you bash an MMO for 
 having bugs at launch?!
  
  Age of Conan has had he smoothest launch of any MMO in this country to date. WoW had sever problems 
 for MONTHS after it was released. Was this mentioned in Gamespot's review? Of course not, because 
 Blizzard probably paid them not to.
  
  This game shouldn't be reviewed yet. MMOs need months to establish themselves. This is just another 
 example as to why Gamespot is trash.
  
  
  You have to place bugs and server problems aside, because that's how you review a MMO :P
  
 
  The soundtrack to the game is amazing. It is a mix of Morrowind/Oblivion sounding tracks for the 
 most part. But during combat, it has the same epic feel God of War's soundtrack did.
  
  The graphics are amazing. Everything from the water to the skyh is amazingly rendered. Not just 
 for a MMO, but period. 
  
  People are so amazingly stupid. They complain MMOs don't have good graphics, and oncxe one changes 
 that, they complain because their system can't handle it. Do you know why Most MMOs tend not to 
 be too detailed on graphics? Because of lag and complaints from people being forced to upgrade. 
 That's how the industry works, get use to it.
  
  Then there are the fatalities. Fatalities are finishing moves that not only bloody up your screen 
 (literally) , they brutally finish off your foe. These range from decapitations, to throat gouging 
 (My personal fave because they scream and it's a gurgled cry) and the ever popular one where you 
 lay your sword into their torso, and walk up and snap their neck, and kick them off your blade. 
 For mana users, if you use a fire spell, the victim runs aroujnd screaming, and their flesh visibly 
 chars and turns black. For demon spells, their body turns green, decays, and falls (sorta Raiders 
 of the Lost Ark style) Fatalities depend on your weapon and your class. And it's always random, 
 so it's a treat when you see it. And yes, players can be victims of fatalities. 
  
  The combat is unique. You have directions. Only 3 at first, but you get your 4th and 5th at 40. 
 NPCs and people can guards their front and sides. And pedending on the level of protection, damage 
 will be either nullified, or buffed if you attack a weak side. This might get hectic in large groups 
 trying to pull off combos if a team mate causes the target to shift its guard, but it's not that 
 big of a deal.
  
  Despite popular claims, there are no overpowered classes yet. The only class that needs help is 
 the Bear Shaman. It is very weak and stays s till about the early 30s.
  
  The story missions for the players are unique too. There are 4 main types of classes: Soldier, 
 Mage, Priest, and Rogue. Each one gets their own variation of the story. So where as a Soldier 
 may be tasked to protect a NPC, a Rogue may be tasked to kill them or rescue them from a prison.
 
  
  The feel of the game's environment is quite epic. It is very epic, even though there are load times 
 between zones. They aren't a lot, but don't complain about it. If AoC was seemless like WoW, there 
 would be LOADS of issues like when WoW launched.
  
  As i stated before, MMOs need time before they are reviewed. But what can you expect who gave a 
 game an 8 because they had to wait 13 years to play it again?
  
  Based on my few weeks of play, Age of Conan is as of right now, an 8 out of 10. And if things keep 
 up, it will be a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirkel28
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  Best part of this game is the melee combat is something different from the rest with faster pace 
 and more violent, with more control over your weapon it seems. Then the next best thing, if your 
 machine can handle it, are the environments and graphics, they are really cool to see. 
  Sad part is the game is clearly an unfinished product, which needed probably about another 3 to 
 6 months of development time. It's not bugs so much as many of the abilities and equipment stats 
 are meaningless and useless, not balanced even close to what they should be. An example, a party 
 buff that gives your party 0.6 damage increase, that is hardly useful at level 1, let alone level 
 20 at which it still hasn't been upgraded. Another ability heals my Conq. 1HP every few seconds 
 in battle which probably ends up giving me about 4 or 5 HP at the end of a one vs one battle, when 
 I have about 1000 HP this means nothing. 
  There is more of this type of unbalance with other classes, but this gives you the idea of how 
 unfinished the game is.
  
  Maybe worth $50 for a good month of fun play, but beyond that, $15 is questionable at this point 
 until they finish the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1615
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  The good - early level melee combat, linear story for new players, nice graphics, fluid animation, 
 map system acts like a GPS system and tells you where to go for every quest. Small starter zone 
 makes turning in quests and leveling rather easy. 
  
  The bad - late level combos, it becomes more of a mini-game within the game to hit the right keys, 
 linear story makes creating multi-alts almost unbearable, the quest system means theres no point 
 in listening to quest givers since your map tells you exactly where to go just like any response 
 given to quest givers is pointless in the interaction cut scenes since all responses just lead 
 to quest given/quest turn in. Unable to track multi-quests because of the mini-map GPS system. 
 all the armor looks the same in the start of the game so expect to see your toon's clone many times. 
 
  
  The Ugly - zones are instanced but not unique so expect to have bosses camped. finding a group 
 and keeping track of yourself in an instance is a nightmare. great graphics, too bad most of you 
 won't see them. I run crysis on higher settings and FPS then AoC. The game does not scale well. 
 Its an MMO, but for the first 20 levels you are stuck in the same starter zone as everyone else. 
 The area is extremely linear so you literally can not leave the beaten path and explore the zone. 
 The UI is not able to be customized making combat OK ( casters) a bit tedious (melee) or annoying 
 (rangers) . Bugs! Broken chains, cut scene crashes resulting in instant deaths. Game was rushed 
 out to beat Warhammer and shows, Funcom does patch every other day it seems (to their credit) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BehzatPinar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  i can honestly say that i had concerns before i started the game. But when i started the game i 
 saw that it is just good. We needed a game which contains adult materials and some brutality especially 
 in this kind of games. This is not a family or children game it is 18+ game so all we need is a 
 little bit action, gore and adult materials. Up to this time i got bored of hitting with my sword 
 and looking for blood after my sword hit and i always found this so nonsense. if you hit with your 
 sword there must be blood and i found it in this game. Sorry i found more in this game.
  
  There are fatalities yeah! Not only one fatality every weapon has their own fatalities and i really 
 liked that too much. i can say that it's my favorite. That was the point what we expect from these 
 kind of games.
  if we need to talk about negative points yeah i can accept that there are bugs and some problems. But 
 none of the games released without bugs. Every online big games like this had bugs when they are 
 released. So time will be the cure of this problem and i can say that altough Age of Conan is a 
 very new game altough it has bugs because of it is new it is so enjoyable to play and explore.
 
  
  Characters are good and well designed but i believe they can work more on armors and weapons. They 
 have to because one of the negative point of this game is about armors and weapons. They are so 
 simple and altough they say there are many armors and weapons in the game i can not agree this 
 point because just their stats and names are different but most of their apperance are the same. You 
 get ur new armor u wear it and u are shocked because it's appereance is the same with ur old one. So 
 i don't agree these are different armors i don't care it's stats are different if u make a pretentious 
 game u must work on armors and weapons graphics too. This part of the game is nearly as much annoying 
 as bugs.
  
  Mount pvp system is really exciting and mounts are really nice designed. Especially mammoth because 
 in other games these kind of mounts were at the size of your character and that was nonsense too. At 
 last we are so small beside our mount. But they could work more on the horses it is just a little 
 bit dissapointing. But as a result mounts and mount pvp system is so good. As i said before this 
 game is so good and enjoyable to play and as time passes after fixing some issues and bugs i believe 
 it can be number one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MamaLukuBuku
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I won't say this game is bad, cause it's far from it, but aside from its visual beauty, it is your 
 standard MMO. Beauty does come at quite the cost since Conan is very demanding when it comes to 
 computer specs. The game lacks much in terms of non-combat activities.
  
  I don't want to drag this review out since I didn't play the game for very long but let me put 
 it like this: If you have never played an MMO and want to start and your computer can handle Conan, 
 then by all means dive in and enjoy for you won't be disappointed. But if you have a Guild you 
 can't let down in Warcraft, a Mog that will be lonely in Final Fantasy XI, or some Orcs that need 
 silencing in Middle-Earth then stick with what you know, enjoy, and have put your time in to, because 
 switching won't be worth it. And I know any MMO veteran will agree that being a n00b in a new MMO 
 is not fun, nor is learning a whole new MMO system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonliez
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Like all mmo's launch was iffy but the overall game allowes you to easily overlook any little bugs 
 i've rolled a few characters already and i would prefer different starting areas for each race, 
 maybe tortage could be for one race and then have another 2 or so.. it would be a good addon later 
 on. but either way i recomend getting this game. wow i never knew 100 words was so long lol.. ugh 
 still dont have 100 are u serious.. k umm.. buy the game? still more? come on lol this has to be 
 a 100 words are they not counting anything less then 10 letters or something?  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rymarWoW
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Abstract: Single Player Like Combat & Ambitious PvP makes me feel like I can play this game for 
 a long time.
  
  First, let me say that I am just meeting the minimum requirements (2.0ghz Athlon 64 /2 GB RAM/ 
 GeForce 6800GT) , and I run with medium resolution textures and 500 meter view range at a consistent 
 20 - 25fps in a city and 40fps adventuring at 1024 x 768. When I first loaded the game at the default 
 "low" settings with low resolution textures I was consistently around 7fps.
  
  Yes, the fps dips when you go into a new area and you have to load some textures, but other than 
 that I have a good looking game that runs at an OK frame rate. I highly suggest playing with each 
 feature in the advanced options. Shadows, Water reflections, Bloom, and AA are brutal on the FPS.
 
  
  I had to get that out of the way because I have heard so many complaints about performance. While 
 I do think it is retarded that they did not do a better job of providing some automatic settings, 
 finding a nice performance point in the game is not that hard.
  
  As far as the actual game play goes really fun. It is an MMO that actually feels like a single 
 player game (almost) . The combat is fast paced and varied. The class selections and abilities are 
 diverse.
  
  The PvP server is brutal and a lot of fun. I always wanted a FFA server in WoW. The keep system 
 still needs to be fully implemented but stands to provide some serious long term entertainment. 
 I think that the PvP system will see a lot of changes, but every MMO has that. Pulling off a combo 
 in PvP is basically impossible unless you root your target or they make a mistake. 
  
  If you are a hardcore player with a ton of time on your hands then you will most likely start to 
 get bored unless you are in a very successful guild that is far into the keep process (assuming 
 they get that whole thing working soon) . I have slowly made my way to level 25 since launch. I 
 am counting on them adding instances and content just like WoW did after launch.
  
  I had a Warrior in WoW that I put over 2k hours into. This game fills a lot of gaps for me that 
 caused me to get bored. I am really looking forward to seeing how the game progresses as I slowly 
 work my way to level 80.
  
  I am not rating this higher because it needs more content, combos in pvp need work, and siege warfare 
 has not yet actually been implemented. 
  
  THIS IS A FUN GAME THAT CAN BE PLAYED AT DECENT FRAME RATES NEAR THE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeffinsagent
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  The game is close, but not quite finished yet. There are still a few bugs that seem to effect everyone 
 playing. I just hit level 20 and yes the game does get better after that, but I also liked leveling 
 up to 20. I've met several players online that helped me complete difficult higher level monster 
 tasks. Seems to be a more mature crowd playing this compared to WOW. I'm giving the game a 9.5 
 with the hopes that the game will continue to receive frequent patch fixes (Which they do religiously) . 
 The graphics and game speed are amazing compared to WOW. My son loved WOW more then me (which was 
 too cartoonish for my taste) until he played AOC. Neither of us have gone back to WOW since we 
 started this game. The game has not lagged for me at all, but I also have a new high end PC and 
 game card. 
  I like the battle system much better then WOW as you can kill a beast in a few hacks compared to 
 WOW's eternity-to-kill-anything combat system. I would improve the feat, leveling and experience 
 point spending system. I would like to see more points available for the differant classes and 
 faster leveling. I would rather click on the opponent to attack them, rather then have to use the 
 arrow boxes or keyboards, just to keep the combat more fluid. I like the differant attack options, 
 but they can be difficult to click during the heat of battle.
  I also hope that they fix the money system, where horses and better weapons are more frequent and 
 affordable. And gold becomes more readily available.
  
  I grew up reading the Conan books, watching the movies and now the game gives me a chance to play 
 in the Conan universe. The game should stay on my PC for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkilla96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Well I am not really the guy to write reviews about a game but since I am from Norway and so is 
 Funcom it's almost my duty to do this.
  
  Age of Conan is in my opinion by far the best MMORPG game I have played, that does not mean I don't 
 like World of Warcraft, but when you first start playing AoC (Age of Conan) , you start to feel 
 that WoW (World of Warcraft) is a rather childish and well boring, when you play AoC it gives the 
 feeling that you really control the character, you swing your sword and chop of limbs, blood and 
 gore comes spattering all over the screen, and all the 12 year old WoW gamers screams and runs 
 away, which they probably already did when they read the back of the game cover and it said that 
 you need a raw piece of computer to run it, that or when the first boob showed on screen.
  
  The game delivers an amazing start to the player, an extreme environment with extreme textures 
 and detail, the draw distance is HUGE, and the lighting effects are great, the first part of the 
 game also includes FULL voice acting from all the quest givers, and other NPC's in the area.
  
  Still, the game is not perfect (neither is GTA IV!) they did not expect players to level up 
 as fast as they did and then the boring parts start, when you first reach that one level it feels 
 like the game ended, they did not really finish that part of the game, this will be fixed in later 
 patches, I hope, and we all would be able to enjoy the game for what it is worth, free drinks, 
 rolling heads, boobs and huge powerful mounts that will blow you away!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbooster
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 1, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably up there with Vanguard for me as far as bad releases. I feel duped. This 
 game got so much hype as being the best MMO ever. Well here is the truth from a player who has 
 played this game past the initial plethera of content.
  
  It sucks, here is why. 
  
  While the first 20 levels seem ok ... for a single player RPG... you notice little things like 
 why do I run the same speed I did at the start of the game with 200 run speed? Why does my wisdom/strength/int 
 etc.. stat do absolutely nothing? Ok, no big deal. They will fix that in the first week surely 
 right? (still not fixed)
  
  So I made it past Tortage the solo island... This is where I had the most fun in this game. There 
 alot of quests and the three main 20-35 zones are really cool in my opinion. You have plenty of 
 dungeons and quests that direct you there. A clear path of progression is established. You can 
 do all of this solo, but if you find some folks who actually want to group you can do an Epic version 
 designed for a group. Little things started bugging me though like how awful the AI is, especially 
 once you get to the first forced grouping dungeon in your late 30s. It is pure tank n spank. Same 
 encounter every time. Even with that I was still having a good ol time checking out new content 
 enjoying the quests and dialogue. The fact horses didnt run fast, banks and brokers didnt work, 
 no prob, they will fix that soon, I understand MMOs can start rough, though how such integral parts 
 of the game made it past beta I don't understand...
  
  About then (level 40) I really started seeing bugged quests everywhere, the nobles district and 
 great pyramid are seriously bugged. In fact they still are today. No problem right? There was so 
 much content for my 20s I figured I would just go quest elsewhere. The problem is, content really 
 starts to run out. By the time you get to your 50s you realize this game was not finished. There 
 are no quests to lead you through your levels into the next zone. There is no next zone. You just 
 grind the same crap over and over till you level up to go to one of the few remaining zones and 
 do the same. The quests that are offered will give you about 10% of the remaining levels. 1 level 
 every 10, the rest you will have to grind the same crap over and over. Even this wouldnt be so 
 bad if there were more zones to explore and kill stuff, but there isn't. This game is SERIOUSLY 
 lacking in content. 
  
  Conan in its current state should be free to play. No montly fees. There is not near enough content 
 to warrent a montly sub let alone 15 bucks. It is definatly the smallest game world of any MMO 
 I have played. We are talking like 1/2 of the eastern kingdom of Azeroth size, if that.
  
  So to sum it up, they focused on the first 30-40 levels which they let everyone enjoy in beta and 
 didnt do jack squat with the rest. You can almost see how they started paying less and less attention 
 to the later levels as you level up. It progresses from a few broken quests to a complete lack 
 of any quests. 
  
  On top of this, stats seem totally useless except for +hitpoints +mana gear, the basic stats dont 
 do crap. Alot, if not, all of the skills are totally busted too, like runspeed, perception etc...
 
  
  Did I mention class balance yet? oh yeah, the worst I have ever seen in ANY MMORPG, in fact this 
 game can't be called a MMORPG. It is not massive, not much multiplayer, it is online, I will give 
 it that. Roleplaying? yeah right. So I guess this isnt a MMORPG, this is more like a OG.
  
  I'm mad I blew 50 bucks on this game and I figure it will take them at least a year to add enough 
 content for it to warrant a montly fee.
  
  I can't recommend this game to anyone who wants to continue playing more than 2 weeks. Thumbs way 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invictuslemming
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 1, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  As a retired WoW player I've been looking forward to Age of Conan (AoC) for quite some time now. 
 I've played FFXI, EVE online and LoTRO as well, but Warcraft was the only one of the them that 
 stuck with me for a while.
  
  
  I'll break this review into sections of combat, environment, community and PvE content.
  
  
 Combat:
  Age of Conan brings something new to the table, the combat system has been revamped and does require 
 a greater learning curve than previous MMO's. 
  The combat system feels like a revamped version of Warcraft, with the removal of auto-attack and 
 the addition of combo based attacks (requiring a key sequence to initiate a successful attack) . 
 
  Movement has been tweaked to include dodging by double tapping any direction (think Unreal Tournament) . 
 
  Macro's are gone, which means there's no worrying about someone hitting the 'kill' button and unleashing 
 hell upon you.
  
  Overall combat has become more involved, and trickier than past MMO's. Some class balance issues 
 are prevalent at the moment in PvP, but I'm sure these will be ironed out in the future.
  
  Environment:
  If your computer can handle this game, the environment is gorgeous. Zones are lush 
 with life and foliage, everything looks great. Trees are full, water reflects the sun, shadows 
 are cast on the ground and there's plenty of creatures to kill.
  The developer did a fantastic job here, I couldn't ask for more. Capital cities are big, and feel 
 like capital cities, towns and outposts are integrated into the environment nicely and look in 
 place with their surroundings.
  
  Community / PvP:
  This is the tricky part. Being an 'M' rated game one comes to expect a more mature community. For 
 the most part this is true, the so called 'barrens chat' from Warcraft is much more subdued, but 
 still exists on occasion.
  
  There is a slight greifer problem at the moment, which is probably a result of the PvP ruleset. 
 
  I'd like to think mature players wouldn't camp graveyards, but it seems they do anyway (this should 
 be fixed in a future patch with the 'griefer prison') .
  
  Age of Conan implements a so called Free for all PvP. This means everyone in the game is your enemy, 
 unless they are in your party. I can't say anything positive or negative about this concept. It 
 basically leaves the rule making up to the community on the server. Guilds control PvP combat, 
 generally creating alliances between each other, and carving out their own 'faction'. 
  It works to a point, but since everyone looks like an enemy, regardless of their guild affiliations, 
 PvP requires a constant re-check of your 'do not kill' (or Kill on Sight) list to make sure you 
 don't accidentally kill someone your supposed to be allied with.
  Even guild members are valid targets according to AoC, as long as they aren't in your current party, 
 they are attackable.
  
  PvP is a mixed bag, it will be different on every server, a new 'greifer prison' will be coming 
 into effect soon, which should curb those who's goal in life is to make other players miserable 
 by killing them over and over.
  
  PvE content:
  From a questing sense, the game is great, there are countless quests to level you up (well at least 
 until level 55, when content becomes scarce) . 
  Probably 4 times the amount of quests Warcaft ever had available to players are available in AoE.
 
  
  The letdown... the word 'Instance' or 'dungeon' in Warcraft meant an adventure with scripted boss 
 sequences, events and other rewards / treats which made players want to do them, not once, but 
 many times over.
  In Age of Conan, a dungeon is simply a zone which is reserved for your party alone, there technically 
 are bosses, but they are only differentiated from standard mobs by the moniker ' (Boss) ' under their 
 name. Dungeons are uneventful, and very very forgettable. For players who thrive on PvE content, 
 this aspect of the game will be severely disappointing.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Age of Conan is a promising game, which in my opinion still needs some polishing (in the content 
 department) , but its stable, and mostly bug free.
  
  Players who thrive primarily for PvE content are best to stick with the game they're playing right 
 now.
  
  PvP players will probably find Age of Conan a welcoming addition to their game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormcrawler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Well, what people don't seem to get is that NO MMO is released without glitches, so please, by 
 all means write reviews on the game calling it age of glitches, grow up and be patient, this game 
 could really become A LOT if you just show it some proper patience, what i have seen so far from 
 the game is that the graphics are really nice, at the beginning of the game the voice acting is 
 pretty good, but its a bit lame that they stop doing that after you get away from tortage, but 
 obviously if they voice acted the whole game, the memory space required for it would be trough 
 the roof!. And last but not least, the deal with connecting this game to WoW, this is NOT WoW, 
 i myself play a level 70 paladin in it. The people that say that this game is WoW are the people 
 that have played a tiny bit too much of WoW and started to think that any MMO is a rip-off from 
 it. WoW itself is a rip-off!, but i dont go about complaining about it because its still a great 
 game. But seriously, there is no other MMO who has this particullar combat system, guild system, 
 hell, you can even build your own city in this game!, how is anything about this game similar to 
 Wow? if a few features about this game, for example, that you can wield big and shiny swords, you 
 think its a rip-off from WoW?, the only reason people actually play WoW is because it has the best 
 marketing, and its an "okay" game, all MMOS are good in their nature, and this is the first MMO 
 of this personall nature that doesnt have the "RIGHT CLICK" thingy to it, personally i have been 
 dying for some game like this to come out, and if you would just enter it with an open mind to 
 it then you could say the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: recalcitrant1
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  First off this is a good game. It is impressive in scale (but not scope) and certainly has the 
 potential to be up there with the better mmo's. once Funcom release some more updates and patches.
 
  
  The graphics are the best aspect of it at this time. The maps and regions are done very well and 
 their individual size can give some very pleasing vistas. In actuality though there are not that 
 many playable areas in the game as of yet. It is possible to move across the entirety og Hyboria 
 and the surrounding areas in somewhat less than 30 mins providing you are a suitable level. Whilst 
 it is almost certain that higher level instances and addons will swell the number of playable zones 
 in the future, it does mean that there is a fight for space to complete quests and even the "instancing" 
 of these zones doesn't solve this issue as players freely migrate between them to repeatdly mine 
 the resources and farm the boss characters. 
  
  The character animations are top-class and everyone will enjoy showing their grand parents and 
 young children the fatalities. It is probably not the sort of game to be caught playing at work.
 
  
  Where the game begins to fall down is its similarity to many another mmo out there. This is a weakness 
 given the promised "epic" combat and, well, the "fun" that funcom had promised. The game begins 
 with a very welcome intro with full voice acting and, for the most part, story driven quests. Sadly 
 the questing system once out of this zone, and for a certain amount inside it, degenerates into 
 the formulaic "kill 10 of these" and the "a to b" type questing that really makes levelling up 
 a chore and a grind, especially after level 40. 
  
  This is a shame as it doesn't have to be like this. The game is based on Robert E Howard's books 
 and surrounding fan fiction and there are plethora of ideas that could have been lifted from there. 
 Having read these I haven't found one story where Conan himself had to kill 10 randy badgers or 
 spend his time collecting mushrooms for some old lady. This wouldn't be a problem if this sort 
 of quest dynamic was the exception to the rule - but sadly you'll find yourself engaging in 5- 
 10 of these quests as minimum per level. It was a golden chance to introduce mass combat and skirmishing 
 in a world dominated by violence and, ironically for those that have played it, it has missed the 
 boat.
  
  This leads on to the actual combat mechanics. In a pve environment the combat can be very engaging, 
 it is visceral and rapid and only increases in its dynamism as you level up. Sometimes this is 
 enough to keep you playing even if you are only hunting for Little Timmy's lost teddy bear which 
 appears to have been stolen by some gigantic one eyed beast. After 40 hours though it is likely 
 you'll want to move on to the pvp though and this is where, again, the game begins to fall back 
 from the intially promising high standards of presentation and implementation.
  
  There is no easier way to put it than to say that the pvp is poor. Admitedly compared to other 
 mmos it allows for a more satisfying end result but as the game is meant to focus down on to the 
 pvp combat towards the end of your levelling process it feels clunky and is, without a doubt unbalanced. 
 There are problems with the physical movement of characters in combat which can mean pvp degenerates 
 into a dance of medicority and farce. The system of "combo" moves you use to initiate devastating 
 attacks in pve suddenly breaks down as it is simple to step out of the way of the move and the 
 experienced melee pvp'er won't even bother to use them and simply circle strafe around their oponent 
 poudning one of the directional attack buttons. This is something that was obviously not tested 
 by Funcom and will no doubt be corrected at some point but at the moment means that characters 
 many levels below their compatriots will be busily "ganking" those higher than them to increased 
 their pvp statistics. Of course there are ways to avoid this sort of idiocy but they break from 
 the actual intention of combat and leave a bitter taste in the mouth. Because of the issues mentioned 
 above if there are more than 4 people per side the combat is difficult to follow and the hud as 
 presented will often be a blur of nonsense and swining players. The hud can be edited to provide 
 more or less information but even then it is inadequate given the rapid speed at which players 
 will attempt to assasinate you from all sides. Area of effect attacks will always dominate in such 
 situations and it can be difficult to isolate and contain casters using these simply becuase of 
 the way the game is presented rather than through any tactical play.
  
  The next point is that there are no meaningful repercussions to death as yet. This is slated to 
 change by Funcom in a few weeks after the servers settle down from opening but it leaves those 
 sitting on the fence as to whether to continue to pay their monthly subscription or cancel it in 
 an invidious position. The classes of character are apparently balanced towards the end game (currently 
 there aren't enough level 80's of each character type to check) but it does mean that certain character 
 classes are able to predate on others on the pvp servers through different points in the game. 
 At this point unless you have a group of people willing to come along questing you will find yourself 
 to be the victim or the witness of assassinations and ganking on a minute by minute basis.
  
  At this time the game is certainly worth picking up and it is likely that the majority of the 
 games flaws and inadequacies will not bother you if you do not intend to live and breathe the game. 
 For those of us that were looking for the ultimate mmo pvp experience it sadly misses the mark 
 and will require Funcom to read their own forums before they crash due to the weight of criticism 
 and complaint being posted there on a minute by minute basis. 
  
  Given that Funcom spent 5 years making this game i'm sure they're eager for it to be presented 
 in the best light possible and I thoroughly expect it to get strong reviews the world over by corporate 
 magazines. Sadly I don't think the game itself has more than a couple of months worth of content. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayse001
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  Okay, to start.
  After spending $100 to get the top game I installed it, then had to wait 3 days for the servers 
 to be up and running. Once in, it seemed okay.
  However, after some adventure I started to feel like this game was nothing new. The combat was 
 just rubbish.
  Once you get online and everyone else is as well, you tend to get a real slow response. Not the 
 servers fault. However it gets to you after a while.
  I could go on about what I hate, but if you want to pass some time then get this for sure.
  For 
 me, I find it nothing new.
  After paying out alot of money for this game, you tend to hen think $30 a month to play? not worth 
 it.
  If you do play with others as a guild then it would be more worth the money. However we have seen 
 all this before, maybe not on a scale like this but, I felt a more single player story would have 
 been great, an the option to complete this offline. Not everyone can spare money to buy then pay 
 to play all the time. 
  An arguement of mine is, are games now having to be played online? if so what are we buying games 
 for, when we could just download them, then pay to play? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djwood84
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  3.0ghz dual core
  2.0gb ram
  512 mb graphics card with a 450mhz gpu
  
  The game was terrible. I tried rolling a caster because the combat seemed so broken. My comp ran 
 like crap and I was getting like 11-20 fps with bad graphics. It didn't look impressive. it didn't 
 feel impressive, but it did seem promising.
  
  Me ---- Car ---- Best Buy ---- Geforce 8800gt XLR8 (oc'ed to 2000mhz from 1800mhz)
  Yes it hurt 
 my walet. I could have bought a wii and another controller AND a game. $300.00
  
  The game is amazing! The graphics are hands down the best in any mmo to date, and very good even 
 for a single player game. And these are the direct x 9 graphics, dx10 to come soon.
  
  The combat is fantastic. There is a steep learning curve to get the timing down right... I found 
 myself running away alot, but now I mow through groups of 3 or less no problem.
  
  The endgame hasn't been touched yet so I can't comment. But I can definately say I won't be worrying 
 about typing
  lf1m need tank pst
  ever again.
  
  :)
  
  ^^^^ My original review. Let me update it.
  
  the game drops off steadily in both quality and 
 content after level 20, and picks up the rate of decent rather rapidly after level 30 or so. The 
 crafting, gathering, competetive pvp and many, many other things are broken or completely missing. 
 Very, very dissapointing, but I would recommend this game in 2009, assuming the actually fix it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strayham2
Rating: 7
Date: May 31, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  I've seen nothing that impresses me with AOC so far. The combat is very console-like, the combo 
 system is basic. The story is better than average though, and is this games only redeeming factor 
 in the first 20 hours of play. I've seen little "mature" content so far. On my below average system 
 the game does run pretty good on med with 4x AA and 250M view. (3700, 2 GB ram, and GeForce 8800 
 x2) . The graphics style reminds me of EQ2 or maybe even Far-Cry, though I'm sure the game would 
 look impressive on a higher-end system. Especially if you can really crank the view distance out! 
 There are a TON of quests, some of which are fun. (Killing for revenge, replacing virgin blood 
 with the blood of a whore to cause a volcano to erupt.... very cool. Sadly however, I will not be 
 playing beyond the free 30 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asllann
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I have been following Age of Conan for the better part of 2 years. A few months ago I stopped following 
 it because I did not think my computer could handle it. After playing the beta though and then 
 finally going out and buying the game I was really quite surprised. It takes a while to tweak the 
 graphics (2 year old laptop) but when you finally get them right there beautiful. Many people are 
 complaining they don't look good but that's maybe because they don't know how to tweak them. The 
 combat system is a really fresh take on the old formula. It gets you involved; people complain 
 about it because yes it takes getting used to and yes it requires you to be involved. The game 
 does have some bugs and glitches but none that have been to devastating for me. The dev team has 
 done a good job of fixing them. Also many people complain that there isn't enough quests, end game, 
 itemization atm. All I have to say is give it time within a few weeks it will. The game has had 
 a smooth launch and one of the better one's for mmo's out their. The priest classes also are a 
 nice edition it's not just point and click. While some classes need a little work and others are 
 really powerful most are good for now. There will come patches for them that's just part of MMO's. 
 If you like MMO's and you want something different and new but not too out there then get AOC. 
 If your on the fence about getting it pick up a copy and see how good it is for yourself. If your 
 scared your cpu can't run it go to http://www. systemrequirementslab. com/referrer/srtest and see. 
 If you pass the minimum then jump on this opportunity because even at low settings it is better 
 looking than any mmo out there. 
  
  On a side note the people who hated this game are going to complain far more than the people who 
 enjoy it will praise it. The people who are so enraged by it are more likely to go write a negative 
 review. The people who like it are playing the game. I wrote this review just to show that there 
 are people who like it and not everyone complains about it. So please do not listen to the gripers 
 and try it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjan17
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Age of Conan, a highly anticipated game ever since the last E3. 
  
  I have been one of the lucky few to be accepted in the beta. As I started playing the beta I got 
 quite worried. A few weeks before the launch and a few days before the early launch, there where 
 tons and tons of bugs. Now we passed the release date and I have to say Funcom did an awesome job 
 in fixing/tweaking the game. Ofcourse there are still a number of bugs there, some might even affect 
 your gameplay a little. But in every sence Age of Conan was worth the wait. It combines a good 
 singleplayer campaign with a massive multiplayer world. 
  
  Unlike any traditional MMORPG lining back to the good old UO, melee combat is not simply target 
 something and attack it combining attacks with special moves. Altough it's not like you can coordinate 
 your swing where ever you want AOC takes the first steps in becomming a realtime MMORPG, rather 
 then a hybrid realtime turnbased one. 
  
  The drawback on the other hand is that it seems that most of the time Funcom had on this game has 
 been invested on creating a new system for the melee class. Casters are somewhat left behind in 
 this and will still give you the standard MMORPG feel. Don't get me wrong they are not under or 
 overpowered just classic to the vast amount of MMORPG's availeble. 
  
  Summary: 
  
  Good things
  - Awesome graphics
  - Great singleplayer quests (with full spoken speaches and 
 credible voice acting) 
  - Combat for Melee classes is no longer an auto attack but a realtime attack for 3 different directions 
 
  - Epic feel of fights (fight multiple mobs at the same time same level) 
  
  Bad things
  - Minor bugs still there
  - Casters seem somewhat underdeveloped compared to melee 
 classes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcenteno82
Rating: 1
Date: May 31, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  (1) AoC is the single most buggy game I've ever played at launch and is a complete and utter dissapointment.
 
  
  (2) Don't consider playing this game if you have anything less than THE most top-of-the-line computer. 
 Well, unless you like playing games at 10 FPS...
  
  (3) I am shocked that Funcom spent 5 years making this game; you would think that in that amount 
 of time the little things like proper translations (in English of all things...) , a logical skill/feats 
 systems, and gameplay controls would have been in working order.
  
  Dialogues have mistypes, feats are broken, crashes still occur, certain voice overs are spoken 
 without the matching words, and the servers have been going down usually every other day for yet 
 another patch.
  
  Don't waste your time, at the very least, wait about a year; maybe Funcom will have completed the 
 'beta' by then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackShepard925
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 31, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  First of all, I would like to point out that on the positive side, this game has hands down the 
 most enjoyable combat I've ever experienced in an MMO. 
  
  That being said, it's got a ton of problems. The amount of problems this game currently has post-launch 
 are so manifold that it's hard to understand why Funcom didn't take just a little bit more time 
 to get it right. Plenty of games get their launch dates pushed back repeatedly and while we love 
 to whine about it, the fact is that it's well worth the wait when they end up getting it right., 
 GTAIV being the prime example, though of course I realize that's comparing apples to oranges. 
 
  
  The main problem I have with the game though, at this point, is how little it encourages players 
 to cooperate with each other. The vast majority of the content can be easily done solo, and when 
 you switch over to epic mode you're really just punishing yourself and your group because the amount 
 of xp and loot to be gained in this mode over normal does not scale well at all. There also do 
 not appear to be instances in the way that veterans of most other MMOs would think of them.... 
 i. e. dungeons that are specifically locked to the group you go in with filled with interesting 
 pulling/crowd control dynamics and bosses that do interesting things, are legitimately tough to 
 beat, require specialized tactics to do so, and reward you with worthwhile gear for taking the 
 time to beat them.
  
  It's one thing to say that we can all just level our toons to 80 and wait for them to implement 
 genuine end-game content, but that ignores the fact that a good MMO actually provides an interesting 
 and pleasurable leveling experience as well (at least some of the time) . Once the fun and novelty 
 of conan's combat system wears off, you're really just left with an extremely long, boring grind. 
 
  
  I've leveled multiple toons in WoW and played a good deal of LotRO as well, and I can honestly 
 say that the scripted instances alone make those games much less painful as far as leveling a toon, 
 especially if you want to do so with some friends. Age of Conan currently seems to punish rather 
 than reward grouping, which to me is a cardinal sin of a massively MULTIPLAYER game.
  
  Here's hoping that in the months to come Funcom makes some major fixes to these issues, because 
 the game is beautiful, the combat is great, and it overall has a ton of potential. I should also 
 mention that the various classes are interesting, as are the feat trees, though speaking of feats 
 and stats generally they need to do a much better job explaining what various feats actually do 
 on the tooltips, as well as explaining how the various stats work (WTF is "heroic defense rating"?)
 
  
  I would hate to see it flounder because it alienated its initial subscriber base. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dapsone
Rating: 1
Date: May 30, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Wow, like a lot of other people; my original review was removed for apparent breech of TOS; although 
 I said nothing "bad".
  
  I'll make this one very short and sweet.
  
  (1) AoC is the single most buggy game I've ever played at launch and is a complete and utter dissapointment.
 
  
  (2) Don't consider playing this game if you have anything less than THE most top-of-the-line computer. 
 Well, unless you like playing games at 10 FPS...
  
  (3) I am shocked that Funcom spent 5 years making this game; you would think that in that amount 
 of time the little things like proper translations (in English of all things...) , a logical skill/feats 
 systems, and gameplay controls would have been in working order.
  
  Don't waste your time, at the very least, wait about a year; maybe Funcom will have completed the 
 'beta' by then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZoeyClarke
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  With its complex combat system and deep level of character customization, Conan provides a welcome 
 respite from the grind of Warcraft. While most reviewers focus on the violent combat (which is 
 undoubtedly awesome) , one of the other sweet contributions of Conan to the mmo world is the stealth 
 system, which is based on a "light gem" and npc awareness. The stealth system is kind of reminiscent 
 of Thief in this way, and requires the player to plan their path ahead of time and respond to shifting 
 variables in the world such as mobile light sources and patting guards. However, AoC is not perfect, 
 and minor glitches and some rough spots still show. But for an mmo launch, Age of Conan is remarkably 
 well constructed. Players who can't stomach a few glitches in order to be a part of the beginning 
 of something awesome should stick with CoH and WoW, but for those adventurous few who want some 
 T&A with their weapons and warriors shouldn't hesitate to dive right in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedfacekilla57
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  First off, let me start it by telling you this.
  
  This has been one of the greatest MMO launches in history, besides a few hours of downtime patching, 
 i have had absolutely no problems with this game.
  
  How well my computer runs this game.
  Pretty decent, actually. Thanks to "instances" in the game, 
 which i will go back to later, there is much less lag than there should be, which is always good. 
 I run an average of 30 fps with a 8800 GTS, 5200+ AMD Athlon 64, and (2x1) gigs of ram.
  
  Now on to the Review.
  
  Your first 1-20 levels (which fortunately doesnt last long) will be 
 spent on an island called Tortage. Dont get me wrong, there is nothing bland about it, you still 
 play with other people, and you still get to fight. The better of it all is that all NPCs have 
 voiceover and theres a time where you can roam the place, solo, at night and complete a singleplayer 
 mode, dedicated to your character. 
  
  Combat
  
  Combat in this game is pretty new, as it features a hit spot system, where you choose where your 
 weapon lands. Its all in real time, and it does require skill in order to kill another person. 
 The abilities require you to hit a particular combo, whether it be few or many. Sieges are also 
 in the game, which can cost a handful if you need to either repair or build weapons, but its all 
 apart of the game, and it makes it all the more fun.
  
  The World
  Is it Linear? Not really, only the first 2 or 3 levels on your travels to tortage are, after that, 
 the world only gets bigger. Tortage, of course, features instances, which reduces lag and makes 
 the game alot easier to access. Later on when you reach the big city, there are very few instances, 
 and most people are all within one, which makes it for a more epic feel. There are certain zones 
 to places, similar to Star Wars Galaxies, but once you get there you can roam as much as you want, 
 and the map is pretty huge. Hyboria is a giant green planet that is lush where ever you go, and 
 your sure to enjoy every piece of it.
  
  PVP (Covers PVP Servers)
  PvP, from beta, wasn't all the great. The organized PvP in this game is only for guilds and organized 
 teams, without that, your getting ganked. Sieges and FFA PvP servers, however, is where this game 
 shines. On servers, the maturity is top-notch, you dont see naked women running around, you dont 
 see naked men walking around, because if they were, they would be slaughtered. You would think 
 that a PvP server that features FFA would be hectic, its not, you dont get ganked as much as you 
 would think and people just dont randomly kill everyone, unless they want KoS (kill on sight) from 
 a guild or want their Guild KoS (if they are in one) . Instances also remedy this, as you can always 
 switch if someone wants to camp you.
  
  Community
  Depending on your server, it will either be filled with kids, or mature players, or both! The best 
 thing to do is join a mature guild asap and roll with it.
  
  
  Overall, this game is great. Sure it has it's problems, but its NEW, give it TIME. This launch 
 was vastly greater than WoW, and has less problems than WoW did in the beginning. Age of Conan 
 can only get better from here.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zilvafish
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  These are my first impressions, bear in mind I have played a few class/race combos but not gone 
 past low 20s in level:
  
  Fast paced and engaging. Good quests and dialogue. I even listen to the voice acting at times. 
 The PVP is plentiful and brutal on my PVP server and death penalties are nearly non-existant so 
 if you get ganked, get up, brush yourself off and go get some revenge. If griefers get too much 
 you can easily swap instances and try again.
  
  There seem to be some balance issues and other minor bugs but it is early days and Funcom have 
 a lot of experience in this field. It's a quality product and although there are some grumbles 
 from the power gamers that there is not much to do in the higher levels, that won't bother me as 
 I'm sure content will be added by the time I arrive.
  
  In short, for a smoother experience buy the game in 1 month's time, but it is already polished 
 and fun. I have played nearly all the mainstream MMOs since 2000 and this one is seriously good. 
 Jump in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b36soldier
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun, and puts a new twist on MMO's, the way in which you attack people is unique 
 to any other MMO, the usual point and click option on other MMO's is outdated and something more 
 creative is needed to interact with the game. And guess what.... this game does it.
  
  The character editing options are pretty good on this game, they are better than some and also 
 worse than others. The best game for character editing is City of Heroes, (the only thing good 
 about that game) but AoC still allows you to feel as if you are personilising your character.
 
  
  The first level of the game is pretty solo, theres not much to do in a group, this will effect 
 the gameplay later, as you will be thrown into some difficult situations. But finding a group isnt 
 hard, as there are plenty of people online that also ned a group.
  
  As i am playing on a PvP server i can say that it works great, You are able to just gank someone 
 whenever you feel like it.
  Its good to get yourself in a group so that you have protection. My group is the Dooms Guards, 
 moto - If your not with us your against us!.
  Its really fun to go round inviting people to join your guild an when they say no you kill them..... priceless.
 
  
  Acheiving lvl 40 will see you aquire a mount that can be used in battle or just to ride around 
 on, and if you pre-ordered the game then you will have access to either a Rhino or a Mammoth, these 
 mounts look really good.
  
  This game is worth a try from all that play MMO's, and try not to judge it until you reach lvl 
 20+ when you have had a good run of the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8ball234
Rating: 5
Date: May 29, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe the "this is actually a very successful launch" crap. Maybe if you're one of the 
 boys at Funcom counting all the money, it's been "successful". However, for MANY players, it's 
 been a disaster. 
  
  I've got a rig that should chew this friggin' game to pieces, but not literally. So many crash-inducing 
 bugs. Seems the better the system, the worse this game runs, as a ton of people on the AOC forums 
 have been complaining about this very issue. Right now I can log in, take a step, and BAM, crash. 
 That is on any settings.
  
  So yeah, if you are planning on getting this, for God's sake, wait. It "seems" like a great game. 
 The combat is especially unique and just awesome. The graphics are amazing for an MMO (think Oblivion) . 
 I can't say too much more, being that I'm stuck at Lvl 9 and waiting for a damn good patch.
  
  This IS the Beta.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief115
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  This new game into the MMO world is a great achevmient. This game has just made everything brand 
 new, the fighting style, the armor, and the voice acting all in the game is very nice. Many new 
 classes in this game, some the same as Wow and other games. But this one has 3 different sets mage 
 soldier and healers most with 3 different types in them. All of them have many different abilities. 
 I myself haven't got much into the proffessions but I have seen it is very fun. The mounts in the 
 game are of course awesome, but there really isn't that many of them. Traveling in AOC is fast 
 even if you don't have a mount with the use of sprint always nice in any game.
  
  Now my experience with the game has been awesome. The very first week was rough, but it has gotten 
 ten times better in a matter of a week. Funcom knows what they are doing that is for sure. I would 
 say that if you are looking for something new with blood gore and some sexy stuff *wink* this would 
 be the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordAsher
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is an amazing MMORPG, definately worth the several year wait for it. I've been playing 
 now for a little over 40 hours (I'm hardcore gamer but I did take breaks, so I play it for several 
 hours every night) . Graphics are real good, I've only got a 7800 GeForce for one of the low end 
 processors so the graphics are as good as they can get on my computer, with a different, newer 
 computer I've heard the graphics are simply beautiful. Game play is fun, a little complicated to 
 learn but manageable. The best part about this game is that it sticks with the Conan lore, and 
 Conan is one of the greatest stories ever told in my oppinion. The ONLY down fall to this game, 
 other than not having a decent a computer your not going to be able to run it, is the fact that 
 no PVP servers are designated as moderate to FFA servers. You jump into PVP thats all your more 
 than likely going to see. Simply put all PVP servers are FFA. Personally I like a little PVP to 
 make the grind seem manageable. But the PVP in Conan is ridiculous. If you like iPVP, Conan is 
 the game for you (Dont expect to get much leveling done) . On a side note, I've played Lineage 2 
 for 8 years now, and the grinding for both seem like night and day. Conan is real easy to level 
 in, unlike Lineage 2. All in all it is a great game to play, just be ready to face the scum of 
 the world when you join (That is if you join PVP) . Great game, go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kooken58
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 29, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Levels 1 to 20 were a new and cool experience in terms of MMOs. Cutseens with real voice acting 
 and some storyline too it. What i am noticing is almost 80% of people are judging their reviews 
 off these few levels but once they hit the higher levels they are in for a suprise. 
  
  Around level 40 or so get ready for a grind because finding quests will become difficult. Expect 
 to be mindlessly killing mobs for several levels just get a couple new quests that prolly will 
 only level you once. The higher level zones feel empty and pointless nothing really that great 
 about them.
  
  About the zones, they are all freaking instanced. Often you are in a low pop zone and feels like 
 you are playing by yourself. Same goes for cities, doesnt feel like a city if there is no freaking 
 players there. Countless invisible zone walls, Want to go up ontop of that mountain??? Well too 
 bad there is an invisible wall here that you can not cross. Keep Going down that path little sheep 
 because you cant explore like a true adventurer.
  
  The combat system might be new in MMO market but far from revolutionary, its been used before in 
 previous games and is great at first but it gets boring and some may wish for auto attack later 
 on down. People are totally now starting to get Macro'n keyboards so they dont have to do anywork 
 either.... lazy.
  
  Well they sure did make this game non gear dependent BUT there is no good gear at all. Some gear 
 a level 30 might be wearing is no better than what a level 5 player is wearing Or a level 30 player 
 still might be wearing his noobie gear he got at 5. Most the gear looks all the same no creativity 
 at all. They could of added a little coolness to it without making it cheesy but they didnt even 
 try. Level 80 looks just as much of a PUD as a level 1 and often hard to even tell the difference.
 
  
  Endgame could save this game because once you level up one char to 80 you are not going to want 
 to do it again since the leveling is sooooo LINEAR.
  But Stuff in the endgame was never tested in beta, NDA is still up and nobody knows what it is.
 
  
  Siege warfare you expect to be open world, its not, its instanced, its pretty much a raid GG to 
 that.
  
  Go ahead and rate this a bad review, but im just saying this is a niche game. Wont hold much playerbase 
 long IMO, many players are wanting to leave already or already have. Too much hype and funcom left 
 tooo many features out, alot of other issues in the game that didnt mention because would be way 
 to long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyghiorzi
Rating: 1
Date: May 29, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Funny Gamespot deleted my previous post. I am not sure why I had no profanity, cheats, or anything 
 bad with my post. I just cleared stated that I thought that Technical Support and Customer Support 
 for AOC was the worst I have ever experienced.
  
  This game would be good for me if it did not crash to desktop all the time and you could actually 
 contact support and get some help figuring out what was going on. As it is now you get an automated 
 message, nothing more. I have replied to the messages using their ticket numbers, with dxdiag, 
 logs, and all the information requested, and still no support.
  
  What little of the game I did manage to play was good, combat, much better than just auto attack 
 (at least you have to watch what your doing a little) . Music Good. Sound good. 
  
  Minor Gripes: (or what I experienced at least)
  
  No loading screen after the patcher is done. 
 It goes to the desktop takes about 1-3 minutes and than finally company logos and video play (which 
 should have an option to skip or something) .
  
  Advanced Character Customization tab/screen - seems to do nothing.
  
  The Patching Program 
 (patcher) , seems to take a long time, I had to go into Windows Safe Mode, with networking to get 
 the inital patches downloaded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MWHansen
Rating: 7
Date: May 29, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  I'm gonna divide this review into small bits and in the end give a short summary!
  
  World:
  The world is called Hyboria and it is very grand. That being said the world is unfortunately 
 zoned so a lot of loading screens. A lot of the zones also look a lot alike. Far distance travelling 
 is also clumsy.
  - 6/10
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in this game are absolutely stunning while setting new standards for todays graphics. 
 However this amazing kind of graphics gives a problem in a MMORPG besides being very demanding 
 on your computer system - armors and weapons look cool to start with, but you discover that armors 
 at high-lvl almost look alike. So you never get the feeling of being epic!
  I personally mistaked a character at level 80 (max) to be level 40-ish.
  - 9/10
  
  Audio:
 
  sound effects and music is absolutely amazing. Music made by a big orchestra just like in World 
 of Warcraft - that's how we all love it!
  - 10/10
  
  Interface & Interacting:
  The interface is pretty disappointing and does'nt look too good. You have the main bar with buttons 
 0-9 where 1,2 and 3 has to be left, middle and right strikes. In addition to that you can add 2 
 more action bars - however these just fly around loosely on the screen!
  Interaction is very complicated and not very user-friendly. The chatbox does not catch your attention 
 and whispering/chatting correctly is hard. You can't get any information on players either and 
 linking items etc. is also clumsy.
  - 5/10
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is pretty good. The combat system is new and exciting - at least in the beginning. 
 Eventually however it gets to a repeative point as in any other MMORPG. You start getting patterns 
 on when to hit with what etc. but that is in my oppinion almost inavoidable. When you fight it 
 feels like everything is delayed until you get used to it. Grouping however, is not so much seen 
 yet - probably because of the lack in interaction and interface capabilities.
  - 7/10
  
  PvP:
  If you thought you were ganked in World of Warcraft you will realise that is nothing compared 
 to this. Since you don't corpserun when you die you just spawn alive - that means that you get 
 killed again right away (maybe even before your loading screen goes away!) . Besides it is FFA on 
 a PvP-server in this game so loads of gankers. The PvP-section will also need a LOT of balancing 
 out between the classes (you can get one-shotted by, say a rogue, in the same level as you - and 
 his gear is equal to yours) .
  - 3/10
  
  Summary:
  This game has some new-not-seen-before content but has way too many flaws and not very user-friendly. 
 PvP is not even something to talk about in this game yet (but will hopefully get balanced etc.) . 
 Gameplay is contains new aspects but become repeative as in other MMORPG'S.
  Great game for those who are tired of whatever other MMORPG they play, but to those playing World 
 of Warcraft and liking it this game will not cause ANY addiction!
  - 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 29, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  This is definitely not the game to drop what your doing in World of Warcraft. There's been debates 
 on the characteristic's of AoC and they fell short of hopeful thought's to keep the Warcrafter's 
 from actually joining. We all expect MMORPG's to fail on it's launch day and that Funcom surely 
 did. AoC might have the best looking graphics and astonishing soundtrack but they failed to deliver 
 content. There are already players running around at level 80 due to exploits and cities are being 
 created by the masses. The amount of bugs in the game makes you wonder what the so called "beta 
 testers" were doing. I expected more from funcom because the king of the MMO is currently Blizzard 
 and the up-and-coming Warhammer could steal some of the player base away with it's look-alike Warcraft 
 style of gameplay and graphics.
  
  As of now, the only thing to do in Conan would be running around questing hoping a gang of griefers 
 wont show up to halt your progression. Even if you do hit 80 there's really nothing to do besides 
 help build a city by farming resources and hope that funcom puts their developers in gear to fix 
 some of the major issues the game is currently having. If bug issues are not fixed, then you'll 
 be waiting quite a while for content since leveling is fairly quick and you might find yourself 
 getting bored.
  
  Pros -
  -Amazing combat system with a mass amount of combos to choose from that can pretty much one or 
 two shot targets.
  -Stunning graphics that you normally don't see in other MMO's like walking into a cave and seeing 
 the light reflect on the walls as though it's shimmering. The rivers and water streams in the game 
 are breath taking especially when the sun starts to set.
  -Finally a game with good soundtrack that captures the Conan theme. Although it did seem as though 
 I was in the Gladiator movie or 300 but it was good enough to embroil me in the environment.
  -Character creation needs more to it but thus far the best I've seen in any MMO.
  -Did I mention 
 there's boobs?
  -The mature content that allows us to chop arms, legs and heads.
  -Adding player cities for player vs player is the kfocul key to Conan
  -Level at your own pace, 
 no reason to rush for level cap
  
  Cons -
  -Although there is mature content but anytime you have boobs and the ability to cuss up a storm 
 you'll flock immature children that can mess your gaming experience.
  -The many bugs that were never fixed
  -Incomplete zones
  -Lack of statistics on a player sheet
 
  -Considerable amount of lag that seems to be an issue with disconnects
  -Immature kids grieving spawn points and as promised action would be taken against those type of 
 players which has yet to be seen.
  -Server goes down for 4hrs only to find out there were touch ups here and there which should have 
 not taken that long.
  
  There is potential in Conan, and it'll take some time before the game starts to pick up. I wouldnt 
 honestly think about this one before you decide to jump in on the action hoping to expect more. 
 If your currently in World of Warcraft continue your raiding and farming which should prepare you 
 for WoTLK. Otherwise, give conan and shot and try some real PVP for a change.
  
  This game is not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boxand1
Rating: 7
Date: May 28, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  AoC was my second MMO, WoW being my first. While I do understand WoW is a difficult act to follow, 
 the feel of AoC just didn't do it for me. The connection between cause and effect was far looser 
 in AoC than it is in WoW; in saying this, I mean when you push a button in WoW or make a key stroke, 
 there is a definite, immediate and visually appreciable response on screen, but in AoC, I perceived 
 the responses as being inconsistent -- it was not always immediately clear what resulted when I pushed 
 a button in order to enact a given maneuver. 
  
  A minor additional gripe: jumping in AoC is nearly useless -- the character makes a motion similar 
 to what hurdlers undergo when soaring over an obstacle in a race; while the real-life person is 
 fortunate enough to get somewhere when hurdling, the AoC toon is not.
  
  Again, I realize WoW has had ages to balance and debug, but AoC has some serious flaws with regard 
 to balance. At times, as a level eight toon, you are able to devastate 3-4 level eight enemies, 
 yet on occasion you come across a single level eight adversary who kills you with little or no 
 difficulty and for no apparent reason. Killing 3-4 peer-level adversaries is quite satisfying, 
 but following it up by being completely overwhelmed by a single peer-level unit is extremely frustrating.
 
  
  While the graphics are certainly visually stunning and much more "real life" than WoW, I have grown 
 accustomed to the relatively cartoon-ish nature of WoW; the player is interacting with a game, 
 obviously, so the cartoon-ish quality seems somewhat more fitting.
  
  In any event, AoC has some really good things going for it -- the music is good, the sound is good 
 and the graphics are obviously quite excellent. I believe if the mechanics were tighter I would 
 find the experience much more satisfying. To those considering this title, I suggest trying it 
 out first... I don't believe the mechanics would be for everyone, but if you are able to get past 
 the "looseness" as described above, it would be a great game to play!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jestepher
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I seriously shouted out "YEEAAAAHHHH!!" when my club smashed open my enemy's face, broke his neck 
 (with an audible crack) and splattered blood all over my screen. My fiancee rolled her eyes.
  
  This game is beyond amazing. I'll get the bad out of the way first:
  
  The one, recurring 
 problem this game has is that the characters often get stuck in terrain. Not like "restart your 
 computer" or "/stuck" stuck, but it's annoying to have to jump and jump and jump 'till you're free.
 
  
  Now on to the good: 
  
  Simply put, the graphics, music and combat in Age of Conan are by far superior to any major MMORPG 
 out there. No competition. Seriously. Nothing, NOTHING can touch AoC in these three areas. The 
 music brings tears to one's eyes and the graphics are scarily real. And the combat is fun, action 
 packed, tactical, skill based and gory as hell.
  
  While not as in-depth an MMORPG as, say, Lord of the Rings Online, Age of Conan's graphics, music 
 and combat system easily make it one of the best MMORPG's ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiendless7
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  PROS:
  
  I loved the character customization and how they felt. Anyone who has played an MMO before knows 
 what a "character feeling" is like. Characters look good, you start off getting hats/rings/shoulders, 
 where in other MMO's you had to wait until level 20-30 before you get to enjoy your character's 
 look (ahem WoW) .
  
  CONS:
  
  The leveling is very easy, think 1-45 in WoW. Professions are only level 40 and up, I am level 
 55 and by the time I hit 40 I didn't even want to pick up a profession.
  
  Also my last complaint with the game, the instance zoning of EVERYTHING. Understandable that the 
 game would lag a lot, but the reason I find myself wanting to return to WoW after I hit max level 
 here is because "zoning" everything is something OLD MMO's did. In my opinion I want to see other 
 people, with this zoning you're lucky if you find another person once in an hour. My server is 
 supposedly the highest population out there (queue times and all, Tyranny a PVP server) and even 
 when everyone was still low level I never got ganked in PvP. Heck its even hard to go back and 
 find someone to camp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skussy
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 28, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Game looks great if ya got dual 8800s - otherwise...
  
  World: Everything is Zoned - think Ragnarok Online. Personnally I thought mainstream mmorpgs had 
 moved beyond zoning everything.
  
  Combat: Certainly more engaging than any other mmorpgs combat system but also ALOT more tedious. 
 
  
  Also - seiges havent been implemented yet, poorly-optimized, major bugs, fast leveling, and completely 
 unresponsive customer-support; and yes, I know mmo launches are always bumpy, but Funcom has been 
 delaying this game for 2 YEARS and Im not cutting them any slack.
  
  Final say? If ya got a top-of-the-line beast computer and dont mind waiting while Funcom irons 
 out all the bugs (and theres alot) , then go ahead and buy it - but despite how many times Funcom 
 threw around the word 'Revolutionary' during this games development, theres nothing 'Revolutionary' 
 about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IXIWhistIXI
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  -----------edited review -----------
  
  Well, when I wrote what I had here before, I had thought that after a few months or so funcom would 
 fix the major issues and it would be a great game, or at least appear to be well on its way to 
 becoming a great game.
  
  Then I realized shortly after that it would not happen............ ever.
  
  The game feels like 
 it's made for the 360 despite the fact that the 360 version probably is never going to come out 
 now with all the financial failure in funcom. What a shame.
  
  I'd say if you want a mmo, go for wow.
  It appears that the only company that can make the wow-killer 
 is blizzard themselves.
  Mythic had the right idea by focusing on one aspect of mmos and making it great... however they 
 didn't accomplish the great part.
  
  The one good thing that came out of this is it taught me to not pre-order mmos. I didn't pre-order 
 warhammer and I am sooooo thankful of that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdoe35
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  This game does a lot of the small things that makes MMO'ing fun for me. I love the single player 
 mode where you can play by yourself. I really like that I can do an instance by myself. Some of 
 the instances that I have seen so far will raise to whatever level you are at the moment. I did 
 the Volcano instance at several different levels and the instance seemed to match my level.
  The game doesn't throw a lot at you at once like leveling, crafting, and the most dreaded part 
 for me: WEAPON SKILL LEVELING!!! 
  I really like what they did with the resurrection sickness ( WOW term) . Now all ya need to do is 
 go back to the exact location and click on your tombstone and *BAM!!!* your res. sickness is gone. 
 If you die in that same location more than once, you will have multiple tombstones present which 
 adds a bit of difficulty to trying to click on them before the Picts come back to kickie yo' booty.
 
  In all the game allows you to go at a your own pace. I don't agree with the whole, "YOU MUST GET 
 TO LEVEL 40 FOR YOUR MOUNT!" I hope that WOW is proud of itself. Thank you for ruining it for the 
 rest of us who want our mounts at level 10... LOL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vato4ever
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 28, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  i have my share of mmos, and i tell you that age of conan is doing fine, as others it is spected 
 to have some bugs, they are being cleared fast.
  combat system is quite intresting but goes boring fast, no smashing buttons needed if you know 
 what your doing.
  
  hud is good, but a little messy, everything is scattered around the screen in a odd way, and when 
 options open it takes all your screen, when u get ganked they are a nuisance.
  
  tradeskillz are quite intresting, but resources are so low, it seems there is none. 
  quest system 
 is great, i may say one of the better i've seen, makes you go here and there fast no questions 
 asked and better yet, they are all bunched up for you... there is an INMENSE amount of quests..
 
  
  instancing is intresting, dps and heal, is combined in a way i've never seen making your gameplay 
 vary from healz/dps/support by the second.
  
  on groups action goes everywhere around you, is intense and downtime is there but is not an issue 
 at last!
  
  finallly graphics: what a refreshment!.. at last an mmo with single player quality.. some pixel 
 overlaps here and there.. but other than that.. SWEEET!
  
  great game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elwood
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  My initial review was way wrong. After level 40 there is no content. Leveling in Khesh is painfully 
 boring. Nothing to do at max level. Duping bugs exist in game and are not being taken care of. 
 This one is dead, play Warhammer instead.
  
  I was once impressed with the graphics and the "combat system". I then realized they were dressing 
 up my old whore of a girlfriend, and putting that skank in nice clothes. This game is not worth 
 the initial $50, much less the monthly subscription.
  
  Don't fall for it. Take your money and burn it, that is more fun than this awful game.
  
  
 
  
  RIP FFA PvP.
  
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Santhin
Rating: 5
Date: May 28, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  It's not bad, persay, but it's not good either. For all of its bluster it feels a lot like more 
 of the same to me.
  
  Graphics - 
  
  They're realistic, if you like that sort of thing. Honestly, I'm not too huge a fan, it lets you 
 excuse having randomly tossed on armor and weapons, but it just lacks a certain coolness factor. 
 I see people wandering around and I can't tell at a glance what level they are, and higher level 
 people don't look 'cool' enough to make me want to ratchet up to their ranks.
  
  Also, since all of the playable races are human (and Cimmerian and Aquollian share a lot of similiarity 
 in appearance) , you'll run into a lot of similiar looking characters. Now, I know what people are 
 going to say, with the slider bars, the number of selectable hairstyles, beards, tattoo's, facial 
 features etc. etc. etc. your looks are very customizable. But the problem is that once you throw 
 armor and a helmet on someone, those little features are practically unnoticeable.
  
  The areas are nice, but a bit bland. The strain for a more realistic fantasy makes everything quite 
 pretty but you never feel too terribly compelled to adventure somewhere just to see something neat 
 or marvel at the scenery.
  
  Audio -
  
  Haven't had a complaint about it myself, satisfying grunts and the music seems alright, but like 
 most MMO's I've got it muted to listen to my own soundtrack or put a movie on in the background, 
 so I can't really say that it factors into my review.
  
  Gameplay -
  
  This is really the important part isn't it? Well, while its not bad, I can't say that its as 'innovative' 
 as everyone wants to say it is. It just feels like they've put another step in between me and the 
 action which keeps my focus on it.
  
  Since you have to hit a lot more buttons to fight than in other MMO's, you'll be more interactive, 
 but after awhile it still feels very MMO standard. You even fall into the habit of patterns, like 
 opening every fight with two swings to the left to make sure your enemy allocates shields there 
 so you can do a combo that hits from the right. Similiar to Mass Effect, it's still a dice rolling, 
 hotkey'd, toolbar'd RPG that puts on airs and pretends to be the action game that it isn't. This 
 isn't bad persay, but anyone attracted to the idea of more 'visceral' combat will probably find 
 themselves realizing that they've been duped after awhile with the game.
  
  Community -
  
  MMO's live or die based on this, but so far, I haven't really been able to find much of one. 
 Grouping doesn't seem to be very common, though I'd also note that despite being open for PVP I 
 haven't really been attacked all that often. People seem to be running around but interaction doesn't 
 seem to be much of a premium, for as far as I've gotten. I blame that in part to the UI, while 
 I'll get more into below.
  
  UI -
  
  It's awful, and unfortunately, that's really keeping me from getting into the game. Special mention 
 goes to the chat window which is clumsy and almost impossible to use properly, which I find really 
 hurts player interaction since you'll often seem to ignore it and just go about bashing in skulls. 
 The fact that, as of now, it can't be modded just makes it all the more frustrating. I'm not usually 
 a huge fan of mods but, this one needs it.
  
  Blood, Gore, Nudity -
  
  Can't say that I care. It's there, (though the fake blood splatter on the screen that doesn't match 
 up at all to the action is a bit silly) , but its not why I, or anyone, would stay with an MMO. 
 It might appeal to someone for a few minutes but if you have access to the internet, you can find 
 more satisfying violence or nudity quite easily, and don't need to slog through levels to get it.
 
  
  Anyways, a breakdown doesn't really give a good review, so here's the honest part of it, now that 
 you know my stance on all the various parts.
  
  Review -
  
  I'll start by being honest. Age of Conan never fired me up in previews. Mature content didn't sell 
 me on it, and the combat never seemed that much more to me than replacing click 1 once with click 
 1 five times. Most MMO's nowadays aren't just fire and forget, even for melee classes, and since 
 I often find myself juggling hotbar abilities anyways, i didn't see how taking autoattack away 
 would do anything other than just making attack another ability to juggle.
  
  For the most part, I fealt about what I expected when I played it. Combat, when you get down to 
 it, feels very similiar to what I've experienced in other games, just dressed up in a new suit. 
 The Mature content is there but, it lacks some degree of subtlety and depth. For a game to have 
 mature content but to only have one 'faction' of player characters for the storyline makes me feel 
 oddly limited. Also, since the single player starting tries to make you feel like an important 
 hero (instead of say, in many MMO's where you're just a cog in the war machine that's as important 
 as you can make yourself) , it feels a bit odd when the later game starts to break down into grinding 
 with other people who've... had the exact same backstory as me.
  
  Quests are of all the same veins as you've seen before, and the game quickly devolves into either 
 quest grinding or mob grinding, depending on your interest. And so far, I haven't really been interacting 
 much with other players (not for want of trying, the whole reason I play an MMO is to socialize) , 
 but the community doesn't seem to be decided on being friendly or agressive yet, and I just get 
 a few people who I talk with about confusion with new areas and things, and very little grouping, 
 or PVP'ing.
  
  If you like MMO's, you want to play a new one, and the setting appeals to you, then its probably 
 something you should try. If that doesn't apply to you, but you hear someone talk about the game 
 being 'not the same kind of MMO you've played before', then I'd suggest avoiding it, because for 
 all of its new dressings, AoC is pretty much what you've seen before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkamb
Rating: 7
Date: May 28, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  If u have played other MMO's such as WOW or L2 then u will not be satisfied. Notice I don't use 
 the word "dissapointed". It has a few new good things to add such as combo fighting and very nice 
 graphics. But it has far too many flaws to live through the unavoidable comparison with the abovementioned 
 kings of MMO's (for the time being) . To start off u need a very fast PC (GPU  = 7800 GTX, CPU  
 = dual core and RAM =2GB) to be able to run it adequately in Low to Medium mode, or else fps lag 
 will be your friend (I had 7800GTX, E8400 and 1GB ram, all on Low, shadows off, 1280X1024 res and 
 there were times i had 0 fps (0-40 in towns, 20-60 outside. I added 1GB ram and its now 20-60 in 
 towns, 35-80 outside with that setup) . This very fast gaming rig will never go under 60 fps in 
 WOW or L2 with everything maxed out.
  I believe that AOC had all the time to see what competitiors had and make their mmo if not much 
 better, at least as good as their's. But they failed to even do that. Chat system is Horrible, 
 party system Terrible, inventory and other tabs look like... 90's games. Many traders npc's do 
 not work, there are a few bugged quests, too may loading screens everywhere u go, they have speech 
 ONLY for npc's in 1st town (for 1-20 chars) , the rest of the world is silent. And to finish this 
 review I left the worst part of this game... support. It doesn't exist. I petitioned 4 times for 
 the same thing in 3 days. 1st time I petitioned i was number 364. 3 hours later I was at number... 
 301 (O. O) . I went to bed, logged on next morning to check petition, it wasa deleted due to the 
 morning update. I re-petitioned, stayed 3-4 hours online moved up the queue about 15 (from 220 
 to 205) , still no sign of GM, in the afternoon i relogged, still in queue, about 164. When it updated 
 in the following morning petition deleted, again. Did this 2 more times, kept getting deleted after 
 the updates that followed. I just cancelled my subscription, will play the rest of the "free" month 
 and see how we go.
  So to sum it up, if u r coming from an other very good MMO like WOW and L2, do NOT start AOC yet, 
 stay where u r. The time will come when the current "BETA testers" who paid for the game (such 
 as myself) will make the game alot more playable for us and then you can enter the good looking 
 world of AOC. But if u r a newbie in MMO gaming and have a modern, fast gaming PC, u will really 
 love this game despite its flaws... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SentientGames
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit I was skeptical coming into Age of Conan. I've been let down by quite a few MMO's since 
 I got into the genre, but this one has yet to truly dissapoint me.
  
  All story-stuff aside, the first twenty levels take place on an "introductory island", which gives 
 you plenty of time to learn the basics of the game and what your primary role is for your class. 
 Part of the game is single-player (which takes place at night) , and part of the game is multiplayer 
 (during the day) . You can switch back and forth between night and day as you wish.
  
  After "noob island", you head for your home region for a more open-ended style of game. The day/night 
 cycle mimmicks that of the server's time zone, and your free to travel around the world. There 
 aren't many multiplayer instances to do, though, until you get to the high thirties. This can be 
 dissapointing to people who are into multiplayer instancing, but from what I can tell, that part 
 of the game really starts to appear once you hit 40 and above.
  
  The basic quests are interesting, though they haven't strayed too far from the "kill x of these, 
 gather x of these, click on x of these" formula of other MMO's. Still, there are a few quests here 
 and there that really break the mold and make you feel like the world is alive, and this is done 
 mostly through scripted sequences and big battles between lots of NPCs.
  
  At the moment, grouping is a big pain in the butt, mostly because of confusion caused by multiple 
 instances of the large out-door areas. A group leader can summon group members to his instance, 
 but then the summoned member is transported to the nearest graveyard. However, there is no way 
 to summon a member to your position, so you'll find that a large portion of your time in groups 
 will be spent trying to locate each other and get organized. Adding to the difficulty is the fact 
 that you can't see other group members on your map unless they're standing within sight, which 
 defeats the purpose of seeing them on the map anyways.
  
  Combat is different and exciting. Rather then just tapping a line of number keys to nuke your enemies, 
 players must actually react to their enemies in combat as they'll constantly be changing their 
 defense. Classes that use melee abilities and combos, require stamina to operate, while casters 
 utilize mana. Every character also has the ability to sprint, which also uses stamina. This points 
 to an obvious problem, in that casters can sprint all they want and still be fully operational 
 in combat, while rogues and soldiers (who depend on stamina to function) are basically useless 
 after they've been sprinting.
  
  Music is awesome and epic. Graphics are clean and crisp, and the scenery is so nice I often find 
 myself sight-seeing. And while finding group members on the map is difficult, finding quest-givers 
 and quest locations is easy. The map gives you arrows to point you in the right direction, and 
 even places markers on the map to show where you can turn a quest in, where you can find the enemies 
 you need to dispatch, what area you can find the items you need to collect, and so on. If you're 
 into exploring and hunting down your quest objectives, you can turn this feature off.
  
  Overall, the game is great. I've only just gotten into my mid-thirties after about 25 hours of 
 play-time, and it's getting better and better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kit30000149
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I saw alot reviews but give me no clue what is this game feel like, so I decided to get one for 
 myself. here is the review for whole night playing.
  
  sound and graphic is very good. that is no doubt about it. the bugs and minor prblem did not brother 
 me at all. 
  
  New combat system keep me busy to check on which direction I should go, I know this system will 
 be bored someday, but once I take right action, you have very obvious improvment of damage your 
 opponents. I think it is good to keep your eye on your combat, but I still try to get use to the 
 buttom usage. 
  
  The only bug me for long time is the installtion time, it take me about 4 hours to finish. lucky 
 the patching file down was fast. it took no longer than 20 mins. 
  
  the story and the rest of the environment, it is full of colors but less direction. But I think 
 that is good. you can go to search around the world. I don't like now's day MMORPG, they give too 
 much (maybe overload tips) information for you to trace, so I felt I just follow the "Arrow" all 
 day long and fight this and that. I don't even borther look at other place. 
  
  the one thing I really love, I can make a very sexy doll to fight for monster. Wooooo~~~ (sexy 
 but not naked)
  
  
  something I want to mention before hand, I am WOW fans, I still love WOW very much. but after playing 
 AOC for few hour then jump back to WOW, I start to reailse the graphic is very different, which 
 is like REAL life VS Cartoon. I have to admit the WOW and AOC is doing different direction, I love 
 AOC and I will keep playing WOW as well. I got two lovely games to play that is good news for every 
 gamers. 
  
  there is no need to compare so much and guess who is the winner. we are fever gamer just want a 
 good games to play. Enjoy AOC and WOW.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blank2k2
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Well theres no doubt theres alot of bugs ingame atm, but as always they'll be fixed in a couple 
 of weeks. (they've been patching every day this week fixing things)
  
  But the game itself is brilliant, the new combat system really works & doesnt feel cheap n tacky 
 or a dynasty warriors ripoff, its very well done & takes abitof practice to get it nailed, and 
 ya still make mistakes when u get a "omg im going to die" moment.
  
  the PvP is great, balance at the mo sucks (as always with 1 week old MMO's) but the foundations 
 for a quality pvp is there.
  
  Basically the game is a solid game, has alot of potential, abit banged up at the mo but with patches 
 daily no doubt in my mind it'll be quality gameplay within the first month. 
  
  with the added perk of building ur own town, seige weapons, full on guild wars & seige wars, FFA 
 PvP (Unlike WoW's intolerable PvP system) , 
  
  give it abit of time & i think it'll be able to rival the biggest of MMO's, though it will never 
 have the 10million players WoW does, it can certainly be worthy of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I've been a avid fan of World of Warcraft for well over a year and when I saw Age of Conan on the 
 Games for Windows promotion I wanted it. After a long wait I purchased the game from Play. com with 
 an exclusive mount. I put the disk in and begin installation which does take a little while however 
 once thats done, patching is surprisingly quick at about 15 minutes (which compared to WoW is fantastic) . 
 Loaded the game and maxed out all the settings as you do, headed to a PVP server and created a 
 character. Now the character creation screen itself is fantastic! For those who have played Oblivion 
 will realise how unique you can make your character. I based my female character from my ex girlfriend 
 as they are both just as violent as each other lol. 
  
  When you first start the game has a very linear feel as it directs you to Tortage city, this city 
 is not a capital city yet is pretty big and impressive on its own. The first portion of the game (levels 
 1 to 19) are a mix of online and offline play. I don't really go much on this as a tutorial that 
 takes you up to 19 of 80 is a bit too long. I also found myself on 2 occasions to be too low level 
 to do the main quest and had to do multiplayer quests, most of which you need a group and the others 
 are a bit buggy. I. e on the map it shows you to go outside, you go outside it then says you need 
 to head back inside.
  
  However despite these bugs questing is much easier to follow and you get more assistance. For those 
 like myself who've come from WoW, it'll take a bit of getting used to due to a different combat 
 system and slightly different game layout especially communication.
  
  The graphics are fantastic! I can't wait for directx 10 to be implemented. There are a few graphical 
 glitches here and there.
  
  The sound in 5.1 with a X-Fi platinum soundcard is superb!
  
  Theres a lot in this game to keep anyone interested, its fun and draws you in.
  
  There 
 are a few glitches and bugs and sometimes the servers lag however considering the game is less 
 than a week old can't really complain. After all, WoW is has glitches and patches being released 
 to corrupt them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jooj
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 5, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  Having now played the game a little more I agree, it's a bug ridden POS! Though early stages were 
 good so it gets a 7 rather than the initial 9.5. Original gushing review below.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Excellent game. 
 If you're like me you'll spend the first day or two thinking "well wow has better than this", "why's 
 there no LFG system" etc
  Persevere, it's all there, plus some, yes it's a different game and in some ways Wow is better, 
 but in others this far exceeds its predecessor (plus, it's early days and much better than Wow 
 was at launch) . WoW it isn't, but that's not necessarily a bad thing.
  
  THINGS WOWERS MIGHT FIND STRANGE:
  1. First there's the fact that they instance many locations 
 when they get busy (to lighten the load, reduce lag etc in each one) . Not one instance per person/group, 
 just one per 100 players or so, which still leaves places crowded. This seems odd at first and 
 can leave you hunting round for a friend for ages if they're in a different instance but at the 
 same place as you and you don't realize, though there are functions within the game that help t 
 sort this sort of thing out. On the plus side it allows you to switch to a different instance on 
 a PVP server where someone is hellbent on stopping you complete your mission (PVP is pretty brutal 
 in AoC!) .
  
  2. Though the game world is twice the size of WoW it is also heavily zoned, which means you have 
 to travel from one to the other via a loading screen (a bit like the boats, gnometrain and airships 
 in wow) . This is where it lost 1 point for me (though I was still tempted to give it a 10) . The 
 zones themselves are often huge though and I the zoning was done for performance issues, it does 
 seem a little awkward at times (but I soon get used to it) . Most of the locations in the game are 
 physically remote from each other so that explains some of the zoning but others are less obvious 
 (e. g. the Nobles Quarter of one city is in a different zone to the rest) .
  
  3. HIGH SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS: by far the most important thing to have for this game is lots of ram, 
 I'd suggest a minimum of 2gb if you're running Windows XP and 4gb for Vista. Next you need a shader 
 model 3 or later graphics card, I only have a 256mb RAM card and would suggest a 512mb minimum 
 as I think this hits performance. Other than that a fast, dual core processor never hurt anyone. 
 Oh ... it also takes up something like 25gb of disk space (it comes on 2 DVDs) .
  
  4. The Brutal PVP might be a bit much for the fluffier WoW PVPers. Basically just about anyone 
 outside your guild or party is a target so ganking is common!
  
  It all depends how much these things matter to you, for me the good points soon outweighed the 
 bad. I don't want to appear too negative here, to me these are all minor points, I just want to 
 prewarn the Wowers so they know what to expect in advance! A very cool game, i saw my first mammoth 
 rider today, MAMMOTHS ARE HUGE! ;-)
  
  PS a new patch came out today which gave a much needed 50% FPS boost. My 2gb, AMD 4000+ SC, 7600GT 
 256mb system can now manage between 10 and 40 FPS on reasonable detail and 600m view distance, 
 which is nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cirkelinespark
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply the best, no it's not one of the best MMOs, but THE best MMO!
  
  It's got it all! 
  
  Huge openended world!
  
  Amazing graphics, simply beyond anything 
 you've ever seen in a MMO!
  
  The most amazing and awesome combat system ever made by man!!!
  
  Fatalities - Cut peoples 
 throat or gut them up before they die, very graphic, loads of gore.
  
  Very dark world!
  
  PvP - every man for himself! Survive or die trying! Slaugther everything in your path or you 
 will be slaughtered, gutted, chopped to pieces, limps flying everywhere!
  
  Build Cities! Along with your guildmembers you can build an entire city, benefiting you and your 
 guildmates with special bonuses and items! (I have yet to see City PvP)
  
  only downside about this game is the bugs which are being worked.
  
  This game is a MUST BUY! 
 For the love of god BUY IT! SPEND ALL YOUR HARD EARNED MONEY! THROW AWAY YOUR LIFE AND PLAY THIS 
 ALL DAY FOREVER! ITS WORTH IT!
  
  ok the last words were kinda excessive, but you get the point.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldier78
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is tons of fun and if you have a nice PC you should pick it up. It features **** and 
 ass... and blood. I think this will be enough for me to cancel my WoW account for at least 4 months. 
 If they add more PVP content I will never play WoW again. Go Funcom!! Long live King Conan! Four 
 Month! I love you!
  
  you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated 
 with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save 
 it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below.
  
  must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you 
 may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated 
 with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save 
 it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janoshan
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I played this game and the graphics gameplay and everything is just revolutionary. Words cant describe 
 how good and how successful this game will become in a years time.
  
  
  The graphics for a p2p are the best by far. It stomps on the other games like they are nothing 
 with these stunning visuals. The gameplay is new real time combat and its extremely fun. This game 
 is good for both solo and partying. This game is unique, 1 of a kind and will overcome most maybe 
 even all the other mmorpgs on the market. I love the fact that it has tons of dungeons and bosses. 
 Which i love because it is actually possible to solo a boss unlike other games where you die in 
 a couple of seconds. The dungeons are also good for partying. The community is extremely nice and 
 mature adults. Full of nice older people and there are some younger ones who got into the game 
 but it doesnt matter. This game is epic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMunster80
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to smack people with a wall of text but only give a quick and hopefully pretty clear 
 and concise summary of my opinion of AoC.
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10 I really love the look of this game. It is extremely well designed and each area 
 has its own distinct feel to it. The water effects are some of the best I have seen in this genre 
 by far. The negative for this is their are still some graphical glitches. Their will be times where 
 textures will disappear leaving a checkerboard a appearance behind but it is pretty rare. You also 
 will need a hefty computer to enjoy the best of what Age of Conan has to offer.
  
  Combat/Spell Casting: 9/10 The billed innovative system that Funcom has advertised is the most 
 interactive I have seen in my past with MMOs. Initially for melee combat you will start of with 
 3 directions and when performing a combo you will have to use those three directional attacks to 
 execute the combo making the move more than just click and let it happen. The three directions 
 also correspond to a shielding system for your opponents defenses if you hit them on a heavily 
 fortifide side you do minimal damage, if you hit them on a vulnerable side you max out your damage 
 making your attacks more than just smacking over and over in time. You will pick up random fatalities 
 specific to the spell or weapon you have used and most are pretty cool. Spell casting with the 
 exception of healing is like every other game with the exception of more conal type effects. Heals 
 are the same mostly either conal or AOE type heals with lots of HoTs. 
  
  Storyline 8/10 The story is very fun up till level 20 where it kinda falls off and you reemerge 
 with pieces of it on your journey to level 80. I haven't experienced all of the games levels yet 
 but their are portions where you get small mini stories nothing to emersive but fun anyways.
  
  Questing 8.5/10 Their are alot of quests and I mean alot up to a certain point. At that point 
 you can go back and do the lower level quests for the same XP reward though killing or gathering 
 for the quest will yeild no XP. The rewards are good for the quests both monetarily and XP wise.
 
  
  Overall: I really like this game though it is not everyone's kind of game and is definently geared 
 towards a more Mature audience. The blood and guts and sex while somewhat over the topish is in 
 line with alot of Robert E Howard's writings of Conan and I can appreciate that even if others 
 can't. The launch wasn't perfect and their are still large amounts of bugs that are getting fixed 
 but once they are fixed this will be the best game out there. If you can put up with bugs and you 
 can run the game I definently recommend it, if not than wair 2 months and I still will recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 27, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  Do you ever get that feeling of dj vu? I am getting it just thinking of Age of Conan. I remember 
 the Anarchy Online launch, it was horrible to say the least. The game was nearly unplayable due 
 to bugs and memory leaks. I also remember a number of players telling others to give it a chance 
 and stop putting the game down due to being so new. Some of these players were right, and after 
 a large amount of bug fixes, AO started to come around in some areas. The problem however is that 
 since AO had such a horrid launch, it was near impossible to get vets back without practically 
 making the game free. 
  
  Will we be seeing the same issues with Age of Conan? The answer seems to be, "yes". A large majority 
 of launch players are voicing their concerns on some of the same exact problems that plagued AO. 
 There is the problem with system requirements, which penalize players who even have semi-new hardware 
 on a low graphic setting. You should never be developing a MMO with such high system requirements, 
 the typical computer user should not have the best hardware just for one game, (Vanguard is an 
 excellent example) . 
  
  Then there are issues with zoning, or what many misunderstand as "instancing". Placing only a set 
 number of players into a zone is a strong setup for grief. Say you have 49 people in a zone, and 
 you are zoning in as number 50. What if 49 of those people are uncooperative for a group encounter, 
 forcing you to move on without completing a quest. Don't think this is possible you might say? 
 EverQuest was a prime example of this, where people would organize and camp a named boss so that 
 no one else could join in. The idea of instances works well, but just as long as you are allowed 
 to pick the people who are in it. 
  
  There is also the issue with linear gameplay. I have been playing MUDs, DOOR games, and MMOs long 
 before some of you were born. I can safely say with much experience that the way the MMO industry 
 is headed is a slap in the face to players. A virtual environment made up of players should allow 
 the user the options to shape the world. With games such as WoW and LOTRO, we see a filthy new 
 trend that fails to educate new players on the initial concept of virtual worlds. Instead of living 
 and playing in a virtual world, these games force users to complete linear quests in a theme park 
 format. Having a group of players come up to you and say, "Hey, have you completed that one quest 
 so we can do this one?" breaks all immersion in a MMO. Sadly, money have become the drive in gaming 
 and after the success of WoW, you can expect to see more of this garbage dominating our so called 
 virtual worlds.
  
  FunCom, I love your single-player games. You left me with a sense of awe after completing The Longest 
 Journey, and I still consider it one of the best adventure games ever created. However, you fail 
 horribly at creating MMOs and need to stick to what you are good at doing. The only thing you contributed 
 to the ever-failing MMO industry is yet another example of how many times we can do ride X for 
 reward Y. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewilX
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  This game features by far the most impressive sound and music I have ever experienced outside an 
 IMAX theatre. I envy those foresighted enough to buy a collectors' edition (which features a soundtrack 
 CD) .
  Now, about gameplay.. The first 20 levels is totally amazing, totally fun. Having played my share 
 of WoW, I expected the game to dull off at some point after this, but gosh have I been proven wrong! 
 Lvl 20-35 have been a sort of introduction to Hyboria with a lot of original quests taking me around 
 cities and (breathtaking, over-the-top) landscapes. However, I'm the kinda player who prefer to 
 quest in groups, and this has just began to play out after lvl 35. Sure, you can make groups before 
 that, but there's no real need. When writing this short review I can't help but feel the same I 
 did back in the late 90s when Ocarina of time came out. Everyone who played it knew thias was by 
 far the best game ever amde. However, it took us years to convince playstation fanboys there was 
 a whole new world of fun to be had 'on the other side'. I don't know if this story will repeat 
 itself in terms of WoW vs Conan, but I do know very few people having tried Conan will go back 
 to the once-fun but outdated world of Warcraft.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lelmer
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  This game has some great highs but still has some lows to balance them out. The visuals are spectacular! 
 The combat is much more involving than the simple hack and slash of WoW etc. The documentation 
 that comes with the game however is lacking. There is so much that should be there that isn't and 
 so much to learn that many will miss the depth of this environment at their first glance. I am 
 pleased that the game is rated M, the world should be rated M, after all hacking someone to death 
 with an axe or burning them alive is a rather mature endeavor. I have not had the pleasure of the 
 crafting portion of the game yet, but if it is well thought out and works this will be one killer 
 of a game environment. The game does have many bugs in it and it is a machine killer so beware. 
 If you are on the fringe of performance this one will push you over the edge. They do seem to be 
 actively killing many of the bugs that crop up and are actively patching the game to deal with 
 the inevitable issues that seem to be discovered by the unwashed masses. I have very high hopes 
 for this one, it could be the fantasy game we have been waiting for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glennsu
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  There are some bugs but the game overall is outstanding. It is immersive, beautiful and a living 
 REH story. I have played many MMO's and am having a blast in the world of Conan. If you like fantasy 
 MMO's you must give this a try if your computer is fast enough to run it. The play style is different 
 than other MMO's and if you like playing a healing class you get to be a damage dealer for a change. 
 
  
  The world of Conan is savage but beautiful. Some of the areas have rivers of blood, bodies impaled 
 on pikes. The fatalities are fun to watch and the quests themselves involve a variety of activities. 
 Most of the zones don't require too much running and the map helps you locate items so you don't 
 wander around aimlessly. Overall, funcom did a good job and this game will only get better and 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raveous77
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  I am free from WOW, finally! Conan has alot to offer - blood, guts, fatalities, nudity, real time 
 combat, mounted combat, different mounts ranging from horses, rhinos, Mamoths etc, superior gathering 
 and crafting system, AWESOME PVP like OMG! Original class builds, extensive customization of characters 
 not one character looks the same you can change practicaly EVERYTHING by sliders which agment almost 
 any part of your character. Smoothest launch in years. DEVS that care and truely help, not like 
 them useless morons on WOW "I am sorry but I cant help you with this problem, can I help you with 
 anything else today? :) NO you cant help me cuz you FAILED! So folks get yer accounts set up 
 and join in the brutal world of Conan. Blood will flow, guts will spill, heads will roll! Most 
 people who play on Conan came from WoW, and most of them have already canceled their accounts with 
 WOW after they got a chance to experience the brutal world of Conan. You can kill anyone and anything, 
 even your guildies! No RULES only Glory!  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BleedingBadger
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game I have ever played. Period.
  
  The combat is exceptionally smooth and intuitive while delivering a challenging and new (better) 
 set of controls for the player to wield.
  There is little more to say on this, simply because it is so flawless... its really hard to compare 
 the combat in Age of Conan to any other MMORPG ever created.
  
  The graphics are truly next-gen. If you max out Age of Conan's settings, it destroys Oblivion. 
 The textures, shaders, and dynamics are great to see in a game. 
  The models are so life-like it is scary, the environments so majestic and realistic you can literally 
 spend days sight seeing.
  
  The story and immersion is better than any MMO I have played. Deep, meaningful events surround 
 the player in the form of Destiny Quests tailored to each archetype (mage, soldier and rogue) . 
 
  
  In addition to this, the glitches in thae game are not a problem at all. 
  In fact, there are very few... Age of Conan is off to a rocking start!
  
  This is what its 
 all about. Your search ends here.
  Age of Conan is MMO gaming!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnutter02
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  First off, the Ratings (This is my personal rating system for MMOS)
  
  Graphics 9/10 Even on High quality settings, there are texture issues.
  
  World 10/10 This 
 game is HUGE
  
  Story 10/10 This game was inspired from a fantastic universe.
  
  PVP 8/10 Control scheme is harder for PVP, sometimes frustrating
  
  Guild 9/10 Build your own 
 city, have seige battles!
  
  Questing 7/10 Running from quest to quest takes a long time! If you die, its often far away from 
 a rez point, which makes for frustrating runs. But there are a ton of quests which helps leveling 
 a lot. 
  
  
  For those who want the quick scoop, Level 80 cap, massive world, tons of quests, cool mounts (mammoths 
 and rhinos!) , mounted combat, flanking system for attacks, awesome spell/attack graphics (fatalities!) , 
 build cities for guilds and seige equipment to take other guilds fortresses, and a whole lot of 
 class/player customization. 
  
  Now for those who like reading those long reviews =)
  
  Not only do we get a game based off an incredible story, but we get great graphics, combat, and 
 a whole bunch of customizable features from a huge Feat Tree (Talent tree to WOW players) for each 
 of the 12 classes, to some pretty creative character creation with good attention to detail.
  
  If your new to MMOS then AOC will not let you down, unlike most of the other MMOS, AOC has 
 a single player quest that guides you through your first 20 levels and helps you become very familiar 
 with the gameplay and combat mechanics. Speaking of combat mechanics, the devs of AOC said they 
 revelutionized the way combat works. While I wouldn't quite agree its revolutionary, it is a unique 
 system that while there is the same 1-10 hotkeys for actions, physical attacking is more strategic 
 in that you have to constantly watch the enemies shields and look for the *weak* spot in their 
 armor. This is done with a right, middle and left attack, (and later on if your a melee class lower 
 left and lower right attacks will be added) if you hit the wrong spot where an enemy has more shield 
 icons you will have done significantly less damage than if you hit a weak area on the enemy.
  
  Spells however are the same, though very flashy. There are so many spells to choose from later 
 in levels that it will force players to choose their play style, and only use specific spells that 
 are most effective.
  
  OH, but I almost forgot one thing about combat that is quite fun. Random Fatalities! At random 
 your player will finish an enemy off with a pretty cool and unique technique to your class. This 
 will give you a boost in some way for a small period of time, which can be very helpful if your 
 being ganged up on by a bunch of enemies.
  
  Lets get into something that seems to be putting the score of AOC down on a lot of reviews. The 
 bugs and loading times. 
  
  AOC does have its share of bugs here and there. But the devs have obviously been working very hard 
 to get these ironed out, and while there is some server down time once in a while, improvements 
 are in the making, and I think we'll see a very clean running MMO soon. With these kinds of games, 
 its unfair to make a score lower because of bugs, because bugs can be fixed, and when they are, 
 the game has received a lower score for a problem thats no longer there. 
  
  Now if you don't have an up to date cpu, your probably going to have troubles with performance 
 and loading times. Does this mean we should lower the score of the game though? NO. While its not 
 fun to constantly be upgrading our graphics cards and processors, this is the life of the gamer. 
 I would much rather have awesome graphics, and lots of action happening in front of me with my 
 beastly gaming machine that all my friends want, instead of seeing a game with sub-par graphics 
 and gameplay oh but wait, it runs great on my machine! With a good computer AOC runs like a charm. 
 Fast loading, and great FPS and latency in pretty much all areas of the game including the big 
 cities. Remember reviewers, rate the game, not your personal computers ability to run it!
  
  If pvp servers are what your after, then be prepared for the usual graveyard camping and ganking. 
 This can be very frustrating as rez points/graveyards are few and far between. However, this is 
 the accepted life on pvp servers, and does make you stay alert for every second, as you never know 
 who or what may be waiting to ambush you for the pure joy of seeing you die and run. However I 
 have heard they are developing a jail system for people who consistently kill much lower level 
 characters than themselves. And possibly a bounty system is in the works too, which means the guy 
 whos 20 levels higher than me and just destroyed me in one hit is going to have a reward for his 
 death placed on him. (SWEET!) 
  
  Something I have yet to experience myself in the game is spellweaving. This is where you string 
 a bunch of spells together for one massive spell. This can be done by yourself or with others in 
 a group. However I hear that if you screw something up, it means death. 
  
  Whether your new to MMOS or an experienced player, AOC provides great fun and adventure. You will 
 most likely end up trying to get off early from work to go home and play this incredible game. 
 It only gets an overall 8.5 because of my pet peeves of few and far between graveyards, and not 
 a very good tutorial (give me on screen messages how to do things, not a huge field manual, and 
 I'd be much happier) . And because of graphical errors/textures that are seen even with highest 
 quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netherscourge
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this short and sweet. If you have a fairly decent PC and the patience to learn a new 
 type of MMO combat system, then Age of Conan is the MMO for you. The graphics are the best ever 
 for a MMORPG. The combat system is the most innovative and interactive of any MMORPG. And after 
 a couple more patches to fix up some bugs, it will be THE BEST MMORPG EVER.
  
  I spent 4 years in WoW thinking I've seen all that a MMORPG can do - I was wrong. Give Age of Conan 
 a shot. Don't be dismayed by the spoiled-brat WoW fanboys. Age of Conan is a serious MMORPG for 
 serious gamers. There's no kiddie stuff. No elves. No dwarves. No walking cows. Just bloodthirsty 
 races of Humans.
  
  I'm giving this game a 10 - right now it's NOT a perfect game because of some lingering bugs, but 
 being 36 Levels into the game and playing for almost a full week straight, I can tell you that 
 WoW is dead and buried next to this game. I am completely overwhelmed with Age of Conan: Hoborian 
 Adventures and I suspect you will be too.
  
  Upgrade your PC's and start enjoying the Next Gneration of MMORPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmor
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 26, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I expected more from Funcom, specially for a MMO that has been in development for so long and delayed 
 so many times, the UI is small and lacking, the PvP is free for all in PvP servers and in the PvE 
 servers is practically guild vs guild, which is bad in the zone dedicated to endgame pvp (Border 
 Kingdoms) as there are very few keeps: too many guilds that will want to claim them, it will eventually 
 be whoever has the biggest guild wins.
  
  Character creation looks pretty rough, not enough options for the MMO players that like to create 
 a unique character.
  
  A big downside is that to go anywhere you have to go past a loading screen, which for some systems 
 it will slow down the game after 4-5 loading screens.
  
  Sad that they removed three of the things a lot were looking forward to, archery with skill not 
 locked aiming (where the arrows magically land on a moving/jumping target) , the real spell weaving 
 system where you build your spell making it stronger, not just a chain combo taken from the melee 
 system, and the Hell area where casters who blew up their spell weaving would end along with evil 
 players and so on.
  
  It does have it good things, the panoramic graphics are beautiful, great music, not original but 
 so far best established guild city system (no pvp in these) . The combat is different, some might 
 find that good and others bad, you can lock to a target but you're not view locked, so if you're 
 not too good at controlling your character you'll end up swinging in the air.
  
  It's a shame that Funcom's reputation with AO followed to AoC, horrible launch, too many crashes, 
 bugs, etc. No MMO launches cleanly but Funcom has a way to make it look pretty bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vondur
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 26, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I have about 18 years of experience playing online RPG games starting with the old MUD (multi users 
 dungeon) text based online RPG game, Ultima Online, Everquest, Dark Ages of Camelot, Never winder 
 nights, EVE online, Guild Wars, World of Warcraft, Lord of the Rings Online and now Conan.
  
  I was pretty excited about this game and that might be one of the reasons I'm disappointed. 
 I'll list the things I dislike and made me cancel my subscription after about 50 hours of play. 
 I'm not even bothering playing my whole month. Back to LOTRO for me till Warhammer is released.
 
  
  1) Every character has the same start with the same storyline. Sucks.
  2) Every now and then I get massive latency (10k+) which often results in lag spike death of my 
 character. I'm not the only one getting these lag spikes. I have a up to date computer with very 
 fast DSL connection so its the game thats helping me getting those lag spikes.
  3) Walking into the simplest of small instances (like houses) has too long loading time.
  4) 
 When latency is high all graphics are in very poor quality but then loads if you stay long enough. 
 Sometimes takes up to 30 secs to fully load.
  5) When entering new instances/zones your gear takes some time to load so those playing female 
 characters have to experience their characters standing with bear chest and nipples. Very nice 
 effect for all the young male players out there.
  6) Some might call it a bonus but when female characters swim in water their clothes disappear... 
 this does not happen when playing male characters :) Maybe males made this game?
  
  The reason I gave this game those 2.5 points is for the combat and skill system. Other than that... 
 don't recommend this game at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaKn-Powerslave
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  We have a new King in our hands, and all the rest will yield sooner or later to his rule. The best 
 launch, MMOs have seen, with no 30-45 min waiting once upon a time, lag free, not like lagfest 
 titles, graphic splendor, and eye catching feeling, ever watched the sun setting upon the water 
 in Khosphef province you have seen nothing. 
  Addons are not needed, the game plays superb without them, quests are not frustrating, there is 
 always an arrow and mark to help you reach your goal, button stroking is only ms late, and my oh 
 my, first 20 lvls, the killer idea of infusing people in Hyboria in a mystical adventurous crusade 
 with excellent voice acting and plot, that beats any fancy video intro to the ground. You don't 
 need to beg any healer or tank to lvl, you can battle through the game alone or in groups, never 
 feeling you play a worthless class, most ever balanced classes in launch, no mathematical and statistical 
 mambo jumbo items, we are gamers not logistic clients, and raw pure skill is all you need and logic, 
 or wrath upon exiting Tortage.
  Guild cities are huuuuugeeee, the best ever in MMO, you can harvest, hunt, mine, chop, lvl for 
 hours, and watch your guild buildings grow, and buff up your pride and character with class buffs. 
 Was about time for a giant to emerge and challenge the gloomy and resting waters of gaming boredom 
 if you look beyond WoW supremacy. Blizzard paved the way, and needed a worthy rival badly, to have 
 a reason to fight. 
  AoC will triumph if new content is implemented soon enough, this the place where most MMO have 
 failed. The start is the half of everything, an ancient greek saying tells, and AoC has astonished 
 not even late beta testers with jaws down upon entering early access, but all of us newbies that 
 were overwhelmed by sheer joy . King Conan was only some hours and 5 years late, He is the King 
 finally, emerged through the Gates, and screamed Veni Vidi Vici, and we drawed our swords and unleashed 
 ourselves for battle. 
  After 2 months of playing though crashes, less content for lvl 50+ and lvl 70+ has deteriorated 
 my high expectations and rephrase my triumphant words into one, WoW is still the King. And that 
 is because the depth of its mathematic mechanics of character leveling and item loot and customization 
 is still the best out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simme_1
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Let's start by saying that this game is not something completely new but it's really fun to play. 
 Of course you have to have the computer that match the requirements to really enjoy the game and 
 all it's stunning effects and enviroment. Theres a lot of things I liked about conan and one thing 
 must be the fact that it isnt world of warcraft which ruled the world of MMORPG for over 3 years 
 by now. I think there is time for a new age of MMORPG's as we can see theres a lot of them coming 
 up after world of warcraft succes in the online world. So Age of conan is not only the first that 
 i think have potential to compete against world of warcraft but maybe also the rest of the MMORPG's 
 coming out later on this year. When i first entered the land of hyboria by being washed ashore 
 and saw the beauty of the game it was an amazing feeling to get something new. Theres a lot to 
 be said about this game but unfortunately I am quite lazy now when i have to continue my journey 
 inside Hyboria i don't think i will change my score because this game is amazing. With that said 
 I must say it's hard to describe what i like the most about Age of conan so I say to you all. BUY 
 the game it's worth it see for yourself. It's like a new fresh of air in the world of online gaming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShrikeArghast
Rating: 3
Date: May 26, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  If you want the quick and dirty it's this: Age of Conan is new, but I question whether or not that 
 makes it necessarily better. 
  
  Graphics 9/10: The best I can tell, Hyboria is a rich, virtually-seamless landscape, laced together 
 with gurgling brooks, plunging waterfalls, massive forests, and all the other large scale natural 
 wonders that we've come to expect in spades in MMOs. Beyond this, activities like running, jumping 
 and combat feature relatively smooth animations, though probably not quite to the level of those 
 seen in World of Warcraft (although this can be excused since the complexity of, say, a character 
 model in AoC blows those in WoW away) . I like how this game looks, however
  
  Gameplay 2/10: I am just not sold on how AoC plays. The 'new' combat system that is being pushed 
 by Funcom as a radical, game-changing alternative to the click-and-go system that MMOs have embraced 
 to this date just isn't that snazzy. You swing left, and your enemy builds up defense there. You 
 then swing to his exposed right, and hurt him badly. He evens out his defense, so you do an upper 
 body attack. And so it goes ho hum. I'm not saying that this combat design doesn't work (and I 
 am sure that many people will completely fall in love with it, feeling lost and confused if they 
 ever have to utilize auto attack again, as if they have traveled back in time to fourteenth century 
 and are asked to explain how their cell phone isn't witchcraft) , but I just didn't find it that 
 revolutionary. Instead of a standard dice-based matrix, we now have one where you have to pay attention 
 with every attack, but only to the extent that you don't spam one key continuously, just three. 
 Yes, clearly this is the gaming revolution we have all be waiting for.
  
  Gore and Boobs 0/10: It needs to be mentioned, if only in passing, that AoC is unnecessarily over-the-top 
 in terms of sexual content and blood and gore. When you smack an enemy, they spew blood. When you 
 kill an enemy, they frequently lose a head. When a girl takes her armor off, we find that she's 
 neglected to wear a bra. Was any of this really required to 'capture the essence of Conan?' I doubt 
 it. The bare chests in AoC make me want to burn myself every time I imagine the individual behind 
 the monitor who actually thinks this content is arousing. What would happen if these thundering 
 goliaths, constructed mostly of fat and snot, were to as one emerge from their dark dens and wreak 
 havoc on our cities? Is that not doomsday? I suppose I should be thankful that AoC at least gives 
 us a few more years to plan for that evil moment, as the ultra nerds will be loathe to leave their 
 cocoons in the mean time.
  
  Story and Quests 3/10: I like how many of AoC's NPC denizens are able to express their problems 
 in well-scripted voice acting, although their needs boil down to the same ones we've seen in LotRO, 
 WoW, etc: 'Kill 10 wolves,' or 'Fetch me six shiny stones,' or 'Slay named mob X, who is surrounded 
 by hordes of lesser minions.' No, I don't have a better system thought up (although given enough 
 time, and loads of cash, I bet I could) , but that doesn't defeat my reasoning in mentioning that 
 this is the same quest system we've seen used and reused a dozen times over. Prepare to mostly 
 sleep through it as you chug towards 80.
  
  PvP 2/10: Much of AoC's PvP is instanced. I don't really need to say more than that.
  
  Overall 
 3.2/10: Age of Conan bills itself as a next-generation MMO that will alter the way we approach 
 and play these games. Outside a predictable combat system, a storyline written by a suicidal man 
 from the 1930s who had real 'mother issues' (wikipedia Robert E. Howard if you'd like the full 
 scoop on that) and exposed breasts, I don't see much that's new here (other than, of course, that 
 new PC you're going to need to run this sucker. The reccomended specs listed on the AoC website 
 don't even come close to what's really required to play this RAM-chewing badboy) . 
  
  If you want to latch on to a game based on a literary masterpiece, I would steer you in the direction 
 of Lord of the Rings Online, which seems to have a much more polished product, and fewer of the 
 zerging masses who leap from new game to new game, constantly hunting for the weapon that will 
 slay World of Warcraft. You can do better than AoC, because, honestly, better products are already 
 out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerzombieman
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Are really cool and easy on the eye. I think they are really creative and different from 
 most games ecspecially mmo's... 
  
  
  
  
  Gameplay: Questing/leveling is damn close to be called fun by me. it reminds me a lot like oblivion 
 and the quests have great stories and meanings. 
  
  
  PvP: is the the part that made me say wow and yell. its so much fun and innovative. it's incredible. 
 i really like it. no mmo has a combat system nearly as fun as this one.
  
  the only problem with this game is the glitches... so far it's had a relatively smooth launch for 
 an mmo but it has glitches.. these glitches can and will be easily fixed so this is why i give 
 it a 10/10
  
  Id definately recomend getting this game if your an mmo fan... or an rpg fan... and even if your 
 not you should get it.. so yep this is my review... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trjc
Rating: 7
Date: May 27, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  If you have a brand new quad core PC with a top-of-the-line NVidia graphics card, the game plays 
 well and has excellent graphics. If you have even a slightly older PC or have an ATI graphics card, 
 the game plays poorly and you will obtain very low frame rates even set at the lowest graphic settings 
 in the game.
  
  The game was tested on multiple machines with multiple graphics cards (specific model numbers will 
 not be provided in the discussion that follows) . At the low end, a 2.8Ghz HT 32-bit system (for 
 the uninformed, HT processors are early versions of dual-core systems) with an ATI Radeon 512Mb 
 professional developers' graphic card (AGP 8) was used, using a 1024x768 screen setting and Windows 
 XP. At the high end, a brand new quad core 2.83Ghz 64-bit system with an NVidia 512Mb graphic card 
 (SLI) was used with a 1680x1050 screen setting on Windows Vista (personal note: Vista sucks) . Note: 
 Only a single SLI card was used.
  
  On the ATI graphics card, even with the much lower screen setting, frame rates were consistently 
 less than 10 fps; at one point in a cave (i. e., a very low number of vertices and textures) with 
 no mobs in the vicinity and no other players, the frame rate briefly jumped to 30 fps. In the vicinity 
 of any more sophisticated graphics or in the vicinity of other players, the frame rate dropped 
 right back down. Surprisingly, the game can be played at the lower frame rates (although I would 
 not recommend going below around 8.5 fps) -- just do not expect to do player-versus-player (PvP) 
 successfully. The graphics will appear washed out, but they are serviceable. There isn't too much 
 jerkiness until netcode issues also surface (i. e., during PvP) .
  
  On the NVidia card, the frame rates have run from the mid-30's to over 50 fps -- with all settings 
 turned up high and with the much higher screen setting. The graphics are beautiful. The netcode 
 issues are still apparent, but it is quite clear that this game was targeted at a particular graphics 
 card.
  
  Browsing the Age of Conan (AoC) forums, it is apparent that ALL players using ATI cards are experiencing 
 problems; from testing, this is most likely a coding issue and not just a matter of the cards used 
 for this evaluation. Presuming that the graphics/game engine used by Funcom is indeed a licensed 
 version of BioWare's KotOR engine, this is consistent with past experiences with that engine.
 
  
  The KotOR look is unmistakable. The first time a player has a conversation with an NPC, the similarity 
 jumps out at you. The linearity of the game play, the animations, the loading screens, the instanced 
 nature of the environment, the limited mob AI -- all are too similar to KotOR to be coincidental. 
 What is unfortunate is that the engine wasn't designed for an MMORPG, and it shows. The end result 
 is a closed-in feeling and definite linearity to game play; even after you get out of the "beginner 
 areas". What's more, the problems that existed in that engine -- such as an NPC deciding to face 
 away from you during a conversation -- are still present and are compounded in a PvP environment. 
 If another player passes between you and the NPC to which you are talking, you can't move to where 
 you can see the NPC again; you only see the other player's head. If the other player talks to the 
 NPC, even though you are already speaking to the NPC, it will turn away from you; you can't make 
 it turn back. If you hear a battle in your vicinity as you talk to an NPC, you can't see behind 
 you while in a conversation with an NPC -- you can't turn, you can't move while in the conversation 
 interface. Are you being attacked by a twelve-year old ganker? Probably. But the only way to find 
 out is to terminate the conversation early -- which, if you are doing a quest turn-in or receiving 
 a quest, can affect that quest's status. Similarly, even outside of conversations, the camera will 
 periodically do strange things -- like move on the other side of a tree during a battle, unexpectably 
 placing the branches and leaves between your viewing point and your avatar. KotOR does not belong 
 in an MMORPG environment; it's excellent for a single player game.
  
  The beginner areas take you up to around level 20 -- 1/4 of the max level of 80. There are really 
 multiple phases to the beginning area play. Initially, until such time as you reach the city of 
 Tortage, you play completely solo, learning the interface. You are at least marginally overpowered 
 with respect to the mobs you fight (unless you get stupid and think you can take on more than a 
 couple at a time) during the initial phase of solo play. This first phase of the beginner areas 
 (the first 6 levels or so of game play) is extremely linear. You are restricted in both your movement 
 and your gaming goals. After you reach Tortage, two other beginner area phases become available; 
 "night-time play" and "day-time play". The night-time play is all solo and consists of a series 
 of quests with a story line -- your "destiny quest". On completion, you will leave Tortage to travel 
 to your homeland (depending on your race) . The day-time play is intended for group play and also 
 introduces PvP (on servers where it is allowed) . Most of the "group play" in the beginner areas, 
 however, can be soloed -- if you don't mind being constantly ganked by little kids trying to impress 
 themselves (or, worse, adults acting like little kids) .
  
  On the classes tested, contrary to Funcom's claims, it was not possible to level all the way to 
 20 during night-time play. Invariably, on hitting various quest "thresholds" in the destiny quest 
 series, the player would be badly overmatched. The mobs in the quests are scaled to the player's 
 level; the scenarios are set up such that it is necessary to fight multiple mobs at once, with 
 probable "adds" (since the combat logic will automatically move your avatar relative to the targets) 
 and there is no way to get a single pull of a target to ease the fight (mobs are linked) . The "trick" 
 I found was to do day-time quests in tandem with the night-time quest series until the avatar was 
 just short of leveling -- then do the night-time quests, leveling after the first kill, so that 
 the mobs end up one level less than the player's level. This is a minor exploit, but it became 
 essential with several classes due to balance issues -- not just PvP balance issues, but Player-versus-Environment 
 (PvE) balance issues.
  
  The GUI is at this point inadequate. Hot bar icons are much too large -- presumably to support 
 the rapid click-fest that occurs during PvP -- and are NOT locked to the bar. During that "rapid 
 click-fest", it is VERY easy to accidently drag an icon off the hotbar -- into oblivion, for the 
 moment -- or accidently drag an icon from one slot to another, swapping places, and these icon 
 problems can be fatal during either a PvP or PvE battle. Because of this, trying to fight using 
 only hotkeys is infinitely preferable to using the mouse -- EXCEPT not every hotbar location is 
 accessible from the keyboard. There is also only ONE hotbar available on the screen at a time, 
 plus a "supplemental" icon location (which apparently cannot be hot-keyed) ; players can scroll 
 through other available hotbars with the mouse or keyboard shortcuts, but attempting to do that 
 during a battle is a general recipe for suicide. Other aspects of the GUI are serviceable, but 
 lacking in functionality. For instance, if you see another player in the game, getting information 
 on that player (class, abilities, etc.) is not a straightforward process. The "social dialog" appears 
 to be only partially implemented at this point and filtering mechanisms do not appear to work well. 
 Graphics (such as icons on the hotbar or icons in dialogs that may be dragged to the hotbar) tend 
 to just "disappear" -- normally an indication that the resource linkage has been lost -- right 
 in the middle of play; this is separate and distinct from accidental dragging of a icon from a 
 hotbar -- simple toggling between hotbars or opening and closing dialogs/panels will make icons 
 vanish. The event linkage thankfully remains, but the visual stimulation is missing. In some cases, 
 such as when you are first awarded a new spell, you won't even know that what is missing IS missing 
 (can't miss something you've never seen; for instance, spells awarded to a class at level 10 never 
 appeared in the panels for selection of those spells to be added to the hotbar until level 13) .
 
  
  On the lower end machines on which the game was tested, it was fairly clear that MSWindows events 
 were not being processed at a rate appropriate to the rate at which they are generated. On Windows 
 machines (may Microsoft rot in Hades) , mouse-click and keypress events that are generated are passed 
 to the application for handling. These events (and all others) are normally handled in a simple 
 event loop that does little more than service the Windows interface to the application and then 
 subsequently pass the events to "handlers". The handlers then call subsequent routines based on 
 the context of the event. The handlers and subsequent chain of processing consume significantly 
 more processor cycles than the event loop itself -- even if the event is a "throw-away event" (such 
 as a mouse-move event) . It is not unusual, therefore, when applications under development run into 
 processor loading problems, for developers to reduce the rate at which such events as keypress 
 and mouseclicks are handled in order to reduce processor loading. This is normally NOT a good idea 
 for real time application design. It is very apparent that keypresses and mouse-clicks in AoC are 
 NOT serviced as fast as they should be; even on the high end machine used for the tests, many mouse-clicks 
 and keypresses had no effect (and brand new keyboards and mice were used) ; thus I surmise that 
 Funcom attempted to "improve" game performance by reducing interface responsiveness. [In their 
 defense, Turbine has very apparently done the same thing with Lord of the Rings On-line in their 
 updates (not in the original release) to the game since launch, resulting in very apparent synchronization 
 issues between graphics, sound, and game event processing -- most apparent on older machines. Developers 
 are counting on players owning newer generation hardware, expecting the greater processing power 
 to resolve the processing load. In my own experience as a developer, this is never a good approach 
 to optimization; it's a half-baked work-around to coding efficiency issues that passes the buck 
 to the player --"Go buy a new machine!" Yes, developers, no matter who you are, WE consumers notice.]
 
  
  There is some evidence of a memory leak; game performance decays over any significant amount of 
 playing time. This may be normal memory fragmentation, but it appears at first glance (I did not 
 run a monitor on the game while playing) to be more than that. All machines used in testing had 
 4 Gb of memory.
  
  Don't try to ALT-TAB out of the game or file a bug report from inside the game (which will minimize 
 the game and go to an HTML dialog) to report these kinds of problems, at least not with Windows 
 XP -- the game; and often your PC, too; may (and most likely, will) lock-up. Vista appears to accommodate 
 ALT-TAB and /bugreport without crashing.
  
  Classes are certainly not well balanced for PvP; the game actually does not appear well designed 
 for PvP. As Currently, it is mostly a gank-fest with ranged and pet classes waiting until a player's 
 back is turned, waiting until the player is three-quarters down on life, then attacking from a 
 distance when there is no chance of retribution. Heavily armored classes can sometimes withstand 
 this; others, even the high-DPS classes, will not live long enough to play in this one-sided "game". 
 Alternatively, players 10-15 levels higher than you will "boldly" (a better word is simply "brazenly", 
 since it takes no courage, skill, or boldness to attack another player so much lower in level) 
 run right up to you and kill you in one or two hits. Resurrection-point camping; where you have 
 almost no life, no endurance, and no mana after resurrecting is rampant. Spawn-point camping with 
 a high level player waiting for lower levels to "materialize" in the instance, is not quite as 
 bad, but is apparent. Ganking when you're in a conversation with an NPC happens frequently. Reading 
 the childish rationalizations in chat for the ganking activities is more amusing than the actual 
 PvP; as it is, there is no real purpose to PvP other than to massage the virtual egoes of those 
 who have to seek their identity through on-line games. The "cultural PvP" servers, where race fights 
 race, offer an alternative to the free-for-all PvP; perhaps those servers will have more mature 
 gameplay.
  
  Imbalances exist also for PvE. The guardian (heavily armored melee class) I tested soloed easily 
 through level 20. The bear shaman (an unusual melee-healer hybrid) , however, was extremely difficult 
 to play from levels 8 through 19. DPS and caster classes fare reasonably well, but seem primarily 
 focused at ganking -- excuse me, I mean PvP -- actually, no I didn't; I meant ganking.
  
  On crashing (rare, but it has occurred) , AoC seems to lose its window settings. This is a minor 
 problem, probably indicative of the application not writing a "settings file" immediately on changing 
 a configuration, keeping settings instead in memory.
  
  The heavy use of instancing detracts from the MMORPG feel of the game. Similar to Turbine's Dungeons 
 and Dragons On-line, when you log into the game, you may not be (most likely will not be) in the 
 same instance of the game as your friends. This scheme is evidently used to spread the player load 
 across the "server" (where a server is a cluster of processor capabilities) . Currently, there is 
 no means by which players can pre-coordinate which instance they will log into; it is necessary 
 to enter the game, then go through some rigamarole to coordinate with your friends to find out 
 who is on which instance, then act to get everyone in the same instance -- going through the zoning 
 screens all over again.
  
  Add that annoyance to the need to wait for all graphic resources to load when you enter an area 
 -- or move to a different part of an area. It is not unusual to see NPC quest-givers (and quest 
 end-points) slowly float from out of the ground, "invisible" until the graphics resources are loaded. 
 It is not unusual to zone through an area and see washed out textures while the detailed textures 
 load. This happened on all systems used for testing, even in very small instanced areas.
  
  There are other graphics issues; while my real hair may be silver and grey, in-game I prefer its 
 original dark brown. Yet, as I changed headgear during game play, my hair color also periodically 
 changed to grey (as in, lost the color table setting it was supposed to have) . There are a couple 
 cases where the walk-mesh does not correspond to the terrain that you are viewing on-screen and 
 you end up walking under the surface; similarly, an NPC or mob you are seeking may sometimes be 
 under the surface.
  
  The login process itself is tedious; personally, I do not want to see the "animated advertising 
 screens" for each subcontractor in the game -- once, okay, I'll live through it -- but give me 
 a means to turn them off thereafter.
  
  The quests in game are enjoyable so far; even though the game is highly linear; and the quest interface 
 (with its tie-in to the map system) is better than most games. There are the typical FedEx quests 
 (LOTS of them; I guess Funcom needed time-sinks) , kill a million of these and a million of those 
 quests, etc., but they are presented with a reasonable story-line. As with most games, when you 
 accept a new quest, your "current quest" is set to the newly received quest. This is generally 
 annoying since it is necessary to remember the name of the quest you were on -- since most people 
 don't pay a lot of attention to the name of a quest, it is necessary to then go back and search 
 through the lists of quests by areas to find the one you were working on. This is annoying -- especially 
 in a PvP environment. The distraction works against you, always at the wrong time.
  
  There are several aspects of the game that have not, at release, been implemented. Surprisingly, 
 bag space for players is limited and there is no bank / vault / home for alternative storage. Basically, 
 you have to sell whatever you pick up since you can't afford to store it in your bag. Note: That's 
 "BAG" -- singular. Don't anticipate holding on to "neat" items until you reach the level requirements 
 for their use. There also is no auction house / trading house or similar capability where players 
 may buy and sell goods; rumor has it that the original design was exploited by a Beta tester (allowing 
 "dupe's") , so the game was released without these fundamental capabilities.
  
  In general, I've enjoyed playing the game (even through the eyes of a tester) , but question the 
 choice of the KotOR engine (if indeed that has been used) , the PvP design (encouraging a gankfest) , 
 and the release of the game with its current GUI shortcomings. Similar to Vanguard-SoH, this game 
 should have been delayed several more months before release. It has similar performance issues 
 (on anything other than top-of-the-line computers) and similar shortcomings at release. The game 
 is a lot of fun, but in my opinion wasn't ready for release and needed a significant amount of 
 additional testing. As a game largely focused on PvP, Funcom needs to implement "rules" to reduce 
 the gankfest to something fun or it will eventually lose a lot of players. It also needs to significantly 
 rebalance classes for PvP if it expects anyone other than twelve-year old kids and jerks to remain 
 on its PvP servers and if it expects people to play anything other than the "gank-classes". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jroony96
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing this game since launch and I have been impressed so far. There are some things 
 that still need polished, but overall it is a great game. This game doesn't make killing things 
 boring. If you have to kill 50 picts, you don't get that dread of wasting hours of your life just 
 to kill the 50. Instead this game makes you enjoy killing that 50 and using the various combos. 
 I think this game has a lot of potential and shouldn't be overlooked. I do think that this game 
 does need some fixes, but im sure that they will take care of those, which is the only reason I 
 didn't give this game a 10. So, if you have a pretty good computer with a good video card, then 
 this game should run fine on low settings. I had to tweak with my video settings for a bit and 
 was able to customize a smooth framerate with settings between the high and medium setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbernet
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  Unless the servers are taxed, the graphics and interface are smooth. Like like that the quests 
 are rated by color coding to give you an idea how difficult they would be at your current skill 
 level. 
  
  I also like the melee combo moves. It took me a bit to figure it out but that's really my own fault 
 for not reading the instruction book. This is the first time I've played an MMO and I wasn't quite 
 sure what to expect. You don't have to team up with other players, but if you want to, you can. 
 At least that's been my experience so far.
  
  The game feels a lot like Oblivion, though maybe a little more ogranic. I'm not quite sure why 
 I have that impression though. You can go anywhere and do whatever you want. There are a huge number 
 of quests and moster areas to go and build up experience. I'm looking forward to playing this game 
 for a long time.
  
  The only minus - gankers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superkrizz
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  The graphics are among the best I've ever seen, for all game types! The music and sounds make you 
 feel you're really there - in Hyboria, and the gameplay is really fun. I also like the fact that 
 the quests are much more "alive". In WoW, you don't even bother reading the quests texts, but here 
 you are taking part in the conversation with the NPCs. The combat system is innovative, although 
 I expected something even more groundbreaking. It's Wow - but with a cool twist.
  
  The downside: I had to buy a new graphics card to be able to play it, but then again, I needed 
 a new one anyway ;) 
  
  If you're doubting if this is for you - find a friend who has the game, and play 7 days for free. 
 I think you'll opt for getting your own copy after those 7 days!
  
  When FUNCOM manages to remove the bugs, and integrate some of the missing features, this will be 
 a total classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rayjohansson
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  I am now 60th level. A lot of the people who talk about how smooth the game is have not played 
 past 40th level. It gets increasingly more buggy in the higher zones.
  
  That said, the combat is the best I've ever played.
  
  The class synergy is top notch.
  
 
  There's so much about AOC that is great.
  
  However, it feels like a beta, and here is why:
  
  Grouping is very bugged and can take 15 
 + client restarts to fix. Some people appear in-group, others don't. It's a long story but everyone 
 I know has faced this.
  
  Crafting is semi-working. The crafting skills can vanish once you respec your feats. You also have 
 to do things as a gem cutter like doing each gem in a different zone to make it work.
  
  No economy. Period.
  
  Grossly overpowered classes with skills that are auto-win buttons, ie 
 little to no chance of resisting. I do very well, but there are definitely some areas that can 
 be fine tuned. Victims of root get an immunity buff thereafter, but knockback gives none. You can 
 be knockbacked 10 times in a row.
  You can fight back in root, not when on your back. Needs to be fixed ASAP.
  
  There are many 
 exploits, lots of people hit 80 within 24 hours. 
  
  Cities are broken. We couldn't place our keep, you have to make double the materials. Also, the 
 cities are attackable and they are not supposed to be, only battle keeps are.
  
  
  There are a slew of other buggy quests and things, but once they iron it all out, I feel that this 
 is the best game CURRENTLY available. AOC is the MMO king at this time, but right now, it's looking 
 a little like a queen. I can only hope Funcom gets it into a highly playable form quickly.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantonos
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  Graphics 10/10
  Beautiful visuals. This is easily the best looking MMO ever made, and possibly one of, if not the 
 best looking RPG. The viewing distance is incredible, and textures is detailed. Nice lighting and 
 shaders. It is not quite to the detail level of Crysis, but the large immersive world and longeviety 
 of gameplay more than makes up for it.
  
  Sound 10/10
  The composer Knut Haugen made an amazing job with the sound track. It is varied, changing between 
 subtle and dramatic, and fits the setting of the game perfectly. In contrast with other games, 
 I actually never grow tired of the music so I leave it on. Also the sound effects and ambient sound 
 is absolutely fantastic. The sound editing and mixing is state of the art. Some quest NPC also 
 have full recorded voice audio. And all of the sound is recoded in 5.1 / 7.1 channel for immersive 
 surround feel.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  Addictive as crack cocaine. The combat system in particular really is a much needed breath of fresh 
 air. Combos, shield system, active blocking, collision detection. It is good enough that I will 
 never want to go back to an MMO with autoattack again (I am looking at you WoW) . Then there is 
 the quest design and general immersion which makes the PvE and leveling feel smooth and draws you 
 in. 
  
  Longevity10/10
  This is an MMO which in itself makes this have long lasting factor. But more importantly, it has 
 strong social features like player cities and crafting is important. There is also an abundant 
 amount of endgame content both for PvE and PvP. Usually MMO's do only one of these well. This game 
 got what, 18 raid dungeons at launch? Siege battles, crafting, PvE player cities, FFA PvP servers 
 etc.
  
  Tilt factor 10/10
  I have been waiting for this game energetically since 2005, and the game exceeded my expectations.
 
  
  
  The Good:
  Breathtaking graphics and art design, advanced character customisation, fun and engaging combat 
 system, an abundance of quest, terrific immersion with cinematic cut scenes, amazing sound track 
 and sound effects, NPC dialogue trees, good quest design, mature setting based on Robert E. Howards 
 universe (no elves and orcs here) , fleshed out PvE and PvP endgame (border kingdoms, dungeon raids) , 
 player cities and battlekeeps, smooth launch, clean main UI, each class feels unique. Most important 
 of all, playing AoC is fun, exciting and engaging. WoW feels incredible stale and outdated in comparison.
 
  
  The Bad:
  PvP class balance is unbalanced lower levels (the game is balanced more for group PvP) , and itemization 
 needs more work. The game requires a decent system to run well. Also there are some UI annoyances 
 for guild interface (buddy list / guild list merged together) and group / chat UI that feels cumbersome 
 to use. 
  
  The ugly: 
  There have been some exploits at launch, and there are the occasional bugs and glitches that are 
 annoying. At time of writing, the bank, mail and auction house system is down.
  
  Conclusion:
  The positives far outweigh the negatives, as the few issues are fixable or scheduled 
 to be fixed. Bottom line here is, this game is good enough to dent WoW subscriber base. I feel 
 this MMO is by a comfortable mile the most fun to play, and by far have the most potential (through 
 continued polishing, development and expansion packs) . This is really the only MMO on the market 
 with satisfying amount of PvP AND PvP endgame. If you are even remotely interested in the genre, 
 you would be foolish to miss out on this. And even if you are not, the game feels different enough 
 for a great first taste of an MMO.
  
  Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Well this is one of the most difficult reviews I've had to write.
  
  How can anyone possibly review an MMO that is only a few weeks old? That said this is a damned 
 good game and one that you will either love or hate.
  
  Mention MMO and people immediatley think of WOW. Well I didnt really play WOW much but I have had 
 experience of other MMO type games, but I will be frank and explain that my benchmarks are Guild 
 Wars and Lord of the Rings Online.
  
  AOC does not compare to any other MMO that has gone before it. It is certainly nothing like the 
 games mentioned above. It is new, refreshing and ambitious.
  
  Starting with the install, this is a massive game coming on 2 double density DVD's taking up 26gb 
 of hard drive space. Upon install the game has to be patched. From opening the cellophane to playing 
 the game took 2 hours.
  
  On starting, you are a galley slave and move into the excellent character creation screen. There 
 is no way in this game anyone will run into their twin. This game is very big on options, and when 
 creating a character you can even change the angle of your ears.
  
  There are 12 classes to choose from and 3 different races.
  
  Gameplay has an excellent combat 
 system which requires a little thought mid fight rather than repetitive button mashing until your 
 mob is dead. 
  
  Quests upto level 20 are mostly spoken by the NPC quest giver, rather than reading reams of text. 
 The quests are fun, and tend to have a purpose and story behind them rather than just "go out and 
 kill 20 boars". There is no doubt this is a difficult game and questing is very challenging. I 
 have rolled a Bear Shamen - I cannot comment about opther classes but there seems to be some imbalance. 
 For example often a mob of 10 or so NPC's will spawn around you from nowhere and club you to death. 
 I was not familiar with the term "Ganking" until I played this game, but now I understand it clearly.
 
  
  The initial levels 1-20 are effectively 2 games in one, as there are night time quests which are 
 single player missions and day time quests which can be done solo or in a group.
  
  That said there is no high fantasy here - No Elves, Dwarves or mytthical creatures. The bestiary 
 of Hyboria is very realistic and this may put off Lotro, Warhammer and WOW fans. As I said this 
 game cannot be compared to previous MMO's and to be honest this is really an MMO version of traditional 
 role playing games such as The Witcher or Never Winter Nights. To put it simply, you will either 
 love or hate Conan, but no doubt if you like the Witcher, you will love this game.
  
  In essence, AOC takes lots of little bits from other games and puts them together in one package. 
 It starts with the standard MMO template of WoW, adds Oblivion style questing and graphics, puts 
 in The Witcher / NWN style gameplay, LOTRO style instancing and Guilds Wars type attack combos, 
 topped off with GTA profanity, hookers and nudity, so everybody should be happy !
  
  The beauty of this game is that so far I have found there is very little grinding to be done.
 
  
  Many have seen that this game has high end requirements. Well I have to say, that due to the hype, 
 I am quite disappointed with the graphics. When I first started playing the game I was pleased 
 as some of the initial areas are highly detailed, but as I moved on I found some of the textures 
 distinctly lacking. To prove this, in the initial areas I get 60 frames per second, but as I moved 
 onto areas with poorer graphics I was getting 90+ frames per second. I wish I could post some screen 
 shots to prove this. Being a Lotro player for the last year I have to say that, Lotro has the edge 
 on the graphics, but that might be because I run Lotro in DX10 but AOC is DX9. The DX10 texture 
 pack is out later this summer. The graphics in this game are distinctly Oblivion standard, sometimes 
 below (which is still very good for an MMO) but is now quite old.
  
  Sound is excellent due to the spoken quests (which probably explains the large install) and lovely 
 background sound track that would probably be more at home in a spaghetti western, although there 
 is one annoying song onf a woman wailing constantlyu which really gets on your nerves..
  
  
  A lot of comment has been made about the game's mature rating - due to its gore and nudity. 
 Well with regard to the violence, there is little more here than seen i other games - a few splats 
 of blood on the screen - well so what ! And with regard to nudity, anyone who considers a pair 
 of breasts to be offensive needs locking up in a monastery .
  
  The worst thing about this game is the User Interface which is very bad and effectively ruins a 
 lot of what is good about this game. Mods are already coming out for it, and they are a must install. 
 The chat system and grouping system is also very poor. 
  
  However this is a new MMO, problems are to be expected and these issues will no doubt iron themselves 
 out very soon.
  
  Another issue is that this is effectively a single player RPG upto level 20 when you are stuck 
 in the city of Tortage, before it becomes a true MMO. In effect levels 1-20 are a massive tutorial, 
 which is fine, but it goes on way too long and should have ended around level 15, as you want to 
 get out and explore the world. However when you do finally get out into the big bad world of MMO 
 you will find that this game is very channelled and linear.
  
  Also, all 3 races start in Tortage, so I expect rolling alts and starting PvP toons will get pretty 
 boring fast.
  
  A lot of people are complaining about technical bugs in the game, poor performance etc, but this 
 can only be because their computers are not up to it. I say this because I haven't experienced 
 a single glitch yet - and the game runs fine for me between 60 - 95 fps. The only major bug in 
 the game relates to the fact that you often cant see group members on the map.
  
  
  It is clear the devs have put immense effort into the first 20 levels of the Tortage area , but 
 once you get past that, the graphics deteriorate and the sound goes, so its back to reading reams 
 of text.
  
  Overall this game is certainly worth playing. It is fun, refreshing and new. The monthly price 
 is quite high at 10.35 per month (but I bergrudge paying monthly for any game having seen what 
 Guild Wars can do for free) . To be honest this game has been massively over hyped in the last 12 
 months. It is certainly good but it's not ground breaking. It definately requires a lot of polish, 
 as it comes across to me as if it's unfinished and I suspect in a year's time this will be a completely 
 different game.
  
  
  
  
  Gameplay 9
  Graphics 8.5
  Sound 9
  Stability 9
  Value for money 6 (High monthly fee)
  Overall 8
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krullis_robin
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I like the most stuff about this game. A new big Online world to discover, man just what I needed. 
 Just as you get tired of WoW you just hope that some new game will come and give peace to your 
 mind. I was so desperate that I almost bought Pirates of the Burning sea. Just 'cause I wanted 
 a new Online game with some new environment and fighting system. And that is just what Age of Conan: 
 Hyborian Adventure is, a solid Online game for everyone that have had enough of WoW. I wouldn't 
 write this if blizzard had been a little more effecient with making new races instead of making 
 something lika a "Death Knight". Don't get me wrong, death knight is pretty cool, but the consumers 
 of todays internet-society needs more than a new class and some new places. Unfortunate, a whole 
 new game is what we need at least in my opinion. So I will try out Age of Conan and "feel" it for 
 a while in hope that I will find something similar to what World of Warcraft ones was.
  
  ---=KRULL= --- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ra-Qin
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  Pre-Orders went fine... don't let the ones who experienced issues make it sound bad; they represent 
 a MINIMAL percentage of orders (less than 1% by the count) . I received my AoC: CE from Amazon without 
 issue, as did everyone I know who ordered it. My only point of concern occurred while creating 
 my account/subscription, as FunCom's site stated that Collectors Edition users would get 30 days 
 of free play from the launch date of 5/20/08 (which meant I was already short on my 30 days since 
 I didn't sign in until Friday 5/23; I was within 5 heartbeats of calling Customer Service!!!!) . 
 However, upon completing the registration process, I was given 30 full days (to the second) from 
 the time I created my account, thereby nullify any point of contention.
  
  Game play is like a lot of MMORPGs... auctions, merchants, guilds, grinding. It is really nice to 
 actually be able to control the combat with combos, but at the early levels it doesn't seem to 
 make much difference in beating enemy NPCs or PVP players (I am getting owned as or this writing, 
 but then I am the suck at PVP) . One of the bright points early-on in the game occurs during character 
 creation. Unlike WoW, you are able to completely customize the look of your character, including 
 scars, tattoos, height and build features, and even a black eye or the sleepless look if you so 
 desire. It was a refreshing break from the constrained selections I have grown accustomed to in 
 WoW, and I came up with a character who looks a lot like me... including the sleepless look (scary; 
 I clearly need more sleep!!)
  
  Most players will totally appreciate the steps that FunCom has taken to eliminate gold sellers/gold 
 spams, as one must fight for about 30 mins before they can see another person online. With this 
 considerable time investment in getting to see other players, and this should cut down on the www. GOLD4LESS 
 spammers messages... BLIZZARD should take note of this, and move to it for WotLK. You cannot simply 
 create a character and run to town for a spamming session, if you don't do the quests and fight 
 the critters, you just won't be able to see other peeps.
  
  Graphics are great, but the game is a resource hog in DirectX10... I feel that it is as demanding 
 as Crysis, but I have not run any benches against it, so I can only base that on my perception 
 (remember that 90% of the time perception is reality) . That said, if you have an older PC, don't 
 expect to put down WoW and find yourself playing Conan at a great framerate... As of this writing, 
 I am thinking no matter what level popularity AoC achieves, WoW will still have a substantial market 
 foothold with MMO players who own mid/lower-end systems for a long time.
  
  Now for the COOLEST part!!! The quests are actually interesting, and drive the story. In my experience, 
 all quests have full voice acting, and a dialog similar to that of games from BioWare (makers of 
 Star Wars: Knights or the Old Republic and Jade Empire to name only a couple) . This means you get 
 a bit more out of the quests than simply clicking on the giver, and heading to fight. You need 
 to listen to them, and to read them... They are pretty sweet so far.
  
  Another REALLY BIG DEAL is that I have not noticed any lag in AoC... we'll see if this holds up 
 when the business world logs in on Tuesday, but for now the kbps flow freely.
  
  So far I'd give Age of Conan an 8.8. Despite my CONSTRAINED G-Spot rating, I don't think it is 
 an 8.5, nor do I feel the game is worthy of a 9.0 rating. You be the judge, and please post your 
 ratings in my blog post at http://www. gamespot. com/users/Ra-Qin/
  
  Cheers,
  RaQin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazymaze
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I know I'm being a little harsh for a new MMO but the hype does not live up to it hyped up to be. 
 If I don't randomly get a lag spike of 10,000ms every other fight i would enjoy it a lot more. 
 Also expect a lot of crashes and lock up in between loading screens. Also the group mapping system 
 just plain sucks, and the inviting random people to your group is the worst I've seen. Now i know 
 a lot of you reading this are going to think i have a **** computer.. wrong 3.0GHz dual and dual 
 8800 GTS 640mb and i have to say there is just certin spots where i go from 55-60 fps to 3.7-6 
 fps i have no clue why this happens its like theres an area of **** FPS when there is no one around 
 besides npcs. The GM's in game are by far the worst customer support , it took them 2 days to respond 
 to my petition with 24 people ahead of me and they didn't even do anything sooo.... what exactly 
 does a GM do??? Also my Barbarian is at lvl 48 and some of my abilities are bugged to the point 
 i have to relog to get them to work properly. I just want Funcom to take the servers down and fix 
 what they need to fix to save their company some dignity. Overall I would recommend this game but 
 either A) deal with the bugs or B) wait till they patch it some more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LSDgiraffen
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 26, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Admitted, I was into the hype. Of course, one should never listen to rumours, but these sounded 
 so amazing that I couldn't help it. Quests with a purpose, fun combat, a solid storyline and a 
 mature game. So does the hype live up to reality? No.
  
  The intro (first 20 levels) is amazing for an MMO, dragging you into the world to explore and experience, 
 the novelty keeps you going even when the surface starts to crackle. I have never been a fan of 
 PvP, so it differs person to person but getting ganked at level 10 is hardly entertaining and this 
 goes on throughout the game with the only different being that a level 50 can kill you as level 
 20, and yes I do know that PvP is a choice but making the kill count? nah. At least your items 
 can't lose durability but the runs can be extremely dull. 
  
  I remember being promised (or so I believe) quests that didn't say "go kill x rats and bring me 
 the tails" and that promise has been broken for the quests are quite the same as in every other 
 MMO, and the only thing that keeps them fun is the combat system.
  
  The combat is way beyond any other MMO I have ever played, and while not being a matter of skill 
 it still keeps you focused and the visuals that follow are worth it. The items you loot however, 
 seems very bland and uninteresting and there still isn't a WoWish way to see the increase/decreases 
 you gain from them. 
  
  Age of Conan was to be the game without "lolzorz", "roflcopter" and flames all over the place, 
 and this is actually the major disappointment for me, because it isn't. Maturity has never had 
 anything to do with age, but the crowd is just as you might have seen it in WoW or any other MMO, 
 where the tone is often harsh and judging and the flames are all over the place for no reason at 
 all. The OOC chat is filled with bile and I recommend players to avoid it, it has little use anyway. 
 
  
  The storyline does nothing to hold the bile away, for after you leave Tortage it goes into hiding 
 and is nowhere to be seen afterwards. Thus you are left to your own quest grinding, trying to make 
 some sense of it all. The world is huge and filled with things to do, but the game leaves little 
 to the new people, offering very little help. So, you try to find help within the game, you can't 
 ask in the chat because you'll most likely get your arse burnt, so what is left? Most games have 
 a "book of knowledge" containing the most basic help but the AoC one is poor and since you can't 
 ask guards (sorry for the WoW examples but I figure most have played it) you can roam the cities 
 for ages. 
  
  The UI is piss to say it mildly. It's slow to respond and is missing so many features I would call 
 basic. Want to create/change character? You'll have to exit the game buddy, and start it again. 
 Want to submit a bug report? The game alt-tabs, using a good chunk of RAM and often crashing. You 
 can't see other players gear, the map while being a major improvement in many ways, can't show 
 you your party members unless they are almost in sight and I could go on. Yes, it's a new game 
 but that is a piss poor excuse. But go see for yourself. 
  
  In short, try it, but don't believe anything you have heard. Personally I want to see the endgame 
 before I decide to quit or stay but it's quite bleak as it is now.
  
  Good luck
  
  *update* 
  The gathering is screwed up aswell. So hard to find the right stuff, maybe i'm just 
 unlucky, but 1 hour to get 3 copper out of 20? No way.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bretwalda
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2008 2:28 am PT
Review:  Not sure why people keep comparing this game to WoW, maybe because of WoWs lasting popularity. 
 It's not much like WoW at all to me (which I have been playing for 3 years now) . It reminds me 
 far more of a cross between SWG and GW, but with a more free-style combat similar to Oblivion. 
 The game is somewhat more instanced like GW, but I found the detailed human character creating 
 much closer to SWG system which I loved. I like the balence between soloablity and some social 
 play. No problem there. There are days you want to relax and escape, and there are days you want 
 to torment-tease the online community. This game lets you do both.
  
  The combat and graphic engine really live up to all the hype this game is getting. No complaints 
 there. The first 3 hours I played was just "oooo" and "ahhhh" and "woah" and looking around at 
 lush tropics and coastlines. The visual appeal of this engine puts some 3d shooters to shame. Combat 
 is visceral, and I have to give the sound team and A+ for their work on this game. The voice acting 
 is credible, mainly the sounds of the jungle, a light breeze, a babbling brook, and buzzing arid 
 climtes puts your right into it .. including the sounds of bugs circling around dead guys.
  
  On to the bad: the UI is absolutely horrendeous, boring to look at, amaturish for such a fine 
 visual game. Even worse is the limited keyboard-mouse functionality. I haven't found a single way 
 to assign actions to my 5 button mouse in game - ? All you can do is manually click on spells off 
 the bar or assing a few limted keystrokes. You simply can't use the mouse for anything other than 
 looking or clicking on targets. Very dissappointed because the enhanced combat really demands a 
 more sophisticated control setup.
  
  Overall:
  
  Good: dreamy landscapes and lush environments. Drop dead gorgeous female animations. Engaging combat.
 
  
  Bad: The horrendeous UI, and limited keyboard-mouse setup for such a complex combat system. This 
 must be fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GumboYaYa
Rating: 4
Date: May 25, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  Usually when a game does not catch me in the first two or three hours of playing, then I mostly 
 do not touch it again.
  
  Unfortunately in regards of this Age of Conan failed.
  
  This has three main reasons:
  
  Graphics - the graphics remember me of Everquest six years 
 ago. Ugly bump mapping everywhere, extremely generic textures and an overall unappealing look (but 
 that might be a matter of taste) . I also didn't like the walking/running animation of the characters 
 - looks rather ridiculous than "Conan-like" in my opinion. You also better have an ultra-fast computer 
 otherwise you will experience massive geometry and texture "popping".
  
  Gameflow - Well, what should I say ... get 5 of this, get 10 of that, deliver this and kill that. 
 Same old story. I think especially the first one or two hours of gameplay should be as comfortable, 
 rewarding and diversified as possible to quicken the appetite of the player but in AoC it felt 
 just tedious and repetitive.
  
  Combat System - Hm ... the combat system of AoC is hailed as "revolutionary". What exactly IS revolutionary 
 of it?? To me it actually feels the same as in any other MMO except that I have to click the 1,2 
 and 3 keys way more often.
  I had chosen to play a bear shaman and most of the combos I got until lvl 10 I found to be more 
 or less useless. Well, maybe this is different when playing other classes.
  I also died exceptionally often in such an early stage of the game, since you have to fight against 
 two or three mobs at once quite a few times. On the other hand maybe I am just too dumb for that 
 combat system ;)
  
  Another thing that bothered me is the GUI. It might be structured well but it's ugly as hell. The 
 icons of the combos and abilities are also too less readable and distinguishable.
  
  What is quite interesting though is the fact that the characters have collision detection - could 
 result in some interesting tactics in dungeons or on battlefields.
  
  The sound and the character creation options also are some of the positive vibes that game had 
 to offer ;)
  
  Well - I didn't play the game for long since I got bored and frustrated too fast. Maybe AoC has 
 its strength in the later parts of the game but as I said ... when a game does not catch me in 
 the first two or three hours, I rarely touch it again.
  
  So looking forward to the Lichking WoW expansion again ;) I had strong hopes that AoC will offer 
 something new and more exciting than WoW - but for me it didn't work at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak1972
Rating: 5
Date: May 24, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I was VERY excited that an M-rated MMO would be on the market, especially one set in the world 
 of Conan. I tried not to get sucked into the hype too much, but the screenshots and the dedication 
 of the devs to the Conan universe was pretty impressive... and I found myself hopeful.
  
  Then I finally got my hands on it. It started off a little slow, but I got my toon created and 
 I started exploring. The character customization is staggering, and the game is simply beautiful 
 to look at. I liked the idea of having more control over what your player does in combat. However... the 
 honeymoon was soon over. I realize that as a brand new MMO, things will be a little rocky to start 
 - thats normal. But between HUGE graphical glitches and in some places lag that made the game unplayable... I 
 started to wonder if I'd made a mistake by pre-ordering and being among the first in.
  
  For whatever reason, AoC would NEVER properly shut down for me. It didnt matter if I got DCed, 
 or exited the game - every single freaking time it would create an error to send to MS and the 
 AoC team. And, every single time I'd try to start the game again, I'd get an irritating message 
 about how it didnt shut down properly last time, so now it needs to 'revalidate'... which took around 
 10 min each time ( I think once it was closer to 20 min though) .
  
  Aside from graphical/gameplay issues, I found another serious problem: other players. Granted theres 
 always jerks online, but with this being an M rated game, I was hoping all the horny 15 year olds 
 would get left out this time. I was sadly mistaken. It seemed like every time I popped into the 
 daytime side of the game (to sum up, "day" is when you kill monsters and level up and get XP. "night" 
 is when you work on single player goals, like quests for your class) chat was full of comments 
 about 'boobs" "chesticles" "bewbies" etc etc etc. Yes, if you have a female toon, taking her top 
 off does leave you... well.... topless. I was having one of my graphical glitches when I found that 
 out and all my toons armor disappeared, but listening to a bunch of kids go on about boobs just 
 was a huge turn off from the gameplay itself. 
  
  Oh, the final straw on this game for me was this last patch. After installing the patch, suddenly 
 World of Warcraft, Oblivion and The Witcher would freeze up on me and I'd have to reboot my pc. 
 After uninstalling AoC.... suddenly no more lockups! Hmmmmmm. While it is possible it was something 
 else, the timeframe really makes me think it was something in the last patch.
  
  So, to sum up:
  THE GOOD: Very deep character customization, more complex combat than usual for 
 an MMO, M rated content, beautiful graphics, great music and sound effects, excellent overall ambience, 
 all in the world of Conan!
  
  THE BAD: People who shouldnt be allowed within 100 yeards of M rated content are on it, graphical 
 bugs, serious lag spikes that make it impossible to move let alone fight, possible PC complications 
 between programs/software issues.
  
  I've cancelled my subscription for now, but I plan on keeping my software for a later date if some 
 of those kinks get ironed out. I can live with some glitches, and lag is always a beast - but they 
 need to look into software compatibility issues and get some way to check peoples age! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Otacon6669
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Aside from being assaulted by loading time, be it from the dreadfully long installation, or large 
 amounts of patches when you first install it, or the loading screens, there is VERY little fault 
 found within the game.
  
  The graphic have a little more oomph than id like, i had to go as far as buying a new vid-card 
 so i could run the game, but the open-endedness is great, the combat system is a refreshing change 
 from things like world of warcraft and lord of the rings online, and funcom had even gone as far 
 as giving every individual character a voice over, not to mention the very large customization 
 options for your character, and the very unique 12 classes you have the option of choosing from. 
 The environment is large, and unlike most games does not change in an instant and actually stays 
 consistent and gradual as it goes from harsh, steamy jungles, to snow covered wastelands, i can 
 easily see myself playing this for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blastophil
Rating: 6
Date: May 24, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Graphics look great and they have some cool new ideas for an RPG but did not live up to the hype. 
 Hardware issues, interface flaws and lots of bugs make this game fall short. Maybe they will fix 
 all the kinks that should have been straightened out in beta over time but I am not impressed with 
 games that are supposed to be finished products and still have miles to go before they should be 
 released. 
  
  A few of the many things that come to mind are graphical glitches that occur more often than not, 
 i. e. hair missing from character, body parts going invisible after changing gear, invisible barriers 
 in terrain, unplayable intro sequence, etc. Some gameplay issues are the extremely slow spawn rate 
 in overcrowded questing areas, the boring singleplayer mode that should be better integrated into 
 the multiplayer game. 
  
  The combat style is closer to Oblivion than a traditional auto-attack type game. You get more involved 
 by having to choose the correct swing to make your combo stick but after the initial novelty of 
 that wears off combat becomes the same as every RPG game.
  
  After playing several MMORPG's over the years (EQ, AO, WoW, LoTRO, AoC) I would say that this is 
 not the game that will replace WoW for the masses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kouts1
Rating: 7
Date: May 28, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I have played WoW for over 3 years and it is getting to be old. Every update and expansion so far 
 is geared towards large raids and guilds who have all the upper tier gear. What I enjoy about AoC 
 is the option to play online with others or just solo quest whenever you feel like it. 
  
  A few key points:
  The night and day system is innovative and it works. 
  The graphics are 
 beautiful on a high end PC.
  The controls require a bit of getting used to, especially the real time combat system.
  Spell 
 system is kinda nice, lotsa customizations using Feats.
  Nice spell animations, reminds me of EQ2 though.
  Lotsa great video cutscenes with voice over.
 
  Way to long to install the game via DVD. Took at least an hour including a huge patch download 
 after intstallation.
  Adult only content!
  
  I have experienced very little LAG so far.
  
  etc....
  Very fun to play solo or in grp.
 
  Try AoC, it's a different game that lives up to the hype!!
  
  OK - above was the review I gave from level 1-20. Unfortunately, my experience is not as good now 
 with this game. It just gets real boring and the replay value is almost non-existent. I would highly 
 recommend you read the reviews carefully before you go out and buy this MMO and spend 15 bucks 
 a month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makaatsu
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Age of Conan Review
  
  Writing a review of this game is very difficult to do because it is massive and has so much content 
 and things to do that it makes it feel like there are many games inside the game all rolled into 
 one. 
  
  But I will write this review up to my current level which is level 50. Naturally it would be hard 
 to write a review with 30 levels left to go as there would be much I haven't experienced yet. Most 
 notably the end game or the guild vs. guild pvp.
  
  But I think after experiencing the game for as long as I have I am now in a position to offer my 
 opinion to those who are on the side lines thinking about whether or not to get this game.
  
  So it begins.
  I like most of you am a huge RPG fan. I have played them from the days of 
 the spectrum all the way to the 360. I have played most online games ranging from counterstrike 
 all the way to having played World of Warcraft from it's beta for over 3 years. I am an experienced 
 player of games.
  
  So where to start? Well I'll start from the beginning. Soon as the game loads up and you enter 
 the character creation screen you are met with some decisions to make. This character will be your 
 character for hopefully the foreseeable future. Unlike Wow the creation process is vast. You can 
 pretty much design any person you wanted. You can have them have loads of different faces and different 
 features. Such as scars or black eyes! This process will take you sometime but after it's done 
 you will notice something straight away. The graphics are amazing. Your character has so much detail 
 ranging from his tattoos to his hair if you choose any. The options are many. If like me you are/were 
 a wow player you will think this is great, no longer will you all look the same. This will give 
 your character some uniqueness finally! 
  
  In the course of this review I will compare it to World of Warcraft a lot. I would much prefer 
 not to but this is the benchmark which Age of Conan must compete against.
  
  After you select your name and character your ready to go! After pressing the accept button in 
 real time your ship runs into trouble and you are plunged into the gorgeous blue waters. Here is 
 where your adventure truly begins.
  
  Like most role playing games you start of as a level one. A nothing in the world. Someone who has 
 to earn their place amongst the greatest warriors.
  Like with other games you start off in an easy place with little threat to you and a place where 
 you are taught the basics. Straight away you are introduced to the help manual. This manual will 
 be your little guide along the dangerous road you tread. It offers such knowledge as to how to 
 move your character and how to interact with it. It tells you about the abilities your chosen class 
 has as well as your spells and attributes!
  
  The area is easy and soon enough you have the hang of it. You are taught the basics of using the 
 combat system. I have to be honest here, this combat system is brutal. It is the best system I 
 have witnessed in a game let alone an online RPG! You can no longer do like wow and simply right 
 click an enemy and expect your character to run after the baddie and start swinging. It is now 
 down to you how you swing! Will it be a front on smash, a left side uppercut? A right sided smash 
 to the head with a club? And so on. You see now not only do we have a new system of you controlling 
 the punches you also have control of the directions! This new style is excellent. But it isn't 
 for show oh no. There is a purpose for this system. Every enemy including yourself has a weakness. 
 Whether that be your front or sides. On each person they will have a shield around them with little 
 arrows. The more arrows they have on a certain area the better there defence is there. And if you 
 want to hurt them you attack the places with fewer arrows. Simple. 
  
  Now with these standard attacks you have special attacks/spells. Like with all mmorpg these will 
 be your most used areas. As you level up you gain new moves. They become more powerful, more useful 
 to you. If I needed any more convincing I wasn't playing wow besides the graphics I got it with 
 actually fighting. I am playing as a soldier and a Conqueror class. After a few skirmishes with 
 a pirate I pressed one of my combo buttons and with that I did a spinning overhead chop with my 
 sword which clean took off his head and blood splattered everywhere including on the screen! Gore! 
 I saw more carnage in one fight with a level 1 enemy then I had seen in my entire 3 years of wow. 
 That is saying something.
  
  It is saying this game is nasty. It has an 18 for obvious reasons. Whether that is because of the 
 death effects or because of the tone of language. We have truly left behind the cute cuddly lands 
 of Azeroth people. There be monsters here. Ones that want to hurt you!
  
  So we continue on with our mission. The mission to remember what happened to us and why we were 
 on a slave boat!
  
  Up the beach a little way is a women held in chains! She is screaming for help. Well I can't see 
 anyone else here so I guess that must be me she is talking to!
  
  Well you would be right. Another great idea that has been implemented in AOC is a fantastic single 
 player game. The reason nobody is here but me is because this is the noob area, my noob area. I 
 don't want some level 50 jackass telling me how to kill some level one creature. Nor do I want 
 anyone else to see my noob mistakes! You have the whole island to yourself. But there is more. 
 This system doesn't just stay with the start area oh no. It is used a lot through the game. Creating 
 a single player environment where you can do things at your own pace and what's more because of 
 this the lag and low fps due to others being around you is near zero. I'm sure blizzard look upon 
 this feat with envy.
  
  So where are all the people? Well they are there. They are everywhere in the daytime. You see AOC 
 uses a night and day system just like world of warcraft. But this time it isn't simply for show 
 or to tell you when the sun will go down. If like me and you work chances are you very rarely got 
 to see the sun up anyway. So you see if you select daytime then this is the multi-player time. 
 You will be surrounded by people. Even in instances people can pop in there with you! But change 
 over to dark time and this is your single player time. This is great if you just want to get away. 
 What's more is this system means there is no need to grind anymore, no need to camp an area and 
 prey nobody else turns up! This system is the system wow should have used! You can change between 
 the two at will.
  
  BUT because of this there are effectively 2 games, 2 ways to gain xp, 2 ways to level up and so 
 on. I played the single player night time from level 1 to 14 before I had even done a daytime quest. 
 You see you get quests not only at nightime but also in the daytime. This is great as it means 
 you will always have something to do. And sometimes this means grouping up with someone if you 
 wish. Of course you don't have to so unlike world of warcraft your not really missing anything 
 by staying solo.
  
  So this woman is chained up, she needs to be set free; some guy on the beach has a key. So off 
 I go. And with a few chops the guy is spraying blood all over the place. The animations are just 
 superb!
  I head back to the women to hand the quest in. 
  This is another area Funcom have worked on. The quest system. When you are given a quest on your 
 map you are shown exactly where you have to go, shown exactly roughly where some items you might 
 be looking for can be found. This system will save you loads of time getting lost. It will help 
 you to get to where you want to go with so much more ease. The other great feature is it will track 
 every quest you have and show on the map where each can be done. It isn't down to just select one 
 and so on. If you need to be in a certain area to complete a quest, it will tell you if others 
 are near by. Excellent. Once completed a quest it will tell you what you need to do next and who 
 you should go to speak to. Those days of needing thotbot or directions are over.
  
  So I go back to the women. I have a few options of dialogue. Like with RPG games you get the choice 
 of what to say. You can have a bad tone or a nice tone to people's conversations. If you adopt 
 a bad tone you might miss out on something! These options are great and again make you feel unique 
 even though everyone has the same options. I might choose and option and someone else will choose 
 something else, our experiences could be different. Plus these conversations are voice acted up 
 to level 20 which adds to realism. Wow never did this.
  
  After freeing her we continue on our way. Without ruining the stories for you I'll let you find 
 out the rest yourself!
  
  As I said at the start Age of Conan has to be compared to World of Warcraft. A game that has been 
 out since 2005. I have played it from that date. Being in an end game guild and experiencing all 
 it could offer.
  
  Now most people who judge this game and compare it to that game will forget something. Wow has 
 had near 4 years to polish itself. But go back to it's start, this is the best place to compare 
 it. When World of Warcraft came out it was bug city. There were hundreds of problems with it. Servers 
 were unreliable and would be down for days. Quests wouldn't work, people would get stuck, and chat 
 boxes didn't work and so on. There was a lot wrong with it. 
  Like Wow AOC has it's problems. But in comparison to those early Wow problems I don't think they 
 are that bad. The launch has been fairly good going. Naturally things need to be updated to correct 
 certain things so my only problem I've encountered was servers being down for an hour or so to 
 apply new patches.
  The patches for AOC are lightening quick. I downloaded a 300mb file in under 5mins. I remember 
 it taking hours and hours with wow to do that. 
  
  There are so many things about AOC that remind me more of Oblivion then of Wow. And Oblivion was 
 amazing. The graphics look similar, the speech is similar, the chat options, the brutal combat 
 etc.. etc.. Another refreshing thing is the weaponry and items. It is great to see new designs 
 rather then re-hashed ideas. It is the same with bestiary and mobs. They are so varied and not 
 regurgitated like in wow. You have some pretty decent monsters to fight including killer trees 
 massive giants etc.. They all look different from one another.
  
  This game is so much fun but underneath it all is a game which the world has been crying out for. 
 A game that is up to date and not living on ideas that are almost a decade old. In nearly every 
 aspect AOC is better then wow. If it had 4 years to polish it then I'm certain in comparison to 
 this game people would be embarrassed to say they played wow.
  
  The problem with wow is. It is now too old. The same old ideas over and over. This game has made 
 me realise how poor it is really. World of Warcraft is a commercial success due to it's pick up 
 and play factor. Being an ex Counterstrike player I find it funny seeing wow getting tournaments 
 and so on when it has no skill and is a paper rock scissors system. You have druids able to do 
 the job of a warrior and a rogue and so on. The game has become a combination of little kid's whines 
 about why they can't solo xyz and time. Time has caught up with wow and it is now showing it's 
 age. But more importantly it is now showing just how linear and un-unique it is. You have the same 
 experience as everyone else in it. 
  
  The lands in AOC are a joy to behold. It was like this when I first played wow. The exploration. 
 The interaction, the fun. 
  
  I might sound like I am being harsh to wow when really I am not. I like most people have been bored 
 for sometime, tired of doing the same boring thing. Greed killed wow and now with WOTLK to be released 
 soon I think more and more people are looking for a new home.
  
  So if you are one of these people I can assure you that you will love this game. It has better 
 graphics, has better sounds, has better player creation, better animations, better economy system 
 without the stupid need to grind just to repair your equipment. The people are more mature. The 
 armour and weapons have unique feeling to it and stand out etc.. etc,,
  
  I gave 4 years to wow and I loved most of them. I'm sure AOC will now get much of my time as it 
 is what I have been looking for in quite sometime. Fun. Something wow has lost.
  
  So try it out you might love it too! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elikal
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 24, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Sure, never has a MMO world looked greater, sure the new, "harder" atmosphere is thrilling when 
 you start AoC and sure, the combat is interesting with it's action.
  
  But that's were the good ends. With AoC it is like with the mighty wizard of Oz; he seems to be 
 strong and great, but once you look closer its just a thin man behind a curtain.
  
  First off, the steep technical demands will likely rule out a lot of potential players right away, 
 adding the still frequent crashes, lockouts, and the plethora of bugs, it is clearly still beta.
 
  
  Funcom has advertised their character generation as "you could identify another by appearance" 
 and the reality is far from it. Most faces look more or less the same, women all barbie-style and 
 men... men all look like they fell into a lawn-mower headon. The one halfway acceptable face is 
 usually taken by everyone, and the sliders dont substantially change the face, not in the way other 
 MMOs like SWG or EQ2 allowed to look really individual.
  
  The good beginning in tortage with its 20 levels of more or less soloing through a story is neat 
 and obviously it's were the greatest work went into. Outside Tortage you will find a lot of browns 
 and grey and oh more brown and greys. The regions of the first levels after 20 didnt look so stunning 
 to me. Sure, technically up to date, but little that caught me. Its a bit the Vanguardian soulless-ness 
 in the later landscapes.
  
  In terms of gear (armour/weapons) the game is outright underwhelming. Most clothing looks like 
 a potatoe sack or tailored by a blind, not that a MMO must be a fashion club, but a fantasy game 
 could really have shown a bit more to be excited to have someday. So dont expect many stunning 
 cool armor or robes anytime in time game. Also in terms of loot... you better forget hoping for 
 cool loot at ALL. I thought I had seen the worst in Vancraps endless loot list of skeleton bones, 
 badger livers and other vendor trash. In AoC you will never loot anything to make your 2 hours 
 evening worth the grind.
  
  And grind it is, since after level 30 (of 80 levels!) the number of quests dwindles dramatically! 
 Often you will find yourself with no quests at all, so you need to grind mobs to the next level. 
 Outside the fantastic quests of Tortage, the quests are dull and uninspired, the most mindless 
 Fedex of "kill x of these" or "fetch 20 of z" ad nauseam.
  
  Action combat seems nice enough at the beginning, however, there is a trick. First, once you are 
 around 40 you have the skills you ever get, and then its only the skill tree which keeps you going. 
 So more or less, the game exists only up to mid-level and beyond that... the game is in a more 
 or less alpha-state. Since the progress is always the same lines over Tortage and the rest is also 
 quite streamlined, the replayability seems to be thin. While this action combat feel refreshing 
 and exciting at first, in the long run you realize it is always the same clickfest. Just apply 
 the strongest 3 combos to key and you will click just these three button all over, and its easy 
 win. The entire shield and defense thing is rather superfluous, given the fact that in those fast 
 paced fightings you'll rarely be able to react in time shifting shield around you. So all in all, 
 what feel like cool action feels like a very redundant clickfest over time. Since in every combat 
 a few slashes usually decide the outcome of the battle, there is little time - or need - for tactic 
 anyway. But at least Funcom honestly described AoC combat as "like Counterstrike", so there wasnt 
 much to exect anyway for a MMORPG-player.
  
  One of the most annoying features is that AoC bring instances to new heights. EVERYTHING is instanced 
 and zoned, so if you leave the instanced capital of your race, you come into a copy of the next 
 outside zone, and with bad luck your group gets split all over the copies, since they dont seem 
 to hold many players. It kinda takes the MASSIVE MULTIPLAYER out of the MMORPG.
  
  If you are faint of heart you also are advised to stay FAR away from PVP servers, since they are, 
 at least atm, a gankfest. Nude women running around killing everyone as far as they eye can see. 
 All in all the level of immaturity is surprisingly bad, given the fact the game is only legal for 
 ppl 17/18+. With the lack of a RP-PVE server the roleplay is narrowed down a lot and doesnt give 
 much diversity in the possible roles you may play in this dark and nasty world. Not that I mind 
 dark and nasty, but if EVERYTHING is dark and nasty, it gets old very soon. In asmuch an IP with 
 only humans to select, only 3 cultures and lore all narrowed down to "brutality" and "barbarians", 
 the world feels a little too limited and shallow to me, at least in the longer term when the novelty 
 wears off.
  
  Overall the game has some interesting aspects, but nothing to keep the serious MMORPg player for 
 long. Once the initial hype wears off it will be seen for what it is: more show than substance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XsTaTicA
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I have gone from MMO to MMO while playing WoW, hoping to get away from the tedious, everyday grind. 
 I enjoyed WoW since launch, and it was the best MMO on the market. Every time I tried a new MMO, 
 all I ended up doing was getting more immersed into WoW, where the depth was. 
  
  You can see by my rating that AoC has done the impossible. Now, I haven't rated WoW, but at this 
 point it would be biased. However, if I were to do so back in its prime, it would probably beat 
 an 8.5. But I'm also not reviewing AoC in ITS prime. This is just days after launch and I am completely 
 engulfed by the game. The atmosphere is fantastic, the sound is speaker blowing, and the graphics.. 
 Oh my, the graphics. They make my eyes orgasm. But you will need a very heavy rig to get the full 
 effect, which I can almost say I have covered. I'm running a 2.7ghz Core 2 Duo with an 8600GTS 
 256mb and 3gigs of RAM. And I only get 30 FPS max on the multiplayer setting. Half of WoW.
  
  I assume that they are going to address the framerate issues at some point, if possible.
 
  
  I'm not going to tell you which class to play, because each has its own appeal. Right now I'm enjoying 
 my Priest of Mitra and my Assassin. However, I do feel that the game severely tipped toward melee 
 after all the effort they put into the combat system, which IS overhyped. I love combos that melee 
 gets, and I've yet to experience Spellweaving, as they disabled it for PoMs due to an unreleased 
 bug/glitch. 
  
  In all honesty, the game just feels fresh, and fun to play. Killing is fun, fatalities are absolutely 
 just plain cool. 
  
  Now to my few complaints.
  
  Free for all player versus player. This is a disaster right now. If you do not have the patience 
 to deal with getting spawn camped by players 5+ levels higher than you, do your best to grind out 
 your levels during the night time (single player) portion of the game. As melee, you have much 
 more of a chance to put up a fight as you can keep moving and attacking. However on my priest, 
 I'm pretty much dead with very little defensive ability, and no powerful heal quite yet.
  
  The UI is another terrible downside, although this will certainly see an overhaul, and I would 
 be very pleased if they completely ripped of WoW's interface. The minimap at this point is not 
 very friendly to someone logging on for the first time. I didn't bother to read the manual because, 
 well, who does? There is A LOT of clutter on your map that you can only sort out what each thing 
 represents as you mouse over. Eventually you'll get used to it, but it is still annoying to see 
 a million little marks on your map. 
  
  Overall, a few days after launch, AoC is at its worst. But if this is really its worst, then I'm 
 never going to log on WoW again. I love WoW, I love my friends I made there. I love the enemies 
 I made there. I love my epics, and I love, most of all, the forums. However, AoC, right now, is 
 better then where WoW is, right now. I can only hope that when AoC reaches its peak, it will be 
 as amazing as when WoW was at its peak.
  
  8.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: S3_DarkKnight
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 24, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  To be honest the game will be either a hit or miss for most people. Although the game is stunning 
 graphically, you will need a very good system in order to have all the little goodies turned on 
 with it still being playable.
  
  I am currently a level 34 Conqueror and I still haven't found anything fun about the game. The 
 initial OMG THAT WAS AWESOME factor from the fatalities wears off by the time you reach the end 
 of the tutorial zone and it becomes just another gimmick that actually slows gameplay down since 
 you can't continue killing mobs while it is performing the action. Also the zomg boobies factor 
 wears off after you reach the first city and see all the little kids running around with there 
 shirts off.
  
  The game is most definitely a gankers paradise. The FFA PvP servers weren't completely thought 
 through as there are spawn points which spawn you with about 10% hp and 10% stamina that people 
 take advantage of and just camp you all day long although it gives you the option to spawn at a 
 different point chances are someone is there doing the same thing.
  
  From what I understand the game is suppost to get better towards the end, but for a game that has 
 this much hype and a grooling boring start most people won't make it to the end game since it is 
 just dreadful getting there. Thankfully it doesn't take too long to level and you can get to level 
 40 in a week pretty easily just playing a few hours a day.
  
  The game overall reminds me of guild wars more than anything though since the way it is set up 
 is similar to guild wars. It isn't like WoW or other MMOs which all people are in the same world 
 all the time. It has instances setup just like guild wars in which you have to pick which instance 
 to go to in order to join up with friends by using the little down arrow on the top left of your 
 mini-map. Although this method alleviates some of the lag it makes it feel like less of an MMO 
 and just more of a normal online game.
  
  So you will either love the game or hate it, currently I'm waiting a little longer before making 
 my final decision to keep playing it or not, I still have 30 days from buying the game, but by 
 the end of next week I should be settled with whether I like it or not. So don't listen to all 
 the fanboys or the people who overhype it, take this review for what it is and it is an honest 
 review of a MMO-PvPer who has been playing MMOs since EQ.
  
  Also cause I know some of you are thinking this kid must be a WoW fanboy! Yes I play WoW, I have 
 played it since release, currently I hate the game and am waiting for something better to come 
 out, only reason I still dish out 15 a month is cause I have nothing else to do but stand in shatt 
 and spam trade chat with a few friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kataru89
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 24, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  This game is fun to play, at times..
  
  Right now I'm alt-tabbed out of AoC to write this review. This is my first and I must admit that 
 the overall rating of this game, in my opinion, urged me to write a review about it. So lets start.
 
  
  Gameplay - 6/10
  Honestly, the game has many bugs. The game feels rushed which is a big let down. I gave this a 
 low rating because of the countless errors I've found trying to complete a quest or just travel 
 and discover the landscape.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  Honestly, the design and texture of the landscape and everything around it is so beautiful. I can't 
 run it at dx10 settings but they sure drop a jaw with dx9 at the highest settings.
  
  When I started playing AoC I felt bored and ready to take a break before reaching my 5th level. 
 This is because I have beta tested the PvP event Gamespot hosted. The beginning would probably 
 be not a problem to new players. Although, from levels 5-20 you are stuck in the same area with 
 the same landscape. This WILL tire you out. I've only reached level 19 until I ran into a problem 
 that will hold me back a bit..
  
  The PvP in this game is INSANE. Basically it is just a FREE4ALL DEATHMATCH MANIA. Once you step 
 onto PvP soil it turns pretty hectic. So far the first area that you explore which is PvP ground 
 is totally insane. You need to go through an instance to get there, once you spawn you are instantly 
 attacked and killed. Not only are there people watching the spawn point there are also people watching 
 the resurrection point too! So right when you spawn you are attacked and killed again!
  
  This problem that the creators of AoC will cause you to decide about joining a PvE or RP server 
 OR quitting the game. I've constantly thought of quitting this game when my body was camped at 
 the resurrection spawn. If you can get past that then you can pretty much play from there on. A 
 little hard but you'll get used to it.
  
  Now, the main reason which ticks me off is that there is SinglePlayer questing in the game. That's 
 a little wierd since you're paying to play with millions of other people over the internet but 
 I can live with it a bit. Although as I said above that there are countless bugs in the game, one 
 holds me from completing a SinglePlayer quest which advances you in the game to another area.
 
  
  You can bypass the SinglePlayer but I don't want to do that because I want to gain XP and items 
 aswell. I asked if there was a way to talk to a GM and the response was/petition ". WTH?
  
  Ok, I'll fill out a petition.. After I do I checked the status..
  130 petitions before me..
 
  
  To summarize it up, you should wait a few or more months before purchasing this game. The bugs 
 just kill the game overtime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nugXL
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  Age of Conan was a game that I wasn't so sure if it was going to be good, or bad. Well let me tell 
 you, it is amazing. I haven't been so impressed by a game in a long time. The story is very in 
 depth story and has a great feel, but of course it does, it is based after a series of great adventure 
 novels, not some story pitch some dude came up with when he was on the toilet one day. You will 
 spend hours making your way through Hyboria. There are 3 major parts to AoC: life, combat, and 
 exploration. It really feels like Hyboria is alive. NPCs have voice acting and cut scenes where 
 you are able to choose how to respond. Animals graze the plains, birds fly in the air, and towns 
 people go about their daily chores. Hyboria is a living, breathing world. You can enjoy a drink 
 with your friends in an inn, or build up your trade skills in a few professions common to most 
 RPGs. You also have the ability to construct forts and towns with your guild mates and wage war 
 against other guilds to claim your superiority. When you heard developers talking about how life 
 will be brutal in Hyboria, they weren't kidding. You will encounter a smorgasbord of blood and 
 guts in your journey as you hack your way to the top. I, among many others can probably recall 
 the developers saying how the game was all about "combat, combat, combat" well they came through. 
 AoC uses a fairly unique combat system that flows well and is endlessly fun and spectacular. What 
 can be better than lopping off the head of the mistaken lad who thought he could kill you? Although, 
 PvP in Conan wasn't really what I expected. I have only had the experience of world PvP, but let 
 me tell you, it is definitely brutal and unforgiving. There will be a few times where you will 
 be minding your own business and an assassin 10 levels higher than you will pop out of the bushes 
 and one shot you in the back, but this is true about many MMOs, the only difference is that in 
 Conan, everybody is on their own against the world unless, of course you group up with a buddy. 
 When you aren't bursting aflame, pulling arrows out of your chest, or trying to figure out which 
 guys sword is stuck in you, the land of Hyboria is a beautiful place. Cities are bigger than ever, 
 zones are enormous with every view promising a great screen shot and the title of "eye candy". 
 You can nearly feel the ocean breeze in the sea-side cities, feel the cold mountain air within 
 in the north land, or feel the scorching heat in the deserts. The only problem with this is that 
 you may need to upgrade your computer a bit to see Conan in its true colors, but it is well worth 
 it in my opinion. Great look, great music, great game play, hours of fun and adventure, and enough 
 blood and brutality to satisfy event the most gore fanatic players. 
  
  ~cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kozzy1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  This game right here is a MUST play for any RPG or MMO fan. 
  The graphics are the best we have seen so far in a MMO, the whole game is just amazing to look 
 at. I am playing the game on High settings with AA @ 4 and I havnt had many problems at all. Only 
 thing i could consider a problem was i got stuck ona mountain for about 5 mins, but i got out of 
 that in no time, other then that small problem ive had a wonderful time so far.
  Played about 15-20 hours so far and its hands down the best onliner RPG i have ever played. Tried 
 Ultima Online back in the day, played WOW for awhile, played Everquest 1, and so on. None of those 
 games can compare to this game as far as graphics and gameplay go. 
  
  The gameplay is hands down the best in any MMO to date, its not just click on the guy and thats 
 it. You actually control what you do as you are fighting, its alot of fun and very well thought 
 out.
  The game starts you in somewhat of a "Get use to the game" area until you reach level 20. The area 
 is very good to get a hold of how the game runs and learn the basics. After that anything is possible, 
 me and a buddy have a guild that we are in and we have our own land and city, its fantastic!
  
  If you where not sure about this game, please please take my advice and go pick it up, its 
 one of the most addicting games ive played in my 24 years of gaming, simply a masterpiece.
  
  
  PS: please dont listen to the people hating on this game, its either A) World Of Warcraft 
 fanboys or B) someone who has a bad computer or alot of problems with drivers and other computer 
 problems.
  
  
  Go pick it up now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juice_03
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  So far with my experience in Hyboria, I undoubtedtly consider this one of the best MMOs i've experienced. 
 Though my MMO experience is quite limited (WOW, Tabula Rasa, and GW) , this is by far a grand experience. 
 The graphics are quite amazing and the speech system is nice (kinda reminds me of KOTOR 2 or Neverwinter 
 Nights 2) . Just about every NPC in the starting city of Tortage has it's own speech and sort of 
 a cutscene, which is a nice touch. Though (through my experience as a Cimmerian Dark Templar) after 
 you complete your single player experience, NPC speech is limited, which is ok by me! I have a 
 rig that can run this beast at low-med settings, but the land of Hyboria still looks amazing (geez 
 I gotta upgrade!) . Combat is similar to Guild Wars where you choose "combos" which have different 
 effects. As you level your toon, you may also choose new feats. Anyways, back to the combat aspect 
 of the game. The sound of your weapon striking someone or something sounds quite realistic. I actually 
 have to say "ouch" after I lob off a head or bludgeon someone stupid to death lol! This game really 
 has that "oh snap!" factor Gamespot likes to use in it's reveiws! Which brings me to the audio. 
 Though the combat sounds of the game sound excellent, the soundtrack is even better! The music 
 of Age of Conan is beautiful. It keeps you quite immersed into the world you are exploring. Though 
 this game is without it's bugs and hang ups, it is still a very great MMO launch. Congrats Funcom! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fkutrn
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Can only say a bit. The game is a fun interactive game that offers more to older gamers. The game 
 has all the qualities of the current big titles (GW, EQ2, and WOW.) which works for and against 
 it. The familiar feel to the game can leave you feeling like there is nothing new. This is not 
 true as the entire game sounds out. Funcom really tried hard to make the game as user friendly 
 as possible. Lets face it, if they made the game go against the flow, everyone one would hate it. 
 But to summarize: Great story, great graphics, great content.
  
  System specs can be intimadating but my system runs the game fine. AMD 6400, 3g of ram and a ATI 
 HD 3650 video card. No real load times at all, some lag after patching, and the game does take 
 some time to render enviornments and npcs from time to time. But, this is to be expected from a 
 new release. Funcom has done a fine job and I highly recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom316
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  Well as you all know, the hype for this game was INSANE!
  
  Like it was huge! But you cant really trust the hype, like look at
  Hellgate: London. It got really 
 hyped up and didnt fit expectations.
  This game, is not like that! It far surpasses the hype!
  
  After waiting like forever and doing 
 beta this is my review for this game:
  
  This game is Revolutionary Amazing!
  
  I was hyped up for this game since early 2006 and expected it to be good but i was extremely surprised.
 
  
  Here is a brief list of features in this game, reading it isn't as fun as playing it!
  
  Amazing new combat system!
  Great community!
  Breathtaking graphics!
  Remarkable gameplay!
 
  Unique classes!
  Fun quests!
  Amazing Spells!
  Awesome Abilities!
  3D Environment, Climb, Jump, Swim, etc!
  Large Selection Of Cool Weapons And Armour!
  Much 
 Much Much More!
  
  To all potential players remember this:
  
  Need a good PC to run it
  Not to fun until level 4+
  Takes a couple hours to understand
  
 
  Truth be told when i started it off in early access i was disappointed at start. I didnt really 
 understand everything, and didnt know what to do. I played anyways to give it a chance but then 
 after 20 minutes i started having the time of my life! It was unbelievable!
  
  Features (A Little More In depth) :
  
  - Unique fun character classes! You can pick from a barbarian 
 that slashed peoples heads off to a caster who dose unbelievable things!
  
  - Then you customize your chaircter in so many ways it makes it very unique and interesting. There 
 are so many options of customizing every little hair, skin feature, size, tattoos that you will 
 never see a duplicate running around
  
  - Unlike alot of MMOs, when you start its extremely boring. It will take you around 20 minutes 
 to get to level 4 and then you will have a ton of bloody spells, cool weapons and armor and can 
 start playing the game for real!
  
  - Unlike alot of awesome MMOs where you level, you get nothing. After you level 10 levels you unlock 
 one thing. BOOOO. In AOC, every level unlocks cool weapons, armor, spell points and ability points. 
 Most the times you level up you even unlock awesome spells and awesome abilities
  
  - The graphics for this game are just insane, you can relax in your chair and stare at it for hours
 
  
  - It is an M Game to the majority of the people are adult or late teen. I found that this is one 
 of the best community i have ever met! Very mature people, willing to offer help and be friends.
 
  
  - AoC Combat...... Revolutionary, Amazing, Awesome, Great!
  Instead of auto-attacking you go up to them and have 3 positions to attack from plus spells that 
 add on to it so you actually hack there head off or hack at them while blood flies everywhere. 
 I cannot describe it with mentioning you must try it out!
  
  - The gameplay in this game never gets boring! You always have a million and one things to do that 
 are very fun, always getting new awesome weapons and armor, talking to fun people and doing fun 
 things!
  
  - The quests are very fun, instead of looking through a big city for a person or having to run 
 around you have to kill alot of cool monsters, beat dungeons, etc.
  
  - The Spells and Abilities are very bloody, beautiful and result in some uber pownage! They cause 
 alot of damage and make blood fly everywhere. You can have 7 spells equipped and change them wherever. 
 They are amazing.
  
  - 3D Environment is purely awesome. Instead of running around you can climb, jump of cliffs and 
 swim! Swimming is quite fun and the jumping/climbing saves alot of time and is fun to do.
  
  - Weapons and Armour in this game are very unique, great looking and pown! You normally upgrade 
 your armor by just killing things and getting great drops instead of boring yourself to death and 
 buying a weapon in alot of MMOs
  
  Much Much More!
  
  I could write a 90000 page review on how awesome this game is but i want 2 get back 2 playing it 
 so i will close with these few statements
  
  - It is an extremely bloody violent game with alot of quests and fun objectives to do. You get 
 alot of awesome armor, weapons and spells for basic gameplay. Money doesn't mean much in this game 
 till you get to a high level so you don't need to worry about boring yourself to death. After lvl 
 50 you can use mounts and other extremely fun things but you can use more things every level. It 
 is extremely beautiful and fun to play
  
  
  Overall Statement = Play It!
  
  
  If you need any help in the game, fell free to contact me, my name in the game is Cartman
  
 
  
  My rating scale depends on the platform and genre its on. Since PC has much more awesome games 
 on it, i mark much harder on it so a 80% on PC would mean its great compared to the hundreds of 
 other awesome PC games of that genre, and might be better than a 98% of consoles. A great game 
 is a great game, on the system. I like to keepy my reviews short and sweet, so i wont bore you 
 and get to the point. If theres an official review out on Giant Bomb, you should definately read 
 it because they are the best reviewers in the worlds! =D
  
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  Graphics 10/10
  Fun 10/10
  Replay 10/10
  Single+Multiplayer 10/10
  
  
  Overall = 50/50 
 = 100% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enjorren
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 23, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  
  First the good...
  
  As far as MMO launches go AoC has had a respectable launch so far. There are those that are upset 
 about Early Access and pre-orders but those that are complaining had either unrealistic expectations 
 or had to learn the harsh lesson of never pre-ordering a game online for the first time.
  
  As far as graphics are concerned I will say this...
  I have never seen a better looking MMO as 
 of yet and it looks better than the majority of current console games. The only problem is that 
 the recommended system requires are more like the minimum if you even want to be able to play the 
 game somewhat smoothly.
  
  Next lets talk about combat. Its revolutionary for an MMO and it really makes you feel engaged 
 in the game. I think the design is genius because it will really prevent people from botting and 
 exploiting. Fatalities add an extra bit of excitement and entertainment to really make combat feel 
 more dynamic.
  
  Now the bad...
  
  This game doesnt really feel like an MMO at least in the early stages of the game. It feels more 
 like an immersive single player who during the day runs into more people than at night.
  
  There are several features that were promised at launch that have not been implemented yet DX10 
 being one of them and the traders are not working which makes any sort of player economy impossible 
 for the time being.
  
  The chat window is awful and you have to use keyboard shortcuts or double sometimes triple click 
 in the chat box to start typing in chat.
  
  Overall I am still undecided if AoC will be my new home but it has a decent start and hopefully 
 Funcoms customer service and communication skills will improve as the game does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kAnSaSdUdE
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  To start the review off, I've been a complete member of gamespot for 2-3 years now, and I've given 
 maybe a handful of reviews. I rarely find games that actually catch my attention enough to put 
 my time into writing about it. But I think I've finally come across one of those games.
  
  Graphics
  
  Lets get right down to it so we can get it out of the way. The graphics, rival 
 most high end single player games. Coming close to Obvlivion, this is a huge HUGE leap forward 
 for MMO games. Every single thing in the game looks alive. The sparkling water in front of tortage, 
 the insanely high rez textures on some of the armor and weapons, all look amazing. But the number 
 one thing that makes this game a feast for the eyes has got to be the view distance and how med-high 
 resultion textures can actually be rendered from such a huge distance. It gives the game such an 
 feeling of atmosphere that I haven't felt in a game in a very long time. Although it does take 
 quite a machine to get all of the graphical features out of it, that does not dock anything off. 
 This game was made to challenge the status quo. It was built to be seen in all of its graphical 
 glory, and I've seen many people post ridiculously low scores because of this, when truly, it is 
 not the games fault. You cannot get angry and flame a game because you can't run it. Get a PC. 
 Now, there is some texture pop-in, and sometimes it can get somewhat severe. Some people may dock 
 for this, but I feel it can be overlooked and I'm sure will be addressed in a later patch. 
  
  Art Direction
  
  I feel this is probably one of my favorite aspects of the game. You can 
 tell that the art team put so much time and effort into making Conan feel like it should feel. 
 The weapons the armor, the towns, buildings, scenery, ruins, and props all look and feel like they 
 go together. It makes you literally feel like you're walking around in another world, totally free 
 of bonds, ready to slice and devistate your enemies. I couldn't be happier with this area.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound in the game is nothing short of spectuacular. Every single NPC in the 
 game, and I mean EVERY single NPC has voice acting and dialogue. It is absolutely incredible the 
 amount of dialogue that there really is to find in the world. The battle sounds, although they 
 can get repetitive everyone once in a while, sound so brutal and so perfect to match the feel of 
 the game. Nothing makes me happier than to hear blood splatter as I slice up a Pict's stomach and 
 hear him shout in pain. The music is very good as well. It has a rustic, pawnish, medieval feel 
 to it that synches well with everything. Perfect audio to go with the game. Period.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Heres where people started to doubt, and trust me, so did I. I can guarantee you 
 every single person that played WoW, whether or not they wanted to admit it or not, was afraid 
 of another slow, grueling, grindfest. Although I can't soothe every fear of this, I can say, its 
 come a long way from WoW. You do have to quest, A LOT, but grinding monsters, I feel, has dwindled. 
 I've played to lvl 20 on a Conquerer, and not once have I had to grind on monsters. EVER. Maybe 
 later in the game the time will come, but until then, I've got to say Funcom really got something 
 right with this. You couldn't have an MMO without some kind of drawn out xp gaining, but they really 
 made most of the quests interesting and alot of them are quite entertaining. There are cutscenes 
 and interaction in some of them that really bring quest grinding that much closer to being considered 
 "Okay". All in all, Funcom did a brilliant job.
  
  Combat
  
  One word can describe the combat in this game: Revolutionary. No more siting there clicking a monster 
 while his health drains, and everyonce in a while casting a spell. Age of conan uses a multidirectional 
 system that actually allows you to swing your weapon from different directions in order to go around 
 your enemies shields. Finally! An MMO using skill to fight! Melee and spell combos put you on your 
 toes the entire time while fighting, and you can actually hit multiple enemies per swing, further 
 adding to the realistic feel to the combat. Absolutely hands down best combat in any MMO.
  
  Interface
  
  This is probably my least favorite area of the game, but really who uses the 
 stock interface? The HUD is perfectly fine, but the menus could use a tad bit of work to make them 
 more user friendly. Mirage, a UI mod, has already been released and takes care of some of these 
 problems.
  
  
  When you get right down to it and leave the pickiness at the door, this game marks a new age for 
 MMO's. Its got all the right things in all the right places, and is definately one of the favs 
 of my collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pavenp
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I cant remember ever being so sucked into a game so quickly. My expectations were big, and after 
 five days in Hyboria all i have to say is praise. The graphics are innovative to say the least, 
 the universe funcom has created here really feels alive and breathing. The content doesn't suit 
 me all that well because of my highly competitive nature, so it's all pvp for me. The combat system 
 is what will probably keep me entertained for many months to come, there is such room for skill-development 
 there. The funfactor of this game is simply the highest i've ever experienced. Ive reviewed quite 
 a few games, and i always try to set the final score by evaluating "how good of a time i am having 
 playing". Of course there are glitches in a fresh release, but Im having an absolute blast every 
 time i sit down to play. Thats just priceless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mosberg
Rating: 2
Date: May 23, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  I picked up AOC after several tests on a couple of my systems
  my main amd 2ghz, 2meg/ gf6800 machine
  my hipro (laptop) duel 3ghz, 1meg, gf 6800ultra
  
 
  both of these machines performance rated about 20-25% on the game spectrum (low but acceptable)
 
  
  the horsepower requirements for AOC to me seem needlessly horendous
  so far oblivion is far supierior and doesnt require buying a new gaming machine, some people might 
 have the money to afford the latest and greatest gaming machine every year but most of us do not.
 
  
  my main machine while getting a bit aged is still a prime workhorse I currently play LOTRO which 
 I run exceptionally well on mediun with visual ranges over 5-10KM (50-80fps)
  
  while so far there is alot of voice overs and some of the charactors are very attractive it still 
 feels quite restrictive like you can only climb or jump where your permited not even over a railing.
 
  
  the interface is still quite clumsy and not very user friendly
  there are alot of un-needed button pushing.
  
  oh my frame rates are usually around 20-24 most 
 of the time the low setting isnt as low as you can actually set the graphics still alot of over 
 texture loading and such.
  
  so far the quests and world are same same no creative quests or extra interesting world 
  
 
  currently if i had the choice to buy it again,, I would not, and I would not recomend this even 
 if the computer requirements wern't so high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tharionwind
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 23, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  So far in Launch/Go Live week - we still don't have a working bank.
  
  But the combat system, the Night/day single pve/multiplayer experience changes are great.
  
 
  The visuals and interactions are just jaw dropping cool. The map/quest tracking system is pretty 
 darn good as well. 
  
  Liking it so far - some bumps in the road. Get the tradespot/bank working and we're happy.
  
 
  Overall its lovely climbing down a 200ft Aztec looking rock and seeing the landscape for over 
 a 1/4 mile. Thats just Amazing.
  
  Patches and updates - the Customer Service/dev team is hard at work.
  
  It takes a whopping 
 27gb of space but with it having DX10 DNA (works with DX9 - I have a 7950gxl2 sli card) - in its 
 core will be able to grow/expand easily with modern hardware.
  
  Again the story backdrop, the combat system, night/day questing, icing on the cake graphics and 
 depthful/meaningful sound/music - amazes me. This is launch week so we'll see how things go from 
 here (patches and attention to details) . People in game are overall pretty awesome.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryjameboy
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  ok.. first off to everyone to give this below a 6 is extremely stupid..... because the graphics itself 
 gives this game atleast an 8.... and not to mention the gameplay... i played plenty of MMORPG's such 
 as world of warcraft, city of heroes, tabula rasa, swg and even earth and beyond mostly all my life... but 
 nothing comes close to this.... what impressed me the most is you are in full controle of your charecter 
 when it comes to combat..... and this new craetive system really makes grinding alot more fun than 
 world of warcraft ... at some point around 40 and 50... doing quests and leveling up and doing dungeans 
 to get your armor.. becomes like a job in world of warcraft... its not necessarly fun... but it is 
 addictive... but as for this game... i just wanted to kill everyone and everything..... and you are 
 even able to block useing your two handed sword when the enemy hits you..... i believe world of 
 warcraft is a baby when it comes to this game... and this game is for progamers because it does 
 take skill.... and for you guys giving this game a low score.. go back to world of wacraft please 
 lol... and i bet in a couple of months you will come back 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decon5
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  If you are like myself, you don't want a lot of random BS someone is trying to throw down your 
 throat, you simply want a review of the game. So here is my take on it, and hopefully it helps 
 you decide.
  
  Graphics/// 8
  It's not that the graphics aren't impressive, it's the fact that the requirements are so high and 
 it sometimes has a lot of frame rate issues. If you have a nice juiced up PC you are golden, if 
 not, be sure to take time to look into the minimum requirements. On full settings the game looks 
 amazing, it even looks good on low, but my computer has run much better looking games without all 
 of the problems.
  
  Sound/// 10
  The soundtrack to this game is awesome. It definitely fits the feel and mood. I generally have 
 a hard time giving a game a high score on sound just because I've grown up with music all around 
 me, but the music to this game makes me think otherwise.
  
  Game play/// 9
  The concept of the game is badass to say the least. I love the fact you can't just sit idle and 
 watch your character attack. You actually have to be active (or as active as you'd like to pretend, 
 you are still playing a videogame) and make your character assault them. There are millions of 
 quests even in the starting areas.
  
  Story/// 10
  Maybe it's just me, but I love the concept of barbarians, the Norse, all of that kind of thing. 
 This game definitely fits the mood for how it should feel. And for the first time that I've seen, 
 an MMORPG actually has a compelling and somewhat gripping story. I give it a 10 simply because 
 its the first of its genre to incorporate a big story straight into the game.
  
  Fun Factor/// 9
  This game is fun as hell, don't get me wrong, but little quirks and things kind 
 of shy you away from it. If you get the game, GET PAST LEVEL 10, I have to strongly encourage that. 
 I've already seen people say they quit. The only reason I give it a 9 is because of the technical 
 issues and the install / patch time. I mean, who doesn't have fun sitting there for 2 hours waiting 
 for a game install? I know I do.
  
  Controls/// 9
  The controls to this game are pretty straight forward. It feels how it should feel and work show 
 it should work, but sometimes it feels like you are missing something. I love the combat way more 
 then any other MMO that I've played. Navigating is really easy; combat on the other hand requires 
 some tactic and skill to be good at.
  
  Overall/// 9.6
  The game has a lot to bring to the table. Active combat, attacking mounts, a gigantic world, instanced 
 cities, city and castle building for guilds, and so much more. If you aren't sold yet, this game 
 has guilds build their own cities (as big or little as you want) and castles, which other guilds 
 can attack and attempt to take over. This is PvP at its finest. Go pick up a copy today, or use 
 someones free trial, if you liked any MMORPG and like games like Fable, this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fitzryder
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 23, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  First off I have been playing the Beta of Age of Conan since November. The game has made GREAT 
 improvement, especially when it come to performance and stability (it would pretty much freeze 
 or crash after every fifth zoning and frame rates could be 5 to 10 fps at times) . I had two characters 
 to 50+, two characters 70+, and one 25+.
  The graphics set on high are great. And the Combo combat system is interesting. Presently I have 
 a level 25 Barbarian and a level 15 Herald of Xolti.
  
  With that said, I tend to break the game into two parts 1) the starting area of Tortage and 2) 
 the rest of the game.
  
  Tortage: This is an impressive area with voiced NPCs, cut scenes, and a story line with special 
 archtype destiny quests. 
  Most people are judging the game based on this area.
  Now the buts: you will have go through this area all over again each time you create another character 
 (I have done it at least seven times and it becomes a drag) . Respawn camping can be a BIG problem 
 everywhere, in particular with bosses. Over and over again they have had problems with bugs for 
 the Destiny quests, which are game stoppers to get off Tortage, and you need a GM or a patch to 
 fix (EVERY TIME they have put out a patch, other parts of these quests have been broken) . 
  
  Now for overall game issues and the rest of the game:
  Traders who act as bankers/post office/"auction" 
 have not been working.
  The "Auction" is basically a classified, where you post the price you want for an item and that 
 is it.
  The Destiny quests past level 20, occur at levels 30, 50, 60, and 80, and are the same for everyone.
 
  The voicing for NPCs stops, except for the destiny quests. 
  The view distance of PC, NPCs, and Mobs is terrible. You can sometimes be 50 feet away from someone 
 you don't see them. 
  Grouping is a very awkward process and does not really keep track of other members of the group.
 
  For me the General Chat box (which I had no problems through out the beta, now hardly works)
 
  There is a LOT of running back and forth, and no fast travel (like birds or horses) to the high 
 level zones. So you will have to run through several zones to get to a level 50 or 60 zone.
  Managing Guilds needs work, you just can't invite a friend to the guild, you have to do a player 
 search to invite. In addition, there is no seperate list of guild members, they just show up in 
 your friends list.
  In your friends list, you can be standing right next to them, and it shows up as an unknown region.
 
  Past level 20 the economy is busted. You get very little money for selling items, but a horse 
 will cost 3 gold and bigger inventory bags will cost 1 gold and up. You will be lucky to have 20 
 silver at level 40.
  Gathering resources is a pain in the a**, not to mention grinding (Although Funcom said they would 
 not make it a grind) . Around every 5th gathered resource you will be interrupted and attacked by 
 a random mob. This happens over and over. To move up a level for gathering, you get quests to gather 
 "rare" resources, which you get at normal nodes, but normally take you to gather over 100+ of the 
 regular resource to get the "rare" one.
  Did I mention you get attacked about every 5th gathering?
  Crafting is just plainly unfinished.
 
  Item stats are lame. Wow, I have gloves that give me point 2 to defense, that will help towards 
 the 90 defense I have.
  Most spell casters don't get to use Combos, which is a nice part of the game. But even the Combo 
 system could be called button mashing. I basically hit a combo key - pause - hit the first swing 
 key - pause - hit the next swing key - pause - hit another combo key - pause - hit the first swing 
 key - pause, etc, etc
  I have NEVER used active blocking, and never needed to.
  Funcom said DirectX 10 would be in at release, oh wait, a day before release it become August.
 
  
  The many bugs related to quests, graphics, text, audio, etc. I accept as being part of the release, 
 but a lot of what I mention are not bugs, but game play issues.
  
  And yes, I am playing the released version of the game to help out a friend and his guild (and 
 for some reason I keep getting drawn back to the game) .
  
  Just my 2 coppers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkolsky
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  The combat, while not as fun as something like Ninja Gaiden is the best combat I've seen in any 
 MMORPG or even a single player RPG. Mass Effect came close for an RPG but I think this beats that 
 as well. The quests were one of the other things I always found lacking in MMOs. The single player 
 portion is well done and gives an extra purpose to playing the game. There are of course standard 
 MMO type quests. Even these feel better than your standard fare because they do a pretty good job 
 of making you feel like you are affecting the world around you. For example, there is a quest that 
 makes you burn down a house. When you complete it there is a nice animation of it burning down. 
 Sure it comes back, but that visual feed back was above what I had experienced before and really 
 makes the difference for me. For any melee class, this game is fantastic. I haven't played a caster 
 or priest yet so I have no opinion on this as yet but friends seem to love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: collegeboytroy
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  Here is what I can say on the game after playing WoW since 12/04. Overall way better launch then 
 WoW for server stable. I have never had a lag issue but one of the quest I did have an issue and 
 AMD computers did have a crash problem but it was fixed quickly.
  
  Got a lot of dum people who think that there 5 year old video cards equal I must get over 80 frames 
 per sec and are upset that they are getting 5-10 and think its lag and not their pc.
  
  Game do needs far much better Chat interface, guild interface, party interface. Overall its better 
 game for me then sitting around Iron Forge jumping all over the place.
  
  WoW has nothing to offer me and not a real big fan of sun well. For now this is my game until Wrath 
 comes out.
  
  Overall very good game and the Player verus Player is much better then world of warcraft. This 
 game to me will finally make world of warcraft improve some things in there game to keep customers 
 wanting to stay with them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magichacker
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  I've never had more fun in an MMO since the start of SWG pre CU. I can say the community seems 
 great so far and very helful. Game looks amazing in all places (including the girl characters ;-) 
 ) . Quests are sometime difficult but never seems too hard. Makes you work for the effort I guess 
 which is good but I can see putting off those who like easy mode. Classes are all fun to play and 
 different which makes for great team dynamics. PVP is amazing so far and end game looks very promising. 
 Do yourself a favor if your computer can run this game you owe it to yourself to play this MMO. 
 This game is heads above all other MMO's and that is because this game cut their heads off. Age 
 of Conan deserves success for what it has achieved. Lets just hope the mature WoW crowd will see 
 that and jump ship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANTHOLOGY-X
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  this game is for players who are ready for the next step in MMORPG's this game has amazing graphics 
 and a combat system thats like no other its not a one click auto combat system its a old school 
 button bash system were you control the swing of your sword or whatever you got in your hand you 
 got to click all sorts of directions to kill your enemy's quicker you need skill to beat someone 
 it doesnt matter if your 2 or 3 levels lower it takes skills also the adult nature of the game 
 is what makes this game rally stand out with is blood and gore and the sexual content plus chopping 
 your enemy's heads off rally makes you feel like a real badass in combat. The world is large and 
 beautiful and there is so much to see and do also the guild system makes getting together with 
 players fun you can make a city with your guild and defend it from other guilds. Players who say 
 this game is crap well i think they are too hooked to WOW and don't want to try something new if 
 you look at the bad review's you will find that more people think the bad review is wrong then 
 who think it's right i think this game is something special try it and see what Im talking about.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Signal2Noise
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Age of Conan may not be the so-called "WoW Killer" the Great Hype Machine is making it out to be 
 but it's a great start and has good potential. AoC has a lot going for it: non-cartoony graphics, 
 interactive combat, huge environments, PVP focused, mature themes, and a dedicated fantasy afficionado 
 player base which brings a lot to the gameplay experience. I think AoC is going to carve out a 
 nice little niche in the mmo market and as long as the developers stay focussed and deliver the 
 goods it will be here for a long while. For a debut release Funcom has done an excellent job. The 
 in initial storylines are well done and quests have meaning. The leveling is a bit fast for my 
 liking but I think it's done this way to promote PVP opportunities quickly for those who are playing 
 AoC solely for that facet. Personally I'm more into RP/PVE type play and AoC delivers on that count 
 as well. I was trying to stay away from getting into another fantasy mmo but after a taste of the 
 beta and seeing the well packaged Collector's Edition in store yesterday I couldn't resist. And 
 I'm glad I didn't. AoC, so far, is everything I've been looking for in a fantasy themed mmo. This 
 takes me back to my teen years of table top D&D in a room plastered with Frazetta posters and Basil 
 Poledouris' Conan movie soundtracks playing in the background. Good times. I'm getting all misty-eyed. 
 Thanks Funcom.
  
  
  
  
  
  Welcome to Hyboria! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veller12
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Little disappointed on the instance cap, however on the whole the game seems to run fine technically, 
 if you have a decent computer.
  
  The combat system actually works really well, it involves some actual skill (and by that i mean, 
 jousting or strafing, dodging enemy's) and because of the collision detection you can get pretty 
 strategic in how you face off against larger groups of enemy's by squishing them together, or avoiding 
 them trapping you in a circle, always make sure you have a way out.
  
  I think it will be awhile before the game "sinks in" but all games go through this process, where 
 people start learning where things are and how to do things. At the moment it's hard to tell.. 
 the game just came out, could go on a rant about everything I like but to keep it simple: on the 
 whole, it's a fun game and has the potential to be great. Give it some time if you're skeptical. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 96thDDForce1
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 22, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The World of Hyboria, is a vast land ......... and Funcom made it oh so well equipped with fun astonishing 
 evironments, as well as great game play with awsome story-line mission's, that every Conan fan 
 would love to adventure in! If PvP is you thing then Age of Conan defintily does it with its own 
 style of PVP..... The Real Combat System is how you handle combat throughout the game. When fighting 
 with other players, you will use the same rules, dynamics, skills, etc., as you use when fighting 
 computer-controlled enemies. To prevent exploits, there may be slight tweaks or limitations.
  ....... the only thing that AOC has for a down fall that i see... is to play this awsome adventure 
 it takes a well equipped pc, that can run the game... But other than that, i think you cant go wrong 
 by playing AOC if your a true MMO player!!!! ............ So well if you gonna be on well I see 
 ya there!!!!.................... Hail Faphnir the Demonhand!!!............ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smintar
Rating: 4
Date: May 22, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I am highly disappointed with Funcom making AOC. especially after Anarchy on-line. I did the closed 
 and open beta as-well with it. Just like Anarchy, to early of a release. It amazes me how folks 
 can brag about the graphics in this game, they r very similar to EQ2 in that respect.
  
  I certainly don't believe the combat system is all that innovative to say the least, although you 
 will hear the fanbois brag about how innovative it is when really it isn't.
  
  The game starts out very linear up to lvl 20 like you r in some box forced to paths much like GW 
 to that lvl. After the world does spread out. Can you say EQ, zone and zone and more zomes, load 
 times vary 5-30 sec some say, but all the time I was in it I don't ever rem under 20 sec even with 
 DSL.
  
  Character creation is ok, much again similar to EQ2. Believe me I know the lore of Conan and Funcom 
 has not live to Howard's world of conan : (
  
  I ran the game ok with my system I crashed about every 15 mins for awhile they did improve that, 
 I got to where it would lock up after 30 mins . un-checking Bloom in my graphics setting seemed 
 to help as suggested by Funcom. but certainly not a cure. 
  
  I started off with a ranger/assassin. I usually judge a game by the class I have enjoyed playing 
 with over 20 years now. After lvl 10 u begin to get your feats, I got a choice of 2 sets of feats. 
 Nowhere did I find where I could Dual weld with my character, maybe just maybe I missed it . My 
 range weapons range was a horrible distance of maybe 25 yards? sometime I tried to get in with 
 in range with my bow and when I was able to shoot the mob agro'd before getting the shot off, mind 
 you it didn't have each and everytime, the weapon difinitely needs to be further out. Thats all 
 for now but for those who reallylike it, GL and enjoy.
  
  my system spec's
  AMD 6400 dual core
  nvidia 8800gt 512
  Ram 8 gigs
  Win xp 64 edition 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godan200
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  yeah i think this game is very very good. Better than WoW and better battle system once you actually 
 get the hang of it. Huge ass land and massive things to do. 
  
  So if you have money and free time i say go get this game its amazing! If you don't believe me 
 than look at the other reviews! This game took MMO's out of the WoW era and into the new ones. 
 In this game you can be very active in what you not only do but HOW you choose to do it.
  
  You can actually choose what you want to say and do. Unlike other MMO's where you don't say anything 
 or its being said for you in the same voice as everyone else.
  
  The Character creation is fun to do also. You have over 10 classes to choose and they'll all unique 
 and very great! So please trust me when i say that this is the MMO to take WoWs subscribers and 
 prophets... and flush them down the toilet.
  
  
  OK FOR ALL OF YOU PEOPLE WHO SAY THIS GAME IS BAD GO PLAY WoW! I DON'T GIVE A **** WHAT YOU HAVE 
 TO SAY IF YOU ONLY PLAYED LIKE 10 HOURS OF THE GAME. PLAY A LITTLE BIT MORE THAN WRITE A GOD DANM 
 REVEIW. YEAH SURE IT HAS SOME BUGS BUT ALOT FEWER THAN OTHER MMOS IN THEIR INTIAL LAUNCHES. ANYONE 
 REMEMBER WoWS LAUNCH. ABSOLUTLY TERRIBLE. NOT TO MENTION THAT THE GAME GETS BORING CAUSE THE EXPANSION 
 S ARE THE SAME THING.
  
  SO PUT UP OR JUST SHUT THE **** UP CAUSE NO ONE AND I MEAN NO ONE WANTS TO HEAR IF YOU LIKE IT 
 OR NOT THEY DNT NEED TO BE LECTURED. AND ONE MORE THING..... GAMES ONLY 5 DAYS OLD AND MOST BUGS 
 ARE FIXED AND THEY HAD TO ADD 9 NEW SERVERS. 9!!!!!! SO YEAH IN WoWS LAUNCH THEY DIDN'T DO THAT 
 SO JUST LEAVE AND CANCEL YOUR ACCOUNT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan5973
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Considering that World of Warcraft can function on a Pentium III and looks abysmal compared to 
 what PC graphics currently have to offer... it's about time something was put on the table worthy 
 of consideration. And this game definitely is. AoC borrows heavily from concepts of prior MMO's 
 dating back to Everquest... WOW... but evokes a sense of realism unlike any prior MMO model. The 
 character spells and skills are rather deep and compelling. Game dynamics are well balanced, not 
 completely acrcadish like WOW... at the same time the movement is in no way awkward and cumbersome 
 as it was in Vanguard and LOTRO. Aside from the titles mentioned there's not a lot out there in 
 the MMO genre. If you do have a good gaming PC this game will be well appreciated. When they do 
 release the DirectX 10 enhancements it will take two 9800 GX2's to max out all the visuals. Hopefully 
 by then they'll have more support for SLI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bendial80
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  This game is far from perfect, but the graphical bugs and glitches will all get ironed out in time. 
 The game has come a long way since beta, and runs really well on my mediocre machine. The combat 
 is fun and exciting and doesn't get boring at all. The fatalities are the best part (chopping a 
 guys head off and watching blood spray all over your monitor is awesome) . The install itself is 
 like 20+ gigs and I think a lot of that is just voiceovers for quests rather than game content. 
 There's definitely a lot of content though. Not to mention, the lore in Conan is probably one of 
 the most exciting and adult fictions ever written, so to put that into a video game format and 
 keep the mature rating is pretty much a no-brainer. 
  
  Pluses:
  - Great combat, exciting
  - very nice graphics
  - Great lore
  - Fun classes
  - So far no 
 lag at all
  - Adult content
  
  Cons: 
  - Some graphical glitches, bugs
  - Nothing really new in terms of quests or game format
  - Not that polished compared to some 
 games (but that will change with patches) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordoflol
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Its so fantastic that I can only say it in Norweagen Helvetes bra!!, that basicly means really 
 good. Its graphic is mindblowing if you have the works too drive it, gameplay is fun and in the 
 moment opposed too other mmorpgs, its epic scale is as grand as our planet combined with all its 
 wonders.
  
  The world is wonderful with renderation of landmass of epic proportion, and filled with creatures 
 only the most twisted of minds could make. 
  
  Forget WoW, Guild Wars etc they are the past, the future is not in elves or dwarfs but in the gloryfied 
 barbarism of man. This is a game for those who enjoy an dark setting with blood, death and war 
 based on mythology, an universe made by Robert Ervin Howard, Tolkien may be the father of high 
 fantasy, but Howard is the master of Heroic fantasy. May he allways be remembered.
  
  I have never been more proud to be Norweagen ever, and will never ever be, This is a game of legends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benan
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  I have been playing wow over 3 years and tried some other mmos never seen one close to wow's success, 
 until now; here comes Age of Conan best MMO to date, solid graphics pure fun combat system beautiful 
 orchestra music and of course conan's world that we have been reading for ages, if you are bored 
 out of wow ,looking for some new fresh online game this might be your lucky day ,the game has some 
 flaws like instanced zones , a few glitches (which all games have some) unforgiving system requirements (wait 
 for dx10 support) fault user interface which is not game breaking. Most of those flaws can be patched 
 out soon every MMO has some problems at launch (wow for instance) other than that this is a great 
 game to be played for years until warhammer comes out with revolutionary ideas. 
  Graphics:9
  sound:10
  gameplay:10
  fun factor:10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kzoneoo1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2009 1:41 am PT
Review:  This is the best online game out there, the graphics are outstanding, the music is brilliant and 
 the game mechanics are excellent, if u listen to the children you will get a negative veiw because 
 they are still stuck in their cartoon games, but if you are an adult and would enjoy a fanstastic 
 experience, buy it and play, you will not be sorry unless you have the mind of a 13 year old, which 
 appears to be the case with most of the negative reviews out there... Further they have reduced 
 the servers from 49 to18 (hard to compete with children) and now the world is full of people. The 
 world looks so real you will be amazed and the battles with your guild are far beyond anything 
 on this planet. No cartoon here, its raw killing. Good example of a garbage review is that posted 
 by Z on Jan. 10th,
  
  Just read the last review from Feb. 2009. incredible, wow kiddy is giving the game a poor score 
 because he either got kicked for cheating or probably bying gold, if you want to play age of conan, 
 sucks to be 14
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clou45
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  I've been playing EQ2 and WoW in the last few years and I can tell that this game will be played 
 foor years to come.
  I've been part of the Early Access, it was fun but the servers were down for most part of it, but 
 for 5 bucks, wich is less than going to a movie it was well worth it. 
  
  The servers are currently loaded to the max. On some servers (I play on Tyranny) there is a queue 
 to get in at peak hours. Nothing to be afraid of, less than 5 minutes. There is some crash like 
 any other MMO following launch.
  
  Good stuff now. Best looking MMO ever created and directx 10 isn't implemented yet. That will come 
 around august. I can't imagine how the game will look on the last iteration of the apis library. 
 With the price of computers going down and the affordable video cards on the market, I can play 
 that game maxed out with 16xQ anti-aliasing in 1900x1080 on a 42 inch tv with an average of 25 
 FPS, all of that on a 1500$ computer bought 5 months ago.
  
  The gameplay is innovative in the fact that you don't have to just click on a foe, go grab a coffee, 
 come back and voila the creature is dead, you actually have to use you're skills to prevail in 
 a fight. That is even more true when you play on a PvP server with hundred of players looking to 
 cut your throat.
  I'm level 31 now so I didn't have the chance to try the crafting system but it should be par like 
 any other MMO if not better.
  
  I have yet to build a guild city with my guild but that is a great feature that not only give your 
 guildies a place to hang out but it gives you buffs for PvP and PvE. And I won't even talk about 
 the BattleKeeps that you can build later on.
  
  Story driven quests are more interesting than just killing 15 of that and 10 of those and returning 
 for youre reward. As you go through each of the tasks given for a certain quest you see a small 
 story unfold. So now you're questing for a reason. The dialogue are great, sometime sad, sometimes 
 funny, and they are well writen. In the first portion of the game, almost every NPC has voice overs, 
 that makes the game even more intriguing. When you leave Tortage, the voice are more sparse but 
 I can see FunCom working on that in the coming months.
  
  The souds in the game are well made and surprisingly for an MMO not repetitive. The original music 
 accompagny perfectly your questing.
  
  All in all it's a great game that anyone who has played an MMO before has to give a shot. Give 
 FunCom a couple of months to polish the game and fix all the small glitches and that game will 
 drain the other MMO servers. Oh and that game is 17+ years old to play so there is no (or less) 
 immature ppl.
  
  I would give a perfect score but I have yet to see end game content and Guild Cities. There is 
 some stability problem and some lag when there is a big crowd around you, but in the end I know 
 it will all get sorted out. That is one game you can't go by
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magnuxodium
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 21, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Simply put its different and not different. 
  
  Combat requires you to pay attention. But you still need to use hot keys (durrr)
  
  Quest are 
 the same as any other games but you get more involved with the quest giver. What i mean is when 
 you talk to an npc it will zoom in on them and focus on them. This gets you more involved in the 
 story and ads depth. 
  
  The option to solo or group (day/night) is a nice touch.
  
  Story seems put together well so far, and lots of sas.
  
  I find the graphics fine. If you 
 come from WoW its a big change here.
  
  Community is so so, there is still little talk about anything useful or even on topic. But there 
 is not much of it. Its still early though.
  
  All and all withe the little time i have played it it is a good game to get into. don't be afraid 
 to buy if you want to try something new. But if you want the same i suggest go to a different game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanittoTD
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Forget World of Warcraft, you have every reason to play this game... willing you are over 18. But 
 if you are, prepare to be immersed in the greatest multiplayer video game experience to date.
 
  
  Age of Conan came out last Tuesday (and earlier for those granted special early access on May 17th) 
 and debuted with the ability to reach level 80. This cap on leveling surpasses games such as WoW 
 - due to match this with a new expansion due soon - and offers an open plate for new players. In 
 Hyboria, the worlds are large yet do not make the mistake of needing to travel a solid hour to 
 get to a destination. In fact, this game makes sure not to waste your time and guarantees you will 
 in fact enjoy leveling your character.
  
  The quest system is the first noticeable UI feature that sets itself apart from Age of Conan's 
 competition. It has a tracker, but not just one where it lists what must be completed rather every 
 quest can be located on your minimap if you are in a zone containing one. If a certain quests require 
 you search a certain area, most of the time you would experience in Warcraft the pain of "searching 
 around a direction they give you until you find it." Many gamers would cop out and use internet 
 databases containing information on how to beat a quest. Your pain is over, the quest tracker will 
 actually give you a radius covering the entire area for which certain goal items, monsters or tasks 
 need to be found and executed.
  
  But the greatest feature of this game lies in the player-versus-player combat system. The server 
 types lie in PvE, PvP, Role-playing PvP and Culture PvP (which is similar to World of WarCraft 
 where factions face only other factions and cannot kill themselves) . In the normal PvP servers, 
 you may engage combat with anyone in which a zone will allow as such. Thankfully, Funcom managed 
 with careful thought to which areas should and should not allow PvP to occur, such as the starting 
 city zone of Tortage. Sadly max level characters can not rush into town and crush puny starting 
 level players. Rather, they can go to a certain instance where these newbies are gathering and 
 dominate them as much as they would like... however.
  
  This game has gone through massive changes from the stages of closed beta to the retail version. 
 Many graphical and technical bugs were fixed, yet quite a few remain like clipping through certain 
 boulders in cities and a certain fraction of players having similar lockups in the game running 
 at a high resolution. Even though the game has significantly strived toward performance, it still 
 lacks stability which is one of the harder issues for a game that takes up at least 1 GB of RAM 
 while in playing. The suggested amount for this game is 2 GB, but I'd recommend around 4 GB to 
 ensure a better chance of stability.
  
  A large issue remains with the targeting system. It's just difficult to click certain things at 
 times and using the tab key to switch between targets seems to decide on its own when to operate 
 correctly. Sadly, you are resorted to individually clicking on foes with your mouse cursor and 
 would be certainly nice to have that feature of a fixed target switcher. But yet since beta, this 
 has not changed and it's quite concerning as to why it was not resolved.
  
  The game launched rather smoothly. Some would debate World of Warcraft had immense success on the 
 day it released, but many servers actually performed poorly upon release with massive lag spikes, 
 server instability and realms just disappearing with no knowledge of when they would come back 
 online. Though the servers HAVE come down in Age of Conan shortly after release, there was at least 
 a warning of when it would happen, how long it would happen. Once the servers were up and running 
 (and on time!) there was no issue logging back into the game. There are no lag spikes or random 
 server crashes... yet.
  
  By far, this is the most fun I have ever had in an MMO. My class is a conqueror and up to level 
 31, by that time you have a fairly good idea of how the game plays. I can tell you that when a 
 game that feels like you are playing a multiplayer version of Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 
 with adult content such as exposed breasts and gory decapitations running on a Direct X 10 engine 
 - it's the definition of fun. Though the most recent game of having nonstop fun was GTA IV... it 
 looks like within only a few weeks we have yet another title worthy of this satisfaction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aribrownstone
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I played WoW from the beginning to around Burning Crusade, and now I am thoroughly bored with it. 
 WoW was the tip of the MMO iceburg.
  Age of Conan is truly amazing. The graphics are incredible with detail that is stunning. The gore 
 is realistic, with blood and satisfying combat sounds. The world that surrounds the player is thoroughly 
 detailed with epic terrain and meticulous textures. The storyline is incredibly detailed and draws 
 you in from the beginning, adding a personal touch that WoW never did. I find myself actually caring 
 about the plot that I am involved in. 
  The new combat is one of the best features about this game. It keeps you from just drifting off 
 while questing. You cannot eat a pizza and play this game. The combat takes concentration and skill. 
 Character development is set up just right so that you always have something new to experiment 
 with. The multi-player aspect is very immersive, making team play a very important part of the 
 game. I also enjoy how funcom set up the guild structure, making things very easy to navigate.
 
  Some people fault this game for requiring too high computer specs and loading times that are too 
 long. The benefit of high system requirements and the loading times far outweigh the costs. Age 
 of Conan would not be the game it is without some small sacrifices, and I would not change it in 
 any way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottwilkins
Rating: 5
Date: May 21, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I expected a lot from this game, maybe too much. I was disappointed. There was so much talk about 
 "how great the graphics were", and "how new and refreshing" the graphics were. I've never seen 
 such an old method graphics engine used in such a new game. About the only effect that was worthy 
 was the water, everything else was sub par. The draw distance does not live up to a real MMORPG, 
 not even close. And the grass spins! What modern 3d game has spinning grass that twists as the 
 camera turns? That's just bad.
  
  Add too that, the game seems to be just another grind fest with boring stories and dried up dialog. 
 The "pick a response" dialog method was worn out years ago, and doesn't fit a modern MMORPG.
  
  While I can't give this game a perfectly bad rating, it does have it moments. I'd say only 
 buy it if you are a smitten Conan fan, or just bored to tears. Or, maybe want to be bored to tears. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weenstan
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Great game, the graphics are awesome and so is the gameplay, the only con is that it needs a beast 
 of a computer to be thoroughly enjoyed, a problem that affects a few of my friends, not FC's fault 
 though, after all you need a next gen computer to play a next gen game! The content of this game 
 cannot be disputed, once you play you cannot stop, if WoW was crack, this is some kind of super 
 crack. This is a must play game, even for those unfamiliar with the world of Conan! Age of Conan! 
 Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! 
 Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! 
 Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! 
 Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! 
 Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! 
 Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! 
 Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! 
 Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! 
 Age of Conan! Age of Conan! Age of Conan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InjaSam
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  A real addictive game. "WoW" style addictive. You WILL get caught=)
  Graphics: 9/10 (Some zones 10/10 other zones 6/10)
  Sound: 10/10 (Best yet!)
  Gameplay: 9/10 
 (Still need balancing as any other new mmo. Some bugs.)
  Fun factor: 9/10 (Right on the mark! Funcom delivers what they promised!) 
  This game will be 
 big. What are you waiting for? JUMP IN!
  
  The bad:
  
  The interface still need a little work and other small stuff but that will come soon... Next major 
 patch i hope=)
  
  
 
  Too short. Too short. Too short. Too short. Too short. Too short. Too short. Too short. Too short. 
 Too short. Too short. Too short. Too short. Too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabawoon
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I have been in the beta from start to..... well its not ended yet but me as a wow player i find 
 that game much much better than wow the combat system, the graphics, the pvp and alot of other 
 things are awesome. The way they have designed the quest system is awesome now you dont have to 
 search for quest item or anything for like 1-2 hours they have already shown it to you on the map 
 all you have to is go there and get the job done and with that kind of questing you will be lvl 
 80 in no time and ready to start to end game contents. 
  
  Another thing i like about that game is the reality no more purple or pink glow on your helm or 
 shoulders they are all real and the way they are equiped actually make sense, in wow if u look 
 at the s2 shoulders (the warrior ones) you will be wondering how do they rise there hands lol. 
 
  
  If you have the Beast for it (by that i mean high end pc :p ) than you should get that game and 
 start choping off some heads ;) There is too many things to talk about but i think thats enough. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowelliny
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  2 years i drooled and waited for this game and its here! So let me tell you what i experienced 
 on 5/20/2008 with Conan.. after i created my character and doing some nose lifts and height making 
 skin coloring etc.. I was right away in this island .. with white sand.. and a nice freaking sparkling 
 sea and grafix i tell you is sweet... and here is my character standing infront of me with a nice 
 freaking muscled all over and u can even see every freaking line of abs he have. And my point??? 
 My point is.. Finally a game like Conan that can offer a grafix so almost so real that other mmorpg 
 like hmm no offense but like WOW or Lotr (which i love) could not compete. Most of these "others" 
 mmorpg are nothing more than coloring books.. your character have yellow red pajamas even if theyre 
 naked. I even saw another woman player char walking to me and started stripping and was bare naked 
 .. yes! bared naked except down there. Thats how MATURED rated this game is. Although my respect 
 to everquest2 coz of their nice metallic colors but i must say.. Conan is now my place. SO SEE 
 U ALL THERE IN OUR BLOODY SWEET CAMPAIGNS MY FRIENDS!!!! CHAARGEEE!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ring
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Let's be honest, all MMORPG's have had bitterly distasteful launches. With that in mind, I have 
 to say that so far this MMORPG has everything going for it. It's as Robert E. Howard described 
 it in his Conan adventures; gritty, bloody, violent, and brutal, and it's all here. The history, 
 culture, and lore are all in the game if you take the time to immerse yourself, which is easy to 
 do. It certainly helps that the visuals and ambient sounds are perfectly attuned to the surroundings 
 and draw you in. The character movements are fluid and the controls are responsive. The voice-acting 
 is top notch with just the right attitude to befit this world. 
  
  As in World of Warcraft, questing is how you get the majority of your experience. However, unlike 
 WoW, it would seem that you are highly rewarded for Everquest style grinding, at least up to level 
 20. That is as far as I have gotten since the release and so far I am enjoying my time. I have 
 been listening to the NPC's, involving myself in the quests, and I have found that it is so much 
 more immersive than any other RPG to date. 
  
  Combat is in no way "point and click"; it's all responsive and dependent upon your enemy's actions. 
 You have standard attacks, front, left, right, and then you have your special attacks. If you do 
 not select an attack, your character will not fight, so there is certainly no AFK while in combat. 
 I have enjoyed this engaging style of combat and it allows for a very dynamic experience. Each 
 fight has been fun and very dramatic and I am always waiting for that next great "Fatality". What 
 do I mean by "Fatality", well in the game, you have a chance to perform an instant fatality? You 
 will know it when it happens and it's certainly satisfying.
  
  I think this MMORPG is poised for greatness if they can continually deliver throughout one's 80 
 levels of progression. There are already people in the mid-40 level range, so we shall soon know 
 if they have the high-end content to sustain the masses.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catalys
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to be long-winded here: the action in this game is more exciting and interactive 
 than The Witcher or Assassin's Creed, the graphics are better than any other MMO, (they approach 
 the graphics of Assassin's Creed) and the world is bloody and glorious. 
  
  Please don't play this game if you're expecting a point and click, however. It is far too challenging 
 for that. Also keep in mind that minimum specifications including trying to play the game with 
 an older radeon card (x800 for example) may give you 10-15 fps on low settings. 
  
  However, on low settings the game still looks brilliant (I know because I play at work with an 
 older rig) . At home, with a 400 dollar rig (requires overclocking obviously) and an 8600gt (very 
 cheap vid card) I can play this game on high settings with 15-25 fps. 
  
  It is pretty stable as well. I am not a funcom fanboi - I played Anarchy Online the day of release 
 and it was very painful. However, the open and closed betas were used to effectively iron out most 
 of the significant issues in AoC... and the game will only get better.
  
  (EDIT)
  The game didn't get better. Problems were not edited out. It's sad that the game failed so miserably 
 to do what it set out to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chesterrtm
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I've been using GameSpot for a very long time when it comes to reading reviews and viewing pictures 
 / videos. I'm not a real "active" user, in terms of tracking games and expressing my opinion... 
 but on this game, I just HAVE to write about it!
  
  Here is a little history about myself and experiences with MMOs: 
  
  My first MMO was Ultima 
 Online back when it FIRST started. I played that for about 2 years and it was great; no levels, 
 but raising skills; murdering; getting murdered; looting players' bodies for everything they have; 
 etc. 
  
  Next, I started World of Warcraft and played that from release until about 2 months ago. My main 
 character was a level 70 Mage with full Vindicator and close to full Season 3. Basically, full 
 epic. I made a ton of friends and PvP'd my heart out on WoW. It was a great experience! The only 
 problem with WoW is the NEVER-ENDING repetitious grind for new gear (because if you don't have 
 really, really, reaaallly L337 gear, you don't stand a chance in either PvP or PvE) . With Wrath 
 of the Lich King coming out soon, I am totally not looking forward to yet ANOTHER grind! So, I 
 chose to move on to "hopefully" newer things..
  
  Next was DAOC, Guild Wars, and Lord of the Rings. All good games in their own right, but none captured 
 me the way UO or WoW did.
  
  With the release of Age of Conan, I sat around yesterday (5/20/08) saying to myself, "Just wait 
 for a legit review from GameSpot, since they are usually pretty dead-on when it comes to scoring 
 good vs. bad games!" Fortunately, my impatience prevailed and I headed to best-buy to pick up a 
 newly released copy. 
  
  I was not involved in any Beta for this game and have only been playing for about 10 levels worth 
 of time. I've found, in my experience, that the beginning levels of any game are crucial, but do 
 not AT ALL reflect end game content..
  
  With that being said, I can tell that this will be one of, if not, the BEST MMORPG ever made! 
 
  
  This game is so BAD-A$$, I can't even begin to describe it. Most importantly, it is FUN! I love 
 the interactive combat system, as opposed to auto-attacking and pressing the same spell or special 
 skill key over and over and over... screw it, GIVE ME BUTTON SMASHING! 
  
  The graphics are absolutely BREATHTAKING! Keep in mind that you need an up-to-date (as in hardware) 
 system to run it. 
  
  For reference, here are my specs: Intel Core 2 Quad 2.6ghz, 3 gig DDR2 dual channel memory, 500 
 gig SATA II HD, nVidia GeForce 8800 gts 640mb pci-express video card, Windows Vista SP 1... etc.
 
  
  So far I have not even scratched the surface of this game, with being level 10.. but I have a really 
 good feeling about it and can tell it's going to be genre changing. 
  
  Pick it up as soon as you can.. you WILL NOT be disappointed!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glacialus
Rating: 1
Date: May 21, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are icky, rehashed, reused, and uninspired. The game itself is not finished, it is full 
 of bugs, and it feels choppy. This game may have taken 5 years to put it out, but it feels like 
 it needed at least 10 more years in creation. I honestly felt the game would have to be pushed 
 back because of the state of the beta, but I guess they disagreed and put out half a game instead. 
 The classes themselves are too similar. They're broken into three categories and then subcategories 
 from there, and they all feel the same. This game really takes no risks, and is not that refreshing. 
 There is no incentive in this game to progress, there is no real drive to make you sign on and 
 play, the game has no pull. The world is uninteresting and seemingly uninspired, they expect you 
 to understand a terribly rehashed, obscure story and have that drive the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukeStarkiller
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  This is IMHO a truly exponent of the third generation mmorpg games. Amazing graphic engine (light 
 years better than any other mmorpg) , inmersive sound effects and music (10/10 for music and sound 
 effects, awesome) , and addictive combat system (since Blade of Darkness there was no other action 
 game which captures that amazing combat system, when dismemberment and spellweaving comes it will 
 become even better) , mature aspects, inmersive questing, and thousand of features for PVE and PVP. 
 
  
  AOC is a must have for all action mmo lovers, a huge step forward in the genre. 
  
  The game have just been released and has still a lot of potential. Regarding Guilds I think that 
 Funcom have just make its difference in this point, including guild fortress and sieges (other 
 mmos promises that at release and we still are waiting for...) , so the pvp potential is as huge 
 as no other mmorpg.
  
  Give it a try (do not stuck in the first 20 trial lvls) and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mralexnunes
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Very good launch for a MMO of Age of Conan. The game is polished for a MMO, fun, and addictive.
 
  
  Graphics = 9 out of 10 for an MMO
  ---Whould have been a 10, but the lauch did not include DX10. However DX9 graphics are more then 
 immersive.
  
  Story = 8/10
  --- Better implementation of an RPG story then other MMO's out there at the moment. AKA Destiney 
 Quests.
  
  Sound = 10/10
  --- Great sound composing. Excellent immersion and complements environment.
  
  Combat & Combat 
 Mechanics = 9/10
  --- I have played up to 24 so far as a Hox and so far combat has been addictive and challenging. 
 Character and NPC's gain in complexity as you level. Also, the combat mechanics for a RPGMMO finally 
 require some skill. Not just auto attack.
  
  There are some bugs and content missing, but what MMO at launch was a truely a complete game? ZERO! 
 Best MMO so far! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: John5227
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Age of Conan is probably one of the best games I've ever played. Since the start of the singleplayer 
 portion of the game, the environments and quests (which there is an abundance of) have been nothing 
 but great. If you are considering purchasing this game, make sure that you meet the minimum system 
 requirements. I'm running the game on low/medium settings, and I can honestly say that the graphics 
 look incredibly good. Running the game on the highest settings can cause one's jaw to drop, and 
 possibly the same person's system to *pop*. With that being said, some players are still experiencing 
 performance issues with the game, but for most, the game runs great (and I'm running it happily 
 on a laptop with a 8600M GT) . The majority of the bugs will most likely be fixed fairly quickly. 
 Back on track - after finishing a certain portion of the single player, there is an opportunity 
 to go multiplayer. I'm not familiar with the actual books that Age of Conan is supposedly based 
 off of, but the in-game story line is very well put together. 
  
  The new real-time combat system is very exciting, but at the same time there are a few bugs with 
 it. There are a few features that have been seen in other MMO's, such as battlegrounds, but the 
 real-time combat system puts a different spin on everything. No longer can a player completely 
 rely on "button mashing" to get the job done. As of right now I am only a level 20 Assassin (almost 
 level 21) and I haven't gone to any other main area besides Tortage, so I can't give any comments 
 on any other part of the game world. In the low to mid 20's is where a character will move to the 
 main world, which I will be doing shortly. Leveling is not too difficult from what I've seen so 
 far. The monsters are interesting, and the experience gained from killing them is good. Many of 
 the quests will give very good experience also, but some of them are difficult and will need a 
 group of players to complete.
  
  Overall I'm very satisfied with what I've seen and played so far. I absolutely can't wait to see 
 all the other parts of the game world.
  
  Bottom line - If you like these kinds of games, then definitely consider this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HookaX
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  I have spent over 60 hours playing Age of Conan, I have 2 level 20+ and a level 17. I played open 
 beta. The game is not revolutionary, but it's very ambitious for an MMO. It's different, it'll 
 take some time getting used too, oh and... it's had a hell of a launch. Funcom has definitely learned 
 from their Anarchy Online launch.
  
  First let me say, the launch is easily the best I've ever experienced for an MMO. EASILY. The only 
 time I'm not in the game is when there is downtime for a patch, that's it... truly remarkable considering 
 this was the developer that launched AO. The game itself while not revolutionary, it's pretty unique. 
 It gets rid of the auto attack system entirely, however I do have mixed feelings on this as an 
 MMO gamer.. I do miss it, a lot. With that said, combat is still pretty fun. It's simple to learn, 
 hard to master IMO. It can be overwhelming at first glance, because there is so much to do. Sadly 
 though, outside of pressing combos and normal attacks it all seems like a gimmick. Shields and 
 dodging are sort of a luck of the draw kind of thing, anticipating where your opponent will swing. 
 Basically, dodging and shields will prove pointless in most of your PvE gaming. I haven't done 
 PvP yet, but I imagine it wouldn't be worth it to use them there. The double tap stun is real nice 
 however! Even with that, I personally find the combat really fun and different... even with my 
 dislike of no more autoattack.
  
  The story of the first 19 levels is also pretty good. Each archetype has a slightly different story 
 to fit their role, and when you play them all you see how they fit together. My main issue with 
 the first 19 levels though is, Tortage. It feels like everyone is just crammed in, it's small. 
 I don't like it. They could of done with Tortage, period. The zones open up massively after you 
 leave the starting zone so don't lose faith. You'll enjoy the game more as you will have more space 
 to work with since everyone won't be doing the same thing in the same 3 zones. This isn't to say 
 I don't like the singleplayer aspects, I actually like them a lot. They should however make an 
 option to skip to level 19, or just make mobs level 1-18 on the main land.
  
  The game looks amazing, it's the most amazing looking MMO I've ever played, simple as that. I have 
 an above average PC (AMD 5200+ 2.6ghz, NVIDIA 7950GT, 3GB ram) and I run the game smooth as silk 
 on medium settings with high textures. If you have issues play around with settings and make sure 
 all your drivers are up to date.
  
  Overall, solid game, superb launch... definitely worth your time and money. If not now, it will 
 be in the months to come as they polish and add to the game more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natefactor07
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by first saying that I've been playing WoW on and off almost since its release. 
 WoW and Star Wars Galaxies are really the only two MMO's I'd ever played before this one. I love 
 Star Wars, but I thought SWG was lame. However, I really do love WoW and Blizzard as a company, 
 but Age of Conan has far exceeded my expectations. I've got 2 level 70 characters in WoW, and I've 
 invested quite a bit of time getting them geared out, so trying this game out was not an easy step 
 for me. However, I've been seeking a break from WoW recently. WoW was a breakthrough in the MMORPG 
 genre, but 3 and a half years of auto-attack, simple graphics, and a complete reliance on gear 
 for end-game has led me to want more. 
  
  One thing you'll notice immediately about AoC (compared to WoW) is the graphics. The textures are 
 advanced, and provided you have up to date hardware, you can run the game flawlessly at full settings (maybe 
 without anti-aliasing) . There is a plethora of graphical eye candy that WoW is totally lacking. 
 Anti-aliasing, advanced lighting, complex textures, and NON- SYMMETRIC WATER! This game is the 
 first real Next Gen MMO in terms of the graphics engine. 
  
  As a melee class in AoC, you'll quickly realize how innovative and fun the combat system is. On 
 paper, being able to swing in different directions may not sound that much fun, but believe me, 
 it is really entertaining. I'm playing an Aquilonian Assassin (basically a Rogue in WoW terms) , 
 and being able to choose where you swing and watching the corresponding animations is simply breathtaking. 
 Age of Conan's combat is extremely fast paced, brutal, and a hell of a lot of fun. The game really 
 excels at making you feel the gritty environment of combat and placing you in your avatar's shoes (I 
 just did my first beheading execution move, and it was 10 times better than when my tier 4 gloves 
 dropped off Curator in WoW) . Granted, if you're a little kid or queezy when it comes to blood, 
 this game is not for you. As the back of the box says... heads will roll. The game is very bloody 
 and quite descriptive when it comes to gore, violence, language, and even nudity (the girls in this 
 game are SO HOT!) , hence the M rating. Personally, I can't thank Funcom enough for making the game 
 this way. I've been dying for a no-holds barred game that isn't afraid to lose 12-year old customers. 
 I haven't tried the casting or ranged classes yet, so I don't have much to say about them except 
 for the fact that spellcast animations in this game are just awesome. I saw a shaman casting a 
 fire spell once and I couldn't believe how realistic it looked. 
  
  **Keep in mind I've only gotten to level 7 so far, so I haven't experienced everything this game 
 has to offer. I know there is much, much more to be had, especially with mounts, endgames, and 
 guilds. **
  
  The quests in the game have been pretty basic thus far. Go here, kill A, or collect B. I do have 
 a few quests that are red (my character is too low to do them alone yet) that sound very intriguing 
 and go past the normal kill-this or retrieve-that quests. 
  
  Another cool thing about the game is the city of Tortage. You'll notice that unlike Stormwind or 
 Orgrimmar, it's impossible to stay 100% safe even in the city. In fact, there are very dangerous 
 back alleys and corners in the city full of pirates and mercs that you're assigned to kill (and 
 they will easily kill you if you aren't quick) for certain quests. This makes the game very intense 
 and keeps you on your toes the entire time. 
  
  The sounds in the game are extremely lifelike, and really make you feel like you're in the front 
 seat of a movie theater the whole time. Clashing of swords, cries of death, slicing, slashing, 
 hacking, bleeding... You name it - AoC has it. 
  
  The character creation and customization is especially well done in this game. Aside from creating 
 male or female, there are three different races to choose from, each with their own interesting 
 background, and each with different capabilities of being certain classes. In this game, you will 
 probably never see a duplicate copy of your character. There are sliders for just about every facial 
 feature you can think of (much like Oblivion) and even ones for the body and height. The game even 
 randomly generates a new set of features every time you click on a different race to create a character. 
 This is really a plus and adds to the feeling that you are really your own and not someone else's 
 copy. 
  
  The game obviously has a long list of groundbreaking and exciting features, but there are some 
 downsides. 
  
  One of the things I noticed immediately was that all the races to be chosen from are Human like. 
 This doesn't affect the game too detrimentally but being able to choose a unique race like the 
 Draenei in WoW would have been cool. 
  
  Also, the game's interface still needs some work. Adding friends, talking to people, and the small 
 amount of hot bars can really be a pain. Currently, Funcom has no plans to give the game community 
 mod support, which dissappoints me whole-heartedly. However, I have faith that they will upgrade 
 the UI in patches to come. 
  
  So far, I haven't found any armor that's especially good looking, although I'm only level 7. Age 
 of Conan is more gritty and realistic that WoW so I'm not expecting rainbow colored two handed 
 swords at level 80, either. But the textures and graphics in this game really make even low-quality 
 armor look great.
  
  All in all, Age of Conan has a lot of new features to offer the MMO player, including interactive 
 combat, a beautiful graphics engine, great sound, and intuitive quests. There's even more to be 
 had like mounted combat and building your own guild cities later (which I have not experienced, 
 so I can't factor them into this review) . If you're looking for a WoW clone with better graphics, 
 this game will probably dissapoint you. But if you're open minded, tolerant of mature games, ready 
 to try a new combat system and a different, interesting storyline, you owe it to yourself to pick 
 this game up and, if nothing else, give the free trial a shot. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeon_Crane
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  And completely blows them away. If you have been waiting for a reason to get a new computer or 
 for upgrading this is it. This is not another puss MMO that caters to the broke, crappy computer 
 crowd, it makes use of the latest and greatest and the graphics are just stunning. The combat system, 
 quests, crafting, economy, solo, group and story content are the best I have seen and I have played 
 everything. I did not give it a ten because it does not have player housing... yet. This is coming 
 in a patch or expansion down the road I think. Check this game out! Oh yeah, this is not for kids 
 in any way. I realized this when my sword got stuck in a guys chest and I had to use my foot as 
 leverage to get it out. I then cut his head off and he tumbled to the ground. Wiping the blood 
 off of my screen took a few seconds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AudiosEnd
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  At first I was very skeptical because of some of the reviews
  
  The first thing I noticed the game is very interactive from the time you create your character 
 all the way through level 14, Its been a long time, actually since Ultima Online came out that 
 I actually felt like I was adventuring and accomplishing something other than auto attack, spell, spell, next 
 mob.
  
  Knowing that you can be attacked by a Pirate thug right in town really puts you in the conan midevil 
 type of setting, by no mean were towns safe in this era, Also having to take rowboats to islands 
 fight your way through countless animals and enemies to save a npc for a quest, I honestly havent 
 seen starting quests this interactive in a long time, for the last 10 years its been kill 5 mobs, return 
 to quest giver, recieve a few copper, that type of quest provides no feel of accomplishment or that 
 your actually adventuring .
  
  LOAD TIMES: I saw allot of reviews about slow load times, By all means load times are in now way 
 slow, not even on a subpar system with a 7900 GT card and 2 Gigs of ram set to high textures etc, 
 Load times were still very fast, the only decently long load time I saw was when I very first loaded 
 the game, Also yes the taverns have load times, but that only lets them make the taverns and building 
 more interactive, I mean look at EQ2 they had all the buildings and arenas open in the city and 
 it was way to laggy so they had to take them away all togeher, Age of Conan actually gets this 
 right for the sake of making the users feel like they are in Hyboria and not a ghost world.
  
  THE COMBAT: The combat keeps you on your toes, Its very fun, and keeps your attention on the 
 combat at hand, theres no slacking here folks, You have to keep your eyes on where you enemy is 
 blocking or else you will do no damage, and eventually die
  
  The Bad: The interface is downright horrible looking, EQ2 has a Much much cleaner interface, even 
 the skill windows in this game look very cheap a plain window with some numbers. 
  
  The armor looks very dull, to me anyways which really takes away from the game, but thats just 
 my opinion, I havent seen any armor that has made me we say wow he/she looks neat.
  
  I also see allot of reviews that focus more on this killing WOW than the actual review of the game, 
 to me this is a different type of MMO than a WOW or EQ2, Its not so fantasy based and just not 
 really the same, This game is more like DAOC than anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustinFriedman
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  Well imma make this review short, since im freakn sleepy do to the fact i juss played conan for 
 10hours in one sitting! Yeh thats how good it is. I usaly get up and take a few hour brake on almost 
 all games at about 2hours, but i didnt wanna stop with this game!
  
  For the firstday there really arnt that many bugs, not to say it doent have any but for the first 
 day its one of the best bug wise. The quests are done well, the pvp is great, the scope of the 
 game is huge, HUGE maps, Player/guild housing that u can build up then allow you to destroy other 
 guilds homes and citys. AMAZING graphics, great solid combat that is easy for pve but complex for 
 great heart pounding pvp battles. You can get mounts at level 40 not sure if u cant get them sooner 
 but i know the mount i have i gotta be level 40 to use, anyway u can have mounted combat on a war 
 mammoth, horse or ryno!!! 
  
  This game took five long years to make but it was worth the wait, the people and Funcom have really 
 dont a good good and finally there is a mmo that will give WoW a run for its money!
  
  Graphics- 10
  Gameplay- 9
  Sound- 9
  Fun factor- 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  
  I just tried this new game in my cousins PC and guess what ?!?!?!
  
  IT IS A BETTER GAME OVERALL FROM WORLD OF WARCRAFT
  I am not a big MMO fan but i have to say 
 this game changed my mind a little...
  I think the MMO genre is at last going to the right direction with this game
  
  Anyway my experience 
 with it until now with few words:
  --------------------------------
  PROS
  - Best Graphics for the mmo genre !!!!
  (compared to the childish and ugly cartoon low polygon 
 world of WoW)
  - Great MMO cinematic Storyline (at last !!!)
  - Good gameplay with a mature and addictive realistic combat system
  - Character costumization 
 is great !!! (Oblivion style!!!)
  - Great sound system with detailed voices
  - Very detailed scenery and enviroment... makes you want to explore more
  - NPCs act and look 
 natural (some sexy ladies too...)
  - Most quests are great until now
  
  ---------------------------------------------------
  CONS
  - A bit violent and maybe somehow 
 unattractive for the smaller ages
  - Some bugs and some little things lacking ( but i am sure they are going to change that with the 
 next patches)
  - Maybe not the best choice if you have a old Low-end PC
  ------------------------------------
  ------------------------------------
  WARNING:
  There 
 are some World of Warcraft FANBOIS that try to bash the game or try to make it look as nothing 
 so special...
  
  DO NOT LISTEN TO THEM
  Buy the game and find out of what a REAL and Mature MMORPG must be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irutehe
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  First of all, I played a lot of MMOs, tried some and only stick to 2 of them longer than a month. 
 
  Those two are Anarchy Online and WoW. 
  While these two have nothing in common I will tell straight that AO had more substance and an incredible 
 degree of customization which WoW players can only think of. 
  Nevertheless WoW is a good game and loved it. But as with any product I became saturated by the 
 grind you are put through at high levels. It was the same with AO.
  
  
  Now, onto the Age of Conan. 
  When I heard they were making a MMO in a fantasy world I thought, 
 "damn another fantasy MMO", but with a glimmer of hope because it was made by the same team that 
 made AO I looked over the previews. And I understood right there that AoC will never try to be 
 a WoW or any other MMO out there but simply a new concept. 
  Most of the younger players will not like this game simply because for them the best game is out 
 there, WoW. I strongly suggest them not to try/purchase/review this game because they are simply 
 not targeted.
  Also I suspect that all manga lovers won't be so happy with the realistic graphics the game throws 
 at them. Tough luck.
  
  
  For the rest of you this will be a treat.
  Solid storyline, evolved combat system, never seen before epic PvP battles with mounts (return of 
 the king style) , awesome graphics and incredible soundtracks. All for us, mature players.
  IMO this is the game most us were waiting for and if you are not bothered to see a loading screen 
 when you exit an area as big as a region in WoW then you won't have any problem with the instanced 
 game world.
  Character customization is awesome and you can simply create your avatar exactly as you want to. 
 No more pre-made faces, bodies and so on. this is the real deal and goes way beyond Oblivion in 
 that aspect.
  
  The reqs for the game are medium considering anyone can now purchase a 8800gt or equivalent, a 
 dual core processor and 4 gigs of ddr2. With this kind of rig you will run the game at HD resolutions 
 with everything maxed out. It really is amazing the degree of optimization that was put into this 
 game.
  
  My only problem so far with it is the social aspect, chat system and so on but I do believe this 
 will be polished very soon.
  
  This game, ladies and gents is a must for any self respecting gamer out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zion0101
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  After years of MMOs AoC (Age of Conan) comes out as a very distinct, new game. It's combat system, 
 graphics, and sound environments are beautiful, lush, and proportionately realistic. This game 
 will force you to pay attention and not just hit the same spells/combat arts over and over in the 
 same fashion every time but rather intuitively involves you to think. move, and out smart your 
 enemy. Granted, this does have its downside. Because this combat system forces you to pay attention 
 some may be turned off by this. Remember, the target audience for this game is specific and is 
 taking a leap of faith in launching a MMO with an appealing combat engine. So far, the community 
 has been very mature and helpful in game as well on the AoC forums. 
  
  
  Pros: Graphics are modern, realistic deaths and movement, sound, character customization, both 
 single and multi player experience, voice acting, story immersion, movies, cut scenes, fatalities 
 like mortal combat, leveling is fluid, no grinding (yet)
  
  Cons: UI needs work, very linear (not like EQ where there are large open fields) , trade skilling 
 seems lacking, where's the economy?, individualistic looks via armor is to be desired (lower levels) , 
 no rag doll physics implemented, more variations in casting animations is to be desired, 
  
  I would highly recommend this game to anyone (over 18) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidkjames
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this review concise and to the point. 
  
  COMBAT
  Comparing the combat in this game to any other to date is no possible. It is innovative and keeps 
 you constantly paying attention. No macros will help you here. The gore factor is really interesting 
 and fatalities are awesome. Combat can't save the missing content though.
  
  GRAPHICS
  In 1 year the best machines and direct X 10 will have this game looking amazing. As for now a great 
 machine will look good but this game is next gen and will be around for better hardware. 
  
  SOUND
  The voice over, attacks, battle cries and ambient sounds are incredible. You feel 
 like you are in a movie.
  
  THINGS TO WORK ON
  The gear is terrible, quests broken, for the most part the endgame content doesn't exist. Pvp needs 
 balancing and they need to release the pvp experience system. 
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS
  After 3 months of playing I have to think the direction of this game is going downhill. If you 
 are looking for a new MMO this is not it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djfutile
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe what negative things people are saying. Here are some facts: 
  -You need a high-end PC... this doesn't have to be overly expensive people, invest in good equipment 
 and you shall be rewarded -- buy one piece of good equipment per paycheck, in two months you can 
 have a fantastic machine. There is a merciful graphics set-up so you can slide bars down to their 
 lowest and still have a playable game.
  -The game has just been launched... there is going to be glitches and problems. These get fixed 
 in time, so until your particular beef of an issue gets resolved, sit back and enjoy partaking 
 in the beautiful scenery... and beautiful women! The nerds are working on the problems.
  -Combat is "button-smashing" but any idiot who thinks its a bad system is a boring and pathetic 
 individual who actually enjoyed a simple double click and letting your avatar do the hard work. 
 LAZY! I enjoy doing combos, it actually reminds me of the Street Fighter days when button smashing 
 was actually necessary!!! But some of you young kids don't even know what that is, or even an ARCADE! 
 *shoots self in head*
  -Sound, voice-overs, scenery and quests are beautiful. The quests are often "get me x amount of 
 y and return to me" missions, but the cool thing is the NPC's and creatures move around, they do 
 things, they are ALIVE. You don't feel alone even in the single player world. 
  
  At the moment I am still on the island where you begin at the start. I have played many hours already 
 and haven't even seen 95% of the rest of the game world, folks. That is exciting!
  
  There are numerous reasons to buy and play. I'll let you figure it out for yourself when you jump 
 into Conan's world. See you there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robrodgers2000
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 20, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This game had potential, but just like with Pirates of the Burning Sea, the constant loading of 
 instancing just kills the immersion, and immersion is the main reason to play an online game. I 
 know as soon as the server pops go up the load times will be awful. There is nothing worse than 
 traveling and exploring and constantly having to look at load screens. Even the small buildings 
 are instanced. Why?
  
  
  It's such an odd design, I wonder who it is targeted to? Console FPS players? I don't know, I don't 
 live in that world, but for mature mmo players, I can't believe this will be a big market player 
 down the line. Right now LOTRO is far superior, and when WAR comes out if it is anything like it 
 is supposed to be the play experience will be way beyond this.
  
  Nice try, but the instancing was a terrible mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: templar_ga
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Age of Conan is a great game in its own right. By that I mean, its not any other game that has 
 come out before. It has parts of different games to make it great. Please understand the differences. 
 Combat is active, the game is rated "M" and the performance requirements are quite high. None of 
 this makes it good or bad, just not what you might be expecting.
  
  The best part of the game for me is the introduction. The first levels really make you feel like 
 you are in Conan's world and what your role in that world will be. I have never been so engrossed 
 in an MMO's story (or even a single player RPG's story) that much.
  
  Yes the first part is very linear but its designed that way. Once you get to 20, its much more 
 like a traditional MMO. I love how Funcom designed it for this reason.
  
  Overall, if you try Age of Conan, appreciate it for what it is and not for what your expectations 
 hold. Its a great game in its own right and knowing this makes it much mroe fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostCause208
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 20, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great and is something new and exciting, but playing through open beta and 
 early access i'm already getting bored of the game and i think Age of Conan can only keep you entertained 
 for a couple months before it gets very boring. I feel like it is one of those games that you would 
 love going over to your friends house to play and it would keep you entertained but playing it 
 day in and day out wouldn't be the best in my opinion. Also i feel like it is built around the 
 console game which may hurt it in the long run. However i would check this game out as maybe you 
 will like it. I do think it'll get a few of WoWs players over but not many. Once WAR comes out 
 AoC, WoW and WAR will all be out. It will be great having three MMOs out at around the same time 
 making the market and competition great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nz12nv
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  A huge step forward in MMOs. Really fun and highly skill based. I've played a bunch of mmo's in 
 the past and always hated being killed by crappy players just because they had better gear. You 
 control dodging you control hitting, you actually control you character, this game rocks. I gave 
 it a ten, not because its perfect, I mean it does have its flaws but as the game progresses its 
 potential through patching, etc is a ten. The action is fast passed and the graphics are awesome. 
 Definitely a game I'll be playing for a while to come. AOC is the best MMO out there today. The 
 only thing I see turning people off is the fact that its very skill based and fast paced. If you 
 have skill and like action this game is for you. Great game play, action game, fps, all mixed into 
 an MMO equals a win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anariesman
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  If you have a decent computer then the game delivers graphics that are pretty amazing for a multi-player 
 game. DirextX10 will not even be fully active until sometime in August, and while you can tell, 
 something are still simply stunning. Swimming, and the water effects are the best I have seen, 
 and the variety in weapon and armor types are fantastic as well (Once you get a couple levels under 
 you) . 
  People who are rating the game a 1-3 are simply delusional, It may not be a 9 for You, but those 
 ratings are off the mark. If you compare it to other games in the genre and style (MMOs) then that 
 is just not a reasonable asessment. I can understand the game not being to everyones liking. If 
 you do not enjoy a Fantasy MMO, then this will probably not be up your alley not matter how they 
 made it.
  The combat is very fast paced, and working with a group leaves a tapestry of blood across the screen. 
 The gameplay is fairly typical of an MMO, with a clunky release Interface, but there are some standouts 
 even there. The Overland Maps are Great and the voice acting also stands out alone in MMO world.
 
  A huge part of my enjoyment of the game is the mature element. Having characters speak and act 
 in ways that if the situation was real, that an adult might. There is some mild adult language, 
 and situations (the name of teh brothel is very funny) , but the way things are phrased to you, 
 and your responses, makes you feel like you are a rogue warrior in the world of Conan (and not 
 fluffy Conan either) .
  I cannot speak to the PvP as that is not my bag, but for what it professes to be, A Fast Paced, 
 Beautiful Immersive World MMO based on the original Conan stories.. It hits the Mark, and Very 
 Solidly at that.
  
  In Response to a coupel things I saw posted: You can bypass cut scenes. it is in your Advanced 
 Interface Tab. I have it set so I can click it if I want to see it. The Tortage part does get a 
 little repetetive but the replay value is post level 20. Playing second classes goes a lot faster 
 if you have saved some of the decent tradeable loot you get on your other characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomBomb
Rating: 3
Date: May 20, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Lets just say, I thought many developers would of learned a lesson from Vanguard's launch nightmare. 
 I mean with all that the Devs and players suffered through, you expect there wouldn't be a repeat 
 of history when it comes to MMOs...
  WRONG!
  AoC is a blend of Guild wars and DDO, but without the fun. You are assailed with long load times, 
 even when you enter a tavern. Hitches that cost you your life on PVP, and graphics that aen't that 
 revolutionary and you need an SLI configuration to run 1280x1024 decently.
  But it's not just the bugs, but the gameplay. I was in tech, open and closed Beta. And in the head 
 start. Even adding friends into the mix left us all bored to tears. repetitive play style, uninteresting 
 quest. And a combat system which can be masterd by button mashing. I mean seriously, my friend 
 and I would just mash buttons in the end and still was victorious in battle.
  he played a Necro that everytime he sent his pets in the MOBS would go directly to him, and attack. 
 And then he also did more damage with his knife than he did with his ranged attack spells.
  Now I know like all MMOs, that bugs and gameplay can be worked out down the road. But seriously, 
 I don't need another Vanguard launch, or PAID beta experince. And even then, the state of the playstyle, 
 will still be boringi unless they remove the massive instancing and give you an open world to actually 
 explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivoacfernandes
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  How often do you see an mmo offering as much dept as any other (good) rpg, or the same quality? 
 That's right, you don't see... until now, Age of Conan offers a unique experience way beyond anything 
 available on the market now and in the near future, it actually has a story to enjoy or if your 
 not into it, just unleash your inner barbarian in an ever dangerous world filled with devilish 
 (dream like) creatures and other players ready to test your might, I won't point every good aspect 
 of the game nor the few flaws I'll say just that a lot of love went into the making of this game 
 and its worth every single [insert your currency here] , so if you're a Conan fan or you're simply 
 looking for a new on line experience this game is sure to amaze and hook you up :) Well not unless 
 you're another of the under aged brain dead WoW doomsayers in that case I can only recommend to 
 grow back some brain cells and just try the game instead of judging something you never played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vanine_28
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  So yes yes.. im a long time WOW player.. 2 level 70's and all .. bla bla..
  Im not going to compare apples to oranges here k. these 2 games are completely diffrenet. The basic 
 interface functions the same but the overall look and feel is different. In my honest opinion this 
 game needs some work. They have to balance out the characterts a little better. My necromancers 
 a panzie . I cant take on more then 2 guys my lvl but a barbarion can smash like 4 . The pet i 
 have for my demologyst character.. whos a succabus looking gall.. she does barely anything. very 
 little damage.. all she's good for is the mana buff. And posably looking at here bagebaz . there 
 very nice.!
  
  Now that i got my fustrations out let me try and tell you what this game brings to the table and 
 does it well... I would suggest you start out as a barbarion just to give you a feel for what the 
 game is and how to control your characters combo system and fatality system. 
  
  The game has a very dark feel to it , giveing you the sence that your in a dangerous enviorment 
 were anything can happen. Your first mission makes you really feel like your in a mature game when 
 the girl you save hints that she's going toReward you ". (BTW.. i searched the hole freakin town 
 trying to find her so i could smash her .. but WTF.. i couldent find here anywware.. such a piss of) 
 any hoo. As your character lvls so does your spells/combos and also Skill points get rewarded to 
 you. The skill point are able to be put onto 4 different categories. Very similar to another MMO 
 i know of, wich is fine .. it works. The fighting mechanics are something that your going to have 
 to get used to so i've written below a method that im useing that may help those who dont like 
 to use the keyboard and would rather use a mouse and controler. ( details at Bottom of page) . You 
 find that the combo sytem is mainly about timeing .. waiting for your apponent to have just a smidge 
 of life left before you lob his head off. Dismembarments are fun and cool to watch. There so many 
 of them. you'll find different ones for duel wielders then there are for single wielders but it 
 all give the same reaction. The questing can get tedios at times . sending you from one end of 
 the camp just to come running all the way back again. Howerver there were tons that really got 
 me interested and had a deep well thought out plot to it. The fact that the NPC actualy verbolize 
 to you realy gives you a sence that they are talking to you and that installs a real need to finish 
 the quest.
  Some quest have many layers and as you peel them back you reveal something even more intreaging. 
 The choices that your character can make when replying to NPC gives you a sence that hes a cunning 
 ,smart mouth that wont be pushed around. The graphics are great. it looks and feels like a dangerous 
 world and they did an amazing job really makeing you feel like your in the age of Conan. 
  
  Overall opinion.
  
  If your an old warcraft vet like myself then you my find it hard at 
 times to really get into it. but once you start to get your character around lvl 15 , thats when 
 you start to feel more powerfull and really start to enjoy the game. The begginging is kinda slow 
 but the direction it heads you in really sparked my interest. I plan on keeping my subvscription 
 to both AOC and WOW. I'll be playing mainly AOC .
  
  
  I find that this is more intuative for me when performing combos or fatalitys.
  
  Downlaod 
 the lates Switchblade program and update it. 
  
  http://www. switchbladegaming. com/
  
  Now i use my Xbox360 controler it seems to work fine for me. After installing the program your 
 setup wil be for the World of warcraft and the class will be Basic. Now run your game you will 
 notice that your right analog stick controls your mouses movment and that your Right and left Buttons 
 RB/ LB are your right and left mouse clicks. If you hold them both down your character will run.. If 
 you hold the Down button on the d-pad your character will sprint .from this point you can set your 
 X, Y. B, A buttons for your combos and then re-arrange them later for when more functions arrive. 
 when im just patroling the city looking for quests , i just use the controller same with when im 
 just grinding for lvls. When im trying to kill a named then i'll make sure i have my right hand 
 on the mouse. This is just the way i play and i hope others will fine it helpfull.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaRiZ420
Rating: 3
Date: May 20, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Wow, big disappointment with Age Of Conan. Everyone keeps talking about World of warcraft and comparing 
 with Age of Conan, which seems to be the only game they are comparing it too, there's a lot more 
 mmos that are better than wow, which are hidden gems waiting to be discovered, but on to the review. 
 
  
  The combat system was probably THE biggest disappointment in aoc, it simply was not the way the 
 developers had described it. It was downright abysmal and not as free range as you might have thought. 
 Sure u can step side to side, but there is still that feeling of the fireball cuuuurrrviiing towards 
 you. For instance I was a demonologist and was hoping to miss a few people with my fire spells 
 but it was not to be so, the spell just either fizzles or automatically burns the target. Been 
 there done that, way too many times before.
  
  The difficulty of the game was somewhat of a hike rather than the mountain climb the developers 
 make it out to be. I simply was way to easy even at lvl 20 when things in most mmos are suppose 
 to get good. It was the same old formula I hit, you hit, I heal I hit you die. Dont be fooled by 
 the developers telling you how great the "combat mechanics" are they are just recycled garbage 
 from games long past. 
  
  The sound of the game was probably the best thing the game had going for it when you are walking 
 through a forest or in a heated battle the sound switches. Overall the soundtrack is great.
  
  The graphics are not next gen, in fact far from it. They used cheap tricks to make the graphics 
 seem like they were good and you can clearly notice that when you first start out, when you look 
 up and rotate the camera every tree, grass and flower rotates with you. The only thing visually 
 impressive was the water that was about it, as far as the other stuff goes it was very last gen.
 
  
  In conclusion, if you've never played an mmo and you want to dip your feet in one, this might be 
 a good place to start out, however if you are a long time fan of mmos you might want to avoid this 
 one, or play it at a friends house to draw upon your own conclusions. For me however, it was just 
 a nother Crysis, Bioshock hype machine, don't buy in! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesClock
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  Age of Conan is now in public stores, and I've been pretty surprised of the game play so far.
 
  
  The Graphics are amazing. Look at every review in these boards, and there no doubt about it, you 
 need a decent computer to enjoy and experience the beauty this MMO has to offer.
  
  Now the game is instanced, some people have said that they're loading time has been totally atrocious. 
 Now seems to me the only game play they had was in the tutorial (aka lvl 1 to 20) once you get 
 pass that, the world is still instanced, but the maps are huge. Has an example for WoW gamers, 
 all maps are twice the size of Barrens.
  
  Pvp is completely insane, now with the fatality system in, decapitating someone has never been 
 so satisfying. I've yet to experience siege battle or CTF / TDM matches, but i'm very excited to 
 try them out once i'm 80. You have a great choice of realm, pve, pvp, pvp faction, rp-pvp, to chose 
 from. The FFA, gank anyone and anything in the pvp realm are quite fun. If a guild member pisses 
 you off, well you can gank them! (Even if he's in the GUILD!)
  
  The lvl is quite decent, you wont be seeing people 80 in just 3-4 days. Lvling is going to take 
 maybe a week or two is your quite hardcore about it, playing nearly 6-8 hours per day. Now this 
 can depend on your sever, but pve generally lvl's faster than pvp servers.
  
  The Music in the game is quite good, nowadays though in every game i play, i take off all music 
 and put on my own. But I've listen to some of the few pieces and the music is quite good and sets 
 a very good mood for Age of Conan.
  
  Now Age of Conan is an MMO, you love it or hate it. The launch has had its problem, with my experience, 
 its normal, happens to every MMO who manage to reach nearly a million customers on its launch day 
 ( Aka, hardly any manage that goal) . So even if there's a few bugs / server problems, the game, 
 once every settles down, I will greatly enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxblizzard
Rating: 1
Date: May 20, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  I had been following AoC for almost 2 years. The ideas that were revealed during the development 
 sounded great. On the surface, it sounded like the next-gen MMO, which the MMO Community has been 
 desperately needing. Something to take us all out of the World of Warcraft phase.
  
  Unfortunately, it resulted in a huge let-down.
  
  The main topic had always been the combat. 
 It was supposed to be cutting-edge. However, what seemed great on paper quite simply does NOT work 
 in game. The combat system ended up nothing more than a dull, semi-unresponsive, game of whack-a-mole.
 
  The grpahics, of course, are very nice. Not anything ground-breaking though. 
  Another big disappointment is the massive amount of loading and zoning. I cant help but to ask... what 
 were they thinking? Didnt they see the failure of D&D Online? The zoning immediately killed the 
 game. Why didnt they know that the general pool of MMO'ers want a large, seemless world. They want 
 a world they can explore. When you have to sit through a loading screen, regardless of how small, 
 between every single zone... the immersion goes right out the window.
  The crafting is so bad, its not really even worth mentioning. The worst I have seen... plain and 
 simple.
  Without spending any time on class balancing, the PvP is a joke. Which is a shame, because it was 
 supposed to be a big selling point for the game. Sadly, without any balancing, it just doesnt work.
 
  Not to mention the skills and abilities. They're God awful! It's like they didnt even plan out 
 the skills. Or, they were too rushed to finish the game that they decided to skip that part.
  In the end, the game is just terrible. Something new, which is nice... but it doesnt have enough... or 
 anything really... to keep it floating. Once the "newness" wore off (rather quickly) , I found myself 
 waiting for the next round of new MMO's.
  
  Good graphics, but poorly coded.
  Terrible combat system.
  Lack of any usefull, or interesting, skills/abilites.
  No PvP
  Crafting... uugghh.
 
  No seamless world.
  
  Anything you might look for in an MMO, simply isnt here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  I have not played an MMO in a while. I was in the closed beta for this game and I love it, it's 
 something new it's something that you would enjoy and have fun with. When you start out, it as 
 good character customization which is really good. The classes, and the graphics are jaw dropping 
 as well.
  
  I like how you can use your sword in the directions that you want it. Also, being able to cut people's 
 heads off. When you start the game it is awesome and you start with a STICK! Not a sword haha.
 
  
  Now, I know subscription wise this most likely will not beat WoW, but in towards of game play and 
 something differnt, I am sure a lot of people will play this, then go back to WoW once WoTLK would 
 come out. But who knows!
  
  Anyway, if you like playing MMO's I would get this game asap. You won't be disappointed in this 
 game and you will have a lot of fun with it as well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wyeta
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  Best single player quests and early PVP for any MMORPG to date.
  In Conan the action is always there.
  
  From what i played to lv 30 i am amazed;
  
  the 
 quests are actaully fun and you have to truly engage in them instead of ginding on auto-pilot.
 
  
  Combat takes thought and concentration and the shield system allows you to take fighting to the 
 next level if you think your good enough.
  
  PVP is great, even early on you get some PVP action and unlike other games you gain PVP lvs and 
 PVP exp so you are actually driven to farm other players.
  
  The graphics are like no other MMORPG, and i would go as far to say if you have to right junk in 
 your computer trunk, you can see that this game has higher graphics to any other game to date. 
 Not to mention DX10 has not been put into the game yet will increase it further in the future.
 
  
  There are minor bugs that happen ofter, but most are just graphical errors and do not affect the 
 game. Some say Conan has some stiff issues... but you know what? All MMOs have issues when they 
 first come out... WOW sucked balls at first, and now its the standard of what an MMORPG is.
  
  
  Im giving Conan a 10, for its amazing first impression, but nobody can truly judge this 
 game's endgame yet, but as far as the first 30 lvls go....
  
  10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylonion
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 20, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Let me first preface this by saying this will be a review of the game primarily from the perspective 
 of someone who has loved and enjoyed World of Warcraft for the past 3 years but needs a change 
 - as I suspect will be the majority of the player base for this game, for good or for ill.
  
  As is the case with any MMORPG game, it is almost impossible to assess the value of the game 
 after playing it for 3 days - I have played a Tempest of Set (caster/healer hybrid class) up into 
 the mid level 30s, as well as several other classes into the mid teens - and there is probably 
 an entire years worth of content within the game, and undoubtedly more soon to come in patches. 
 
  
  That said, from my limited experience I could briefly summarize AoC as a beautiful, immersive game 
 world with an extremely addictive combat system, that is undermined by an awkward and unwieldy 
 interface and numerous bugs.
  
  To begin with the positive, you simply will not believe that this level of sophistication exists 
 in the graphics of an MMO. Every character, tree or blade of grass has an accurate shadow, the 
 lighting is all highlighted by beautiful bloom effects, all of the textures have an incredible 
 level of detail, the maximum view distance is astounding, and alot of effort obviously went into 
 the character animations which feel very fluid - However don't expect to run this game on anything 
 near the maximum settings unless you have a top of the line gaming rig. Although I played on an 
 up to date computer, I was actually also able to run it on a computer which just barely met the 
 minimum requirements, which is a pleasant surprise when the requirements for games are often understated. 
 The sounds as expected are equally impressive, and the soundtrack is a pleasure to listen to, although 
 you will probably have it turned off eventually anyway.
  
  The combat system, which is one of the biggest draws to this game, definitely lives up to the hype. 
 The animations are all very visceral and you maintain a feeling of momentum when leaping into combat 
 and into a sequence of attacks. There is no auto-attack system; and the shielding system ensures 
 that you are always actively participating - no getting up to make a sandwich while your pally 
 swings away with his seal for 30 seconds. Scoring the rare fatality and lopping someones head off 
 is always an oh s***t moment. The spell animations are all awesome to watch, however it seemed 
 to me that there is so much more fun to be had as a meelee class in this game, as the spells are 
 all fire and forget like any other MMORPG. There is some sort of interactive spellcasting system 
 called spellweaving, but it doesn't come into play until the later levels, so I doubt any players 
 can yet testify to it. I can guarantee you however that the multiple facets of the combat system 
 (and I encourage you to do some research about the combat system within this game) will guarantee 
 a far more skill-based game than WoW, especially when it comes to PvP.
  
  The greatest failing of this game however, especially coming into the game from WoW is the interface, 
 which is really unbearable. The quest system, while it conveniently displays the location of your 
 objectives on the map, does not have an indicator of whether you have completed a quest or not 
 - so this leads to significant confusion. All of the panes - the skill pane, the inventory, the 
 feat trees (think talent specs) , etc, take up almost the entire screen, when realistically they 
 could have been trimmed down to a quarter of the size - and whenever you loot a body the screen 
 becomes filled with these annoying black bars of text - leading to you often being completely blinded 
 by unnecessary information. The friends interface is tiny and does not provide adequate information 
 about the players on it -also, there is no guild list, instead all guildies are automatically placed 
 on the friends list, which makes locating your friends a real pain. Don't expect anything near 
 the amount of feedback about your group that you get from WoW, there is no system for locating 
 your group on the map, and the grouping interface is limited to a tiny list of health bars in the 
 upper left hand corner. The chat system is also a real pain in more ways than I care to discuss 
 in this review. There are dozens of other interface annoyances and bugs that you will quickly discover. 
 These problems can all be resolved easily, however any experienced MMO player will tell you not 
 to believe any developer's promise until you see it with your own eyes. Considering that Funcom 
 has stated that there will be NO support for user created interface mods, this is a major concern, 
 as the interface in games such as this have a greater impact on the gameplay than you would think, 
 especially when it comes to the endgame.
  
  There are also a large number of small graphical glitches and gameplay bugs at this stage, none 
 of which have been game breaking for me. At absolute minimum settings, the game appears out of 
 focus (like being drunk in WoW) , often textures don't render unless you are right next to an object, 
 and I experienced an issue with my destiny quest (class quest from 1-20) that a GM had to resolve 
 for me. Many players have complained about the game randomly crashing. 
  There are over 200 players happily tinkering away in my guild at this very moment however, most 
 of whom haven't complained.
  
  There is one "racial PvP" server, but for the most part PvP servers are free for all at this stage. 
 I play on a PvP server and I am constantly being ganked. I would argue against the value of free 
 for all PvP in MMO's, but this is no fault of the game itself, and naturally your mileage may vary.
 
  
  Don't let these relatively minor points of contention discourage you however - I encourage you 
 to look into the seige warfare, city building, and mounted combat systems, none of which I (nor 
 any players at this stage) have experienced, which will give new life to the game at max level. 
 This is an MMO which has experienced so far what has been one of the smoothest launches in history. 
 Although it is plagued with interface problems and bugs, I am confident they will be resolved soon. 
 This is definitely one of the most promising MMOs since WoW was first released. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chernnunos
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 20, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  The classes are mediocre. They all play the same until you reach about level 10, and then you notice 
 how unbalanced the game can be. Casters get ripped apart in combat, and since there is alot of 
 jerky lag (when the servers are actually running) , you get killed from a guy at range with melee 
 weapons. The graphics are pretty good, but after hours upon hours of beta testing ( I was a beta 
 tester myself) they still haven't fixed quite a few of the errors. Blatent, obvious errors, such 
 as spawn rate of mobs, graphical glitches, and shadow displacements. The load times are atrocious. 
 You appear on the beach, kill some mobs, free the slave, kill the slavemaster, get into the city 
 after a hefty load time, and then find your way to the inn just a few feet away of the city entrance, 
 and boom.... another load time. Then you accept the "main quest" series and choose to play the quest 
 at night, and boom.... ANOTHER long load time. As you move throughout the city, after already suffering 
 from a massive 3 load times, you see alot of stuttering.... even with graphics set to near-minimums. 
 Now before you blame my computer, trust me.. I meet the recommmended requirements, but I'm not typing 
 out my specs on this review. The game doesn't flow. I had less stuttering with Vanguard: SoH and 
 that's saying something! They touted the 'revolutionary' combat system, and all it really is, is 
 pushing buttons in time to the arrows on the screen. How is that revolutionary? It's actually frustrating, 
 since if you lag, you lose your key sequence and the combo is wasted, and you will most likely 
 die.. and make no mistake about it.... You WILL lag. and you WILL be dying because of it.... that 
 is, if the servers are actually up! Blah. wait for this game to get patched in about 4 months and 
 then try again. That's my advice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lalaward
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  Having been both in closed beta, and played the open beta, I can say this game has come leaps-and-strides 
 from just a few weeks ago. The frame rate has improved, the bugs are gone.
  
  If you are looking for a video game that has high entertainment value, pick this one. I never read 
 quests in other mmorpgs, but I read them in AoC! The quests are mature, unique, and give you a 
 sense of connection to the world and your character. 
  
  The innovation (other then the story) comes in the form of its no-auto attack system, and healers 
 that are not heal-bots. Some people may find these two systems hard to adjust to, I was open to 
 them myself, and enjoy the idea of my healer being both an area-effect nuker and healer (the best 
 of both worlds really) .
  
  The graphics are great, and everything runs very smoothly on my mid-range machine. You may have 
 to tweak some things, such as installing the latest video drivers for your card.
  
  I am hoping the game continues to entertain me through to level 80, which seems a long way off 
 right now. 
  
  Thanks Funcom! I've been waiting for a game like this for more than a decade! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teemu
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  Where to start??? :o This game is by far the most fantastic MMO I've played and then I have played 
 many. I saw that there were some ppl giving it abysmal scores and I wonder, did they play the same 
 game? 
  
  The MMO genr has something new, so WoW watch out, because Conan isn't backing. The combatsystem 
 is great and gives you that "in-character" feel that you usually don't get in other MMO: s when 
 fighting. And even if it means pushing the number keys for different attacks it's NOTHING like 
 WoW for example. You need to keep track where you opponent is parrying and at the same time use 
 good combos AND watch your own defense. No ther is NOTHING like this out right now. The graphics 
 is beautiful already and I can't wait until the dx10 version is released some time this fall. 
 
  
  But don't take my word on it, try it out and you'll see that it will be worth the money you spend 
 on it! See you in Hyboria! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: overltho
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best MMO I've played so far . . . and I've played almost all of them. This is 
 also the first review I've written, and I've done so because it's obvious that the few other reviewers 
 have no idea what they're talking about.
  I'm playing as a stygian Tempest of Set, but I've also tried out most of the other classes.
  
 
  Character Customization 
  
  The best I've seen in an MMO to date. You get sliders for height, and a triangular slider for general 
 build. You can then access advanced sliders for individual body dimensions (e. g. arms, legs, etc.) , 
 as well as a separate set of sliders for facial features. The face is similar to the body in that 
 you pick a general template and then use the sliders to adjust the features. There are extensive 
 tattoos and scars to choose from for both the body and face. 
  
  The only real racial limitations on appearance I noticed were on eye and skin color. My stygian 
 won't be able to have blue eyes like the real me, but everything else is pretty much possible. 
 Also, I'm pretty sure the stygians are the only ones who can access the darkest skin tones. 
  
  Besides the initial customization, the number of armor sets in the game is reportedly in the 
 thousands; and from what I can tell so far at the lower levels, there are many equivalent sets, 
 so you can make and bake all sorts of armor appearances without sacrificing stats. 
  
  Graphics 
  
  The graphics and animations are simply stunning. The extensive motion capture 
 is evident right away. I was chatting the other night with Ebon about how when you're simply standing 
 in the presence of other players, it truly feels like there is a "presence" emanating from the 
 avatar. Even the NPCs have this to an extent. I was standing in a tavern last night and Jenny was 
 commenting and laughing about the various "drunken" animations, because they seem so damn realistic. 
 
  
  Spell effects and animations are GORGEOUS! Even the low level spells have elaborate animations 
 that clearly distinguish one spell from another. For the very first healing spell I received, an 
 image of the torso of a woman with a snake head appears above me and makes several moves of her 
 own as I'm making my gestures. And the lightning -- OH, that sweet, sweet lightning. There's nothing 
 quite like being able to stand back and target an ususpecting group of picts eating their lunch 
 and then call down a column of intense, realistic lightning that fries them to a crisp. (And NO, 
 we stygian worshippers of Set are NOT evil, I tell you -- just misunderstood! ) 
  
  I won't comment as much on the environmental graphics, as most of you have seen examples of it, 
 but they lived up to my expectations in every way. 
  
  The other truly wonderful thing I noticed right away was that when you're fighting "trash" mobs 
 in a certain area, they ALL look different. If you have 10 pirates wandering a beach, you won't 
 be fighting a bunch of cookie-cutter pirates. This fact, combined with the combat system, make 
 fighting the most basic mobs a non-repetitive, unique experience-in other words: it's FUN! . 
 
  
  Bugs/glitches 
  
  The UI needs an overhaul. It's very hard to keep track of teammates. The map, minimap, and other 
 UI elements just need to be scrapped and reimplemented .
  
  I put this right after graphics for a reason: the majority of the bugs I've noticed so far have 
 been graphical glitches, some of which you'll be familiar with from other games. For instance, 
 when performing certain animations, if one tries to move before the completion of the animation, 
 you'll get a gliding-across-the-ground effect, much like LOTRO used to have with certain animations. 
 
  
  There are also problems with certain character features, such as hair and weapons which go through 
 other parts of the character. I know they've stated fixes for the hair are coming soon, and none 
 of this is game-breaking, so I'm glad these are the types of bugs I've noticed so far. 
  
  Overall, this game is just downright FUN! I'm a fickly gamer and I've become jaded with regard 
 to MMOs, but this one has it all and I'm quite sure I'll be calling Hyboria home for a long time 
 to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wesker888
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  To all the nay-saybers below this review, what exactly are you basing your score on? Because saying 
 that "it has nothing new to deliver" is like beating a dead horse. Or saying "it has bugs and flaws", 
 what exactly were you expecting? its pre-launch and tbh, its the most flawless launch for a game 
 yet. 
  
  Age of conan, like all games, have promised things that are way out of the question. Pretty much 
 like wow did with hero classes in the beginning, did we get any? no Warhammer online seems like 
 the hotshot today but wait until its released and you will see the same whines like you do here 
 now, simply because peoples expectations were too high and not met.
  
  Comparing to other game launches, this one is simply the most flawless.
  
  Bottom line is, 
 if you are sick and tired of wow like myself, try this game... you wont regret it. If not? dont 
 bother getting it nor rating it, because you will be dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 5
Date: May 20, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  Yea sure you can argue that the combat system is a breath of fresh air but be honest with yourself, 
 does the game really hold your attention and make you want to keep playing? I think in a month 
 or two a few of you will come to see that it's not all that spectacular of a game.
  
  I have played every class and honestly couldn't find one that excited me all that much. Either 
 they were all powerfull in levels 1-20 and weak in the rest of the game or vice versa. The world 
 seems large but is that enough? Funcom promised so many things at the start but slowly cut them 
 away until the game is a far cry from what they had promised it was going to be. I think Robert 
 E. Howard is turning in his grave knowing that his spectacular universe is being portrayed as it 
 has in AoC.
  
  If I had to choose one thing I liked out of AoC it woul have to be the adult rating etc. I know 
 this will not keep youngsters from playing... OOooing and AHHhhing over the naked breasts and what 
 not but I think the MMO world is ready for and Adult Only game that the players are guaranteed 
 to be over 18 or 21.
  
  I predict a strong start for this game but will fizzle out quickly in about 6 months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScytheNoire
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  Age of Conan is the most fun I've had with a game in a long time. It's not that games haven't been 
 fun, but so many have that feeling of "been there, done that", don't live up to their hype, or 
 are a console port with limited game play mechanics. Age of Conan is something different, although 
 familiar, but it's combat system and dark world make it enjoyable to play.
  
  Before release, they did some major patching, and they fixed a lot of the game that people complained 
 about in the Beta. Too many forgot that they were playing a Beta and wrote this game off prematurely, 
 but until you play the release, you haven't played the real Age of Conan.
  
  I have reservations only because the game just came out and MMO's go on for years, so it will remain 
 to be seen how things go over time, if they continue adding content, if the game has the longevity 
 and content to keep players, but it has a very good starting point from what I've seen.
  
  The game is also missing the DX10 content, which is a shame, as so many are looking forward to 
 that, which won't be out until late August or later. But the game still looks fantastic, we just 
 can't put our video cards to their full use yet.
  
  The magic system also feels wrong. Pets need a lot of work. Items could use better descriptions. 
 There are some graphical glitches every now and again, mostly with textures and polygons going 
 through them (i. e. boobs appearing through clothing) .
  
  But for the launch of an MMO, this is about the best I've seen, although we'll see how they handle 
 things when they real mass population hits the servers and see how things go. But from the Early 
 Access, it has been all good.
  
  I think many people were harping on the game early, and from the Beta, although my play experience 
 is limited, and you can't truly know how good an MMO is until a year or two into it. My feelings 
 of games like WoW have changed over time, and rarely do I leave a game loving it as much as I did 
 when I came in. We'll see how AoC does, and see what Mythic has with Warhammer Online to see if 
 they can lure people to their game once they have a taste of Age of Conan, or if players will be 
 bored of the content by then. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
