-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Age of Empires: The Rise of Rome
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/ageofempirestheriseofrome/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 10, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 8.0, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,733 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Ensemble Studios
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Oct 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
All the additions are nice, but they aren't necessary for your continued enjoyment. 

 Just as the Romans rose up and became the most advanced and powerful nation in the Western Hemisphere 
 at the turn of the millenium, so too do the Romans replace the old civilizations to reign supreme 
 in Ensemble's Age of Empires expansion pack, Rise of Rome.  

 With the planned sequel to Age of Empires pushed back to the middle of next year, the Rise of Rome 
 expansion pack took on new meaning. Not only is it supposed to enhance the value of this year-old 
 favorite, but it also serves as a bridge between Age of Empires and Age of Empires II. Age of Empires 
 loosely followed the growth of the ancient civilizations, Rise of Rome is set during the reign 
 of the Roman empire in the West, and Age of Empires II is to be set in the dark ages, after the 
 infrastructure established by the Romans crumbled into warring pieces.  

 As both a dessert for Age of Empires fans and an appetizer for Age of Empires II, Rise of Rome is 
 a series of hits and misses. I am a huge fan of the original game. I played numerous multiplayer 
 games and even gave the single-player campaigns a good, honest try. I didn't really mind the unit 
 limit or the questionable pathfinding. And I forgave the inadequacies of the single-player campaign 
 because I loved multiplayer matches so much.  

 There were many that loved Age of Empires as much as I did, but there were others that just couldn't 
 play this game because of a few problems. I couldn't really see these problems a year ago when 
 I was first enamored of the game, but today, I finally see just what all the fuss was about: This 
 game is far from perfect, and it has a few shortcomings that detract from the play experience. 

 The Rise of Rome expansion offers five new units, four new civilizations, four new technologies, 
 four new campaigns, and a few user enhancements like unit queues. As expansion packs go, this one 
 is crammed with goodies. Most of the five units were added in response to balance problems in Age. 
 The slinger is a barracks unit that exists to counter the tool age bowman rush. The camel rider 
 serves a similar purpose against the Bronze Age cavalry rush. The scythe chariot was created for 
 those civilizations that lacked a heavy Iron Age cavalry unit. The armored elephant was introduced 
 because the war elephant just wasn't being used enough. There wasn't an imbalance on the high seas, 
 but the fire galley was nevertheless brought in to expand naval combat.  

 All the units are useful, but you won't soon forget the old units because these new ones are either 
 highly specialized or expensive to research. The new additions found in Rise of Rome don't really 
 change the game significantly, although they do spice up matches. The slingers and camel riders 
 do mitigate certain rushes, but the game remains fundamentally the same, and some Rise of Rome 
 games will end without the need to ever build an expansion unit.  

 My one issue with the new units isn't really a complaint, but an observation. The three "counter" 
 units - slinger, camel rider, and fire galley - are highly specialized units that are great against 
 a certain type of unit and pretty much impotent against most of the other units. The scythe chariot 
 and armored elephants are great, although they are expensive upgrades to existing units, in the 
 same fashion as cataphracts and centurions. The scythe chariot addresses some civilizations' lack 
 of heavy cavalry in the Iron Age. All the new units have good animation and sound, although the 
 lanky gait of the camel rider bothered me.  

 The four new civilizations are good additions to the game, with some nice special abilities to entice 
 you to play them. The two interesting civilizations are the Macedonians (four times as resistant 
 to conversion) and the Romans (master builders) . The other two civilizations, Palmryans and Carthaginians, 
 aren't quite as interesting. One questionable thing about the new civs is the increased cost of 
 Palmryan villagers, without significant benefits to justify the cost.  

 The four new technologies aren't must-haves, but they have their uses. Two make the priest even 
 more powerful, while one adds a nominal bonus to infantry armor against missile attacks, and the 
 other allows you to build barracks units beyond the population limit. I must say that the way Ensemble 
 implemented the priests' new martyrdom ability (which allows you to instantly convert a unit by 
 sacrificing your priest) leaves much to be desired. Instead of adding a button to the interface 
 to allow you to click to martyr your priest, you have to convert normally and then hit delete. 
 The interface of the game is otherwise good, but this seems to me more like a last-minute work-around. 
 Couldn't Ensemble have just spent the time to add a button to the priest interface?  

 Probably the best thing about the expansion pack is the suite of user enhancements, which includes 
 adjustable unit limits, unit queues, and adjustable pathfinding. These improvements do make the 
 game better.  

 As in the first, the single-player game is the biggest drawback. The campaigns are unusually short, 
 which is fine. However, there are no cutscene rewards for campaign victories. Many individual scenarios 
 had interesting premises, but there is no purpose for the overall campaigns, just a loose theme 
 and some random missions. I had hoped that Ensemble would make the solo experience more rewarding, 
 but it isn't. The scenarios within each campaign play more like a puzzle game. These new missions 
 are hard, not because the artificial intelligence is more challenging, but because the scenario 
 setup is more puzzle-like and tedious.   

 The other thing that really diffused my enjoyment of the expansion was the terrible pathfinding. 
 I forgave it in Age of Empires, and even though it has been improved, it is still bad. Invariably, 
 when you tell a group of units to go around a forest to get to another point, half of them will 
 get stuck in the trees, too stupid to know to walk around the foliage.   

 Rise of Rome is not a must-buy. I like parts of the expansion pack, but there isn't enough compelling 
 content to make me want to go out and add it to my multiplayer matches. All the additions are nice, 
 but they aren't necessary for your continued enjoyment. If you are a big Age of Empires fan, you'll 
 want to check out the new units and civilizations, as well as the user enhancements, but you won't 
 be getting a significant upgrade to the single-player experience or the pathfinding, two problems 
 that Ensemble knew were in the original but somehow didn't address in this expansion pack.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (31 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Rise of Rome should have been named Rise of the True Historic Real Time Strategy. Every aspect 
 of the game is just right, beginning from the gameplay to the AI. However like it's predecessor 
 it falls a little flat when it comes to it's campaigns. It however improves on a little point known 
 as queuing of unit production.
  Addition of Caesar campaigns does however add up to the Roman atmosphere. The only drawback of 
 this game was that it was limited only and basically to ancient wars.
  
  
  The villagers are however still left topless. They are made to hunt animals with their bare hands. 
 It's time they got some better weapons. One thing that I couldn't get hold of is the technology 
 tree for any of the civilizations, which however becomes available in AOE2. Besides I personally 
 didn't like the music.
  
  
  However all that becomes irrelevant once you start immersing yourself into the game that has won 
 a million hearts and has overworked millions of brains.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Safor001
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  All you campaign freaks! All you scenario designers! Check this out! 
  When you open this up, you think of how great the Roman and Carthaginians will be. Well, to tell 
 you the down-to-earth honest truth, they are the same as everyone else except for the new Roman 
 architecture. But if you want some nice campaigns, as well as some new units to use in your new 
 campaign you hope to put up soon, I would recommend snatching this on eBay or whatever. Now, if 
 you want to continue playing online and get new maps and stuff, you should get this. An Rise of 
 Rome map won't open up on the original Age of Empires, and even IGZones has a database of only 
 10 players on their Age of Empires lobby. And I will bet a million dollars 70% of them are noobs. 
 Although, maybe I should take that back, because most noobs will buy the gold edition, more likely. 
 :) Either way, Rise of Rome maintains a fair database of users, so you are more likely to find 
 someone of your level there. And the new historic campaigns on the Punic Wars and stuff will leave 
 you occupied. 
  Anyways, I would recommend buying this if you want continued online play and map-downloading/making.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CokaColaKid
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Hi I rate games that I play based on a couple of things, and these things are what have prominence 
 over every game that I play. First addictiveness second atmosphere. This game has both, I really 
 dont know what the reviewer on gamespots review was expecting, I played this game 2 years after 
 it had been released, I had no expectations. Ive played just about every RTS game out there and 
 personally this is one of the best. I would easly give the graphics on this game a 10 based on 
 art work, I dont rate graphics just based on realism.
  Sounds are great capturing the style of game play and give a feeling for the era of the time in 
 history of the game. 
  
  My experience is that a friend left a copy of the game at my house, I had some time off work so 
 I installed it and started playing in the late afternoon. I was up all night working through the 
 campaigns, my friends had a hard time getting me away from my computer. Now having said that, Ive 
 read alot of reviews on this site that are up in the nines. Ive played a few of them but most I 
 could only play for a couple of hours at a time because they failed to hold my interest. Theres 
 a difference between a game thats well put together and a game you just cant put down, you dont 
 want it to end because its just that good. 
  This game is like that it has epicness about it. I highly recomend it for anyone who likes strategy 
 games. 
  
  Now onto the multi-player, after about 2 months I decided to give it a try. I just picked some 
 random game and played this guy and won lol. So I decided to join an expert game, this guy asked 
 if I was an expert, I said yea I 
  beat the game on hardest. I guess he thought he`d give me a lesson on what an expert really is. 
 Anyway I learned something, but also got a taste of some of the most fun multi-player games ive 
 ever played. The only problem is the game kind of died in multi sure they have it on gamespy also 
 some private servers, just isnt as much fun as the zone. If microsoft had kept this game up like 
 bliz does with WC3 and other games, I think there would be alot of people playing it still today. 
 Hackers and cheaters basicly ruined the multi-player. But microsoft could have fixed that. 
  
  This game transported me through time into another world, that experience kept me up alot of 
 nights for about a year. I also made alot of good friends playing it online, I dont know about 
 you but thats worth a ten to me. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faks
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Game is best even afther these all years
  Game Still Rock In 2008 year i can't find better game than this this is real master piece in all 
 historic real-time strategy !
  they change all buth they lost the spirit of game sow i will love this game forever
  till they 
 will make cossack and this game mix together :D
  that's should rock more than ever sow i will play this game again and again :) !
  sow i think 
 this game is special cause it's can be played in many years later and still will be good as it's 
 posible !
  way i play this cause it is just sow good !
  should the devlopers love they game not just work with all other like a piece of money game must 
 be more than special with own special posibilitys and etc muc sow think game is worth of 10 Points 
 of perfect !
  Be Real Gamer Play The Classic ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires: The Rise of Rome was an all time classic to me and to everyone else who played 
 the game. I remember playing it all the time on the school computers back in my elementary school 
 days. Every kid back then played it even the teachers played to with the students. The single player 
 aspect of the game was okay but everyone just wasn't interested in it they all played multiplayer 
 24/7 instead. As well as myself went straight to multiplayer it all time high back when I played 
 it in school during peak school hours. Everyone that liked multiplayer aspect liked the map that 
 has Giant Ocean in the middle and each team started on one separate side of the map. During multiplayer 
 some people would be cheap and would create hundreds of ships and would easily kill there enemies. 
 You would spend over 100's of hours playing this game over and over back in the day. The map editor 
 was the best at the time in which you could create very interesting styles of maps. Anyone could 
 play the game back in the day if they had know how to use a computer that is. If I remember right 
 you could use cheats in the game for single player but it's rarely used by players only most desperate 
 players use them or you might use them if you're playing the game in super hard settings by messing 
 around with the game files. Some things that didn't really help you in playing multiplayer are 
 some of the stupid upgrades you could do, but didn't really do anything to help you in beating 
 some of your friends. If you did all the upgrades you could do you pretty much lost it wastes all 
 your resources on nothing, you have a better chance using them to create villagers to stay fighting.
 
  
  overall this game is all time favorite game for old school gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_marshes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is hard to describe. The Single Player is Excellent because it lets you practice with 
 an intelligent and efficient AI. The Deathmatch setting is very fast and you need to think fast 
 to counter attack your enemy. The computer is a good practice but not that much here. The Computer 
 is an excellent rival when you play the Random Map Settings. 
  
  The best of this game was the Multiplayer. The MSN Gaming Zone was the best environment in which 
 you could play this game. You had lot of competition. People were just different there.
  
  I personally played this game for looot of years. I played the trial version for 6 years. The Full 
 version for 3 years. And this is definitely the best game I ever played even though i know other 
 games have more graphics and look better. That's why i said it's hard to describe this game
  
  Many people will not agree with me. The ones that played with me all these years will. If you 
 were the one that just tried this game for like 1 week, of course you will talk bad about the game. 
 You had to understand the game. 
  Good Job Ensemble Studios even though you closed Zone =/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiperion1815
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is good, but i think some of it's predecessors are better, has good campaigns, many different 
 strategies, but a big problem of this game is a low population limit (50, some kinda of joke? that's 
 the pop of my peasants...)
  but multiplayer has fixed this lil' problem.
  other problem is that the soldiers have a very low path finding even with high path finding (can 
 they do something for themselves?) but i agree that the multiplayer mode and the campaign briefings 
 are quite good, the multiplayer performance is well elaborated (so, playing with humans makes a 
 variation of strategy, don't ya'?)
  but at an overall opinion i fairly recommend this game (single of 4 players or 1-1 multiplayer is 
 good combo) also, a good detail are the priests (wololooo, wololooo...) an the difficulty of the 
 campaigns (the yamato one is very hard) . then farewell, i hope ya enjoy this game more than me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azu32
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In Age of Empires: Rise of Rome expansion, it offers five new units- The Armored Elephant, 
 Camel Rider, Scythed Chariot , Fire Galley, Slinger, four new civilizations- Carthaginian, Macedonian, Palmyran 
 and Romans, four new technologies- Logistic, Martyrdom, Medicine, and Tower Shield, four new campaigns 
 with the new civilizations, and a few user enhancements like unit queues. So in this expantion 
 you get to build wonders and if you keep them standing long enough then you will win the game without 
 having to attack the enemy. Also more buildings are talling then the people but some are still 
 look like they are the same height. Also there is a multiplayer portion of the game which can hold 
 up to four players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsmithj14
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  The Rise of Rome Expansion added to the appeal of the initial Age of Empires - you couldn't leave 
 out the Romans!
  
  Age of Empire Review:
  10 out of 10 for ten great years! Starcraft may be the RTS game of choice for certain people (and 
 countries) , but in our household this is the game that has stood the test of time. It may be not 
 as graphically pretty (though I still find them well done) or feature packed as some of it's sequels 
 and competitors - it's AOE's lack of complexity that has made it easy to learn and difficult to 
 master.
  While it may not have waypoints, unit queuing, gates in the walls, mega death weapons or battle 
 formations it is the constant need to keep a watchful eye over the battlefield that has made it 
 so exciting. Compared to Age of Kings which seems to bog down to trench warfare once the castles 
 and fortifications are up, Age of Empires keeps its play dynamic and varied.
  Given myself, family and friends have also been keen Civilization fans, in it's various incarnations 
 from the days of DOS, we liked the historical perspective of the various combatants from the Stone 
 to the Iron Age. It's something tangible and quite interesting - when reading into the various 
 histories of the lesser known empires.
  We've had some brilliant multiplayer moments over the years with this game and find the various 
 victory conditions add to the appeal - from total battlefield victory, timed or points victory, 
 wonder victory, or grabbing all the artifacts/relics and holding them. We still talk about one 
 game when a players wonder was destroyed with only 20 years to go (roughly 30 seconds) , only for 
 our game to then rage on for another 3 hours before a victory was achieved. As well as the time 
 I snuck away with two villagers as my original township was being destroyed only to rebuild in 
 hiding and win after a major counter attack.
  Back in the days when this was out C&amp; C, Warcraft 2 and Starcraft were all the rage, but the 
 points for me go to Age of Empires! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In Age of Empires: Rise of Rome expansion, it offers five new units- The Armored Elephant, 
 Camel Rider, Scythed Chariot , Fire Galley, Slinger, four new civilizations- Carthaginian, Macedonian, Palmyran 
 and Romans, four new technologies- Logistic, Martyrdom, Medicine, and Tower Shield, four new campaigns 
 with the new civilizations, and a few user enhancements like unit queues. So in this expantion 
 you get to build wonders and if you keep them standing long enough then you will win the game without 
 having to attack the enemy. Also more buildings are talling then the people but some are still 
 look like they are the same height. Also there is a multiplayer portion of the game which can hold 
 up to four players.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really colorful and nice. Enviroments are all in 3-D and are eye candy 
 at the time when most RTS Games were still in 2-D. The effects are allright but at times unrealitc 
 when infantry are attacking build with a sword or something the building will start to catch fire 
 which does not make much sence.
  
  Sound: The sound track and sound effects are really good, it really suits the theme of the game 
 well. The sound of steel on steel to horses galloping all sound the way it should sound.
  
  Value: All in all this is a solid game to play and definatly one of the better RTs games at the 
 time. There is quite a bit of replay value with the multiplayer, random map and the single player 
 part of the game is quite replayable. The only thing I did not like was the population limit, abd 
 alot of buildins look lik they are the same or shorter hight then the units themselves and physics 
 were kinda weird. I give this game 8.3 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danevader
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is defitnetly worth it for all of those AoE fans that are crazy about Rome or for 
 those that aren't a AoE fans and like Total War games better but their computer can't run those 
 high graphics. The learning curve is very easy and shouldn't take more than 5 minutes and if it 
 takes more time don't sweat it. As far as gameplay goes it's all about killing everybody else and 
 making sure that your the only one left on the map. If after reading this review you feel like 
 buying this game check the bargain bin in your nearest video game store to make sure that this 
 game is there and trust me it gets very fun after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herodite777
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  A whole new faction caught my eye when I first played this game: Rome. And this expansion pack 
 somehow made one of the best games ever... better. Surprisingly Microsoft achieved this.
  
  I totally recommend buying it. It adds more to your multiplayer and singleplayer experience, and 
 it has better sound and improved graphics (for that era) . This game's value is really great. This 
 game also lets buildings queue, which makes making your army easier. The strategies had to be revised 
 a bit, and the AI was improved. Overall this is a huge expansion pack, and if you liked the original 
 Age of Empires game, you will love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yahiko182
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  The game has fairly solid game play. Not a whole lot of strategy involved. The game is fairly fun 
 and it doesn't have any bugs. But it was not revolutionary. But it did start a good trend of video 
 games (Age of Empires 3) . The game had a medium learning curve and the graphics were fairly good 
 for a RTS in some cases better than Star Craft at the time. But seeing as how Age of Empires and 
 Star Craft were released at about the same time. I'd have to say that Star Craft made Age of Empires 
 the underdog in Age of Empires. If you have a very bad computer maybe you should consider this 
 game. But in my opinion I'd go with Star Craft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 29, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  In 1997, Microsoft released the game, Age of Empires. It was quite popular, and had many things 
 that a strategy game should have, might be said from some. Others, including Gamespot and myself, 
 didn't like it. It was too much war and too little empire building. Plus, the CPU was very skilled, 
 too skilled. With the Rise of Rome, Microsoft tried to improve on a game enjoyed by some, but not 
 others. Did they succeed? Well, sort of.
  
  Rise of Rome brings in new changes into a mixed reaction game. Now, there are four new civilizations 
 brought to the table. The Macedonians, the Carthigians, can't remember the third one, and of course, 
 the Romans! The new civilizations are nice, but then again they don't really add anything new. 
 I rarely played as one of the four new civilizations, with the exception of Carthage. You will 
 also find the four new units: the Slinger, Camel Rider, Armoured Elephant and the Scythe Chariot. 
 They all really help you out, and are very useful to the game. The Slingers are very effective 
 against archers, Camel Riders help hold out cavalry, and the Armoured Elephant and Scythe Chariot 
 are just great fighting machines. These are very useful, and are probably the best new features. 
 Make great use out of them.
  
  There are also four new technologies. However, I don't even recognize them as new technologies, 
 and I don't find them useful. Also, since there is only four new ones, Microsoft should have done 
 better there.
  
  There are also some new features out on the field besides units and technologies. You will find 
 that there are now actually cliffs in the game that make the maps even more unique from the rest. 
 There are also new maps which can be played.
  
  Another useful change is in the unit building. Now, there is actually a quene in which you can 
 build more units at once. I don't remember the amount, but that is definitely an improvement, so 
 instead of always moving back and forth to build new units, you can just set a different amount.
 
  
  Also, there are several new campaigns that you can play. They are mostly revolve around the Romans. 
 Some new ones include Julius Caesar, and the Fall of Rome.
  
  Now I'll move on to the basics: Gameplay, Graphics, Sound and Value.
  
  Gameplay in this game 
 has indeed improved. Your units seemed to have smartened up somewhat, and it is indeed quite fun. 
 I should say however, that it is still a bit too much war in the game. Also, your units still aren't 
 that bright.
  
  The game's Graphics still fail to impress me. They are way too bright and animated in such a warlike 
 game. Sure, I like the brightness and animation in some games, but in my opinon, it isn't exactly 
 what you want in a game like this.
  
  The sound I completely hate. The grunting sounds a unit makes makes when they attack aren't impressive. 
 Also, the sounds are just a clang that doesn't seem that suitable for a sword hitting another human. 
 It sounds like that the swordsman is hitting a brick wall, somewhat. Also, the archers still sound 
 completely messed up when they fire their arrows. The value is somewhat good. The improvements 
 in the game are nice, and do improve on a game that had way too many bugs and problems. It would've 
 been nice if there was just a little more in the game however.
  
  Overall, this game has made nice improvments over Age of Empires. The new units are nice, civilizations 
 could make the game a little more fun, and some of the bugs have been fixed. However, there are 
 still some problems in the game that prevent it from being a series game. Though I recommend it 
 if you have Age of Empires, it still isn't a great game, and if your Age of Empires disk is collecting 
 dust, so will this game when you get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  The Age Of Empires Rise Of Rome For PC.
  
  Well I'm an avid PC gamer, and most of my time is spent on this game, as well as 2002 FIFA World 
 Cup. I wouldn't talk about the latter here, so let's hear the views on the game. Firstly, on to 
 gameplay. 
  
  Gameplay : This is simply RTS remade in a revolutionary manner. Instead of gathering one type of 
 resource, we now have four. Making micromanaging of economy challenging. Strategies can be exploited, 
 such as the Chariot Archer rush, the tool rush, or the armoured elephant rush and such. The controls 
 are simply worked out, and require no hard work. The games can last for hours or minutes depending 
 on your strategy, and the concept of random maps just means that a recipe for success in ROR does 
 not exist. However, the gameplay is basically the same as the original Age of Empires. But new 
 units, new technologies, and new maps offer some different and unique ways of finishing your war. 
 Will you be on a island far from your enemy and have peace for a long time? Or will you get Horse 
 Archers knocking at your gate before you can get those Fred Flintstones to learn about the meaning 
 of Bronze? It's really up to you to choose. Plus, the missions offer a lot of different ways to 
 accomplish those operations, such as ''bring object to area'', ''destroy specific object'' or even 
 ''wood stockpile'', or ''kill ratio''. This means that winning missions just won't be as easy as 
 massing 50 Heavy Catapults and mashing everything in your sight. No. Every unit has a weakness, 
 making a ''single best dominant unit'' non-existant. Heavy Catapults are devastating to buildings, 
 but their catapults can't match the Calvary's speed while the calvary reaches the catapult and 
 hacks it open. Fire Galleys are capable of beating any unit one-on-one (almost) , but need to get 
 close to attack. The balance means that the game will last longer, and never be boring. 
  Plus, the addition of the scenario editor means that you aren't only able to play the game, but 
 you can create the game as well! The master of scenario editing, Ingo van Thiel, has created some 
 revolutionary masterpieces. The scenario editor even has some hidden features. You can create swamps, 
 invisible barriers, burn people in the stakes, and even start the game with your character sleeping 
 (in complete darkness) , then the next moment, you ''wake up'' and is able to see again. many of 
 these great tricks are discovered by Ingo, and let's see if you can find any more too! The game 
 also has new units and improvements over the original, making this worth a buy. 
  
  Graphics : The units are detailed to the very millimetre, and the terrain can be extremely realistic, 
 especially when created by the hands of people like Ingo van Thiel. Watch fishes leaping around 
 in the water, waterfalls on cliffs, very special apple trees (another great trick, although not 
 discovered by Ingo) , burning cities, and even laser-like stuff! Aided by cheat codes, you can even 
 get modern robots, nuke troopers, laser troopers, and catapults that fire villagers in capes! The 
 score isn't perfect because of certain flaws, like buildings in construction and the monotonous 
 cliffs. The graphics aren't great, nor bad at the same time. I actually prefer Real-time strategies (RTS) 
 like this. You have the general trees and different landscapes like: rocky and flat, not any season 
 changes sadly. Don; t get me wrong, the graphics are serviceable. They're just enough to not want 
 more. The units are animated well, and there are animals to give some life to the environments. 
 The trees do not move in the wind, and sometimes people go through each other, but that is every 
 game, right?? 
  
  Sound : Some catchy tunes and background music, with realistic noises made by weapons. The sound 
 of fire burning when the Fire Galley unleashes its wrath, the sound of metals clashing when hand-to-hand 
 units engage in heated combat, the sound of destruction when the catapult destroys yet another 
 building, the sound of crumbling wood when a elite centurion fells a helepolis, and the sorrowful 
 tune that sounds when you are defeated. All these are just a tiny part of the many varieties of 
 sounds in the game. However, the musics can be repetitive at times, so the score's 8. 
  
  The missions all follow real historical happenings, and go systematically by the date and time. 
 Plus, missions by great people like Ingo or Ty Freeborn have great storylines. I'll give a 9 because 
 some missions are poor in the story part. 
  
  You can always try a harder difficulty, or use a completely different approach in the missions. 
 Try new things. Explore. Innovate. You'll never get bored of this game that way. 
  
  Buy it if you liked the originals, because this game is very much the like. If you didn't like 
 AOE, you probably would hate ROR too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  The Rise of Rome was a great addon to AOE the new units and the 4 new civs where a plus for me.. 
 I also enjoyed the priest sacrificing himself to convert. It did lack on the fact that on this 
 specific upgrade, when used, I need to convert and then press delete he will not do it on his own. 
 It is the kind of patch I can live with out but I got it anyways because of the extra fun it would 
 provide me. The changes are not essential, to the point where you probably can play a game easily 
 without using any of the new things it provides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: excaliburblade
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 8, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires Rise of Rome has improved on its predicessor. Rise of Rome has fixed the flaws either 
 AoE. We can no w increase our population limit beyond 50 units, civilization choice lists have 
 improved, the music has gotten better, and the value is still the same. Rise of Rome has improved 
 on the Campaign and given us a look into Ancient Rome and a few historic battles such as the Scipio 
 vs. Hannibal. 
  With new units and new architecture, Rise of Rome will keep you glued to your screens. Conquer 
 the world again and agian. It never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cid8807
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  AOE ROR is the expansion of the first age empires this version adds alot to the game. It lets your 
 population limit get alot higher. This version also add a few more civilizations that you can use 
 to dominate your enemies. You'll also notice that there are also different map types to pick from 
 which if your tired of the same of hill country or coastal maps. Your in for a good pleasing change. 
 There are also new technologies that are availiable and lead to the use of new warriors and infintry 
 units. The priest have also changed just alittle bit to give them a little more of na advantage. 
 They are now able to move alittle faster on you have researched a certain technology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 8/10
  The detail's all there, but the most obtrusive thing missing is the smoothness of the picture. 
 Much of what is seen in AOE: Rise of Rome is grainy and unimproved over the original AOE. It's 
 a shame also that the interaction animations, for example, shooting a bow, chooping lumber, gathering 
 food, etc. are unspectacular and largely monotonous. Compared to its competitor, Starcraft, this 
 game falls short in the graphics department. Don't expect any accolades on the scenery either.
 
  Sound: 9/10
  Although there is a lot of variety in the sounds produced, whether in combat or in selecting units 
 and buildings, there is only 1 form of sound produced every SINGLE time. This causes the game to 
 be monotonous towards the end of one battle.
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Now here is the reason that AOE actually stands a chance against other RTS games available. It 
 is the sheer number of units and races that are found. Also, the logic behind the technologies 
 researched is undeniable; most of them make sense in either history or logic. For example, fire 
 weapons damage ships more. Also, another example is of cavalry shying away from camels, making 
 camels the logical choice against cavalry.
  Overall, not a very useful expansion, since not too many units are added and not enough technologies 
 were added as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otownshend
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  The 3 added extra campains are extremely good, but they are a challenge, which I enjoy!
  
  I have played it for hours and I found to be really injoyable, exploring the map and finding new 
 islands to explore and find more resources, but beware of enemy units snooping around and also 
 alligators that could easy kill your work units!
  
  Not only you are building your civilization to perfection you are also building against the enemy, 
 which are sending their troops after you, so defend well, the best kind of defence is an offence!!!
 
  
  This game is great, hats off to the developers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irulehexen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Microsoft comes back with a sequel to the prestigious Age of Empires, with the hit Rise of Rome. 
 The sequel is everything that Age of Empires was and more. Instead of keeping the hastati or mainfold 
 of its predecessor, the expansion has numerous features not available in the original, that it 
 vanguards its own citadel, rather than restricted to the same foothold.
  
  In the game, you receive four new civilizations- the Romans, the Macedonians, the Carthaginians, 
 and the Palmyrans. 
  Ave Caesar! 
  The Romans are available. With their logistics, stratagems and theorems, their discipline and order, 
 their provisions such as the lorica hamata and the lorica segmentata, led them to triumph. Example 
 would be when Gaius Julius Caesar challenged Vercingetorix and won imperium over Gaul. It continues 
 to the formation of the triumvirate and his others roles as strategoi over not only the plebeians 
 and some patricians in figment of mind, but his legions as well.
  Hannibal Barca rose to fight Rome. As well, Carthage is available. From his journey across the 
 Alps, the battle of Trebia, and the grueling battle of Cannae led this being's convictions and 
 rightful passions as to having not been of such grotesque and chitinous behomeths.
  Macedonia spawned Philip II and his son Alexander, who subjugated most of the known world such 
 as the Egyptians, Parthia, Persia, and the Indus river valley. However, with his death, his empire 
 was divided into three kingdoms, which later was slaughtered by the Romans.
  Palmyra was a vassal state of Imperial Rome, and its leader was made Dux Orientus or co-emperor. 
 Upon his death his wife Zenobia took over, and after a loss to be imperator of Rome to Marcus Aurelius, 
 took over the granaries of Egypt and attaked Roman garrisons. Zenobia was led to Rome in chains, 
 and Palmyra subdued.
  All this and more are available in Rise of Rome.
  
  An innovation and a boundless realm- indeed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S_A_D_U_1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  when you first start to play this game its kinda confusing. it doesn't really tell much about whats 
 going on. it has no real story to it either. the game play was ok but it took way to long to do 
 everything. you had to create units, one at a time, which made making armies very difficult plus 
 you had a pop. limit of 75 people. what are you supposed t do whith 75 people. the sound was decent 
 i guess the music was so so. you could only choose from a select few civilizations. if you like 
 old school games then this ones for you but i'm not recomending this one for anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yamauchirulez
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Rome really is not an obligation to get. After a while, you get bored of age of empires 
 and this expansion will not help much. Sure, with this, you get many interesting new campaigns 
 and a lot of new units and stuff but it misses one thing: addiction. When I played the new campains, 
 I did not get a flash that made me unable to close the computer. Sure, everybody or almosttell 
 me that this (or the first) was addictive. The only thing that is addictive in this game is playing 
 in the free game mode or building your own terrain. The new units are sure good and fun to play 
 but, at the price that it starts, even at 25$, you should not buy the expansion. Last thing: microsoft 
 did not even fix the little bugs or improve the graphics. That really sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drevmiller
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 24, 2005 6:52 am PT
Review:  When ii first purchased this game i didn't reckon much to it, but after a while it grew on me, 
 plus it's educational which is always a good excuse to sit on the computer for hours on end. The 
 graphics for this game aren't great but are bearable, plus some of the annoying sound effects let 
 this game down. The main advantage is that when you are stressed or angry you can count on this 
 game to help you wind down, the humour of killing every one elses troops, Some of the storylines 
 aren't to clever, but on a whole it is good value for money. When on the game, you can chose from 
 a whole range of civilisations from the greeks to the mighty roman empire. The aim of the game 
 is to build an empire either large enough or strong enough to defeat your enemies to becoming the 
 ruling civilisation. The game can also be played online against other players from around the world. 
 The expansion upgrades cause the original to improven to an satisfactory standard. This game is 
 for mainly the people who like to be educated about the past and still be entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aletof2000
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 18, 2005 8:13 am PT
Review:  This AoE expansion gives the game more units, civilizations, buildings and overall it gives us 
 a great campaign to play with. The graphics are just a little bit enhanced; concerning to the "fog" 
 effect. Even considering these additions to the game, the expansion does not give enough material 
 as o ther expansions from other games does. Consider Age of Mythology, it's expansion; The Titans, 
 gives you not only new units, buildings, civilizations and campaigns, but also introduces a new 
 concept not seen before: the capability to control a "Titan". These radical changes are the ones 
 that makes an expansion great and really worth payimg for, that's why Age of Empires the Rise of 
 Rome Expansion does not give that radical change and therefore is not really worth it, unless you 
 liked the original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monster2k
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 9:12 am PT
Review:  This game rocks i cant believe how some people dont like it, well the ones who like the genre of 
 game Age of Empires is. Sure you can say it's trying to be Civilization or surpass it but without 
 that game it wouldn't have been so great. Everything needs something to build on and Age of Empires 
 did that when they came out with AOE2 and from the screenshots of AOE3 it's done a good job. I 
 know Civilizations will still reign supreme but the AOE series will always be second in my book. 
 And dont get me wrong i didnt like it from afar but when i played it i wuz hooked. This game should 
 get more credit than given. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CBThur13
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 15, 2005 8:05 pm PT
Review:  It's just an expansion, but still didn't hook me to the game. The graphics are still bad, the gameplay 
 still confuses me and the whole game just bores me. Sorry to all you people out there who likes 
 this game, this is just my opinion. Maybe if I had bought Age of Empires and this expansion when 
 they first came out, I would have appreciated them more. However, I didn't buy them when they first 
 came out and I don't appreciate them more.
  
  I do not recommend Rise of Rome. If you want to play it go ahead. It's just not that great and 
 you should save your money for the upcoming Age of Empires 3. I know I am :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedropvz
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 14, 2005 9:00 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires: Rise of Rome is surelly one of the best Historical RTS games ever. 
  
  I find it almost perfect, I can play it for hours! I used only to play random maps for hours. But 
 with the new Age of Empires III, I wanted to play it again while I was waiting for the new AoE 
 and started playing its campains, I'm now completly additected to this!
  
  Its not only battle, but developing your civilization will lead you to supremacy. You can find 
 lost islands with plenty of gold but protected by Alligator kings that will kill your workers in 
 no time. But you can send military previously to kill it. You can convert enimies and their buildings 
 to you cause. You can create a city in an insland or in part of a continent protected from all 
 your enimies attacks with walls, guards and towers helping your workers to develop your civilization.
 
  
  This game is just amazing, not borring at all! Congratulations to the developers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megathrowbot2
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 8, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empire: Rise of Rome is the expansion to Age of Empires. Unfortunately, although it offers 
 new units, campaigns, and civillizations, it is still the same old thing. Same old graphics and 
 repetative music. I really can't say much more as those are really the differences (and simillarites) 
 of the game. I've never played the multiplayer, but I assume it wouldn't be any different as this 
 is only an expansion. It's once again no worth picking up, unless of course you liked the past game, 
 but otherwise don't bother getting that one or this one. Just pick up StarCraft and StarCraft: 
 Brood War, or WarCraft, they're much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gissamuel
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 5, 2005 6:33 am PT
Review:  This is the expansion to the best RTS game series in the whole world. I love to watch the villagers 
 walking back and forth collecting resources. It gives you a sense of realism. The buildings are 
 more like what you would expect roman buildings to look like and adds a few more things to the 
 game. If I remember right this added lady villagers to the old game and added a few more units. 
 There is still a major lack in the cultural differences that I think still makes the game kind 
 of boring. The culturesin the original almost always look the same which to me was a drawback in 
 the begining. Once you played one race they just seemed to be exactly like the next race. Some 
 units may have been different,, but all buildings in the original looked similiar. This Expansion 
 did add a few cool things but still lacks a lot of what Age of Kings brings to the table. Though 
 it is monotanous it is worth buying to see what the original in the series looked like. I would 
 not buy this new except in a bargaing bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homsuplo75
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 5, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I was first introduced to RTS games with a different title but I was enjoying the genre so much 
 I even went back and bought older titles such as this one. Although the graphics and sound are 
 not that great on this game the gameplay is still great. The AI could have used a bit of tweaking 
 but it can still put up a worthy challenge when on a more difficult setting. 
  
  I remember while playing this game that it wasn't as good as some of the ones I had been playing 
 before then but I still wanted to complete the game just to be able to say that I had. I enjoyed 
 that it was set in the Roman times because it gave a slightly different perspective than the other 
 RTS games I had been playing at the time. 
  
  This obviously should not be your fitsy choice these days if you are going to get into the RTS 
 genre but is still a good title to add to your collection. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
