-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Age of Empires II: The Conquerors Expansion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/ageofempires2thece/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 25, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.9, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 5,528 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Ensemble Studios
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Aug 24, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a suitably excellent expansion to what remains one of the best real-time strategy games to 
 date. 

 Released one year after Microsoft originally published the highly acclaimed real-time strategy sequel 
 Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings, the official expansion pack, The Conquerors, faces serious 
 competition. The burgeoning real-time strategy genre has grown and changed since Age of Kings, 
 as several impressive fully 3D tactical combat games have emerged in the past year. It almost seems 
 as if conventional real-time strategy games are already dead - as if they've been ousted by such 
 games as Relic's Homeworld and Massive Entertainment's Ground Control, which de-emphasize resource-gathering 
 and focus on 3D tactical combat. But Age of Empires II: The Conquerors proves once again that the 
 classical formula for real-time strategy games still remains effective if executed properly. It's 
 a suitably excellent expansion to what remains as one of the best real-time strategy games to date. 
   

  Certainly the most apparent new feature in Age of Conquerors is the addition of five new playable 
 civilizations: the Aztecs, the Huns, the Koreans, the Mayans, and the Spanish. In particular, the 
 Aztec and the Mayan civilizations feature an all-new Meso-American building set, which, together 
 with their eagle-masked warriors and tribal monks, lend these two civilizations a distinct appearance. 
 The Aztecs and the brute strength of their infantry and the Mayans and their hardy archers each 
 play rather differently from the other 16 civilizations in The Conquerors, mainly because they 
 have no cavalry and must instead rely on their powerful foot soldiers. But the other three new 
 civilizations are also interesting: The nomadic Huns are adept at razing their opponents' structures, 
 and unlike every other civilization in the game, they don't need to build houses to increase their 
 maximum population limit. Meanwhile, the Koreans have formidable defenses to help them against 
 just such a threat, thanks to their exceptional guard towers and siege weapons, along with their 
 heavily armored horse-drawn war wagons and turtle-shaped boats. The Spanish are no less powerful, 
 since their mounted conquistadors are armed with deadly short-range firearms, while their missionaries 
 have the notorious conversion abilities of Age of Kings' monk units, but with greater mobility 
 at the cost of a little range.   

  The five new civilizations in The Conquerors all make good additions to the game, but in spite 
 of their special advantages, they do help demonstrate just how similar all the civilizations in 
 The Conquerors really are. Though each civilization in the game has a unique unit and a new, unique 
 technology available for research, ultimately many of these distinctions are either subtle or straightforward, 
 since all the civilizations basically play the same way. It isn't the case that the 18 different 
 civilizations in The Conquerors are all radically different from each other, although there's more 
 than enough variety available to suit most any particular style of play.   

  The additional technologies in The Conquerors are a means of helping further balance the game and 
 also accentuating each respective civilization's unique advantages. Some other universal balance 
 changes affect some of the underused units in Age of Kings and make them more viable. Also, some 
 of the Age of Kings civilizations have been tweaked to make them more balanced with the rest. Some 
 of these changes are particularly noteworthy: For instance, you can now garrison foot soldiers 
 inside battering rams, which not only makes the rams faster, but also lets the ram shield the infantry 
 from archer fire while the troops themselves remain readily available to protect the ram at close 
 range. This makes battering rams a very worthwhile alternative to the trebuchet, whose devastating 
 long-range attack was almost imperative to the success of any battle in Age of Kings.    

 One of the game's other siege weapons, the stone-throwing mangonel (along with its upgraded counterpart, 
 the onager) was also improved in The Conquerors so that it no longer automatically fires upon enemy 
 targets in the midst of friendly troops. This behavior in Age of Kings caused mangonels to be a 
 real liability, but now these siege engines are suddenly much more effective. Such changes are 
 especially noticeable and exciting for experienced Age of Kings players, who'll doubtless enjoy 
 experimenting with the newly enhanced returning civilizations almost as much as they'll like the 
 inclusion of five new ones.   

  Age of Empires II players will likely also be interested in the four new campaigns in The Conquerors. 
 Three of these detail the historical leaders Attila the Hun, El Cid, and Montezuma, respectively. 
 These linear campaigns each comprise several lively missions filled with scripted sequences that 
 suggest the sorts of historical trials that brought such fame to these well-known rulers. The fourth 
 campaign is a series of unrelated re-creations of epic historical battles. The computer opponent's 
 artificial intelligence has been enhanced in The Conquerors, not only to make the game easier than 
 Age of Kings for beginners, but also to make it significantly more challenging for more advanced 
 players. Specifically, even inexperienced players should still be able to beat the campaign missions 
 on the lower difficulty settings. Meanwhile, the tougher settings can provide a relentless challenge, 
 as the computer quickly and efficiently sweeps up the resources on the map and rallies a powerful, 
 diverse army.   

  Though the computer opponent poses a greater threat than before, fortunately The Conquerors introduces 
 several new interface and gameplay features that let you concentrate more closely on combat rather 
 than on unit and resource micromanagement. Most notably, your villagers in The Conquerors are more 
 autonomous than in Age of Kings in that they'll automatically assist each other in multiple adjacent 
 build orders and begin harvesting resources once they finish building a mine or a mill. As in Age 
 of Kings, you'll need to build multiple farms for harvesting food with which to raise your army, 
 but in The Conquerors, you'll be able to create a farm queue so that your villagers automatically 
 replant the crops once they expire. This is very useful for when you decide to stage a major attack 
 and don't want to worry about replanting farms in the middle of battle.   

  The Conquerors offers even more additions and improvements, such as new map types for battles on 
 snowy or tropical terrain, as well as interesting new game types that emphasize production over 
 combat and an enhanced map editor that gives you more options for creating your own custom scripted 
 battles. The game even comes packaged with a thorough, comprehensive manual that clearly presents 
 all the additions in the expansion, and also lists the relevant statistics for each of the game's 
 civilizations. Many of the improvements in The Conquerors are evidently intended to appeal to Age 
 of Kings' avid player community, which grew to such a size in part because Age of Kings was such 
 an enjoyable, accessible, and customizable multiplayer game. Of course, The Conquerors inherits 
 all these traits.   

  Virtually every addition in The Conquerors helps make Age of Empires II a better, more thoroughly 
 enjoyable game. Nevertheless, it's true that the enhancements to the interface and the tweaks to 
 the game's balance are more obvious to more experienced Age of Kings players. This is largely because 
 Age of Kings was an outstanding game to begin with - and as such, any improvements in an expansion 
 pack such as The Conquerors understandably provide only a marginal improvement overall. At the 
 same time, the multiple additions in The Conquerors add up to be more than enough to entice Age 
 of Kings players to focus their attention on this ambitious, deeply strategic game once again - 
 and for a long time.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (92 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Omega189
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Combining History and real time strategy was a very good idea-all the other RTS games that I know 
 of are sci-fi. Most people would likely be overwhelmed by all the options granted in Age of Empires 
 II: The Conquerors Expansion. I know I am, but it's fun anyway. Usually, most RTS games frustrate 
 me, then I don't play them for a while (Starcraft) , but no matter how many times I lose (or screw 
 up) I keep playing the game (until I got the Unreal Anthology) . Its best when playing with other 
 humans over LAN, because then you can use tactics to their fullest extent (I screw up anyway) , 
 but having a few AI's on your side is okay, too. Speaking of the AI, this game's is a little too 
 good.... even on the "standard" (normal) difficulty, so, unless you're a veteran of RTS games, 
 start on "easy", where the enemy won't attack often (even if you've built a wonder) . On the subject 
 of wonders, I usually build those, then reinforce them with and army to win battles... because 
 I am bad at attacking, unlike my computer allies. AoE 2: The Conquerors is a good (if hard) game 
 for PC's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dguga
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Today is november 11th 2008, and I'm still highly addicted in a 1999's game. 
  
  Introduction for the AoE II
  Playing against AI is nothing compared to multiplayer experience, 
 especially at lan, kind of Counter Strike for strategy.
  Still have a great community of player sharing IP, hamachi lan (good for avoiding broad-band internet 
 router settings) . Choose a civilization, raise it, and attack the enemy.
  
  This is the best Age of Empires ever, including the new Age of empires III expansions. Of course 
 graphics are old style 2D-3D pictures, but gameplay is the most balanced of all, every single unit 
 has a good use, every strategy has a counter-measure and there is always a player of your level 
 ready to give good houers of battle and economy.
  
  Many strategies werer developed and writen as a recipe for victory, such as FLUSH (feudal age rush) , 
 DRUSH (dark age rush) , fast castle age and etc. You may learn lot of them looking for recorded 
 games, that can be traded as a simple small file.
  
  I tryed playing the new versions, with gorgeous graphic, but I always comes back for AoE 2 . If 
 you want a perfect multyplayer retro game, this is the perfect choice, also game is so small and 
 run in anny computer, also is possible to multiplay while downloading torrents.
  
  (Conqueros expasion set)
  
  About the expansion set, well , the civilizations added ;Huns, 
 Mayans , Aztec , Spanish and Koreans are rally good. Huns and Spanish are the most used Civilizations 
 used on multiplayer ( you don't have to build houses when playing as Hun) . About Mayans and Aztec, 
 i don't know why the hell are they fighting against midle age civilization, but is very enjoyable 
 using them.
  Also new "MMLEZ" (make my life easier) " stuff added, and new campaings.
  
  If you play the expansion, you'll never play anymore the old version!
  
  NOTE: Look also for 
 the Patch released from Microsoft with bug fixing and ballancing civilizations (not essential) .
 
  
  FINAL: My favorit computer game ,10, perfect!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 2: The Conquerers has emerged excellently as the ideal expansion for the Age of Kings. 
 The central gameplay remains the same with the inclusion of 4 new campaigns - Attila the Hun (post 
 Caesar Rome Invasion) , El Cid (Spanish Wars) , Montezuma (Cortez attacking the Aztec country of Mexico) 
 and a collection of the finest battles like the battel of Tours, etc into a campaign called Battle 
 of the Conquerers. It also includes a couple of new civilizations like the  
 Several new features like reseed farm which in fact queues up the farm production option like the 
 military queuing. Several new upgrades also become available with the expansion pack (like Pikemen 
 to Halberdiers, Light Cavalry to Hussars, etc) . All in all if you have Age of Kings then you ought 
 to have Conquerers too. The able expansion is sure not to disappoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  AOE II considerably changed my life. As a kid i never liked history and this game changed it all.
 
  
  I have played many many games for 15 years and i have to say i have never ever come across a gem 
 of game like Age Of Empires II. In those 15 years i have also played many strategy games like Command 
 n conquer, rise of nations, civilizations, empire earth. Name it all.
  
  All of these above mentioned games lasted like 1 year or so. Also its important to note that i 
 do not hate any of the games above. I love them.
  
  But AOE 2 is a game that i have played for not 1, 2 but 10 YEARS. I got its CD back in 1999 just 
 when it was released. I was not so pleased with AOE 1. I found the Stone Age a better depressing. 
 Hence developed an Anti-Strategy game feeling. But AOE 2 made all that go away. Infact it made 
 Strategy my favorite genre.
  
  Enough talks. Coming to this game, this is an AMAZING AMAZING expansion pack to Age Of Empires 
 II - Age Of Kings called the Conquerors Expansion. Judging by it ratings one can easily say it 
 is one of the greatest expansions and the greatest in any RTS.
  
  Why?? Simply because the campaigns are more fun. You get to be Attila The Hun and fight his brother. 
 Or you can be part of the massive empire of El Cid. Montezuma and other campaigns also give a real 
 amazing historic feeling about this game.
  
  There are new civilizations added to the existing ones of AOE 2 AOK. Get to play the Spaniards 
 or be the terrifying Aztecs. You can also be a very tribal Mayans.
  
  Gameplay and Graphics are not at all different and same as AOE 2 AOK. But that's understandable 
 as this is just an expansion pack. Also no changes needed.
  
  So here ends my review. It gave me a GREAT Pleasure writing this review, in short, MY 10 Years 
 of Campaign in Age Of Empires II.
  
  This game is really Hard to describe to tell you all the truth, especially if you are a person 
 like me who has played and MOST IMPORTANTLY Understood this game as a 10 year old in 1999. It's 
 actually such a great game that it gets embedded in your hearts thus making it unforgettable.
 
  
  Truly no strategy game comes close to this Beautiful and Unbelievable game. It is ONE of the GREATEST 
 Games in Any Genre and quite easily the GREATEST RTS GAME EVER CREATED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazyGamer_24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  AOE is probably one of the best strategy games that was ever created. Now there is an expansion 
 to the game which includes new units, campaigns, and some other stuff. The graphics are same as 
 well as the same game modes, units, etc.
  
  In the game there are new units, new factions, and new campaigns. There are I assume at least 30 
 or 40 new units. There are I think at least 4 new factions, 4 new campaigns, and another campaign 
 that includes a bunch of famous battles. There are new maps to the custom games. The game includes 
 Mongolian campaigns, Aztecs, and much more. There also scenario battles like Hastings, Mankizert, 
 Noryang, and Againcourt.
  
  AOE 2 The Conquerers expansion offers a lot. It's great, period. I recommend that Age of Empire 
 fans get this game expanding more gameplay (See AOE 2 for full review since this is an expansion.) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megatonB
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires, Seven Kingdoms, Starcraft, Warcraft, Command and Conquer, the list goes on with 
 great Strategy games, but for me, the AoE Series are the must legendary games of all times, the 
 reason I liked it is maybe because before, our PC can't run games with the cool graphics, but I 
 don't know, cuz even now that our vid. card is GeForce 8, I still like to play this darn game, 
 dunno why.
  
  In this game, you pick between 13-15 civilizations, each with unique technology and units, this 
 game also helps in education on history as you pick between the missions (Attila the Hun, Barbarossa, 
 El Cid, etc.) , you can even review about the different weapons, units, etc. in the History icon 
 in the main menu. There are also plenty of game modes to choose from, if you get bored in story 
 modes, try playing the Single Player mode, where it's just pure build and destroy, no stories.
 
  
  I recommend this game to RTS gamers who still haven't played it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Safor001
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  When you install this game, you will think, "I have bought this for the new civilizations and that 
 ram garrison they've added.". Soon, you will become immersed in the new features that are added. 
 With all the new features, you just can't miss it! And the historic accurateness is as accurate 
 as ever. When you open the game for the first time, you should notice the intro was shortened by 
 a lot, just as in Rise of Rome. Now you have a battle going on instead of a 5-minute history of 
 5 minutes. Plus the new units can't be beat. With the suicidal petard, that are a cheaper alternative 
 to trebuchets and rams, the mighty eagle warrior, the quick plumed archer, and the anti-infantry 
 jaguar warrior to name a few. Not only that, but a Mezo-American building set for the Aztec and 
 Mayan civilization. And the Spanish and the Koreans, both big gunpowder civilizations for all you 
 gunpowder fans. Not only these new civs, but rebuilding farms (You have to pay for each farm you 
 want reseeded, but for 2200 wood you can fill up the queue!) , and ram garrosins, allowing your 
 troops to store in rams and be protected from arrow shots and at the same time speeding up and 
 increasing the attack of the ram. And also the catapult-kill-friendly-troops issue is repaired, 
 with the mangonals/onager/siege onagers only firing at you if you dive in their way last-second. 
 Also each civilization has its own unique technology, like the Britons, for example, get yeomen, 
 increasing the range of their foot archers by far, making them good against towers, castles, etc.. 
 See? All these add up to a massive expansion for an already great game. You don't have to be a 
 scenario editing freak online player to get this expansion and use it, unlike RoR, in which that 
 is more recommended. Thanks for reading, and remember to buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pletsky
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  the expansion pack of the 2nd age of empires was a great succes. everybody wanted to play with 
 the indians ( aztec, maya,..) . the expansion pack has a great new campaigns, such as the adventures 
 of Pizarro and Cortez. These men played a major role in the conquest of the New World, so they 
 have to be in the game to. I think the expansion pack should be better with a few more extra's: 
 horses for the indians, a native american priest, and the many dances of the indians would give 
 the game a totally other look: more realistic. The best known and biggest city of the native american 
 culture (Tenochtitlan) is also not in the game. Some say: yes, it is. Maybe they mean the tiny 
 little houses on the end of the map, for me a the city was bigger and mightier. But although is 
 stays the good old historical masterpiece. the game play is terrific, sound could be better, screens 
 are good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanvig
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Although the game is old this game ranks in the top ten strategy games. This game involves the 
 age of kings and the expansion pack, the conquerors. 4 dynasties and 4 different campaigns have 
 been added. The graphics is good and the standard games are really good. The difficulty scales 
 are rightly set. AI has been improved a lot. All the units and researches for the new dynasties 
 have been excellently added. Their unique units are very powerful. Conquerors campaigns are great 
 and even in the least difficulty, players will find it hard to use the right strategy. It is comparitively 
 better than its counter parts, rise of nations and age of mythology. Multiplayer is also really 
 good. Any standard maps will take more than an hour to complete. Overall, Age of Empires: The Conquerors 
 is simply awesome blending history with gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilligaf1994
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. From the battle field to building buildings and walls. This game is all its 
 cracked up to be. The cheats are awesome, from the robin hood cheat to the black death cheat this 
 game could not be better. The cheats don't make it too easy but still easier. I got this for easter 
 and I could not put it down. It is so addicting. The only problem is that the multiplayer is not 
 working for me. I would recommend this game to every buddy. Its a sim game but still has action 
 in it. It is every thing you want in a game. When I first got this game I have to admit I was not 
 too thrilled. I mean age of empires ok not what i wanted but wow I was wrong. I have played the 
 multiplayer before and it is awesome. This game comes from a clasic series so I was expecting good 
 but this is great. So play on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kewl_guy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  I have been playing RTSs since dune 2 came out in the early 90s. They are probably my favorite 
 games and I enjoy stradegy immensly (C&C, Total war, Warhammer, starcraft, warcraft) . No other 
 RTS do i come back to like Age 2. Or rather i don't have to come back to it because i never leave. 
 I may get a new RTS and play it for a few weeks but i always leave the others on my shelf.
  
  Age 2 has the best gameplay of all time. Oh sure it may not have sick 3d graphics, but the 
 graphics engine is almost 10 years old and it looks great. 
  
  I think the thing that makes age so great is its flexablity, whereas most RTS games rely on huge 
 armys, rushing, and siege engines, age is soo flexable. There is nothing like playing a multiplayer 
 game, sneaking a preist behind enemy lines converting a vilager and building a castle in his base. 
 Or sending 5 paladins into the enemy farms and watching all of his viliagers die.
  
  Like other RTS games rushing is an issue if you play with extreamly seasoned vets, but the game 
 has little things that make it hard to rush right off the bat, and it rewards those that build 
 defenses and raid, as one who knows stradegy should.
  
  There are just so many availible options for someone in Age and it is a beautiful game for its 
 variaty.
  
  The soundtrack is very good, i have been listening to it for nine years and still do not get sick 
 of it.
  
  Multiplayer is where this game shines and i am sad that the online matchmaker does not work anymore, 
 but it is still easy to find games as most people love this game.
  
  Graphics -- 8 (this is looking at games like C&C 3)
  Sound -- 7
  Gamplay -- 11 (out of 10)
  Value -- 10 
 (2 full games with expansion for $10)
  Tilt -- 12 (nine years of great fun)
  
  This game is perfect and although it could use a new coat of paint and mabye just a little bit 
 more interface work it is the greatest game of the last 10 years 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukiat
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Well in the begin of the games we can find pacman, bomberman, and the bigges rpg of i never played 
 it's the saga of thos game: age of empires. Yeah, it's hard to belive, but with a poor graphics 
 to a super game like mithology or the 3, but this game have his touch and anybody can change it, 
 like everygame haves.
  
  Gameplay: sometimes when youre boring you start to broken thing and get crazy with your civilians, 
 and some superb of the game is the fact of have a arsenal of trick for you for destroy another 
 cities and wath them die... hahaha.
  
  Graphics: that's the worst part of the game, because its poor, bad, and anothner expressions what 
 i can't say.
  
  Sound: its good, for been one of the first games of the aoe it's very cool for the age and the 
 place of it's been.
  
  Im busy so i can't specefy so much, sorry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacksaibot
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  Not much can be said... no "real" improvements, just new civilizations to give you a reason to 
 play the game more.
  
  Don't get me wrong, they did a good job... but I wish expansions brought more to a game than just 
 a few more weeks of entertainment. But I guess the price would be higher huh? Whatever... great 
 expansion to a great game.
  
  I was glad to see they fixed those annoying farms having to be replanted. But it is such a waste 
 of space. Sure REAL farms are big and what not, but REAL empires are a lot bigger than they are 
 in this game. So if you're going to size down the reality of an empire, size down the amount of 
 farms you have to have. It'd be a good idea to let more than one villager farm... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COWS2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  To reassure others, people still play the AOE2 series today. I, in fact enjoy playing it once in 
 a while. It's a game that you want to play over and over again until you feel like a genius. So 
 your like MWAHAHAH MY SPEARMEN JUST SLAYED YOUR BYZANTINE CALVARY. 
  
  The good: Same old formula from AOE2 which basically asks you to olberate your opponnet. 
  Think 
 logically, challenging you to think before you rush your army into a city
  Its well reasearched.
  Campaign is awsome
  Diffculty is pretty decent depending on your experince.
 
  Unique Units are amazing
  The mini historical battles rock
  
  The bad: A face lift on graphics would have been good (it doesnt really affect anything)
  AI 
 can be lacking brains
  Sometimes u think its too easy in campaign when you will be able to read what units the AI sends 
 at you and provide counters for the next wave.
  Units kinda get stupid when movin place to place (GO TO THE TOP OF THAT HILL!) *dude walks and 
 keeps trying to walk through a cliff* that type of thing you know?
  
  Generally fantastic but some small screws need to be tightened for it to be perfect. But a great 
 game and great expansion none the less 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogan4310
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  I love the age of empires 2 game anyway so when I found an expansion pack for this game i just 
 had to buy it. I got home and when i startd playing the expansion pack i was in awe. The game was 
 even better than before. You had extra civilisations to play with, you had new technologies to 
 use, different game styles to play and a lot more. 
  
  The graphics are better than before which is a relief but they are still not that good. You get 
 different conquest's to play as well as the old ones. There is some good ones, some not s good 
 ones but the expansion pak is well worth the money.
  
  I think this expanion pack adds to the brilliance of this already amazing game so if you like the 
 age of empires game and you own the age of empires 2 game i think you should definetly go and buy 
 the expansion pack.
  wuld recmmend this game to thos who like strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xX-GamerBot-Xx
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  AOE is probably one of the best strategy games that was ever created. Now there is an expansion 
 to the game which includes new units, campaigns, and some other stuff. The graphics are same as 
 well as the same game modes, units, etc.
  
  In the game there are new units, new factions, and new campaigns. There are I assume at least 30 
 or 40 new units. There are I think at least 4 new factions, 4 new campaigns, and another campaign 
 that includes a bunch of famous battles.
  
  AOE expansion might not offer a lot, but if you are an Age of Empires fan, then you should get 
 the expansion pack. (See AOE 2 for full review since this is an expansion.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azu32
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  This is an old school game but it worth playing it. As it predecessor this is an strategy game 
 when you have units and it becomes more like a chess game. You have infantry, cavalry, archery, 
 and heavy weapons, you have to think, know very well the map and more important predict your opponent's 
 actions. Most of the time is spent to develop technology and collect resources although its very 
 important to be the most smart opponent in the game, as you go through the eras you will have more 
 rivals that threat your empire, so you have to be the first one to move forward, have the monopoly 
 of all resources, high technology and foremost the best HQ ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawq902
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This is the perfect expansion pack to Age of Empires II: Age of Kings. The new campaigns are great 
 and not to lengthy, and are set at just the right difficulty. All the new troops and nations are 
 a great addition to the previous game, they allow you to have a lot more fun with the new troops 
 and upgrades. Online play is still awesome, it's great fun testing out the new nations against 
 the ones form the previous game. If you have Age of Empires II: Age of Kings you must pick up this 
 expansion pack, it adds a lot to your gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hock3yl1f3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  This series in it of it self is classic satring with the first game in the 1990's. All of the games 
 have been for PC (maybe MAC too) and the tthird game came out recently (haven't played it yet though) . 
 This series is amazing and this game in particular is immersive addicting and to sum it all up: 
 an amazing classic. The gameplay is very fun and in depth carrying your civilization from basic 
 mace wielding militia men to huge naval warships toting massive gunpowder cannons. From the Dark 
 Age to the Imperial Age this game gives you many fun campaigns and instant action maps that will 
 keep even though most hard core gamer playing for hours. If you're bored already you can setup 
 your own map and scenario to mess around with or polish skills. Then there's multiplayer either 
 face your friends or ally with them no matter what its a great experience. There are still suprisingly 
 many people playing and setting up tornaments for this game trust me. Age is not a problem. Although 
 grapghics are really retro and many people accustomed to the newest games graphics dissapointed 
 the game makes up for it with everything else from gameplay to variety. This game is addicting 
 and for ppl who own it and havent played it in a long time I say rummage through your closet of 
 games, find it, and after you blow all that dust off of it play you'll love it. Remember just becasue 
 this is an in depth RTS game many believe it only for those nerdy RTS guys ,but nothis game is 
 for everyone trust me. This game actually introduces amny ppl to the RTS genre. Definetley a must 
 for gaming collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  But Age of Empires II: The Conquerors proves once again that the classical formula for real-time 
 strategy games still remains effective if executed properly. It's a suitably excellent expansion 
 to what remains as one of the best real-time strategy games to date. from gamespot review sums 
 it up perfectly.
  
  AoE 2 Conquorers still has to be one of the games i've played the most over the past 6-7 years 
 and still will continue to be, why? because i simply can't resist the nice looking 3d prerenders 
 complete unit control nice variety of teams and tactics and all the different map options avaivable. 
 This expanions really does just make the game even better then it originally was! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViperMelbourne
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  Adds 4 civilizations and improves on the current game in many ways. No need to recite all the changes, 
 find a readme somewhere if you are curious enough to want every detail. Some of the improvements 
 include farm queing, where farms will auto replenish, you can imagine how helpful this is. Each 
 nation also receives new bonuses, for example the Saracens now get multiple upgrades to camels 
 making mamelukes a real powerhouse!!
  
  Of the new nations,
  
  Spanish - They receive nearly every upgrade in the game and nearly every unit. They cannot upgrade 
 there archers but in turn they get more powerful hand cannoneers. Strong nation.
  
  Aztec/Mayan - Aztecs are heavy infantry based while Mayan lean towards being archer based. Neither 
 civ receives cavalry but get a new unit, an eagle warrior instead. A fast moving soldier with many 
 bonuses and high armour.
  
  Korean - Nothing special here, however they do the beefiest archer in the game, the war wagon. 
 Can be hard to stop a Korean who can mass build them.
  
  A very worthy expansion to a fantastic game, a real must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aragornjer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  When I first time I play this game I was at my cousins house and fell in love with it at first 
 sight. It seemed that i was born to play this game. I think i am not ready to play anybody online 
 but it is a great game to beat out on the computer. the graphics for the game are not impressive 
 for this time in age but they are still pretty darn impressive. What would be cool if they made 
 a age of king revised additions. the sound is good and everything else is pretty good. I have been 
 playing this game for over 4 or 5 years now i sometimes i just cant stop. it is also fun to have 
 compition with people for like scores and all that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 20, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Well this is the expantion pack to the hugly successful original Age of Kings. The gameplay 
 is pretty much the same concept as the original. In the Conquerors expantion pack there are five 
 new playable civilizations and units: the Aztecs, the Huns, the Koreans, the Mayans, and the Spanish. 
 In particular, the Aztec and the Mayan civilizations. In the single player campaine you get to 
 play legendary leaders such as Attila the Hun, El Cid and Montezuma which are both fun and challenging. 
 Of couse there is a multiplayer portion of the game like the original but, communication elements 
 have been improved. Chat messages are displayed in the players' colors, and you can record chat 
 logs for future reference. Graphics: The Conquerors Expansion offers new maps, terrain textures, 
 and wildlife to enhance the visual experience. This game renders 3-D graphics and building are 
 accually taller then the people compared to the first age of empires/
  
  
  Sound: The music of the game is really good and suits the theme of the game well. The sound effects 
 such as the clashing of swords and the galloping of horses all sound the way they should sound. 
 Also the voice acting is really done well too.
  
  Value: All in all this is a great and fun game with good replay value. With the new civilizations 
 to play around with and improved muliplayer and random maps will give you hours of fun. The only 
 thing I don't like is even though there are new nationalities and units almost everything from 
 the units and buildings are the same accept for the special units and builds. I give this game 
 8.4 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: libbi68
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  There isnt anything all that new in this rendition of the Age series but it is still a good time. 
 New units and new campaigns are well done so you can enjoy coming up with new strategies on how 
 to win. The solid gameplay continues in this expansion along with nice visuals as well. The sound 
 remains the same also but its always fun to press all the numbers in the text box to here the 
 game say Raiding Party!! Youll be satisfied with this game and should be a definite pick up 
 for anyone who is a fan of the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsdaydave11
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 2, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  The Conquerors is a surprisingly good expansion. Most expansions add pretty much nothing to new 
 games, like a few new units or new features, but The Conquerors add lots of things: New races, 
 new technologies, new race bonuses, new units, and race specific technologies. The expansion adds 
 some nice new native Central American races like the Astecs or the Mayans. These new races do not 
 have horses, but instead have fast infantry. These 2 new races make a difference because of their 
 powerful infantry. A good feature that I noticed was the better teamplay by adding Team Bonuses 
 to each race; everyone on your team benefits. The new race technologies are especially helpful, 
 making more distinct races. For instance: My favorite race, the Goths (I'm not goth; nor do I like 
 goths. Don't get any ideas.) have a 2 new technologies researchable at the castle. These techs 
 allow Huskarls to be created 50% faster, and be created at the barracks. With these new techs, 
 and Conscription researched (all units except siege created 33% faster) you can pump out Huskarls 
 extremely fast, making the Goths a good race for people who like to be constantly making infantry. 
 The Conquerors also balances AoE2 much better in multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yhgt
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 13, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  The Conquerors is a great expansion to a great game. It involves about as much strategy as in every 
 other RTS. It has lots of civilizations to choose from and there are plenty of unique units and 
 wonders. If you haven't played the Age of Empires series you might be thinking that I'm crazy in 
 saying that the third was worse than the second. Well to tell you the truth, the third was better 
 than a lot of RTSs but a big disappointment compared with the Age of Empires series. Empire Earth 
 2: The Conquerors Expansion has much more civilizations and units than AOE3. It has a better scenario 
 builder and actually has wonders which is something every AOE game should have. The graphics may 
 not be as good but that's possibly the thing that matters least in an RTS. The Conquerors is also 
 much cheaper. My friend got it on Ebay for five bucks! Anyways I think we all get the point that 
 this game is better than its sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rai8ers4lyfe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack is just adds on to the already fantastic game. This game adds some more civilizations 
 to choose from such as the chinese who are extremely fun to play with. A great expansion pack and 
 a which is a MUST HAVE. Also this pack adds graphical updates which are essential if u love this 
 game. Sadly no knew music is added to this game, so get your ipods ready. The games is why to valuable 
 to be only worth 10 dollars tops on ebay so u really should pick up this game. As u can see the 
 reviewers tilt on this game is superb so go pick up the absolute essential and extremely fun game 
 as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pittposum
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  This is my all time top game. I have played this game for about 5 years now, I have never got tyred 
 of it. This game offeres Infinite posibilities with several civilizations. Not even AOE3 could 
 top this game. Easy to understand, very complexed game, graphics are awesome considering it was 
 realized on 2000. This game has not high requirements so it is playable from the most crappy computer. 
 Multiplayer games is just outstanding. This is the best strategic game I have ever tryed. BEST 
 GAME EVER!!! Very addictive game. This game has so many scenarios, and mode games that make it 
 impossible to get bored of it. Scenarios and stories are awesome. Playing against the CPU on Scenarios 
 is magnificent, and playing multiplayer games even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladin125
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This game may look old and boring and may look like its graphics are to out-of-date, but when you 
 get into the gameplay of this game, you will totally forget all of that stuff. This game is one 
 ausome multiplayer, and me and ALL of my freinds love to do large LAN battles with each other. 
 (we have been playing for about 4 years and havent gotten tired of it.) Because of all of the super 
 reviews this game has gotten and seeing how badly AoE did at creating AoEIII, I think that somehow 
 they should recreate it or create yet another expansion for it. If anyone ever gets it, (Quite 
 cheap now) try it online! (or LAN) And if you have multiple computers, try taking out the disk 
 in one and putting it in another so you can play LAN with your freinds without having to buy more 
 than one copy. (If you take out the disk, all of the computers must have same version or patch 
 and you can only use one disk for every 3 computers. [so if you want to play with 4-6 people, you 
 need 2 disks.] ) Also, if you like to create your own maps or campaigns, AoEII has its own Map Editor 
 that is fully supported for multiplayer use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimLesh
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This is, without a doubt, the greatest RTS in existence. Gamespot gave this an 8.5. They have no 
 idea how to score an RTS, so don't listen to them. There are over 15 factions ranging from indians 
 to all the Europeans and each one has its own special unit. For example, the British have Longbowman.
 
  
  There is just so much to this game and it's from 1999! I can't really describe how great it is. 
 I guess it's just the way the game feels and plays. Play a skirmish battle for 10 minutes and you'll 
 know what I mean. You can play with up to 8 people and the map can fit all of you and doesn't make 
 you feel cramped.
  
  There are a whole lot of different maps you can choose from. There is my personal favorite of Black 
 Forest and then there are other ones there are rivers maps, lake maps, all land maps. But what 
 makes them all different is that they are randomly generated every time you start up a game making 
 the maps not get stale or boring. Although you will be playing the same type of map like a river 
 map or a forest map.
  
  The campaign is historically accurate with a Joan of Arc campaign, a William Wallace campaign, 
 a Saladin campaign, and others. The capaign is decent, imo. It's probably just me since all I ever 
 want to do in an RTS is the multiplayer or skirmish battles, which is where this awesome game really 
 shines.
  
  I've had many LAN parties of just playing this game and it has been fun for the whole time. We 
 played for hours and hours.
  
  Now-a-days every game thinks that it has to be different and complcated and have a high learning 
 curve like AoE 3. This is not the case. AoE 2 is a 2D game from '99 and is still the best. There 
 are only 2 games that can come close to rivaling it's prowess and those are Age of Mythology (also 
 an Ensemble Studios game) and Rise of Nations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onefiredude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- 10
  You could tell that the creators put a lot of effort into this game just by playing it. Starting 
 from a few villagers and a scout, with just one starting building (a town center) , the game was 
 still meant for building a huge empire, recruiting a massive army, and conquering the opponent. 
 There is no one way to win. There are lots of hotkeys for organization (The group number action 
 is my favorite, it is very useful) , and you can queue farms so you could receive a steady supply 
 of food without bothering to replant when you are busy with something else. There are four simple 
 resources, all of them essential to the growth of the nation. You could also garrison soldiers 
 inside castles to keep them safe, especially archers since they make the castle shoot more arrows. 
 There are lots of cool technologies, including the ones which upgrade your units into a more advanced 
 one (Man-at-arms to Longswordsman) , the technology that upgrades your unique unit to Elite status, 
 and Spies (see your opponents line of sight.) The real-world maps are also very interesting, since, 
 as it says in the name, you could play in a real place in the middle-age world. Speaking about 
 realism, there are plenty of historical campaigns to take up your time. Instead of conquering your 
 enemy on each one, you have different objectives which are fun to complete. Age of Empires will 
 immerse you into what the world was back then in war.
  
  Graphics- 8
  The graphics are 2d, but they are almost as enjoyable as 3d games. Castles and wonders tower over 
 everything, all the buildings are rich in detail, each unit looks different, and arrows actually 
 fly in an arc. However, the animations are too short, making the battles a bit tedious. The cavalry 
 run at the enemy, and immediately stop to slash a sword over and over again. It is the same with 
 infantry. 
  
  Sound- 8
  There are several tracks of music to listen to as you play, and the clashing of swords and whistling 
 of arrows are quite realistic, but the sound is not as enjoyable as the game. Once you start a 
 big battle, all the sword clashing and arrow shooting sounds could make you want to press the mute 
 button. 
  
  Value- 10
  This game will give you a challenge, because there are 18 civilizations in all, and it will take 
 a long time if you want to master them all. Each civilization is unique, so there is lots of variety. 
 Each civilization has special bonuses, one or two unique units, one unique technology, and some 
 can research technologies that another cant (The Britons cannot research Bombard Tower while 
 the Turks can) . Every random map game is customizable, and every random map is different, so you 
 could play in an infinite amount of situations. In addition, there are 8 campaigns in total, each 
 one about the history of a civilization (one is a tutorial campaign) , and a number of Battles 
 of the Conquerors, smaller scenarios in history. If you are creative, you might want to 
 make scenarios, maps that players can use. Online play is also available, so if your friends own 
 it you could play together.
  
  Tilt- 9
  I have a lot of fun playing this game. The tutorial (from the demo) was very useful, and helped 
 me start playing. You could get addicted to this game for a long time, since the campaigns are 
 extensive and challenging and each random map is different. However, one problem is that the AI 
 is mediocre. They are very predictable. Even worse, they barely know how to build transport ships, 
 giving you an absolute advantage in sea maps with them. In conclusion, even along with the less-than 
 perfect sound and graphics, you can enjoy this game immensely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herodite777
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Perfection. True and utter perfection.
  
  Any RTS fan will like this one. Any non-RTS fan will like this one. Heck, even RTS-haters might 
 enjoy it. It is purely fun. Outsmarting the AI, then trying to beat another player. How much better 
 can you get?
  
  Compared with modern day games, this one I still choose over. And why not? It's perfect. Pure perfect. 
 The graphics (of that era and genre) are perfect. The gameplay is perfect. IT's value is the highest 
 it can get. The sounds are perfect. I think you get it: IT IS PERFECT.
  
  What else can I say? Well I can say this: I LOVE THIS EXPANSION PACK AND THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 17, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  The Conquerors breathed a little new life in Age of Kings when it was released a little more than 
 six years ago. Considering the age of this game it's remarkable that it still provides engaging 
 gameplay that still hasn't been topped in the Historical RTS sub-genre. It has aged more gracefully 
 than it's predecessor, Age of Empires, and it's replay value exceeds that of Empire Earth by sticking 
 to the basics. The visuals are dated but passable. The engine runs smoothly on just about any computer. 
 It's the 1950's Volkswagen Beetle of RTS games - reliable, practical, and fun.
  
  The only problem with the Conquerors is that the Spanish conquistador is too powerful, especially 
 against European and Asian opposition. If the Spanish had a weapon this formidable in reality we'd 
 all be speaking Spanish... without the help of a porous border and a government that needs glorified 
 slave labor to prop up it's economy and to hedge it's domestic workforce for an impending military 
 draft... maybe. At any rate, despite one unbalanced unit, The Conquerors is a must have expansion 
 to Age of Kings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben2000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 12, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  Well, I have played dozens of different PC games over that last 10 or 15 years, but this is the 
 one that I always keep coming back to. I have played the game constantly for the last 5 years. 
 And the reason?... its the multiplayer aspect of this game. Sure, the campaigns are fun and a good 
 introduction to this game, but I have not even played them all. Simply put, this is the best online 
 multiplayer game I have ever had. As a noob playing online, there is a heap to learn - so much 
 that you might be overwhelmed. But if you have the patience to learn how to build up a good economy, 
 and balance that with good combat skills, you will Conquerors to be very rewarding. In some ways, 
 it is a bit like an RTS version of chess - it can take a lifetime to master this game. There are 
 so many different combinations of units that you can use, and they all seemed to be balanced to 
 perfection. And with this expansion, you have a total of 18 different civilizations to master. 
 Some have killer unique units or technologies, others are not so useful... but there is also a 
 lot to learn about the particular units available to each civ and the best ways to combine them. 
 Certain civs are stronger on different maps, but a true master of the game can learn to win in 
 any situation with any civ. I mainly play random civ games online, and this adds to the fun because 
 you never know what you are going to be up against. To be honest, even after 5 years playing almost 
 daily online I am still not an expert at this game (I am classified as somewhere between a bad 
 rook (brook) and a rook) and I am still learning new ways to fight. My favorite civs would probably 
 be Franks and Mongols (I don't like the expansion civs as much, although Spanish can be very powerful 
 if you have a good economy) . I like Franks because the throwing axeman go perfectly with heavy 
 cavalry, and the cheap castles are a real bonus too. Mongols are particularly good if you get into 
 an imperial age battle, and have probably the best tech tree (IMO) . The graphics in this game are 
 a bit dated now - they are 2d sprites. But they are still clean and detailed and make it easy to 
 distinguish between different unit types. Although later games in the Age series (Mythology and 
 Empires III) have better 3d graphics, Age 2 is the winner when it comes to sheer gameplay. This 
 is what keeps me coming back for more.
  
  Oh, and if you are interested in playing this game online, note that Microsoft's zone. com no longer 
 supports the game. Instead, the best place to play online is gampark. eu. Or alternatively, you 
 can try Gamespy, but it has less players and they seem to be less skilled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 22, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  If you own Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings and don't have this expansion, go out and get it, 
 don't bother reading this article. If you are a fan of RTS games, or the middle ages then you shouldn't 
 waste you time with this article either, just go get the game. But if you don't know much about 
 the game and are just looking into, then feel free to continue. Age of Empires is an extremely 
 fun game that dominates the RTS world. The gamplay is great, and there are plenty of different 
 civalizations to play, and infinate ways to play them. Arguably the thing that sets Age of Empires 
 away from its competators is the uniqueness of oevery civalization. Every one has their own unique 
 units and researches that are only available to one civalization. However the number of ways that 
 you can play also makes the game what it is. You can chose to play with mass amounts of weak units, 
 or spend all of resources on a small army of beastly units that will crush anyone in their path. 
 However you chose to play, you will have a good time. So buy this game, and enjoy. PS: Even if 
 you own AOE III, the fact the this game takes place in a diffent era makes it just as fun. Feel 
 free to visit my profile and check out some of my other reviews while a make my way toward the 
 certury mark, plus I went around to all my reviews and edited this back in, so you should just 
 have a look anyway. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_6483
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 26, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is good and all, but too bad I played Total Annihilation before it.
  The way this game is set up takes you away from the action, I spend WAY too much time tampering 
 with my damn farms and stupid villagers and not enough time on my army!!! the physics suck, there's 
 no way the guys can miss they're shots!!! In Total Annihilation, the shots can hit terrain or another 
 unit or the wind might take it, in AoE they just dont miss and when the shot does miss THE DUDE 
 WILL STILL TAKE DAMAGE!!!!!! AoE is pretty fun, but lacks everything that Total Annihilation gave 
 me, big maps, lots of units, a HELL load of downloads (MORE AND MORE EVERY DAY) , and an AI ( download... 
 queller 1.6) that actually challenges me!!
  
  AoE is a classic and one of the best RTSs out there... but when it compares to the Greatness of 
 Total Annihilation, it falls short of a great game.
  
  AND SCREW THE ROCK PAPER SCISSORS **** OMFG IT'S **** RETARDED!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongholdluva
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is way better i don't care what you say this game just got a 10 from me.
  
  Gamplay: Again i don't like the Campaign mode that much but again I love setting up the maps and 
 stuff so thats a plus for me. The Addition of I think 4 new Factions and units upgrades maps and 
 o yeah Turkeys instead of Sheep on some maps.
  
  Graphics Havn't changed since age of kings but still great graphics for a great series. although 
 the newer games have better graphics i don't care the older the game usually the more addicting.
 
  
  Sound: Still havn't changed since age of kings but i don't care they speak the right language although 
 i don't think the britons use of attack is english. (Attal) Seriously Gamespot better Score plz. 
 And Game lovers GET THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFunspoiler
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 7, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, this is one of my favorite games ever. This improves on everything in Age of Empires 
 II: The Age of Kings. I got this game in 2002 in 2001 if i remember correctly, and i sometimes 
 still play it to this day.
  
  And the online play is also great. Although it's confusing at first to be able to play online, 
 once you figure out how, it opens up many more possibilities. Many more types of games.
  
  This game will always be leagues above any other RTS i play. I will always remember this game fondly. 
 I dont know how anyone can say StarCraft is better than this when this game has more options, better 
 story, easier controls, more civs/races, and more units. To be short, i love this game. If only 
 Age of Empires 3 was like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilan27
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about Age of Empires 2 The Conquerors Expansion, I was like "who cares" But 
 now, It's my favourite game. It is better then Age of Kings. With 5 new tribes and new maps, it 
 is the best. Multiplayer, even makes it better. Chose your own tribe and a little tip, if your 
 the same colour (color) as anthour person in multiplayer, you can control them. Don't tell them 
 though! (Even if there your enemy, well lets them die) . So about the game, it is so easy to cut 
 and get wood. Just build a lumber camp, get 3-7 guys chopping. When I start of a game, I make one 
 of my guys start building a lumber camp, one building a mill and then when I have the wood, one 
 building a house. I make more guys, make half of them do farming or hunting, and the other half 
 woodcuting or mining. It is a good idea. If you want to end the game quickly, then build a barracks 
 quickly and get some milatia. Go to the Feudal Age later and upgrade them to man at arms. After 
 attack you enemy. It should work. Ok heres a story, I quickly built man at arms, archers and scout 
 cavalry, attacked my friends allys, he had no ally and he quit! hahaha. 
  
  So it is a good game. And I recomd it to anyone. It is sooooooooooooo (x100000000) goood. I would 
 be playing it 24/7 if I didn't have school and sleep. (mabey Coffee, lol)
  
  BEST GAME. (better then Age of Kings, it was bad) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oooVooo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This isone of the bets games of all time.. 
  If your like me and u love Strategy Games this is the stuff for you...
  I started playing this 
 around 3/4 years ago, i got hooked from the start and i still play it time to time...
  And if u got some Hostory homework to do on medievil times... u can get it from the game hehehe 
 :) as there is a section that tells you all about the civilisations VERY accurate...
  
  Single player is good but this game is all about the Multiplayer gameing!!!
  Test your skills!!!!
 
  
  Too bad ZONE clossed down.... 
  
  ALL TIME CLASSSSSIC!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Microsoft really outdone themselves with this one.... 
  Once you know your way around the game 
 it gets even better it becomes like second nature to you... 
  
  I dont think there is another Strategy Game that is better than this...
  To be honest i dont 
 think there is ANY game better than AOK! 
  Any Age Of Empires is good my prefered ones are AOK and AOC!!
  Although AOE3 seems to be a bit 
 of a let down as i've heard... : ( 
  tututut... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  The good: many great add-ons to the game, still keeps the fun gameplay, as addictive as ever.
 
  
  The bad: The graphics and sound effects are good, but not worthy enough to get a 10.
  
  Age of Empires II: The Age of King's was one of the best strategy games ever (after Starcraft 
 and it's expansion Brood War of course :) ) . I am still filled with excitement every time I play 
 it, and using my usual strategy (building lots of barrack's near the enemy and slaying them with 
 an army of champions) never gets boring. I can't name a time when I thought I was getting bored 
 of the game. The Conquerors Expansion is a great expansion added to an already great game.
  
  Lets look at the new features. Microsoft has given us five new civilizations: the Spanish, 
 Huns, Koreans and even goes into the other side of the world and gives us the Aztec's and Mayans. 
 Sure, some are better than others, but it is still a great add-on. There are also four new campaigns: 
 Attila the Hun, El Cid, Montezuma, and the Conquerors. They are all fun, and add much more time 
 on playing. They are slightly harder than The Age of Kings, but the very difficult Into China scenario 
 in the Genghis Khan campaign is still my favourite.
  
  There are also new units. I will not list them all, you look yourself :) .
  
  AOE II The Conquerors 
 is a game I recommend to all who love historic RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vedicpi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires was probably one of the best games I've played in the genre of Strategy.
  Many parts of the game are interesting like the Joan of Ard and don't forget, the genghis Khan.
 
  Well, a beginner, would love the game more than anyone else,'cos there is a series of training 
 like sets of campaigns like the William Wallace, that gives a good exposure to the game.
  The gameplay of this particular game is different, as your role changes from task to task, even 
 though it is not really specified. For example, at times, you need to check the external guard 
 towers and see for enemies and sometimes, conserve resources.
  Not just single player, in a group of around three to five people, in a LAN, Age of Empires gives 
 its best in its multiplayer mode.
  Whatever it may be, Age of Empires is just the right game if you are in need of some consruction 
 and war activities.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 2:04 am PT
Review:  Focusing on legendary leaders, The Conquerors will challenge veterans and novices to wage war on 
 an epic scale with all-new civilizations, unique units and technologies, and campaigns based on 
 infamous conquerors such as Attila the Hun, El Cid and Montezuma. 
  
  Gameplay: This expansion takes gameplay to the next level! There's so many new campaigns and match 
 types and now you can actually choose a particular place to battle in the world!
  
  Graphics: The graphics seem to be exactly the same as Age of King's graphics but that's not exactly 
 a bad thing. Microsoft haven't seemed to make any changes at all to the graphics.
  
  Sound: The quality of the sound is still the same as Age of King's but the actual soundtracks are 
 different and that's another nice change I suppose.
  
  Value: The value of the game has considerably improved since the first game because of all the 
 new campaigns, match types, buildings, units and all the new improvements. The expansion pack will 
 keep you entertained for a very, very, very long time!
  
  Conclusion: The Conquerors expansion is a must for anybody that owns AOE2 or is considering buying 
 the game in a combination pack. It is also recommendable to anyone who just likes great games because 
 this certainly is one of them!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  Age Of Empires 2 The Conquerors For PC.
  
  This expansion is a must for anybody that owns AOE2 or is considering buying the game in a combination 
 pack. This expansion improves on the Age of Kings version creating an unbeatable strategy game. 
 
  
  Plot: You take up the challenge of building an empire with your chosen civilisation, battling your 
 way through well constructed conquests or playing against the computer or online players in tense 
 multiplayer games. 
  
  What has been added: The Conquerors comes with an impressive 5 new civilisations, including the 
 Aztecs, Huns, Koreans, Spanish and Mayans, each bringing a new challenge and style of play along 
 with 11 new units. This along with the 26 new technologies, 4 new campaigns and a host of new maps 
 and game types compliments the original perfectly. 
  
  Gameplay : As with AOE2 this is amazing, and only improved with the host a new maps and features. 
 No longer do you have idle villagers wasting time or building themselves in, the new smarter villagers 
 now automatically gather resources and are noticeably more intellectual. The difficulty levels 
 are extremely variable in the multiplayer and the campaigns adopt a shallow learning curve allowing 
 gamers of all abilities to enjoy this game to its maximum potential. Instead of the limited options 
 for game play in the Age of Kings, there is now a multitude of enjoyable options, including: King 
 of the Hill, The Wonder race, Defend the Wonder and the Last Man Standing, where even the team 
 members get to turn on each other for the title of supreme champion. All this along with improved 
 chatting features and control of CPU players allied with you makes you wonder how you ever lived 
 without it. 
  
  Graphics : Although they do not compare with the ultra realistic graphics of todays games they 
 are still very detailed and suited to the game as a whole. Even so, with 200 units per player and 
 4 or more civilisations the game can get a bit jerky so I would recommend running on lower detail 
 settings if youre not too confident with your processing power. An odd feature of the game as 
 a whole and not just the expansion pack is the strange scales, with elite war elephants bigger 
 than houses and units taller than buildings. This is not a bad thing at all just something amusing 
 I noticed and appears to be synonymous to all isometric strategy games from that perspective. This 
 game excels at the finer details right down to the individual movements of the units in a battle, 
 and the blood stained ground beneath the skeleton of a fallen soldier. 
  
  Sound : This game has a great repertoire of sounds, and hosts some of the most amusing taunts and 
 commands I have heard in a game. These are easily accessed with the use of a number in the chat 
 window and can also be used to control the computer players who are allied with you. I generally 
 do not play with the music on, but those who prefer the whole experience will not be disappointed 
 as the music is well suited to this genre and fits nicely with the conquest and war feel of the 
 game. Once again great attention to detail has been spent here, with the villagers speaking in 
 their own native languages and the noises of the individual weapons clashing in the many battles 
 that you encounter. 
  
  I have yet to tire of this game, even after completing the new conquests you are still left with 
 the multiplayer aspect. The new and improved map editor allows you to create an infinite number 
 of new worlds, this along with the extremely variable game settings and new modes gives you every 
 opportunity to test your skills to the limit no matter how skilled you get. This game does become 
 less pleasurable however if you do not aim at your own level, it is unwise to aim too high as constant 
 failure only dampens sprits whereas constant wins can leave you feeling cheated. It is doubtable 
 if you can ever become bored of this game; only another edition could tear you away from this add 
 on once you install it. 
  
  Overall this expansion pack is not revolutionary, nor does it need to be, what it brings to the 
 game in small amounts only improves on the total experience, concentrating not only on the visible 
 additions such as new civilisations but on the smaller features such as, being able to stock replants 
 for your farms and tweaks to the existing civilisations to give a altogether more involved feeling. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00Joseph00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Expansions usually feel like cheap add-ons just to suck people for more money since they usually 
 cost about two-thirds the price of the required game. But The Conquerors expansion cleans the game 
 with some very fresh updates and new races and units. I can't play a multiplayer Age of Empires 
 II game without having all the content in it.
  
  Look at this the way you would at the Brood War expansion of Starcraft. There's really not very 
 much core gameplay added, just some memorable single player campaigns and additional content. But 
 the content is very necessary and *cool*.
  
  The gameplay is more rounded out and made more interesting with the addition of the Native American 
 civilizations of the dark age times, along with the the conquistadors or *conquerors*, the Spanish.
 
  
  If you get The Age of Kings, don't go without The Conquerors. (And check out my review of The Age 
 of Kings) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreeboDude
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 14, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  it may not have the best graphics or the best sound but it's still amazing because it has a good 
 story line and just the feel of having control of thousands of units is incredible but it's kind 
 of a shame about the graphics but graphics arn't what make a game it's the story, gameplay, the 
 units and the feal of it as i said it's so cool controling all those units and it's also cool you 
 can play online against other people and test out your stratagies and methods so if you want a 
 good RTS game with a brilliant story and amzing feel and your not to bothered about graphics then 
 you should definately give this game a try !!!!!!!!!!!!! but don't fall into the trap and get the 
 first 1 it's ok but not brilliant the graphics are pretty bad but again has a good story but i 
 won't ramble because i'm not reveiwing age of empires 1. so get the age of empires 2 not age of 
 empires 1 but it's all up to !!!!!!!!! (AoE 2 rules the RTS world no question !!!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponge9
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  This is quite simply the best strategy war game ever made. It has the X-factor that makes it extremely 
 addictive, the addiction to the surge of testosterone during a battle. 
  
  AoK's X-factor can also be attributed to the game being the right length. Its successor, Age of 
 Mythology, was ambitious in that it tried to make games a realistic half hour. However, AoM's rushed 
 pace makes it stressful. AoM is superior in other ways though: it has a cleaner, more responsive 
 interface and is better looking.
  
  AoK got it right in every other way though -- AoK is the wheel; don't attempt to reinvent it, except 
 perhaps a 3D graphic upgrade for modern times ala Age of Mythology.
  
  I haven't tried AoE3 yet, because it's too American for me -- I am more interested in Feudal Times: 
 swords, arrows, towers and walls. AoE4 perhaps?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 23, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  True, Age of Conquerers is just an expansion pack, but that doesn't stop me from singing its praises. 
 Many subtle nuances contained in this pack add great depth to the original Age of Kings game. Items 
 such as automatic farm replanting (something we've all been waiting for) don't change the game 
 dramatically, but they do make it feel less like SimFarm and more like the real-time strategy game 
 it's supposed to be. In a nutshell, less time planting means more time slicing. As for the new 
 units and civs, the additions are not stunning, but I still enjoy sending swarms of Aztec jaguar 
 warriors down upon an unsuspecting village. On the other hand, the Mayans are just plain boring 
 -- even their special unit lacks any redeeming qualities. Not being a conversion man myself, I 
 found the Spaniards hard to get used to, but they can be incredibly lethal in the hands of an expert. 
 The new campaigns are challenging and sufficiently long, though the story line may get confusing 
 at times. And when all else fails, standard games remain. You may find yourself unable to resist 
 the urge to hack the Mayans to bits with your samurai just one more time... well, maybe twice... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanders74
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Alright, we've been playings this on lunch breaks at work now for about three months, and no one 
 is even remotely sick of it yet. Age of Empires II is with out a doubt one of the best games EVER!! 
 
  
  While playing the skirmishes against the computer is fun in itself, if you can do it set up a LAN 
 and play against your friends... Its a riot. The possibilities for strategy are endless and vary 
 so much from location to opponent and to which civilization you are playing as. 
  
  Everything in the game is so intuitive, you can tell the developers really did their best to make 
 the game great. 
  
  This review doesn't take into account the single player campaigns. I've tried them and they are 
 just okay. The real wealth for the game comes from the multiplayer skirmishes.
  
  All in all, I don't know if any game can really be a ten, but this is definitely a 9.9. If you 
 love strategy, war and killing your friends with Persian Elephant, Viking Berserkers or British 
 Longbowmen pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneRex
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 30, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  I have to say, this expansion is a great add-on to one of the greatest RTS of all time, Age Of 
 Empires 2.
  
  The game adds 4 new civilizations: the Koreans, the Huns, the Aztecs and the Spanish and 3 new 
 campaigns: Montezuma, Attila the Hun, and El Cid with another campaign filled with historical battles.
 
  
  The tutorial is simple and exciting and u learn the game right away with it, helping William Wallace 
 to beat the English.
  
  The game is a little hard on the campaigns as the enemy will keep attacking u in the last maps, 
 but you can always go to the single-player for an easier game.
  
  The map editor comes filled with the new units for u to create more diversity 
  on ur made games, 
 and if u want, go to the multiplayer on ur new the conquerors expansion to show ur power to the 
 other players, everything is possible.
  
  Gameplay is excellent, except for a slight AI bug that chooses wierd paths to reach its destination.
 
  
  Graphics are decent, not it's toughest point though.
  
  The sound is rich with it's music, sounds of swords clashing when u fight with the enemy's soldiers.
 
  
  The value is great as it's an add-on to a great game, Age of Kings.
  
  Overall this is a must-have for the extra playing time, multiplayer and new units, campaigns and 
 civilizations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arachanox01
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 27, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Age of empires 2 conquerors expansion is a game that keeps you in your compueter for ours, you 
 can build huge armies and attack the nearest city or you can just meke your workers produce rosurces 
 to make your city the richest of them all... There are many civilization that you can use and each 
 one has its own good thing and bad things... this is for me the best strategy game ever and you 
 should have it because its really fun.... also the campain are really fun and will require all youre 
 strategy abbilities to succed... I highly reccoment it because you will lke it... im sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacak
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  for this game i could write a book
  one of the best RTS ever
  with a great single player campaign 
  enxaced with wery playable multi-player maps
  if you 
 haven't play it then you have missed a lot
  the civilizations are wery similar but their small
  diferences makes them wery oposite from eachother
 
  you may disapoint in graphics but the game is from 2000
  
  play it and you wont regret it
  
  to learn to play good just play with random civilization
 
  spanish are grat with their conquistadors and monks on mule's
  japanese with theis samurai and fast trebushet's
  Byzantine is the most perfect civilization
 
  persia has good but wery expensive army
  france and huns are the fast and the furious
  .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 9, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  The best thing about this expansion is the fact that you don't have to search for some lonely 
 peasant running around in a tree. You now can hit a key and it will idle the villagers, which is 
 a time saver.
  A few really good campain levels that are fun if you're not madly addicted to the multiplayer.
 
  The new races just add much more to an already perfect gaming experience. Namely, Indians.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  Besides that, there's not much more to the expansion. A few new units, races, 
 tweaks. Believe me though, they're worth it.
  The deer don't invade your camp and kill the workers.
  AI is still dumb when it comes to continent 
 islands.
  
  :Overall:
  If you have Age of Empires II, this is the expansion you must get so you can experience a truly 
 great game. This really completes the AOE2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampiro_HuntT3R
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  First I played AOE 1 and found it very interested and I played it for like hours and hours but 
 then I saw AOE 2 demo, I played it and I was like "Oh da, MN I was missing the real fun" I bought 
 the full version and played it for hours and hours and hours, It is the best AOE game, I like it 
 very much, Then I saw AOE III which really sucks, I dont like that game, I dont know why Microsoft 
 made it so Sh! T like but they shouldnt have done it to AOE III, I was expecting it to be very good 
 but Darn!...
  AOE II is the best Stratigy game I have ever played, The Gameplay is very good. The sound system 
 is also good. The Multiplayer option is great, I can play it with a friend and I think I played 
 it in Multiplayer alot. I have defeated my friends many many times. I am very good in this game. 
 I love Multiplayer because only there can you express how much control you have over your Civilization. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lowie_Bacca
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires II completely blew me away the first time I played it, and the Expansion set surprised 
 me. I didn't expect to see anything better, but it proved me wrong. Better technologies, maps, 
 civilizations, buildings, and troops make Age of Empires II: The Conqueror's Expansion a game worth 
 playing.
  
  Graphics and sound aren't top-notch by today's standards, obviously, but great graphics alone doesn't 
 make a game good. Age of Empire's gameplay is extremely well-done and easy to learn, and the game 
 itself is highly addictive, providing hours and hours of great battles and intelligent strategy. 
 
  
  Definitely a game worth buying and keeping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 2 : The Conquerors Expansion adds many new elements to the already fantastic game, 
 Age of Empires 2 : The Age of Kings. It gives you more civilizations such as Aztec and campaigns 
 that are focused towards this civilizations. There are many new enemies and some of them are really 
 good. The create your own scearnio option has become even better because there is more things you 
 can put onto it.
  
  You can also still do the original campaigns as well as the new. Most elements of graphics and 
 sound are the same and they are all still great. The lifespan of the game is much longer than you 
 think and can go on for hours upon hours, especially with the online option. This is a truly amazing 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajmyers82
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This expansion is great. It takes a good game and just makes it even better. The original game 
 was impressive, but the expansion adds great extra game play. The campaigns are really fun, with 
 immersive levels that really test the skills youve developed. The historical aspects of the stories 
 make the game even more enjoyable and exciting. 
  
  The basic game play as been improved with simple things like automatic replanting of farms and 
 other automatic villager functions that make the economical portion of the game run more smoothly 
 and allow for more concentration in other areas of the game. The battle system is simple to operate 
 and adapts to most styles. The civilizations you can choose to be are also varied in their strengths 
 and weaknesses so you can choose what type of civilization youd like to be, whether that be defensive, 
 offensive, or naval. There are also improved upgrades available in the buildings, for the soldiers, 
 and in the town center.
  
  If you enjoyed Age of Empires II this expansion pack is a must have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abyssion100
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 4, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  now: im not interested on the game right now, but i think it wasnt so long time that i played this 
 game on the net and with my friends its pretty fun but why play this game if there are better like 
 age of empire 3!
  
  when i got it: i really liked the game when i got it! the graphics where really good! i thought it 
 was 3d but it isint : (but this was way better than age of empire 1, better graphics, more units (i 
 think) , and even guns!!! and what i really liked and now too is the menu music! aaww, yeaah! thats why 
 im gonna gimme this game the score i gave it when i got it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_rulz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  GOOD: New additions add strategic depth without complicating it; changes make resource management 
 easier; same good sounds as original; in-game encyclopedia; 5 new civilizations all balanced with 
 the other 13
  BAD: Campaigns still don't sustain your interest; voice acting still terrible
  
  Age of Kings 
 was addicting, deep, strategic, fun, and any other positive adjective you can come up with. The 
 Conquerors Expansion makes a nearly complete game even better. The additions and changes that were 
 made were all good.
  
  The game introduces five new civilizations (the Mayans, Aztecs, Koreans, Huns, and Spanish) , bringing 
 the total up to 18. Various tweaks are also made to the older civilizations. The Mayans and Aztecs 
 are definitely unique, as they completely lack cavalry and gunpowder units, although that's somewhat 
 made up for by the Eagle Warrior, which is very fast moving and fills part of the niche that cavalry 
 left behind. They also come with their own new building set (in addition to the 4 already existing) . 
 Also, in addition to the unique units, each civ now has a unique technology that further amplifies 
 their strengths and weaknesses. As in the Age of Kings, each new civilization has a focus; Aztecs 
 (infantry) , Mayans (archers) , Koreans (defense and navy) , Huns (cavalry) , Spanish (navy and monks) .
 
  
  Improvements in worker cooperation and resource gathering, as well as a "farm queue" where you 
 can automatically reseed farms, and the ability to garrison units in battering rams (increases 
 its speed and protects the units inside from attack) are all excellent additions that serve to 
 smooth out some of the rough edges of the original. New units and technologies also fil out some 
 of the niches and are also all improvements over the original. However, like in the original, conquering 
 a new difficulty level can be frustrating, and the campaigns still don't sustain your interest, 
 despite their quality and fun factor. The voice acting improved a bit, but is still far from exemplary, 
 and the title music was changed slightly, although it's just as good, if not better.
  
  Overall, the Conquerors expansion pack is an excellent addition to the Age of Kings, serving to 
 smooth out the rough edges, fill the unfilled niches, and improve the already fantastic interface 
 and artificial intelligence. Highly recommended for any fan of the RTS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Yep the same old thing but with some adds. To bad they can't upgrade things like the graphics, 
 and sound in expansions! This game needs something like that. I guess I wasn't to impressed with 
 the expansion, but what would you expect. The game is great yes. You can only go so far with it 
 I suppose. I believe there were more races, and upgrades added in this expansion. I can imagine 
 how it would be if they were another. More upgrades, and a few more races. I just am tired of these 
 expansions. They should ship the game with all the stuff instead of trying to stick us buying more 
 of the same game all the time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilan94
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 8, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Age of Empires 2 The Conquerors Expansion, I was like "who cares" But 
 now, It's my favourite game. It is better then Age of Kings. With 5 new tribes and new maps, it 
 is the best. Multiplayer, even makes it better. Chose your own tribe and a little tip, if your 
 the same colour (color) as anthour person in multiplayer, you can control them. Don't tell them 
 though! (Even if there your enemy, well lets them die) . So about the game, it is so easy to cut 
 and get wood. Just build a lumber camp, get 3-7 guys chopping. When I start of a game, I make one 
 of my guys start building a lumber camp, one building a mill and then when I have the wood, one 
 building a house. I make more guys, make half of them do farming or hunting, and the other half 
 woodcuting or mining. It is a good idea. If you want to end the game quickly, then build a barracks 
 quickly and get some milatia. Go to the Feudal Age later and upgrade them to man at arms. After 
 attack you enemy. It should work. Ok heres a story, I quickly built man at arms, archers and scout 
 cavalry, attacked my friends allys, he had no ally and he quit! hahaha. 
  
  So it is a good game. And I recomd it to anyone. It is sooooooooooooo (x100000000) goood. I would 
 be playing it 24/7 if I didn't have school and sleep. (mabey Coffee, lol)
  
  BEST GAME. (better then Age of Kings, it was bad) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires II: The Conquerors is Microsoft's awaited expansion set to the popular and revered 
 RTS. The Conquerors will be a welcome to AOE fans who lusted for more in the previous installment. 
 
  
  Let's start with what The Conquerors brings to the table. There are five new civilizations: the 
 Aztecs, the Mayans, the Spaniards, the Huns, and the Koreans. The Aztecs and Mayans are fascinating 
 in that they bring an entirely new type of civilization to the table. While the Mesoamerican peoples 
 are at a handicap without horses or exclusive Old World materials, they make up for that with fast, 
 strong, and productive units. 
  
  The gameplay has not changed much. Some units have been strengthened while others have ben weakend 
 to add equalibrium to the battefield. There are new campaigns featuring the exploits of El Cid 
 and Attila the Hun. There is also a campaign path focusing on historical battles instead of a long 
 journey surrounding one character. 
  
  There are some new modes and stages included in the Random Map section. The new additions provide 
 extra incentive to stick to the random maps or edit your own, if you choose. It would have been 
 welcome if there was a campaign editing option. Sadly, gamers will have to stick with what's there 
 and that should be ample enough. From a technical standpoint, The Conquerors isn't a big step ahead. 
 You can beef up the resolution now, but for those waiting for 3D to make it in, you'd better wait 
 for Age of Empires III. 
  
  There isn't a whole lot to say about The Conquerors. It is a fine continuation of AOE II. Some 
 of the tweaks are uncalled for, but the enhancements and additions make up for that. It would be 
 foolish for RTS fans to miss out on this. Age of Empires II should only be played with The Conquerors 
 if you want to experience the full pleasure it has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teddy22
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  The new civilizations that this expansion adds are amazing and add many more hours of game play. 
 This game has all the great features AoE: AoK II had such as challenging campaigns, instant action, 
 online play and map creation. The historical information adds a realistic value to this game that 
 can't be found anywhere else. (I've actually used facts from this game in school and teachers were 
 impressed with my knowledge) . The sounds and graphics of this game are just right to make you feel 
 like you are in battle without creating horrible lagging problems. Because it is an expansion pack 
 it doesnt have great value, but i still highly recommend this game to anyone who loved AoE: AoK 
 II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FitnessNFitness
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun computer game. You can control whole armies of characters, play historical moments, 
 learn some neat historical facts too.
  
  1) The camera-angle is from about one hundred (maybe) feet high, so the characters aren't super 
 detailed. But they do look good, no doubt.
  2) The characters all talk in their different languages (Japanese. French, American, etc...) and 
 the music is great! The sound is well put together.
  3) The action is usually pretty exciting, and it can be a stealth attack, solo attack, or a group 
 attack.
  4) The controls are simple, you do nearly everything with the mouse. But there is some quick-buttons 
 you can press if you want to know some info right away.
  5) You can play several different campaigns! You can create your own too! Both of these are neat. 
 I've played hours on this game, it's just so fun!
  
  Overall, this is a great computer game. If you want something that you can spend hours on, doing 
 battles, and several other things, this is a great choice. I really enjoyed the game-play of this, 
 and could play the campaigns over and over without tirging of them. One nice thing, for me, was 
 the fact that I was able to buy it as a bundle with the Age of Kings, set 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohamadelyafi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 30, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  it is quite a good game, but after 25 hours, it is getting to repetitive and annoying. 25 hours 
 isn't so bad, but for my self if I play a game, I like to play it lots and lots of hours. It is 
 always the same wat to win, build a castle, infantryu and archers, wait for them and then attack 
 them.
  
  The artificial intelligence is quite bad, but it is still a good game to play, there is no doubt. 
 but don't thing your gonna play 100 hours on this game.
  
  i didn't try age of empires III, could someone tell me if it is the same thing. getting anoying 
 after some hours of play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 29, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  The Conquerors for the original Age of Empires II does not seem as good of an expansion when compared 
 to a lot of modern day expansions when a expansion game would bring about a brand new faction with 
 radical changes to the entire structure. However it is still promising as it still dishes out the 
 necessary goodies that one would expect from its expansion. Although everything still remains the 
 same I would generally only recommend this expansion for the hard core age of empire 2 fans who 
 are seeking more. To those who are much more moderate fans of the game, I think the original would 
 suffice. For me I purchased the expansion along with the original within a package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 27, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  well, ive played aok2 since 2000, played it on zone for a number of years solidily and was never 
 bored of it. i was addicted.
  the ai in these 2 games is crap, if your looking for a decent game go to 
  
  http://zone. msn. com/en/aoe/default. htm 
 
  
  the conqerors absolutley kills aok in random match, but unfortunatly for death match (which is what 
 i play) it hasnt imrpoved. the gameplay on zone. com is bad in the dm rooms, all are long boring 
 games because they still allow the siege and max trebs rule which makes the game a big stand off. 
 
  the only thing i do like about dm tho is the 1o1 hun wars, very fast paced matches, improves aok 
 speed skills dramatically.
  
  i like the smarter villagers although it can also be quite an annoyance because they go and mine 
 when u want them to farm.
  i dont like the new maps. 
  i do enjoy rm in aoc, esp the nomad (i forget the name) map. 
  i still prefer aok to aoc, but 
 that is due to the zone. com gameplay & rules they follow. 
  im glad this game is not all dead yet, the friends i made in aok i would consider to be lifelong 
 friends. go play now!
  
  learning curve is 4hours or more if you wish to play online decently.
  
  once you play multiplayer 
 you never look back 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vor_Drek
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 25, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  True, Age of Conquerers is just an expansion pack, but that doesn't stop me from singing its praises. 
 Many subtle nuances contained in this pack add great depth to the original Age of Kings game. Items 
 such as automatic farm replanting (something we've all been waiting for) don't change the game 
 dramatically, but they do make it feel less like SimFarm and more like the real-time strategy game 
 it's supposed to be. In a nutshell, less time planting means more time slicing. As for the new 
 units and civs, the additions are not stunning, but I still enjoy sending swarms of Aztec jaguar 
 warriors down upon an unsuspecting village. On the other hand, the Mayans are just plain boring 
 -- even their special unit lacks any redeeming qualities. Not being a conversion man myself, I 
 found the Spaniards hard to get used to, but they can be incredibly lethal in the hands of an expert. 
 The new campaigns are challenging and sufficiently long, though the story line may get confusing 
 at times. And when all else fails, standard games remain. You may find yourself unable to resist 
 the urge to hack the Mayans to bits with your samurai just one more time... well, maybe twice... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  Age of empires two was a real treat for RTS fans. It was a strategy game un-like any other, with 
 some of the most addictive strategy around. The first expansion delivers a lot of the same great 
 multiplayer and campaign strategy, all the while, letting you play the original Age of empires 
 two so that the two games stack. 
  
  Instead of writing a whole new review for the Age of empires two strategy formula, Im just going 
 to write about the new features; you can read my Age of empires two review for all that. 
  
  The biggest new addition is the five new empires. They are: The Huns, Koreans, Mayans, Spanish, 
 and Aztecs. Although each has different abilities and some are way better than others, I personally 
 found the Spanish to the best overall. Their technology is un-matched, despite their unique unit 
 being a bit weak. 
  
  You also have four new campaign modes. You play as: Attila the Hun, Montezuma, and El Cid, with 
 a special campaign that has heroes throughout the world fighting their own unique battles that 
 you get to live.
  
  Apart from this, not much has changed, Age of empires two the conquers still has the same fantastic 
 gameplay and un-matched addictive strategy that makes this a must play for RTS fans. The only real 
 down side to this expansion is you need the original Age of empires two to play it, but that shouldnt 
 be a problem considering how outstanding the original was 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irulehexen
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Age of Kings chronicalized the Middle Ages from knights and the Crusades, to the Imperial Age of 
 the arquebus, trebuchet, bombard cannon, etc. The expansion pack is arund the same time frame, 
 EXCEPT it has five new civilizations, unique technologies (civilization specific) and general technologies 
 and logistics and units.
  
  The new civilizations are the Huns, the Mayans, the Aztecs, Koreans, and Spanish. The Huns were 
 a nomadic tribe from the steppes of Asia who threatened the Eastern and Western Roman Empires. 
 They extracted huge profits from Constantinople, and almost subjugated the Western sector with 
 its tarkan forces and cavalry mix of archers and lancers. The Mayans resided in current day Guatemala. 
 The Mayans had a unique systematical numerical system that represented numbers and figments. They 
 had a unique warrior calledthe eagle warrior which represented speed and stealth. The Aztecs had 
 the jaguar warrior. He wielded a macana or a club with obsidian razors (volcanic rock) . The Spanish 
 with their conquistadors, and the Koreans with their siege weapons, and turtle ships that helped 
 them neutralize Japan's maritime strengths. In the campaigns, you get to interact in events such 
 as Attila's 
  assualt on the Roman Empire, the Aztec's resistance to Spanish imperialism, the Korean's resistance 
 to Japanese supremacy, and the rise of El Cid, and his establishment of Valencia which was his 
 satrapy until he died. (During the time of the Reconquista.)
  
  The unique technologies available are civilization specific. For 
  example, only the Teutons 
 can get the crenellations research, and only the Vikings can get berserkergang. Another important 
 feature is the addition of general technologies such as bloodlines, and herbology. Also, is the 
 addition of general units such as the halberdier and hussar.
  
  Age of Conquerors- good expansion, good game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZKB
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings has come out with an expansion pack. Tis The Conqurors. Adding 
 a few civs to the mix (including Meso-American) , improved AI and better gameplay make this an exelent 
 add-on.
  
  Graphics
  _______________
  
  Even though this game is 2D, it still remains as one of the best graphics in RTS gaming. The sprites 
 are all detailed and historicly accurate. This helps add to the feeling of being a Medival war 
 lord.
  
  Gameplay
  _______________
  
  Very fun. I got this game 2 years ago and still play it everyday. It just never gets old. The AI 
 is tough, but not too challenging. They use great tactics. However, there is a downfall the the 
 AI. When it runs out of recourses, they don't do anything. Which leaves you to easily take them 
 out. Oh and each civ now has it's own tech. That's right, not only do they have a unique unit, 
 but a unique tech aswell.
  
  Campaigns
  _______________
  
  These are well done, historic campaigns about key figures during the Middle Ages. The Conqerors 
 features a few more campaigns and one called "The Conqurors", which is about many people who have 
 played an important role through history. Very good and challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kujoking7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I have number 2 and 3 and honestly, I like 2 better because it has better campaigns and better 
 civilizations. The graphics are not great, but the gameplay is outstanding. The tc's look much 
 better than the other game. Many people have forgotten this game, but I haven't. I also believe 
 that itt brings back memories from the good old age of empire days. If you have both 2 and 3, look 
 at both games and see which one you like best because I like 2 better. The game has some cheats, 
 but don't use them because they make the game boring. Be sure to be a good civ or you will die 
 easier. Be good and choose your games right!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S_A_D_U_1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  If you havent played this game probably dont own a computer :P any way, I loved everything about 
 this game. It once again plays nicely as a historically factual game. It also has the additions 
 of civilizations, Units, technologies, campaigns, game types, and much much more. The game brought 
 five new civilizations into play. they included the Aztecs, Huns, Koreans, Mayans, and mighty Spanish. 
 of course, with each new civilization comes the new units and technology. The quality of the game 
 is still there, ifanything they upgraded in the music department a little bit to give each civilization 
 their own feel to the game. I'm going to have to say that the graphics are exactly the same though. 
 there are more campaigns to choose from. the game also included "the conquerors campaign" which 
 was a bunch of mini missions. i loved this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yamauchirulez
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  When I first played age of empires 2, I was impressed, but not by the castle destroying knights. 
 I was impressed buy Montezuma and El cid. For me, PLAYING AGE OF EMPIRES IS NOTHING WITHOUT THE 
 CONQUERORS EXPANSION. The game is very upgraded and the little bugs are all fixed. But the fun 
 part about the Expansion is that the new units are really exotic. Eagle Warriors, Plumed Warriors 
 and canons. Sure, only the expansion is a little slim but still, it is the only part of the game 
 that really is a great time. But I was dissapointed when I heard that some parts of the story are 
 not true (No Aztecs where still alive when the Cortez thing happened) but I guess it was just a 
 better scenario for the game or just that Bill Gates wanted to save money and hired a cheap Historian............... 
 But in conclusion, this expansion is REALLY, REALLY WORTH IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Age of Conquerors offers much in the way of innovation. The first thing you notice is that there 
 are five new civilizations (Aztecs, Mayans, Koreans, Spanish, and the Huns) bringing the total 
 to 18 civ. Each civ has it's own unique unit or ability but this doesn't make the game any more 
 appealing because at the first site it resembles the original.
  
  This expansion does bring a few new changes for example, you can now garrison foot soldiers inside 
 battering rams, the mangonel doesn't fire upon enemy targets in the midst of friendly troops, also, 
 some of the Age of Kings civilizations have been tweaked to make them more balanced with the rest.
 
  
  As far as the single player campaign, four new campaigns (these detail some historical leaders 
 like Atila the Hun or Montezuma) have been added.
  Another great thing about this expansion is that the computer opponent's artificial intelligence 
 has been enhanced, not only to make the game easier than for beginners, but also to make it more 
 challenging for more advanced players
  
  The Conquerors offers more additions and improvements, such as new map types for battles, as well 
 as interesting new game types that emphasize production over combat.
  
  All the additions in the Conquerors entice every player co concentrate on this great game for many 
 years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaseykahnefan01
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 16, 2005 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Who doesnt want to run their own civilization and tear anothers hard work down?
  
  Well that is the basics behind this series.... and The Expansion pack really adds to the games original 
 design
  
  With all the upgrades this game has recieved it is truly one of the best pc games of its time....
 
  
  This game is an instant classic..... And even though the graphics are not up to par with some of 
 the games out there.... This game is still fun all the same
  
  The new Story modes gives you something else to do... and the map creator is always fun to play 
 with.....
  
  this game desrves an 8 outa 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zduzgun
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 1, 2005 11:07 am PT
Review:  this game is exellent
   played since 2000 and  never weary
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  exxellent, perfect, amazing and .........
  exxellent, perfect, amazing and  and .........
  exxellent, perfect, amazing 
 and  and ........
  exxellent, perfect, amazing and  and .........
  exxellent, perfect, amazing 
 and  and .........
  exxellent, perfect, amazing and  and .........
  exxellent, perfect, amazing 
 and  and .........
  exxellent, perfect, amazing and  and .........
  exxellent, perfect, amazing 
 and  and .........
  exxellent, perfect, amazing and  and .........
  exxellent, perfect, amazing 
 and  and .........
  exxellent, perfect, amazing and  and .........
  exxellent, perfect, amazing 
 and  and  and  
 and .........
  exxellent, perfect, amazing and  and  
 and  and  and  
 and  and  and  
 and  and  and  
 and  and  and  
 and  and  and  
 and  and  and  
 and  and  and  
 and  and  and  
 and  and  and  
 and  and  and  
 and ......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghoulishdoll
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 2:44 pm PT
Review:  a very fun and addictive game, especially with the different races to choose from, and the variety 
 of different special units that each race has. The gameplay is just like age of empires 1 except 
 with added units and structures. The visuals for this game was pretty decent especially for such 
 a game at its time. I think it was a great buy for me, and the multiplayer mode was fun too. Cause 
 what the AI game lacks the human mind doesnt. The units have pretty cool looks too like the paladin. 
 All in all this is a great game for people who enjoy star wars galactic battlegrounds, or starcraft 
 too. A great game to play for many hours without feeling bored at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric-2-2-er
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 6, 2005 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to compare this game to Age of empires 3. Now I played age of empires 3 and Im completely 
 disappointed. They, the producers spend all this time on building an amazing looking graphics engine, 
 with new physics that allow the player to blow up buildings which results in "pieces" flying of 
 the structures. Now forget the graphics "WORK ON THE GAMEPLAY ITSELF". 
  
  Now this is very important, Look at age of empires 2 when it was first released.. "2D Graphics" 
 most people were thinking "why are they going a step back in technology?". For, other games back 
 in the year 2000 such as, Total annihilation kingdoms all had 3d engines. Now to prove that this 
 game is still very successful go to the zone community. In fact, over 2000 players are playing 
 age of empires 2 right now on zone. While the other hand, 3d games of the year 2000 have faded 
 away in history never to be spoken of again.
  
  Now this team already had the magic touch on Real Time Strategy games so why'd they have to messed 
 AGE OF EMPIRES 3 up?
  
  Age of empires 3 seems to go in the completely opposite direction of what made this game so successful. 
 
  
  '/// The review is under 
  
  I used to play Age of empires when it came out back in 2000. After a while i got tired of it. I 
 played the single player game and eventually gave the game a rest. Unfortunately, I stopped not 
 knowing what i was missing.
  
  When i started playing Age of empires 2 for the the second time.. about 2 years ago i wanted to 
 try the multiplayer on zone. WOW i was in for a big shock.. I missed out key strategic elements 
 which the AI could simply not provide. I instantly got addicted to this game. I recommend trying 
 the multiplayer version before you put this game down because it has a lot to offer. For example, 
 When ur playing on the zone.. you always have different places where you have to go to get your 
 wood, gold and stone. The map is completely random each time you play, you never get the feeling 
 of "ahh Ive done this before". Thus, you constantly want to go back to the game. And most evident, 
 is the fact the you have to change your strategy depending on what the other players do. For, you 
 may get rushed early on or boomed out later on. To as what the other player is thinking is huge 
 mystery, just has it should be in any Real time strategy game. On the hand, The AI in the game 
 is so... repetitive it's unbelievable. Instead of having a good Ai to play against they just give 
 him about 3x the amount of resources you get at the beginning of the game. So once youve survived 
 his first few attacks your bound to win.
  
  This game is very economically oriented. For example, you are constantly building villagers which 
 would normally pose a big problem because it limits the time you can spend on actual building up 
 your army. However, Age of empires just balances this out very nicely, they give you a hotkey to 
 find idle villagers and they give you towers to put up early and protect your very vulnerable villagers 
 and your course your own military units. 
  
  Don't forget for anyone still wanting to play this game, this game still suports the 1200 * 800 
 resolution in addtition to the 1000 * 700 resolution
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ershadsonda
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 25, 2005 9:04 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome game. The graphics are great, the gameplay is great (although i wished it could 
 be more realistic... But it got me stuck in front of the computer for hours) .... It is so addictive, 
 even when i went to sleep, it got me thinking about the next strategy on the next campaign... Hahahahhahaha.....
 
  
  The mission editor is also great... i love making my own island maps, and arranging different strategies... ship 
 battles are more fun, since we're able to arrange formations for the ships on this expansion pack....
 
  
  anyways, this game rocks... and i loved it when Ensemble added the Huns... coz, they rock!!.... haha 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SigmaElement
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 13, 2005 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This is a really great game, you wont play anything like this ever again, the only game that maybe 
 matches this one is Empire Earth... The only bad thing about Conquerors is that if you want to 
 play online, there are a lot of great player around there, so you need to practice a lot to be 
 able to reallyu enjoy the game.
  
  Also if you compare this great one with the new one... AOE III... well... play it and you will 
 see for yourself... the new one is boring and awful... at least the demo was...
  
  Conquerors is best played with some of your friends because if you play online you migth find yourself 
 cursing the game...
  
  If you play alone you will get bored to soon, and you will end up using cheats and that really 
 spoils the game.
  
  Great game... really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirkmy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2005 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. They have the next one in the series Age of Empires 3 coming out in november 
 of 05 and im really looking forward to that. But both of the now out age of empires games (one 
 and two) were great and at the time my favorite games to play. They had great gameplay and quite 
 a bit of strategy when playing against the harder computer oponents or good online oponents making 
 the game really fun and interesting and at the same time quite hard as well. The campaigns in the 
 game were fun but they werent that challenging but still pervided a change and some fun as well. 
 This is simply put as a great game and i wouldnt recommend buying this game right now if you dont 
 have it already because i has been out for a long time and because you will have most likely have 
 seen better graphics you wont appreciate it to its fullest. But when age of empires 3 comes out 
 then by that because it will be great just like the previous games and have greatly improved graphics 
 and strategies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarknessOfFate1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:11 am PT
Review:  The Conquerors is a very worthy expansion pack for Age of Kings, it adds five new civilizations, 
 new unique techs for each civilization, a stack of new campaigns, and loads of enhancements and 
 balancing changes.
  
  Age of Empires his been generally regarded as one of the best Real Time Strategy series of all 
 time The original was ground breaking in its own right. Set in roman times it portrayed the battles 
 between the emerging roman empires and the various barbarian tribes. It featured many real units, 
 believable battles, actual historically accurate civilizations and decent graphics.
  
  The meat of age games and what sets them apart from many rts games of its time was the age system 
 and the more advanced resources management. There were four resources instead of the usual one 
 such as command and conquers tiberium. They were wood, food, gold and stone.
  
  The other major difference was the age system. This was meant to represent the ras of the timeframe 
 and was dived into Dark age, feudal age, castle age and imperial age. It cost a lot of resources 
 to age up and you had to balance the option of ageing up and access to newer units and building 
 (at more cost) against having enough solders to stay alive in the short term.
  
  Age of Kings improved massively in ever aspect of the original AOE with far improved graphics, 
 more civilizations, more balanced game play, far or tactics and cripplingly varied and addictive 
 gameplay.
  
  Now with The Conquerors AOE is set to live on with new possibilities, new tactics and new gameplay 
 to be discovered.
  
  The new civilizations are the biggest change. They are the Aztecs, Spanish, Mayans, Huns and Koreans. 
 Each is based on their real history; for example the Aztecs and Mayans have no cavalry at all, 
 since in their lands there were no horses. Instead of the normal Scout Calvary, they have a very 
 fast infantry unit called the Eagle Warrior that is resistant to arrows. The Huns do not need to 
 build houses since they were a nomadic people, but are rather weak technology wise. All have unique 
 units like the original Age of Kings civs with the Aztecs having the Jaguar warrior a very powerful 
 infantry unit and the Huns having a Tarkan, a cavalry unit that is effective against buildings 
 and so on.
  
  These new civilization change the face of AOE with so many new tactics. Huns are a rushers dream 
 since without having to stop to build houses they can rush incredibly quickly and cut the enemy 
 to ribbons. This is balanced with the fact that they are an overall weaker civilization with fewer 
 weapon and amour upgrades and terrible siege. The Aztecs, lacking cavalry of any kind require learning 
 an entirety different style of play with a slower more deliberate style and carefully picked battles 
 to utilize their slower, but extremely powerful infantry.
  
  There are a lot of new units, such as Eagle Warriors, fast scouting units resistant to arrows Halberdiers, 
 upgraded pikemen who destroy cavalry, Jaguar Warriors, devastating heavy infantry Tarkans, cavalry 
 with bonus damage to buildings Turtle ships truly deadly ironclad warships. These units change 
 the game allot. For example halberdiers are pikemen who can for once hold their own against infantry 
 instead of being completely crushed by them, while Turtle ships can instantly dominate the waters 
 with their huge hit points and amour. Eagle warriors make raiding an economy easier since with 
 their resistance to arrows they can breeze by defending towers to attack villagers and trade carts.
 
  
  There are a lot of new technologies to research which improve your civilization. All are based 
 on actual medieval practice such as Bloodlines which simulates selective horse breeding by given 
 cavalry 10% more hit points, heresy which shows the penalty of following another religion by having 
 any units converted by rival monks die instead of that enemy getting them, and the Bracer an important 
 development to protect the archers arm from fletching which in AOE improves their rate of fire.
 
  
  There are new campaigns, too: Attila the Hun, El Cid, Montezuma and other heroes as well as lots 
 of set piece single famous battles such as Hastings in 1066 and Argincourt in 1415. The campaigns 
 are extremely varied with the very different cultures making for different gaming experiences and 
 the missions are nice are varied with everything from pitched battles to sieges against lots of 
 different and usually competent enemies.
  
  That said the AI isnt always that good. They will often blindly send units of infantry over to 
 hack uselessly at walls designed to resist siege weapons and will just get picked off by towers. 
 Having a bullet proof defense can make you practically invincible against certain opponents. They 
 are very quick though and on very hard they get resources bonuses which offset their dumbness.
 
  
  There are new game types such as King of the Hill where you try to hold a certain place in the 
 map with your forces and keep enemies away and Defend The Wonder, where one player starts with 
 a wonder surrounded by wall and defenses and has to keep it safe from all other players. There 
 is also the new Last Man Standing victory condition. In this type of game, once the team has killed 
 the enemies, they turn against each other until only one player is left. This can be a sneaky game 
 type with huge amounts of mistrust and tension with units being stationed in allys bases and guard 
 towers being built everywhere to guard against all possible betrayals.
  
  There are also real world maps such as Britain and France, as well as many more normal maps such 
 as Arena, an extremely tiny and claustrophobic map which forces you into fast battle in its cramped 
 environment and Ghost Lake a map based around a huge frozen lake creating a no mans where no building 
 can be built and death is often found, as well as high competition for limited building space.
 
  
  There are tropical landscapes with turkeys to hunt and jaguars to fend off, instead of just the 
 same old deer and wolves. There are winter maps, complete with units leaving footprints. This may 
 seem like a mere graphical flourish, but I have used footprints to track down and kill scouts or 
 units and sometimes the footprints can be followed and you can discover the enemys base! 
  There are also a lot of small changes. One of the most useful is the farm queue at the mill. Just 
 add farms to it and all your farms will be automatically reseeded when they go fallow instead of 
 you having to remember to do it. A very, very handy feature. Bombard towers ( cannons equipped 
 with huge cannons) now do piercing damage instead of normal damage so battering rams are resistant 
 to them too now. You can garrison infantry into rams to make them move faster and garrisoned Swordsmen 
 and Pikemen make the ram cause more damage to buildings. This is handy for getting slow Teutonic 
 Knights up close without them being killed by archers too, since rams are extremely resistant to 
 arrows. These changes serve to make AOE more realistic with more real life tactics such as the 
 ram garrisoning. The change of bombard towers to piercing make it more realistic with battering 
 rams able to take them down unlike before where they were useless against them.
  
  Ships now move in formation such as box formations to protect weak units in the center and staggered 
 formation to help avoid missiles. Siege weapons dont auto attack of they would harm friendly units 
 (thank god) . Tributing is improved with lots of 500 of a resource or entire stockpiles able to 
 be sent, and messages now appear in the players color that they are from. You can turn on friend 
 and foe colors to see clearly who is an enemy and ally, with allies being blue and enemies red. 
 Recorded games which are basically replays of games now record chat as well, which is great. Its 
 always funny and satisfying to see chat in game such as insults, threats and just general banter. 
 You can also command computer allies in skirmish mode now, which is really fun. This makes you 
 feel way more like a leader and stops them just doing their own thing and not attacking together 
 with you for maximum impact. You can tell them to attack, wait for your signal to attack, build 
 a wonder, give you resources or build a navy as well as many other things.
  
  There are a lot of tiny balancing changes too, like the Chinese starting with less wood to balance 
 their extra starting villagers and Goth villagers carrying +15 meat, Woad Raiders being created 
 faster and normal swordsmen having piece amour. Most of these seem small but the piece amour is 
 a big change, as well as making sense. I mean if youre a slow infantry unit youre obviously going 
 to want something to help you survive arrows.
  
  The Conquerors is the best kind of expansion pack. It adds all these changes which add a gigantic 
 amount of fun to the already astoundingly brilliant Age of Kings, but doesnt intrude too much 
 on the originals killer formula. That said, this is basically the same game with a avalanche of 
 new stuff, new tactics, playstyes and fun. If you didnt like the Age of Kings you wont like The 
 Conquerors either.
  
  Fin
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2005 1:30 am PT
Review:  Well another age of empires game and just as before its good for me. This game has been giving 
 me some great fun for a long time. This expansion has brought along new civ's and new maps and 
 some other things. The new civ's are fun with there different type of special units and they will 
 bring around different strategy for everyone. They didn't change anything for the on-line play 
 (wasn't much to change anyway) , so its still just as fun as it was before. Amazingly this game 
 still is as popular as it was when it first came out. 2000 to 5000 people still play this even 
 in 2005! Well this expansion hasn't ruined one of my top 5 games for me and hopefully it doesn't 
 for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appaloosa582002
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 1, 2005 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires II the Conquerors is a solid expansion to a very good game. Although the game didn't 
 come with all the extras i hoped it would, it still had enough to make an upgrade to the last game. 
 The conquerors gameplay and graphics were nearly identicle to the prievious Age of Kings. One change 
 they made was they added a color scheme, and added more scenarios. The game continued to get me 
 hooked just as the last ones did. The designers added two more civilizations, plus a few more units. 
 Age of Empires II the Conquerors is a great all around game. I give it a 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swamprat_basic
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 30, 2005 6:04 am PT
Review:  There really isn't much to say, The Conquerors is a worthy expansion to The Age of Kings.
  
  If you loved Kings, you'll like Conquerors. If you liked Kings, you'll like Conquerors.
  
 
  The only reason why my score is lower than that of what I rated Kings (8.8) is that it really is 
 more of the same. Not that that is a problem, but it just doesn't deserve the same score as the 
 great Kings.
  
  There's nothing really special about Conquerors, it's just extra content for you to mess around 
 with. And if you are picking this up, that is probably exactly what you are looking for.
  
  I would say check the bargain bins. You can live without Conquerors, but I wouldn't recommend it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gissamuel
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2005 3:44 pm PT
Review:  THe units have changed a great deal from the rise of rome. Still there is monotony there and similiar 
 units, but the game brings out cultures with great differences and units. This Xpack adds a great 
 many things that make the game itself even more enjoyable. Now you do not have to worry about your 
 farms going dry or having to keep moving your villagers to work when other piles of the same resource 
 is in the area. You can also just pick a resource when making villagers and he will start work 
 immediately. Also units on foot can be put inside rams to make them a little fast and stronger 
 which protects the units from being picked off. Cultures also have uniqe units to their own race 
 and researches. The scenarios are amazing. The originality of Age of Empires brings out the the 
 best in RTS games. Even some of your buildings differ from one race to the next. Several new maps 
 and was to play have been added to the game also and real country maps like Texas have been added. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxpimp18
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 15, 2005 2:18 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing! It is a great RTS, but not AS good as SC. This is perfect for those rare 
 occasions when you don't feel like playing SC, which is really rare. This game is set in the middle 
 ages, and has a whole bunch of different factions to choose from, but they don't all seem very 
 different from one another, like in other RTS games. Each faction has there own weaknesses, strengths, 
 and some really cool unique units. Korea and Persia have the coolest, an Elephant and a turtle 
 boat thing! It is a blast to play, although after a while it can get kind of repetitive. The multiplayer 
 isn't as good as SC's, but it can still be really fun if you can get a game going. Definetly recommended 
 to all RTS fans! Great buy! Get the gold edition, which comes w/ Age of Empires 2 and this expansion 
 pack! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mYTH_2k4
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  The expansion adds a few features which make the gameplay a little more easy and manageable. Farm 
 queues at the mill (upto 20) , smart villagers (work automatically after constructing a drop off building) 
 are just a few of the gameplay tweaks.
  
  The game introduces 5 new civilizations (Huns, Koreans, Spanish, Aztecs and Mayans) each adding 
 more variety to the already varied gameplay of Age of Kings. Take for example the Huns: they don't 
 need to build houses at all and the Spanish: get mounted monks (Missionaries) and mounted  
 The Aztecs and Mayans get by their no-horse disadvantage by displaying a formidable infantry and 
 archer line which includes the popular Eagle Warrior. The Koreans, on the other hand, get amazing 
 tower bonuses.
  
  Single player campaigns take you through the historic quests of El-Cid and Attila the Hun and the 
 struggles of the Aztec warriors against the Spanish Invaders (Montezuma campaign) . The mixed bag 
 of scenarios (Battles of Conquerors) is superbly constructed and designed. The Visuals and Sound 
 effects are apt for the game and period.
  
  ES has even added a new Unique Techonology for every civilization which either boosts their team 
 bonuses or tweaks the unique unit. A few new units include the Halberdier (an upgrade of the already 
 deadly Pikeman) , the Petard (pronounced 'Medieval Age Suicide Bomber') and the Hussar (Light Cavalry 
 upgrade) .
  
  A few other features which tweak up the game are: Ram Garrisoning, Smart Siege Weapons (don't attack 
 friendly units) , Chat in Players Team color and a basic tweak up/down of the various units/buildings 
 to balance the game out.
  
  Multiplayer has been improved by improving chatting and diplomacy and what's more you can take 
 full screen shots (Ctrl+F12) .
  
  Truly a must have and in my opinion the best expansion...... no the best game ever!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhatter_412
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2005 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires II: The Conquerors Expansion is a no-brainer for anyone who enjoyed the original 
 game. With the addition of five more unique civilizations (bringing the master count up to 18) , 
 unique upgrades for all civilizations, and a few other new game play features, AoE II: The Conquerors 
 makes a great game even greater.
  
  The AoE II expansion also adds several upgrades and units that all, or at least most, civilizations 
 get to enjoy. Halberdiers and Hussars are improvements on already useful and lethal units. Upgrades 
 like theocracy, thumb ring and Parthian tactics also give more opportunity for unit development 
 and strategic advancement.
  
  Multiplayer is also given a slight boost with the revamped chat system. This allows your diplomacy 
 to be brought to a new level by allowing you to choose exactly who hears what you are saying. Backstabbing, 
 secret alliances, and the like bring an interesting element to the diplomatic strategy that has 
 always been a part of the AoE experience.
  
  All in all, a solid sequel to a solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmonkeymanx
Rating: 3.7
Date: Aug 18, 2004 4:09 pm PT
Review:  While the AoE II expansion is'nt all bad, it just doesn't appeal to me. The graphics are ok, and 
 the sound is decent. But its just not fun enough. Replay value is nearly nonexistant, and i know 
 several people who, like myself, tired of the game before getting even twenty five percent of the 
 way through. Multiplayer games are a bit better than the solo missions, but this is one game that 
 takes a long time to be able to even hold your own online. All in all, i say its not worth the 
 money to buy it. Try it at a friends house, or download the demo. All told, its not bad for an 
 expansion, but in no way improves on the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithlord
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 9, 2004 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most fun RTS's in awhile. I always have a blast playing this game. I just recently 
 re-installed it and the fun was still there. Even after great games like C&C: Generals, or even 
 Age of Mythology. The graphics are obviously sprite based, and quite dated by todays standard, 
 but the ability to have 200 units creates an ability to have an awesome display of troops that 
 can slaughter anything in its path. It still has your typical resource gathering of wood, gold, 
 stone, and food. This is typical but you can create a nice balance between the units and the workers. 
 I have found that running out of resources can be a big issue though. However, the gameplay is 
 addictive as Starcraft. The missions are a refreshing addition, and are a nice history lesson. 
 The units have great path finding AI. I would recommend this one to anyone looking for an addictive 
 game that will take hours away from your life. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
