-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Age of Empires III: The WarChiefs
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/aoe3warchiefs/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Three distinct new factions let you explore a new Native American campaign.
 new revolution mode and trade monopoly victory condition shake up established strategies.
 Graphics and presentation remain sharp.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some lackluster voice acting and B-movie dialogue.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.1, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,646 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Ensemble Studios
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Oct 17, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The WarChiefs expansion adds some interesting new elements to the tried-and-true gameplay of Age 
 of Empires III. 

  When Age of Empires III arrived last year, it updated the famed real-time strategy series with 
 gorgeous new visuals, though the sequel played it safe and offered only evolutionary improvements 
 to the series' proven formula. You could take control of one of the great colonial powers during 
 the Age of Discovery, which meant building villages to harvest resources and constructing forts, 
 barracks, markets, walls, and more. Meanwhile, armies that consisted of militias, muskets, canons, 
 and more tried to sweep the enemy factions off of the map. The overall experience ended up being 
 very familiar to Age and real-time strategy veterans, though that didn't stop it from being fun 
 and engaging.  

          The WarChiefs expansion introduces the Native American perspective, letting you play as 
 the Iroquois, the Sioux, and the Aztecs.     

  Age of Empires III: The WarChiefs does its best to shake up that formula, even while it's sticking 
 closely to it. This expansion introduces three new factions to the game, letting you play from 
 the perspective of some of the Native American tribes in the New World. If you felt that the European 
 civilizations were a bit too identical to one another in Age of Empires III, you won't get that 
 sense with the Native American tribes. The most "conventional" of the tribes is the Iroquois because 
 this tribe can bring its own artillery into the fray. Even then, nifty new features, such as a 
 fire pit, differentiate it from the European factions. The fire pit is a huge bonfire to which 
 you can assign dancers, and it also provides special powers, such as damage bonuses to your units 
 or the ability to speed up the production of new villages. The more villagers you assign to the 
 fire pit, the more powerful are the effects. Then there are the plains-dwelling Sioux, which specialize 
 in horse units and allow you to conduct lightning-fast raids. It's easier to build up a large Sioux 
 force compared to other factions thanks to the fact that the Sioux don't need to construct housing 
 to raise the population cap. Finally, the Aztecs lack horses of any kind, but this powerful faction 
 makes up for it with fast-moving and hard-hitting infantry units, such as the jaguar knight. Toss 
 in the powerful new warchief hero unit, and these tribes can go toe-to-toe with the existing factions. 

  Many of the new gameplay adjustments in The WarChiefs are designed to destablize the current strategies 
 for the game. The new revolution mode is a perfect example of just such a dynamic moment. Basically, 
 if you get to a point in the game where you want to risk it all, you can declare a revolution. 
 Then your villagers will turn into militia, and you get powerful new military units. The downside 
 is that you lose all production capabilities after you declare revolution, so if you fail to crush 
 your opponent with your forces, you'll lose big. The trade monopoly victory condition is another 
 example of opening up the game. It forces you to get out and seize and hold trading outposts on 
 the map in order to win; you simply can't sit back anymore behind the confines of your walls. There's 
 also new content for the existing European civilizations, such as spies that let you observe the 
 enemy safely.  

          Though there are minor improvements to the graphics engine, The WarChiefs still looks great. 
     

  The WarChiefs' campaign takes you on a brief tour of early American history. In it, you'll continue 
 the Black family saga by fighting in the War of Independence and zooming ahead to Red Cloud's War, 
 a Sioux uprising, shortly after the American Civil War. The campaign missions offer a mix of challenges, 
 from having to scavenge food and supplies during the harsh winter at Valley Forge to establishing 
 trading outposts in the rugged Montana wilderness. The missions are stitched together by short 
 cutscenes, though the voice-over work and dialogue seem cheesy, especially after you hear General 
 George Washington deliver lines that seem better fit for a B-grade action movie. Aside from the 
 lackluster voice acting, though, the rest of the presentation is impressive. The sumptuous graphics 
 of Age of Empires III still look great a year later, though there aren't any noticeable visual 
 improvements. However, it's still fun to see the many ways that cannon fire can tear buildings 
 and structures apart. Meanwhile, the Native American tribes also look visually distinct, especially 
 when compared to the traditional look of the Europeans -- from the Aztec's pyramid architecture to 
 the tepees of the Sioux.  

  The WarChiefs expansion adds a solid amount of new content to the existing game, and while many 
 of the new features provide interesting new ways to play and win the game, it's fair to say that 
 fans of the series will appreciate the changes. The WarChiefs does a lot to shake up the formula, 
 but when you get down to it, the tried-and-true Age of Empires gameplay remains pretty much intact, 
 and the expansion offers more depth and strategy to an already deep strategy experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (40 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 5:13 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3: The WarChiefs is a great expansion to a game that is just plain fun. The original 
 Age of Empires games were so much fun to play, and still are, having stood the test of time. Age 
 of Empires 3 was a new step for the genre, but it was a good step, allowing you to create a prosperous 
 home city which you will see grow and swell with your victories. The WarChiefs carries this on, 
 allowing you to play as 3 new factions, the Sioux, the Iroquois, and the Aztecs, allowing you to 
 play as these new factions which offer a different perspective of the battle, due to the lack of 
 black powder in many of these armies. There are new sub-factions that you can enlist to help you, 
 and there are obviously new units for each army, and this expands the play time you can get from 
 this game. 
  All in all, a really good game that lives up to the name of the Age of Empires series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shade93
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  Very impressive game play with an even better graphics.
  It is a must have for anyone who likes Real Time Strategy , Historic battles and /or played any 
 part of this long yet surprising series.
  There are many civilizations to discover , each with its unique unites , specialties & Home city 
 Shipments, Which is one great feature exclusive to AoE III .
  Also , this expansion features 3 new civilizations which consist of Native Tribes, thus are the 
 Aztecs , Sioux & the Iroquois .
  It also features the great "Revolution" option as alternate to the "Imperial Age" which gives a 
 new taste to the game.
  Playing with the native tribes is a little bit different from using the European civilizations 
 since they each have some unique upgrades , units & improvements.
  Finally, the campaign offers a continue to the original campaign with more challenging missions 
 & optional objectives & they involve using the new native tribes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  This game was a TOTAL DISAPPOINTMENT. Same gameplay as AOE3, but only with an even more boring 
 campaign. No remarkable features were changed, while making this game. The expansion is limited 
 only to the addition of a boring campaign. In AOE3 we had a campaign that revolved around The Fountain 
 of Youth, while in Warchiefs, we have the story revolving around some rich Red Indian (How Pathetic!!!) , 
 who throws away a perfectly good life to live a life like a Red Indian Chieftain, and who barters 
 his gun for a tomahawk.
  Coming back to the gameplay, only a very few new units were added, and I even keep forgetting their 
 names. Like the previous AOE3 the random map and single skirmishes don't pretty well keep you engrossed.
 
  
  Finally, the fact stay that after playing it you will feel that you have been fooled and have bought 
 another AOE3 DVD for nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimzon_Tide
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III was a fun expansion from II and I. Before Age of Empires III came out, the Conquerors 
 expansion was my favorite, the Age of Empires III completely blows it away! There's no comparison. 
 Although, it can run a bit slow on your computer (depending on how good it is, I won't go into 
 detail) . I love campaign mode, it offers a great series of challenges, and even different difficulty 
 modes to choose from. I definately recommend this game if you're looking for an online game to 
 play (yes, you can play online multplier) . Warcheifs expansion + Age of Empires III costs around 
 $40 (the gold edition) . If you want to try out the other Age of Empires, you can buy both Age of 
 Empires I and II for around 10 dollars at Wal-Mart. It's an added bonus, because it is sort of 
 hard to see the upgrade from those games to the new Age of Empires III if you haven't played Age 
 of Empires I and II yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomxPulse
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  When I first bought the War Chiefs at my local best buy I was expecting an amazing experience that 
 was never done before. I turned on my computer installed the War Chiefs and I played as the Aztec. 
 Now this game does have some unique features for an rts for instance the fire pit, teepees, farms, and 
 some nice units. One problem I had with the game is that the lack of new types of gameplay. I noticed 
 that there was no wonder and they even missed some great native civiliations for instance the Inca 
 and the Cherokee (yes I am aware of the iroqious cherokee barracks) I will have to admit the graphics 
 are amazing and beautiful. 
  
  Game Play: 7
  The gameplay plays pretty much the same as european civs except for the fire pit and the Sioux 
 ability to not have to build houses to raise population.
  There are unique units and nice detail in the buildings. The lack of important native civs makes 
 me lower the rank to 7.
  
  Sound: N/A 
  the music they play is the same as the original.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Probably the best graphics 
 for an rts at the moment. ESO switch to 3D was amazing and well played. I enjoyed the stunning 
 visuals.
  
  Storyline: 8
  The storyline was fine for an rts. The voice acitng was good and the frame rate was nice. I did 
 not see any problems with the campaign except that the missions are kinda too easy.
  
  Overall: 8
  
  Replay Value: This is a RTS of course their is a ton of replay value! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saila
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  AOE 3: The WarChiefs is a very good expansion to the other very best game. It continues the history 
 of Blake family on the American continent. The plot line is interesting with some turning points. 
 We can find there references to the original game. We get rid of the well known European civilizations 
 to become familiar with some new ones. Yes, it's what you dreamt of - now you can play as Sioux, 
 Iroquois or Aztecs. of course, the information on these civilizations are not too strict and some 
 purists would get offended but who cares about historical rightness. It's not the historical game 
 so it is absolved. The expansion has only two chapters but it's not the bad point. The campaign 
 is long enough to not become too tiring. Once again, the righteous and good prevail in the end 
 and everything is "black and white" styled. But I really liked the game. 
  AOE 3: The WarChiefs as well as the original game is not restricted to single player campaign. 
 Its multiplayer mode is satisfying  you can choose "metropolis" - id your civilization, customize 
 your name, city, cards and decks. The game has many options to set (type, teams, color, AI, number 
 of opponents, maps etc.) . The same for the single player "skirmish" mode. You can play in team 
 or everybody on everybody and so on. This expansion is an essential part of the whole diptych (I 
 used "diptych" in lieu of "triptych" because the second expansion is more "unconnected" to the 
 main story) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicman07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Age of empires 3 combines 3 new civilizations to the already huge range of civilizations that come 
 with the original as well as many hours of gameplay with a new campaign. My favourite new unit 
 would definetely have to be the musketeer followed by the falconet because i have been waiting 
 for so long to see some gun and cannon units that are better than that strange and slightly stupidbombard 
 from no. 2. This game compared to many other rts' (this game meaning this as well as the original) 
 is absolutely fantasctic and adds another amazing expansion to 1 of the biggest rts' series ever 
 and i can recommend it to anyone as it is the perfect game to start playing rts' because its simple, 
 has many difficulty levels and is just so amazing that it is definetely worth the $80 i spent on 
 buying it (i got it on the 2nd day it was released which is y it was so expensive) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  AOE3 turned out to be a massive disappointment. The first few hours of playing the game are fine, 
 but then it's just wash-rinse-repeat formula all the way to the second expansion. The game will 
 involve gaining control of certain buildings on the map or destroying the enemy town center. After 
 the first few missions, the challenge of the entire game dies down to upgrade-build-destroy kind 
 of gameplay.
  
  The AI is at it's worst at higher difficulty levels. The only thing that differs is the frequency 
 of attacks from the enemy, otherwise their tactics and predictable nature make it all too easy 
 to squash them. 
  
  As far as upgrades go, the game offers a little bit of variety by introducing Native Tribes with 
 different units (who bring their vastly different skills to the game) .
  
  The game's graphics and everything aside, the worst part about it is that the game is LOOOONG. 
 As in even the sequels are EXACTLY the same as the base game. AOE3 might be a good game in and 
 of itself, but seeing it together with it's sequels, I have to say I was thoroughly disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Unlike a lot of other Expansions that I have bought over the years, War Chiefs actually gives you 
 some useful new features. 
  
  New Campaign following Nathaniel Black as you work your way through the Americans and The native 
 Inca tribes to reach the end goal. The Battle at Little Bighorn. Again the Campaign is completely 
 different than the previous campaigns and each mission is different from the rest. 
  
  Some buildings now have special abilities. These can come in handy when you are in a tight spot. 
 You also now have a Tribal Dance Fire place thingy that helps you by either creating more units, 
 speeds up Unit Creation and Resource gathering, Experience trickle etc. 
  
  Obviously there are some new Races that are very different from the previous ones. The new Civs 
 are Native American tribe and has an almost completely new way that you need to play. It's almost 
 like you got a new game. lol
  
  Anyway, I think that is about all you can say about an expansion. Totally worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-bone214
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is a really fun game that you should buy. The graphics are great, and it is 
 addictive. The online and LAN is really great! This game is nice to play with friends too. It really 
 picked up where age of empires II slacked. Like allowing the villagers to not have to return to 
 the town center to drop off resources! and actually giving infantry a purpose! This expansion however 
 wasn't to exciting. Yea, great, I can play as indians now....... I would still play as the British 
 or some one with guns... wouldn't you? It does open a large new window of playing though. There 
 are new missions, but they unfortunatly suck. But, it is a still a lot of fun and is worth buying 
 if you have age of empires III. YAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
 AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
 AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacksaibot
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2009 11:10 am PT
Review:  As anyone could have guessed, with this expansion you get new civilizations (Iroquois, Sioux, and 
 Aztecs) . Unfortunately there still is no official "American" civilization, but there is the sub-civilization. 
 With a little knowledge on making mods, you can do it yourself. Anyway this new expansion gives 
 us a chance to play as the Native Americans. There are also new European units available (only 
 three) : cavalry artillery, petards, and spies. 
  
  There are two main new features that this expansion brings; War Chiefs and Revolutions. War Chiefs 
 are the Native American versions of an Explorer, but have different abilities, some to do more 
 with nature. For example, some War Chiefs also have the ability to convert treasure guardians, 
 such as bears and pirates, to the player's cause instead of the European "crack shot" ability.
 
  
  There is a new option in which players can choose to become a revolutionary nation instead of heading 
 their civilization into the Imperial Age. It is cheaper than advancing to the Imperial age, but 
 carries a larger military risk. If you are the British Colony, you can revolt against the Queen, 
 and then you become the American civilization everyone was dying for in the original game. As mentioned, 
 there is a risk to revolting. All your villagers are turned into military units and you can no 
 longer construct buildings. When a revolution is initiated, a choice is presented between two historical 
 revolutionary leaders, each with their specific bonus. Also, the player receives a "Revolutionary 
 Deck" of 4 military reinforcements, which may be re-played an infinite number of times. All other 
 cards are discarded from your deck while the revolution is being initiated. This allows the revolutionary 
 civilization to gain the upper hand and break a tight battle, but if the initial attacks fail, 
 the inferior economy will most likely lead to defeat. Three new units are available only through 
 a revolution; the Ironclad, the Gatling Gun, and Colonial Militia.
  
  There is a new victory condition, called the "Trade Monopoly", similar to the Wonder condition 
 in earlier games. If a player or team controls more than half of the trading post sites in the 
 Industrial or Imperial Age, they can start a timer, for an amount of 500 food, 500 wood, and 500 
 coin. If the other team does not destroy trading posts until the player controls less than half, 
 the player or team who started the countdown will win. Note that the team which started the timer 
 cannot build more trading posts during the timer's effect.
  
  Playing as the Native Americans (particularly the Iroquois) are great.
  
  All of the unique 
 characteristics they brought to the new civilizations is great and sets them apart. The new campaign 
 missions are, in my opinion (obviously) , a lot more interesting than the original campaign. I've 
 always been fascinated by the Native American culture especially the tribes from South America 
 (Aztec, Mayan, Inca, etc) .
  
  Although the expansion didn't bring significant changes to the game play, it brought a lot more 
 replay value than I anticipated. I honestly spent more time playing AOE3 because of this expansion. 
 This expansion is definitely worth the price!
  
  To view my thoughts on the core game, AOE3, refer to my written review on that particular game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armednlnja
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  So I got this game as a present. Well When i tried it. It took around 3-5 hours to beat. I cant 
 really rememberr but i gotta tell you that its short thats all.
  
  Graphics-
  They are just amazing a spectacular "if you have a recomended requirements" I mean like i drool 
 on the graphics their that good for a rts game =)
  
  Sound
  Sloppy voice acting, And Oh my god there is no new music in this game, only in the begining which 
 sounded excellent with a little native style into it.
  
  Gamply
  Well the game is a pretty good rts but its just the feature that warchief has to offer which i 
 dont like. They only included 3 new aboriginal races and all the aboriginals look the same when 
 i use all 3 race and have the same units. And the same mechanics which is dissapointing. And they 
 didnt even add new gameplayy mode except for 1 i think. am not sure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwilson0514
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  The game in general is well built game, some new units that are enjoyable to play with. The game 
 is not an oh my gosh experience but its fun to play. The replay value is high though, because you 
 can upgrade your city threw experience points after you play skirmish levels which makes it so 
 were you can upgrade to higher ages and more available advanced units. In general play the demo 
 first. The cons to playing this game is the Indians and the Aztecs are not that great to play with 
 i was expecting the units to be a little more interesting but oh well. Other than that i suggest 
 that you play the demo to see if you like or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawq902
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  If you have played any of the earlier AOE games you already know this is going to be a great game. 
 This expansion gives you access to the all these different Indian tribes. You get a lot of new 
 troops and a lot of different buildings and upgrades. This doesn't do much for online play except 
 give you access to all these Indian tribes. The campaign with the expansion is interesting and 
 keeps you wanting more though. Although i bought this game not knowing it was an expansion i still 
 liked it a lot. This is overall a very good game and highly recommend getting this if you have 
 AOE III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chinese_J3ST3R
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  I personally think this was an alright game though it didn't really live up to the Age Of Empires 
 name its is still a great expansion though it dangles on a small thread the war chiefs addition 
 was great though i though Ensemble could've done better with the new nations. I would recommend 
 this game if you have spare change in your pocket though. Though the graphics are still good. And 
 so i rate this game with an 8.5. Good job ensemble though but i think you could've done better. 
 And good luck with Asian Dynasties. From what i am reading it is going to be a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetbruceli
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  Look, those who agree and don't, listen to this. I was in Iraq with 30 more in my unit traveling 
 from place to place. We would play Call OF Duty 2 and Battlefield but because of constant problems 
 with the connection we had to find a game that uses fewer players. My Buddy ordered AOE 3 and started 
 playing against another guy. After a week, almost everyone had a copy and we were playing like 
 I life depended on it. Why? Well like me, most had never played a RTS game before. There were only 
 about 3 who had played any other RTS before.
  SO what caught our eye? Well the graphics on a great system look stunning and even if you had an 
 Intel GMA, it would still play. Second, when I started to play, one of the guys who played before 
 started telling me what to do. After a few months, I started seeing how each civilization had their 
 one special value. This Game the War Chief brought back the experience to me cuz it gave us more 
 units, more in depth view of the Native Americans and added new features. Being able to use a Chief 
 to use treasure guardians is awesome. You only have to click on it, after it changes to your side, 
 walk away and do it again till you have some many, you have a free army. With the Aztecs I was 
 able to reach over 300 units, though they dont have any artillery or Horsemen, they can easily 
 take out buildings and other units simply by numbers. Having a fire pit brought a challenge too, 
 having to decide what to dance for and what time. The only downfall I see with the entire AOE3 
 games, is some units have advantages you cant beat once everyone is maxed. Dopple soldiers can 
 attack buildings better than 10 Bomb Bards. Well thats all I wanted to say. Its an awesome game 
 and guess what? There is a demo to let you try for free! So if you havent played any games like 
 this, play this one. Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luis19882003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  After i played for the first time aoeIII without expansion... i really liked, however i though 
 they have putted too much graphics and let the strategy apart... False.. sooo false.. Age of empires 
 III and Warchiefs is more strategist than ever.. every civilization and unit has its own pros ans 
 cons, about money, damage, population, so you have to be smart to manage all that.. this is a brain-needed 
 game.. So after you start playing, it won't let you go, and warchiefs.. warchiefs totally improved 
 all that, making totally new strategies to play and different ways to play too, If you though that 
 new factions for being rock&amp; wood where in disadvantage.. you are totally wrong. i though even 
 that they were better factions than the AEO3 original...
  Amazing for Multiplayer Gaming.. and tourneys
  Amazing game..
  Totally Worth Playing it..
 
  A must-have game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthony9000
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 17, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 Warchiefs is a great addition to ageof empires 3 although i found it hard to blieve 
 that this is worth 40 bucks.....
  
  GAMPLAY
  
  PROS
  -3 new civs
  -new campaign that is a good amount of gamplay time
  -Revolutions
  -Civs are quite different 
 from eachother
  -Pretty Well Balanced
  
  CONS
  -not that many new maps
  -campaign was FLAT-OUT BORING
  -European Civs could use more add-ons to em'
  -Not that many 
 options still in skirmish
  -cant customize the looks of ur Native Cities
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  PROS
  -look great even compared to today's rts games
  -Physics are still great
  -Water 
 still looks great too
  
  CONS
  -hardly any (if none) graphical improvments
  -Natives look like ther on crack when they dance
  
  REPLAY-VALUE
  
  PROS
  -multiplayer
 
  -skirmish
  -thats pretty much it
  
  CONS
  -skirmish could use more options (like i said before)
  -It feels like u wanna abandon the game 
 once u finish the campaign and get ur native home city upgraded to lvl 20-30 or so
  -i didnt spend much time on this expansion so get it for a deal or with some other game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DodgeDuty
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 3, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The expansion pack adds 3 Native American tribes and a new unknown . Other than that the only new 
 gameplay changes to the Europeans is the saloon which adds mercenaries. The saloon is good for 
 low level players without many mercenary cards, with a lot of gold. The saloon greatly improves 
 the Dutch as they get gold really easily. The unknown map is a good way to stop the opponent from 
 easily predicting where you are at as it is easy to memorize maps. The unknown generates an entirely 
 random map of everything. Some glitches have been fixed but for $20 extra bucks, it feels overpriced. 
 10-15 bucks would have been better for a few minor upgrades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makhdoom82
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  This is the expansion to the age of empires 3 ... which itself is a very good game ... the best 
 one in the age of empire series .... and with this addon it will add a lot more fun ... it gives 
 you a new single player campaign story ... lots of new maps in multiplayer and new units offcourse 
 ... worth your money in my opinion .... single player campaign early american history ... red indian 
 and settlers .... if you own the first one then this should be added to the collection as well 
 ... it does not improve any graphics or anything but just adds new features described above . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrjamys
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  The game now lets you place as native americans which is prety cool but they lack different types 
 of units. you'll probably spend your first few hours playing them but after a while you'll go back 
 to the european civs. the europeon civs also get more content. you get a strange suicide unit that 
 blows things up but kills it self in the progress. you can have a revolution which gives you powerful 
 units such as the gatling gun. but if your army dies or resources run out your pretty much beaten 
 since all you settlers have been turned into soldiers. the campain is very fun and exciting this 
 time round you fight the british (again) in the first campain and natives in the next. i like the 
 graphics but when you zoom in the units faces look horrible. quite alot of the time there are rough 
 edges . over all this game is very fun. i only recommend this game to dedicated aoe fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lockard34
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  when i first heard about this i though it was going to be the greatest thing ever and i waited 
 and waited and qaited some more then it finally came out and i couldent be more disapointed the 
 graphics were fine and sound and all but there indian colonies were horrible i couldent believe 
 it there not that great at all and there like nothing new or exciting about this i would not recommend 
 buying it if you have the age of empires 3 then just stick with it and also it a little harder 
 to make an army you rarmy may come faster this time around But the units are alot more expensive!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caster_dark
Rating: 3.4
Date: May 31, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  I have been serious fan of AOE series since its first product. But the latest installments make 
 me disappointment. I think it lost its unique franchise and new features, cool full 3D funtions 
 and its new depth, campaigns are not addictive things even for its fans. I don't know about the 
 others but for me, I love to make economy strong first, and then non-stop battle plans and hits 
 to my opponent's base is my most favor thing in AOE II. While you are building your army, castle 
 and rush your enemy's base, you need to find new place for your resources like oh hell, where's 
 stone, gold ? My mines are gonna be out here .It's really quite busy while you're playing AOE II 
 and that's why I love this game but for now, AOE III add new cool features that the resources are 
 not needed to bring back, the time for your economy are reduced obviously and you're now just clicking 
 production icon for your military units. I admit that AOE III has its own deep depth but it's not 
 sufficient things us to play fun. Why we play AOE is simple. Its unique style of building houses, 
 farms, chopping woods and so on for economy and its unique style of battle plans for example, building 
 castle near your enemy's base to destroy your enemy's economy. But unfortunately in AOE III, animations 
 and images are really weak to attract to play again. Very boring to watch great replays, lacks 
 of its own ideas and loss of its franchise make me to recommend you that do not buy this game if 
 you would like to play great RTS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHotel
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 22, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This is the BEST game I've ever played!!! wait, I already said that, anyway...
  This is the BEST game I've ever played!!! yeah, it's THAT good! Age of Empires III is the most 
 addicting game I've ever seen! The online play is awesome. There are so many ways to play this 
 game too. It has nice graphics, GREAT gameplay, and lots of cool features. GET THIS GAME NOW!! 
 have I reached the minimum of 100 words yet? now? NOW? how about NOW!! OH COME ON!!! NOW!?!?! yay! 
 wait, NO! NOW!? ARGHH! am I at the very minimum of teh, I mean the, one hundred word limit!?! hehehe 
 finally! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llarrev
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 20, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  The expansion to Age of Empires 3, this game may have done nothing revolutionary for the series, 
 but it does deliver some solid gameplay and graphics.
  
  The Gameplay is solid. Three new civilizations are added to the fray and now we can play as the 
 Native Americans, the Sioux, the Aztecs and the Iroquois. This is excellent as the European factions 
 were a little too similar. The major adjustments to gameplay, building on the system of Age of 
 Empires 3, are the revolution and the trade monopoly victory systems. The revolution mode of play 
 is where at any point in the game you can declare a revolution, once this is done, all your villagers 
 will turn into militia, with the added bonus of powerful military units. This is risky, as, if 
 you fail to eliminate the enemy quickly, you become stuck with an inability to build. The trade 
 monopoly victory system shakes up game strategy in a positive way. With this, if you seize enough 
 trade outposts on the map you win the game. This speeds up gameplay as you cannot play it safe, 
 defending your citadel and advancing fast enough to destroy the other civilizations. The new campaign 
 is also solid. In it, you can continue the tale of the Black Family, this time fighting a Sioux 
 uprising following the American Civil War.
  
  The Graphics are just as awe inspiring as in the previous game, but it is a little disappointing 
 that the graphics were not improved upon, as there was a whole year between the release of this 
 expansion and the predecessor.
  
  The Sound is sound, but the voice acting within the campaign is irritating and sounds like something 
 out of a bad action-adventure movie. In fact there is a cringe-worthy moment where George Washington 
 delivers a taste of cheesy dialogue that runs rampant throughout this game.
  
  All in all a solid expansion to a great game, good work Ensemble. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rai8ers4lyfe
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, the graphics for everything about this game is perfect, i love everything 
 about it a much, much better game than Age of Empires 2. If you liked the last age of empires then 
 you'll love this one, it's fantastic. The gameplay for this game is much improved they've added 
 an awesome campaign mission that you'll want to play over and over again. An other great addition 
 for this game is the home city play of the game, you could play this game for hours and not get 
 board, at least i did. The graphics for this game are probably the best for any pc game there is 
 out there so that's another plus to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ofensatul
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  As far as i can remember i think AOE was the first good rts of our time. Haha i ran for a copy 
 of the game trough rain and sunshine , even virused my pc cause i was too eager to play it. Simply 
 I got the demo and i just had to have the full game. After that it was love at first sight. What 
 can I say about this fantastic rts series ? Never dissapointed not once. Good multi-player , amaizing 
 history lessons , well made characters just what a platinum rts needs to have. And I`m sure every 
 hardcome gamer will always keep his AOE collection. AOE III the warchiefs is a very good sequel 
 , but there is always room for better. So from a raging AOE fan this is a 9.5`er . AOE LIVES forever.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Illscrewyoubig
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 6, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  [This was a heart-breaker for a true fan of the series. Age of Empires 1 &amp; 2 with their respective 
 exspansions generated much hype over Age of Mythology, which was well placed. Then came Age of 
 Empires 3. It was just an average game in a world of great real-time strategies. Worth its salt, 
 but not the best. Of course, the gameplay increased its flexibility, but not to the point that 
 it compared with the age-old Warcraft III: Frozen Throne.
  
  Then, AOE 3: The Warchiefs hit the stores and millions flocked to buy what was anticipated to be 
 the best come-back any game had ever made in the history of expansions. In truth, it was more like 
 the worst game ever.]
  
  Do Not Buy This Game. DO NOT EVEN RENT THIS GAME. Playing the DEMO is seriously bad for your gaming 
 health. It may discourage you from ever playing another RTS EVER again. Watching someone play it 
 may seriously handicap your ability to ever enjoy anything AGAIN!!!!
  
  Shout Out to Non_Existence 4 helping me with this review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 5, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires III was a great RTS, so it needed an expansion. The graphics are somehow the same, maby 
 just a little better. The sound is almost the same, but the soundtrack is a bit different &amp; 
 new voice acting. The gameplay is very good,&amp; more diverse than in AOE III. You'll get stealth 
 missions, ambush misions, attack/defend ones, trade, negotoation. The new factions are the indians: sioux 
 &amp; iroqois-very innovative style. The story continues with Amelaia Black's father Nathaniel 
 Black,&amp; her son, Chayton Black. It's nice. So, good job for Ensamble Studios &amp; Microsoft for 
 this good expansion, but not better than Dawn of War Dark Crusade.&amp; sorry but i had to write 
 the review fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumbgrim
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 17, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  Age of empires 3 is a gret game. It is a very good thinking game and i will recomend this game 
 4 anyone and any age. The game keeps u on the edge. there are differt teams that u can go through 
 different ages and build diffent buildings. I love this game. My favorite team is the german. what 
 i like about them, thy can revolt and get powerfull wepons and a modern war ship. they also have 
 big canons and ships before u revolt. when u revolt all ur workers turn inyo soldiers. i can also 
 give u readers a cheat tuck tuck tuck and give me liberty or give me money. BUY THIS GAME NOW!!! and 
 thats not a cheaat.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSlater85
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  If you liked Age of Empires III. This addon adds a lot of depth and new things to the game.
  I just loved the natives. It's a whole new style of play. Buildings are totally different. It's 
 Nice to have a change from a Castle style. They are well balanced too... The natives can actually 
 take down castles and such. I was supprised at how well balanced they were. You know you would 
 think that spears and bows and arrows are not so good against a castle... Well, If you can't see 
 the guy who is hiding in the bush shooting at you... It's pretty good. I would completely recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeOfRavenclaw
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is a fantastic strategy game, but when all was said and done, we found that 
 it lacked... something. Although a number of new features were added, it essentially felt like playing 
 Age II with better graphics.
  
  Enter The WarChiefs, which does an excellent job of improving on what Age III started. By now, 
 I'm sure that everyone's aware they there are three new factions: The Aztecs, the Iroquois, and 
 the Sioux. Each brings something new to the game -- for instance, the Sioux start with a maxed out 
 population cap, letting them build up an army without the tedious necessity of constructing houses 
 (a merciful relief for fans) . But the Sioux can build tepees, which boost their hit points. Then 
 there's the fact that the Sioux War Chief (i. e. their explorer) is mounted and gives a speed boost 
 to nearby units. The result is that the Sioux can launch deadly hit and run attacks, then drop 
 back to take advantage of the tepee defense bonuses. The Iroquois, on the other hand, rely on powerful 
 siege units, while the Aztecs can dominate with their infantry units. Speaking of the War Chiefs, 
 they have some truly unique abilities. As I've already mentioned, each gives a different bonus 
 to their followers. But they can also convert treasure guardians, which becomes a valuable way 
 to gain allies (it can also lead to some amusing situations in which your War Chief is being followed 
 around by a bear, a pirate, a number of coyotes, and an alligator) . European factions have some 
 updates too -- new units include spies, who can conceal themselves and assassinate enemy explorers; 
 and the petard, which is essentially a massive suicide bomb. A saloon is also added, which lets 
 you hire pirates and mercenaries (actually the saloon isn't as cool as it sounds. Oh well) . And 
 you can now obtain victory by controlling the majority of trading posts for a set period of time 
 (which works extremely well) . The big addition, though, is the Revolution mode. This lets you convert 
 all your settlers to militia and gives you some powerful home city military cards, destroying your 
 economy but giving you an immensely powerful military. This should make the endgame of those tough 
 multiplayer matches a good deal more interesting...
  
  Of course, since this is Age of Empires III, the graphics are superb. If you haven't seen a building 
 get destroyed in this game, you need to. Right now. The visual style of the new factions is also 
 a great change from the same-ness of the the European countries.
  
  All in all, if you have Age III, you need to buy this. And if you're thinking about getting it, 
 the WarChiefs adds enough new and improved material to make that decision a no-brainer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Well, actually it's a great expansion. But it needs just something that you feel, your in a different 
 style in the game. The whole idea was amazing. It could be even worse if they chose to continue 
 to finish Italians and swedes. Campaign is a bit better but still not so good. As for singleplayer, 
 there you need maybe 4-5 games for each civilisation, to see major advantages and disadvantages. 
 AI is nothing better that it was but it didn't bother me. The multiplayer was quite great too. 
 So in this game there is revolution thats fun. As either as a way for a new strategy. But taking 
 away the trade monopoly, there isn't nothing special then left. There are also few new units. Like 
 ninjas, elmetis, petards and so on. There are saloons. And they are so fair. First i tought they 
 will ripoff the mercaneries from home-cities but i was wrong. They are even worse cost/amount than 
 those from HC. So you should build your army carefully. Indians were cool too. I liked the sioux 
 and aztecs. It's cool they are a bit different than europeans, but other than few differences that 
 are historical aren't new. Sioux can win many fights against europeans. but that's good. that's 
 good for some people and i believe that. So game overall is really cool. And if you loved AOE3, 
 go in the store and get it. I guarantee u that it will be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakeEx3
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Warchiefs is an expansion pack to Ensemble Studios's Age of Empires III. The main draw of Warchiefs 
 is of course its updated content, most notably the Native American civilizations. GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay is very similar Age of Empires III. You start out with a town center and a few 
 villagers, gather resources, progress through ages, and build up a military. However there are 
 some new things. Instead of going to the last age, European civilizations can choose to have a 
 Revolution. Basically, all your villagers turn into militia and you get some military units and 
 upgrades. Some units are exclusive to Revolutions, such as gatling guns and ironclads. Revolutions 
 as of now are quite underpowered. Also, European civilizations can use a Saloon to hire Mercenaries 
 without Home City shipments. They can also get Horse Artillery. The Native American civilizations 
 play a little differently. The Sioux, Iroquois, and Aztecs all have a Warchief, which is a VERY 
 strong explorer. These Warchiefs emit an aura that can boost other units. Furthermore, they have 
 access to a fire pit. Villagers can dance at the firepit for various bonuses. One dance lets you 
 train units faster, another spawns warriors, another raises attack, another gives XP gradually, 
 etc.
  
  The Iroquois are the most like Europeans (They are the only Native civ to get cannons) , but they 
 have Travois that can build pretty much every building. They are great for booming , which is pretty 
 much expanding VERY fast. The Aztecs are all infantry based. However they have some more specialized 
 infantry (One acts like artillery, another like cavalry) . They get Warrior Priests which act like 
 strong warriors in addition to being able to dance at the fire pit at double effectiveness.
  
  The Sioux are my favorite. They don't need to build houses. Instead they can build Tipis which 
 boost military HP nearby. They are much more cavalry based also, even their Warchief is on horseback. 
 They don't have access to cannons, but they have a siege dance. The gameplay isn't balanced. ES 
 patches this game but doesn't seem to test it out fully. However, if you're a good player you're 
 probably going to do well.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Not much change from AOE3. Still very good graphics, very attractive. There may be slowdown, but 
 I've never had it.
  
  SOUND
  Warchiefs has a lot of new sound samples for the Native Americans. Each unit is voiced uniquely. 
 However, almost no music has been added aside from the main theme and the Revolution music. Still, 
 everything sounds nice.
  
  VALUE
  The campaign is pretty short, 2/3 of the original campaign. There is a skirmish mode and a map 
 editor. This game has a robust online mode and a sizable community. Unfortunately ES doesn't support 
 Custom Scenarios online as of now.
  
  TILT
  I really enjoyed this game. It's not perfect, and it's not really realistic (The Aztecs would get 
 annihalated by cannons, there were no Ronin or Ninja in the Americas) , but it's very fun. I also 
 give ES props for effectively putting Native Americans in a game, not stereotyping them.
  
  In conclusion, this is a game that every Age of Empires III owner should consider. If you don't 
 have Age of Empires III and have a capable PC, you should consider that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiredDreemz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  ... but still well worth the investment just for the fact that it is AOE3. Pity we have to be subjected 
 to American history. Not everyone is overly interested in America's past. If anything, that is 
 the only shortfall of the game, its very localised for the American gaming audience. Other than 
 that, the graphics are superb, the soundtrack could be far better (although that is a common pitfall 
 for most AOE games - I wonder why) , and the gameplay is still mega easy. If there is an AOE4 in 
 the pipeline, which I don't doubt, hopefully they'll improve on some things, especially the soundtrack. 
 A nice addition to the expansion is the research of further elements, elements that can seriously 
 sway the game in favour of the person that knows how to utilise this research 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbitt92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  I'm a relative newcomer to the Age of Empirers series - having played other RTS games for a while. 
 I enjoyed AoE3 for the few months that I have owned it, but was hesitant to buy The War Chiefs 
 expansion because the original took me a while to learn. I went ahead and bought it though and 
 am very glad that I did. The three new native civilizations are so much fun to play and the overall 
 changes to the game have made it better IMO. The graphics are the same as the original, but are 
 still good compared to other RTS games. These games have so much depth that it is unreal. While 
 other RTS games are fun, they get old after a while because it is the same thing over and over. 
 With this game, there are so many possible strategies and now 11 civilizations to play, that I 
 do not see myself getting tired of it in the near future. I have already gotten my money's worth 
 out of this game, so I am very happy with my decision to buy it. If you are debating whether to 
 get it or not, stop waiting and go ahead and get it. Try out one of the new native civilizations 
 and you'll have fun right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ntoremi
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 28, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  I dont like the fact that the expansion doesnt upgrade the graphics or the sound. The extra content 
 is poor and an improvement in graphics would be nice. And of course when you must give so many 
 from your time for learn to play with a strategy game you want a big and all time on community 
 (like old AOE 2) .
  
  So for me this game is a disappointment.
  
  I will not suggest you to buy it if you like multiplayer gaming. The Internet community is small 
 and it has nothing to do with the AOE 2 community in zone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjdesigns_2000
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  After AOE3 this is a welcome addition to the already good game but the new additional civilizations 
 have many many confusing units which might take some time for a starter to get used to. The new 
 revolutions feature is cool but has to be used a the right time, be late and its no use and be 
 early and youll end up loosing very easily. New Even the new additional units for europeans are 
 great. The graphics of the game are very crisp and clear and the sounds are cool. The multiplayer 
 is lag free and you dont need a super computer to run it. Definitely a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  While it is a great expansion pack something is still amiss with the game that I can't quite put 
 my finger on.
  
  One thing I do have to congratulate Ensemble on is the little things in the game that make it so 
 fun such as some of the new home city shipment cards and improvements to the European nations.
 
  
  Graphics are still pretty but for some reason some of the native animations seem glitchy. What 
 I thought was the gleam of a metallic object on one of my warriors ended up being some glitchy 
 lighting effect.
  
  The Native Americans nations are without a doubt the focus of this game and definitely make an 
 impact on you when you play as them. Although I don't believe playing as any particular is easier 
 than playing as another they all have their unique points. What I really enjoy about the native 
 nations are the big button upgrades you can use when you click on certain building (infact its 
 almost any building) .
  
  The real challenge while playing as the natives is finding the right mix of units that can contend 
 with the Euro units which can be hard depending on the nation you play as. The first time I played 
 as the Sioux my horsemen (which I thought were supposed to be outstanding) kept getting slaughtered 
 by euro units that weren't even that great against cavalry. I'm not going to tell you my solution 
 but I'm sure you'll figure one out for yourself.
  
  All in all its a great game and I'm looking forward to many more hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugi_nayar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  The expansion for last years major RTS game AoE III is here. The Age of Empires III: The WarChiefs 
 has finally arrived. And as with the previous expansions for the series, Ensemble Studios has built 
 upon its product rather than bring in any revolutionary concept. But with a product as good as 
 AoE even that is sufficient to keep us interested.
  
  The game introduces 3 new civilizations. The Iroquois, which resemble the previous games European 
 powers, constitute the first side. We had gotten a glimpse of the Iroquois in the previous game 
 and so this side would be quite familiar to most of you. They play pretty much the same as the 
 Europeans and so getting the hang of the Iroquois civilization is not tough. The next side is that 
 of the Sioux. The Sioux are a lot different from the Iroquois in the sense that they do not need 
 houses to build up their population. Consequently they are cavalry-centric. This makes them very 
 mobile and great for conducting fast raids. The final side is that of the Aztecs. Veterans of the 
 AoE series will remember the Aztecs from AoE2. And like AoE2 the Aztecs are infantry-centric and 
 have units such as Jaguar Warriors.
  
  The reason behind naming the game as The WarChiefs is because of a unit of the same name. Each 
 tribe has a War Chief, which is like their hero unit. Very early in the game this unit possesses 
 the ability to collect treasure and so will act as the main explorer. This is not to say that Warchief 
 cant fight. The Warchief gains powers and strength as the game progresses and soon will transform 
 from your explorer to your main fighter unit. The other big addition for the tribes is the Fire 
 Pit. The Fire Pit is a special structure where you must assign your villagers. These villagers 
 will then dance to gather a variety of small but important resources which grants you further abilities. 
 The more villagers assigned the bigger is the effect.
  
  Now the expansion just doesnt add new sides with leaving the old ones as they are. The Europeans 
 have also been slightly upgraded and a new building is available to them  the Saloon. From here 
 you can produce missionaries from time to time. These missionaries cannot be created elsewhere 
 and its nice to see new unit production building available. Europeans have also gained the use 
 spy units. The campaign mode once again follows the story of the Black family, adding two more 
 chapters to their history. And from the narrative of the Blacks you will take part in the European-Tribal 
 wars as they had actually happened during the period of colonization and try to prevent the inevitable. 
 The skirmish mode is more or less the same.
  
  The new game play features are Revolution and Monopoly. The European colonies have the option of 
 declaring a revolution. When this happens all the peasant units are converted to military units 
 and production of further peasants is effectively halted. Even the home country will only send 
 military shipments from then on. So this feature must be used with care. Though it gives an almost 
 undefeatable military power for a short while, it comes at a hefty cost. When you revolt there 
 is no scope of further resource production and youll be at the mercy of your reserved stock.
 
  
  Monopoly is related to trade routes. This features limits defensive gameplay to a big extent. In 
 the expansion, control of trade posts is critical. If one side controls more than half the trade 
 posts for a set period of time, it is assured victory. When a side gains control of the majority 
 of trade posts, the time limit is displayed within which you must rupture your enemys control 
 of the routes or lose the game. This adds a bit of urgency to the game.
  
  The physics model of the game is laudable. Hitting buildings with cannons makes them crumble at 
 the right angles. Cannon balls will roll down hills and your men will be blown away if in the line 
 of fire. The game looks great. Like the base game you can see detailed reflections in water. Gunfire 
 looks quite realistic and overall the character design is also good. The game does require a high-end 
 machine to give optimum performance. On average settings the graphic display is also average and 
 surroundings appear slightly blocky. The maps of the game are quite detailed and as good as those 
 of the base game, if not better.
  
  Sound is however one department where the game slightly lags. The voice-overs havent been done 
 to perfection and do not produce the same effect as that of the original game. But battle sounds 
 such as those of gunfire are satisfactory. Theres also the transition from normal peaceful background 
 music to the more urgent battle-music on being attacked by enemies.
  
  The WarChiefs a great expansion for a great game. It has a lot new content to keep you absorbed 
 for a long while. The new gameplay techniques, in particular, add a new flavour to the game. The 
 Age of Empires feel is still there and if you own Age of Empires III, then getting The Warchiefs 
 is a must. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
