-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Age of Mythology
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/ageofmythology/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  1, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 8.9, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 7,484 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Ensemble Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 1, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Featuring lots of interesting, inventive design decisions, plenty of fun-to-use units, and tons 
 of variety, Age of Mythology is the last real-time strategy game you'll need for a long time.

 Ensemble Studios has long since made a name for itself with its extremely popular Age of Empires 
 series of real-time strategy games, so the company's latest game, Age of Mythology, seems risky. 
 Not only is this the first Ensemble product to feature a fully 3D graphics engine, but it's also 
 the first to stray from the purely historical context of Age of Empires and delve into fiction. 
 In the game, you'll still find the sort of realistic armies of cavalry, spearmen, and archers you'd 
 find in Age of Empires, but they'll be fighting alongside the likes of medusas, minotaurs, sphinxes, 
 mummies, frost giants, trolls, and more. So don't expect Age of Mythology to help you ace any history 
 tests. And yet, much like with the Age of Empires games, you still could easily end up learning 
 a thing or two while playing Age of Mythology. While the game may not be a simulation of any battles 
 that ever actually took place, it offers great insight into three core historical civilizations 
 and their beliefs, which collectively helped shape much of the world as we know it. More importantly, 
 Age of Mythology executes its concept extremely well, in a manner that should please fans of Ensemble's 
 previous real-time strategy games as well as many of those who might have found the history-themed 
 Age of Empires games a bit dry.           The developers of Age of Empires have outdone themselves 
 once again with Age of Mythology.    

  Age of Mythology doesn't make any huge departures from the conventions of real-time strategy gaming, 
 but rather represents arguably the most refined example of the genre to date. If you've played 
 any other real-time strategy game lately, especially Age of Empires II, then you'll feel very comfortable 
 getting started with Age of Mythology, a highly complex game that will seem remarkably intuitive. 
 If you've played a lot of Age of Empires II, then you'll get the impression from Age of Mythology 
 that the designers spent their time further adjusting the gameplay conventions that they themselves 
 have already helped pioneer and coming up with lots and lots of clever twists to give the game 
 plenty of appeal, depth, and lasting value. You'll also note that Age of Mythology immediately 
 comes across as a highly polished product -- fully featured and carefully documented, Age of Mythology 
 is also elegantly designed and surprisingly easy to explain despite its unusual concept.   

  Most real-time strategy games let you play as a certain number of different factions. In the 
 case of games like this year's Warcraft III, the relatively small number of playable factions still 
 makes for outstanding gameplay due to the very substantial differences from one faction to the 
 next. Yet in the Age of Empires games, which featured numerous different playable civilizations, 
 the differences between these were much less obvious -- many of the factions shared units, strategies, 
 and graphics. Age of Mythology essentially combines these two philosophies by offering you the 
 chance to control one of three radically different civilizations -- the Greeks, the Egyptians, and 
 the Norse -- as well as three different subsets of each one, based on these respective cultures' 
 major deities. There's variation even within each subfaction -- during the course of a match, you'll 
 get to ally yourself with a number of different minor deities, each of which confers its own unique 
 benefits on your civilization. And not only does allegiance with any of the game's deities give 
 you special bonuses, but you also get a one-time-use miracle, a unique mythological unit of some 
 sort, special technology, and more. The option to choose from three civilizations, nine major gods, 
 and 27 minor gods adds up to a huge amount of variety.           Three distinctly different civilizations 
 are vie for power in the game: the Greeks, the Egyptians, and the Norse.    

  At its core, Age of Mythology does play a lot like Age of Empires II, as well as other real-time 
 strategy games. A typical match will still require you to spend considerable amounts of time and 
 attention on gathering various resources and building up your civilization, then on producing vast 
 armies, researching numerous technologies and upgrades, and commanding your forces in large battles. 
 The game's resource model is very similar to that of Age of Empires II, with one exception. You 
 once again need ample supplies of food to build new units and advance from one stage of civilization 
 to the next, and food is once again obtained from hunting, gathering, farming, or fishing. You 
 once again need gold to research new technologies and construct military units and structures, 
 and gold is mined from clearly visible deposits you'll find scattered about each map. You'll also 
 need to chop plenty of lumber. Stone, the fourth resource of the Age of Empires games, is not a 
 factor in Age of Mythology, though there is a fourth resource: favor. Favor represents the powers 
 of your civilizations' gods and is used for summoning your civilization's powerful mythological 
 units, as well as gaining some divine technological bonuses.   

  One thing that each of the game's three civilizations have in common is that their temple is one 
 of their most important buildings. It is there that mythological units are summoned and other divine 
 enhancements are granted. However, civilizations each gain favor differently. Greek villagers can 
 be ordered to pray at a temple, which gradually increases favor. Egyptian workers can construct 
 monuments to their gods -- four different, successively larger ones -- that generate favor. And the 
 Norse earn favor by waging war. Civilizations also each have different types of hero units available, 
 which specialize in defeating mythological units. The Greeks have a handful of legendary heroes 
 such as Odysseus, Jason, and Heracles. The Egyptians have priests and a pharaoh, a powerful leader 
 that can be used to speed construction of buildings, increase production, or serve as guardian 
 of his people. The Norse can produce innumerable helsirs, mighty warriors that are most favored 
 by the gods.    

 The way that the different civilizations generate favor and the way they must incorporate their 
 heroes into battle make for a lot of interesting gameplay right off the bat. For instance, the 
 Greeks can generate favor pretty easily, but cannot have as many heroes in the field as the Norse. 
 Meanwhile, the Norse can have plenty of heroes in the field, perfect for dealing with the Greeks' 
 large mythological armies, but cannot earn favor as readily as the Greeks or Egyptians can. Furthermore, 
 the different civilizations gather and use resources differently. The Egyptians don't build structures 
 as quickly, but do not use wood for making them. The Norse use their burly infantry for construction, 
 while their worker units are used only for gathering resources. The Norse also use oxcarts as mobile 
 drop-off points for resources, rather than the stationary structures of the other civilizations. 
           Nine major gods and 27 minor gods are represented in the game, each with their own unique 
 powers and bonuses.    

  Of further note, hero characters are the only ones that can retrieve relics that can randomly be 
 found on most maps. In Age of Empires, retrieved relics generated a small but steady surplus of 
 gold. However, Age of Mythology has a number of unique relics that confer dramatic bonuses. It's 
 therefore more important than ever to actively scout the environment, if only to discover relics 
 early on and keep them out of your opponents' hands. You also need to search for new settlements, 
 since, unlike in Age of Empires II, you can't just plunk down a new town hall anywhere. You need 
 additional settlements in order to grow your population limit, and in Age of Mythology, settlements 
 are deliberately spread out so as to discourage overly defensive play.   

  It may be clear by now that Age of Mythology has a multifaceted balance system that's far, far 
 more intriguing and complex than the relatively simplistic rock-paper-scissors balance systems 
 seen in most real-time strategy games. Besides having different resources to manage, and myth units 
 and hero units to summon, you also have a wide variety of conventional forces at your disposal, 
 including various foot soldiers, cavalry, archers, siege engines, ships, and more. Some of these 
 are specialized to be exclusively well suited against certain other types of units, and all can 
 be upgraded. While myth units can often make short work of conventional forces -- units like the 
 cyclops and the minotaur can slay most human soldiers in a single blow -- you absolutely need to 
 balance your myth units with your standard armies. For one thing, myth units can't be produced 
 as readily as conventional forces can. For another, conventional soldiers are well suited for overwhelming 
 enemy hero characters, which, as mentioned, are the biggest threat to your myth units.   

  To make things even more interesting, as you advance through up to four different ages over the 
 course of a single battle, you'll choose between two different minor deities at each of these points. 
 While progressing through the ages was a purely linear affair in the Age of Empires games, having 
 these options in Age of Mythology lets you play a little more reactively and puts a certain strategic 
 consequence on being the first to advance in age. An expert player that learns of his opponent's 
 allegiance with, for example, Artemis, the Greek goddess of the hunt, may then proceed to focus 
 his efforts on training units that are effective against archers, since Artemis' powers bolster 
 the Greeks' archer units. Of course, the player that advanced sooner should have a technological 
 advantage to offset this.   

  Generally speaking, battles in Age of Mythology have a similar feel to those of Age of Empires 
 II, meaning they're often big, brutal, and quick. Defensive structures and buildings aren't quite 
 as resistant to damage here as in Age of Empires II, and that game's ubiquitous trebuchet is nowhere 
 to be found. However, using long-range but vulnerable siege engines to crack enemy defenses remains 
 a key aspect of gameplay in Age of Mythology.           Myth units are extremely powerful in battle, 
 and can defeat small armies on their own. You'll need hero characters to stop them.    

  The game uses a highly intuitive interface that's very similar to that of Age of Empires II and 
 offers many of the same enhancements. Float your mouse pointer over virtually any object in the 
 game, and you'll get concise yet thorough descriptions of what it is, what it does, and what it's 
 good for. You can also access a technology tree that includes hypertext links to considerable amounts 
 of historical information on all the game's units, gods, and monsters. During gameplay, automatic 
 unit formations, good pathfinding, production and research queues, and generally intelligent autonomous 
 behavior on the part of your units all help to minimize the amount of micromanaging you'll have 
 to do. In another nice touch, units with special abilities use those abilities automatically -- however, 
 this can actually be used to the advantage of the player taking on those units, since he can force 
 them to waste their special abilities on inconsequential targets. At any rate, despite all the 
 automation, you'll absolutely need to make every moment of every match count if you plan to play 
 competitively, and you'll have to balance overseeing your civilization with scouting and managing 
 your battles. But at least you won't have to spend any time micromanaging any of your individual 
 units.   

  Actually, one issue with Age of Mythology is that most of the units in the game appear very small, 
 and hero units in particular -- though they're distinguished with a slight glow -- can be tough to 
 pick out of the fray. Hotkeys are available for quickly cycling through all hero units, though, 
 as well as for locating any idle villagers. For that matter, hotkeys are available for pretty much 
 all the game's actions and can be redefined as you see fit. You can't simultaneously select as 
 many units in Age of Mythology as you could in Age of Empires II, so you'll have to be prepared 
 to use multiple groups of units simultaneously. But in another great touch, Age of Mythology visually 
 represents your unit groupings with onscreen banners that indicate the makeup of that group -- you'll 
 be able to quickly distinguish your cavalry group from your siege engine group, for example.   
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (235 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Rachit_v
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2009 2:09 am PT
Review:  This spin-off of the Age of Empires series is a great game. It has great graphics, interface and 
 a lengthy, but interesting campaign. Though I haven't played it on multiplayer, it's bound to be 
 good, especially due to the Ensemble Studios Online. There's just one campaign, which has a little 
 more than 30 scenarios. Although the story is intriguing, most of the scenarios are 'base builders', 
 i. e., you'll have to build an empire right from scratch. Again, as in all Age games, the Random 
 Map mode will be the only reason to play it after the campaign is over.
  There are only three civilizations, but each of them is unique, and less are the things which are 
 common in them.
  The new feature is the 'God Power' which balances out the three civilizations along with adding 
 variety to the game.
  If you're an avid fan of the Age of Empires series but don't own this one game, you're really missing 
 something great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2009 8:15 am PT
Review:  I have spent many a day on this game. To think i did not even like it... man i must have been on 
 some crazy water back in the day....
  
  You see i went through a phase of just getting games without even knowing much about them. This 
 lead to some very very bad games in my collection (MOO3 being one of them) . My reasons for not 
 liking this game at first was me not being any good at it plus none of my mates had it so it was 
 a dead end for online.
  
  That is untill one day all of my mates got this game and made a small leauge. We would get together 
 every week and try our best to beat each oter and improve our game. It was during this time that 
 i had seen what a true gem of a game this is.....
  
  As always i was a fool to overlook this game and you would also be a fool as well if you did the 
 same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bri2221
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 4:55 pm PT
Review:  w - w - w - worth th - th -th - the w - w - w - wait. . . . . . . . .. . .. . .. . . . . . . . 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 1 2 3 45 6 6 67 7 87 8 9879 5 
 45 65 5 5 7 6 6 7 9 6 0 6 7 0 6 9 6 8 5 6 696 8 6 97 6 9 6 69 7 6 8 8 6 9 7 5 6 7 6 7 6 8 6 8 6789767 
 6 789 9 8 79 7 98 89 8676 878 7 7 6 76 6 78 78 78 7 76 6778 67 67766767 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 
 6 6 6 6 989 89 89 8 898 8 8 89 89 89 77874565 654 65 6 56 565 55 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 55 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 
 55 5 5 5 5 5 5 55 5 5 5 5 55 5 5 5555555555 55 55 5 5 5 5 5 55 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 6 66 6 4 3 
 2 23 2 433 4 5 76 78 8 8 990 4 6 5. sweet. 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 11 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 
 1 1 1 1 0101 01 0 0 11 01 01 01 01 01 0 10 101 0 10 101 01 01 01 0 101 01 0 10 101 001 0 110 0 
 1 100 101 01 01 10 1 001 10 10 1 01 0 10 101 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 00 1 10 10 101010 01 01 01 01 
 01 01 01 01 0 10 10 11 0 1001 1 0 011 00 11 00 10 101 0 10 101 01 1010. I did that because i need 
 the space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweetwater94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I cannot even begin to say how much I love this game. It was one of my first RTS games (Age of 
 Empires II being my first) and I got it because I knew it had been developed by Ensemble. I was 
 not disappointed. This game provides hours and hours and hours of fun that almost anybody that 
 can click a mouse could enjoy. 
  
  The best part about this game is well, the gameplay. It is simply addictive, and you will find 
 yourself blown away at all the amazing little complexities and the innovativeness of this game. 
 The basic premise is that you pick from one of three civilizations when you start a game: Greek, 
 Norse, and Egyptian. Each is very unique and your choice will often depend on your playing style, 
 with each civ. having different strengths and weaknesses in different areas. For example, the Norse 
 are a very military oriented civ., all their soldiers can even construct buildings! As you advance 
 into the ages you select different gods to worship and you will gain different bonuses and powers 
 based on your different selections, which again depend on your playing style. There are also mythological 
 units that require a special resource, favor, to create. The combat in this game is simply awesome 
 and it is fun to build giant armies and go beat the living daylights out of the opposing player's 
 forces. 
  
  Graphics: 8.5 The graphics were pretty good when AoM first came out and they are still good now.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10.0 The gameplay was simply amazing and truly some of the best I have played.
  
 
  Story: 9.0 The story that accompanied the campaign was interesting while still not being the strongest 
 part of the game.
  
  Replayability 10.0 This game is simply addictive and awesome and I still play it 7 years after 
 I got it!
  
  Overall (Not an average of above scores) : 9.5 A truly awesome experience that if you have not still 
 played it you must play it now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: be10an
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:39 am PT
Review:  Well the games both have fun levels to play. Although playing the normal age of mythology levels 
 takes a bit longer. If I were to rated I would rate it addicting 9 out of 10, entertainment 2 out 
 of 5, educational 7 out of 10 ( if you actually read all the facts about everything then it is 9 
 out of 10) . The levels aren't that graphical because you are in a birds eye view. As I was saying 
 before the normal version is longer but easier well the titan's version is short and harder. For 
 the editor on the game (where you create the maps) it is time consuming if you plane on making 
 a good map with plenty of triggers. I would suggest just downloading maps from this site it is 
 easier and a lot more fun. So if you are wondering to buy it I would suggest it. Don't be to mean 
 about this review it was my first one ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is a RTS game for the PC, and its probably one of the best on the PC. Its unique 
 in its own way because back in 2002 Ensemble Studios took risks with Age of Mythology and attempted 
 to make something different from all the other RTS games on the market at the time. The risks turned 
 into success and was a superb strategy game. 
  
  Age of Mythology is a game based on the time back in mythology, Roman and Greek empires. Not only 
 is the setting different but its a lot different from the previous game Age of Empires 2. Like 
 now you can have mythical units, new buildings, better graphics, a great campaign and great online 
 play. There's lots of other new features to the game but there's to many to say.... (lol) . The campaign 
 is great were you follow the story of Arkantos, a hero from Atlantes as he seeks to gain favor 
 from the gods Poseidon and Zeus. The story is actually very good with an interesting plot with 
 a few twists and the voice actors are great supported by interesting dialogue. The campaign is 
 pretty lengthy compared to Age of Empires 2's campaign which was broken up into different hero's 
 stories, however on that game the campaign wasn't very good. There's about 34 levels or something 
 i think and is about 8 hours long so it's a decent length. The onlnie multilayer is good but nobody 
 really plays it now, i had a go and got into a few games were lots of people customize and create 
 there own maps and game types, a lot of them and very clever and fun.
  
  Age of Mythology is a fantastic RTS game that PC owners should check out today, while it's old 
 now and does show age at points, its still game worth buying for about 5.00 which its probably 
 at now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexbark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the great games for PC. It had a lot to live up to with the other Age of Empires 
 games being such a big thing but this has done the job as being the best Age of Empires to date. 
 It follows the same setup as the other Age of Empires games (Civilisations battling out against 
 one another on a map) but also has great new features like the mythological monsters that you can 
 summon. You can choose between 3 civilisations (Norse, Greek and Egyptian) . The game is great in 
 story node but once finished you can still have hours of fun just playing random map (where you 
 choose the settings and players and battle it out) . The game also has some expansion packs such 
 as Age of Mythology: The Titans. Now you can purchase it for just $19.95 from Dick Smith Electronics. 
 Overall it is a great game which can involve hours of play if you wish or just the casual random 
 map game every once in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramiashtar1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  This game is just plainly amazing! i enjoy it every time i play it! its the best, if i had to compare 
 it with "Age of Empires III" then without even thinking the best would be Age of mythology! it 
 plainly rocks, if you don't have the game, buy it now and i promise you will enjoy it! i cant believe 
 this game was released in 2002, cause the graphics are really good, if you play the game nowadays 
 the graphics will take 7.5/10! that's great!
  
  And the sounds, songs and musics are also really great they really get you attracted to the game! 
 And the storyline makes sense, real great plot! i feel like its a movie!! lol
  
  Overall, this game was amazing, promise you would buy it! cause you won't regret it, why not get 
 the golden edition that has the titans' expansion with it?! It is amazing and will always be amazing! 
 10/10 way to go Microsoft!!! P. S: Don't get "Age of Empires III"!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChuckE_Cheese
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  as you may know, aom gameplay is similar to age of empire's. its a strategy game in which you grow 
 your society, recruit soldiers, bust around your enemies.. you get the idea. but, the best thing 
 bout aom is that it's theme is based on ancient mythology. it really wicked awesome. you choose 
 one main primary god, then keep worshiping him will grant you god powers and aids from semi-gods 
 which you choose within a new era or age. you can choose between the greeks, egyptian, norse, and 
 atlanteans from the expansion. story mode is kinda the main atraction in this game, the story is 
 well based and unpredictable, making it a wonderfull experience altogether. 
  
  Bad:
  if you don't have a friend to show off your titans, well it's your loss
  
  Overall:
  my favorite 
 thing about aom is that different god means different creatures. if you worship egyptian gods, 
 you would get anubis, spinx. norse give you giants, dragons. and greeks give you pegasus, medusa. 
 long story short im in love with this game, and i wouldn't mind bragging about it again and again. 
 if you reach certain age, you may even have the opportunity on building wonders or unleashed a 
 titan! thats right folks.. a titan, a giant, unbeatable, 70-feet titan with a bad temper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthLinux
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology, similar to the Age of Empires series but far more fun. What's not to like about 
 this game, it was great when it came out and it's even better now.
  
  You can play Age of Mythology over and over again and try the harder difficulty levels, As well 
 as challenging in scenarios this game delivers a fantastic story which makes you want to Finnish 
 the game rather than let it sit in the corner and get dusty. 
  
  The graphics aren't half bad either, despite being all the way back in 2002 the graphics are still 
 pretty good and are still nice to look at unlike some of the older games.
  
  The best thing this has over Age of Empires are its myth units, gods and goddesses, without these 
 this game would be another Age of Empires but it isn't. AOM is a fun game which should be played 
 by everybody at some time in their life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darsona
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology continues the tradition of Age of Kings with it's easy to learn gameplay, diverse 
 civilizations, and ridiculously smart AI. The game is the first Age game not to feature Japan, 
 which is too bad: Asian style dragons and Oni would have been cool units, but they're not missed 
 with all the other goodies the game has. The campaigns are fun; you can play them again and again. 
 This is the only game I have where I'll go back and play the tutorial again and again. Each campaign 
 has cynamatics, which allow you to like the characters more than you would usually in an RTS. There's 
 a deffinate plot in this game. The Myth units are fun to use, and the new rendering of the normal 
 units is also nice. The version I have was the bargain version, which you can buy for about $10. 
 My only complaint is that the Expansion Pack, The Titans, but it's still a good game and a good 
 buy. Now, why can't they make a new game in this series? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  AOM is one of the finest strategy games ever made by the mortal Humans (after playing the game even 
 you will start speaking like me) . If you are a fan of mythological stories, then this game is a 
 must play. There is no better Fantasy RTS than this.
  
  The campaign mode follows the footsteps of an Atlantean hero by the name of Arkantos. He has to 
 stop the monster Gargarensis from releasing the monstrous Titans locked up in Hell.
  
  The game features 3 civilizations - greeks, eyptians, norse. All of them have got their own set 
 of warriors and beasts. The main addition to this game is that of God Worship, which advances your 
 age. Each God has his own set of upgrades and mythological creatures (I like to call them beasts) . 
 But most importantly each of them have a unique god power. It is a tremendously powerful ... er 
 well, power, with which you can either benefit your own tribe or devastate the opponent (that depends 
 on the god power and hence on your choice of god) . So it is very important as to your choice of 
 god.
  
  The graphics don't improve much from AOE2. Ensemble tried to bring in a 3d effect but failed miserably. 
 Except for the graphics, the game is perfect and so i have overlooked that while giving my marks. 
 If you haven't bought it yet and you like Fantasy and RTS, please buy it. It is worth buying and 
 you can count on me ---- honest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  Another great concept comes true with Age of Empires. The designers of Age of Empires games returned 
 with another fantastic game.
  
  Here, you will have to defeat your opponents, this time with the powers of the gods and some help 
 from mythic creatures. The concept is a bit unusual, but in fact very good.
  
  Like other strategy games, you will have to build a n ancient empire, and lead it to glory while 
 defeating every enemy in sight. First of all, you may select a major god, to whom your villagers 
 will be praying. Then, to advance to the next age, you will have to select between two major gods, 
 who have their own attributes. Each civilization (Greeks, Egyptians and Norsemen) have three different 
 gods to worship.
  
  You can choose to play defensively or to train a great army and attack your enemies, or just live 
 in peace while expanding your economy.
  
  There is also a very good campaign to play, where you must lead Arkantos of Atlantis to beating 
 his arch-enemy, Gargarensis, helped by his Egyptian and Norse friends in his 40-scenario journey.
 
  
  The multiplayer is also very good, especially if you consider that you can play in alocal connection, 
 or build your empire online.
  
  Featuring lots of interesting, inventive design decisions, plenty of fun-to-use units, and tons 
 of variety, Age of Mythology is the last real-time strategy game you'll need for a long time. It's 
 a necessary addition to any real-time strategy fan's collection, and the game is accessible enough 
 so that even those without much experience with the genre should be able to pick up and enjoy the 
 game without getting overwhelmed. Novices and die-hard RTS players alike will all note the remarkable 
 amount of care and quality that clearly went into every aspect of Age of Mythology -- the sorts of 
 things that have already established Ensemble Studios as one of the leading developers of real-time 
 strategy games and that now reinforce the company's position as a leader and innovator in one of 
 PC gaming's most competitive and most popular genres. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petrarus
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game and is a must for all gamers. Even though it is six years old, I still 
 enjoy playing it. It has extremely great potential with everlasting enjoyment of playing. 
  It is a game of strategy with three ancient civilizations batteling for power over land, with each 
 civilazation having its own unique buildings and soldiers. Each civilization worships different 
 gods, and as they begin a new era, more upgrades, soldiers and buildings become available for the 
 player.
  One interesting factor that Age of Mythology has is favor. With favor (from the gods) civilizations 
 can create different mythical creatures. Each civilization gains favor in different ways. The Norse 
 gain it by fighting enemies, the Egyptians gain it by building statues and the Greek gain it by 
 sending workers to pray at a temple.
  The graphics of Aom may seem bad for now, but six years ago they were amazing. It was by far the 
 most successful strategy game at its time.
  The gameplay of Aom is much different of that of Aoe, its brother. It requires you to think to 
 play offensevly and to expand. Unlike Aoe, you can only build city centers in certain areas, which 
 increase your total population span. Aom still has some similarities, You are still required to 
 gather resources such as food.
  Overall, this game is unique in its own way with amazing gameplay and is a must for all gamers.
 
  
  Petrarus
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matchpenalty11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is still one of the better strategy games out there even a few years after its 
 release. Its pretty much your standard RTS. You build your base, build your army, and defeat your 
 opoonent. You do have a limited amount of population which prevents you from building an army too 
 big (like warcraft) but you can always capture settlements around the map by building a town center 
 on them. Age of Mythology also lets you advance through the ages and as you do some more advanced 
 technologies become available to you. Each time you advance to another age you have to select which 
 minor God to worship. In the story mode you can't choose the major gods to worship but you can 
 in multiplayer mode. There are several minor gods to choose from and 9 major gods. 3 Greek, 3 Egyption, 
 3 Norse. The story is one better stories I have seen from a game and draws excellently from the 
 myths of all three civilzations in the game. (Again Norse, Greek, and Egyption) . 
  
  Overall if you like strategy games or mythology this game is a must play. 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  In Age of Mythology you control men to attack other spartans or men so you can conquer the land. 
 The game is a real time stragey. In the game you build towns to help you get weapons, supplies, 
 and men but that is not all of the game. You also to and to defend your towns like you would in 
 a real time stragey, control the others sides towns and kill your foe. The game is hard and it 
 gets boring to play after a little while. The multiplayer is really good in the game there are 
 seven different types.
  
  The good of the game is that it will last you a very long time to play. The game is a big time 
 real strategy game.
  
  The bad of the game is that you get bored of it easily. You might get tired of building towns and 
 taking there towns. 
  
  Overall this game gets a 8.5 outta 10 if you are a person who likes big time stragey then get this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h8ful
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe this game is six years old; the graphics and game play are still smooth, and everything 
 about the game engine works well. To me it's one of those games where no matter how many times 
 you think you've played it through, you can create a new random map and experience it all again 
 (unlike Age of Empires) . Well, that's not being fair. You CAN do that on Age of Empires, but it' 
 just not the same as having legions of archers and spear men attack massive walled cities with 
 a raging meteor shower to back you up. In this type of strategy game, I find the usage of medieval 
 weapons is much more satisfactory than gunpowder and rifles, when you finally get down to sending 
 them of to war. Going back to an earlier comment, i think Age of Mythology is much better than 
 Age of Empires III. Obviously the graphics are more prolific than those of Age of Mythology, but 
 nothing spectacular. They haven't done any significant improvement in the five or so years in between. 
 And I just feel the game play was more creative and original in Age of Mythology than Age of Empires. 
 The Age of Empires series has always had it's glitches and imperfections, and the newest one is 
 no exception. Have you ever tried saving one of your skirmish matches, then loading it sometime 
 later to finish it? You end up loading your home city the way it was at that time as well. So if 
 you had played a few more games and then felt like going back to finish it off, you become stuck 
 with your home city level how it was back then. But now I'm just turning this review into a rant. 
 In my opinion, this is the greatest real-time strategy game to date. Apart from the Titans expansion, 
 the lack of a sequel kind of vexed me, so I guess they just thought, well, we got it right the 
 first time, why mess it up? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AOM_Ian
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game for anyone who likes command and conquer style games. There is a tutorial 
 for new players that takes very little time so it is very easy to jump right into the game. There 
 are good cinematic scenes throughout the campaign as well as an editor which allows you to create 
 your own scenarios. The only drawback with the editor is that it is hard to use at first. With 
 the random map feature you can play a skirmish game with AI's as enemy's. You can work to build 
 up your resources until you can build the prestigious wonder that each civilization has which will 
 win you the game after a set timer that appears once the wonder is built has ended. For all you 
 warring types instead of building wonders you can just completely obliterate the enemy instead. 
 The online multiplayer is the same as the random map feature except for the fact that instead of 
 facing AI's you will face real players from around the world. This game gives hours of entertainment 
 and that is why I rate it at a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ethan111111
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  its a age of empires in the world of myth and mysterious creatures. you dont only get to choose 
 gods you go by but also other mythology aswell that will give you total choice on what you can 
 get. the story is great very fun. and you can make your own map like in other Age of Empire games. 
 An the online play is totally awesome some of the maps you play in is so well done even professionals 
 dont know how to make it. the creature sounds are awesome too you will remember everything of what 
 a unit speaks. the music is great, as well as the voice actors. the graphics are ok but if you 
 get the expansion pack it improves the graphics gives you another campain and a ton of new monsters. 
 if you just want fun use the cheats. their easy and theres a ton of them.. i could just keep going 
 how great this game is. it is truly a masterpiece 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommat119944
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  Taking the step from Age of Empires to Age of Mythology has been a great one for the series without 
 a doubt. Although Age of Empires was a fantastic game, this just improves on it in almost every 
 way possible, the most obvious being graphics.
  
  What makes this game stand out from others is it's unique time line and the units in the fray. 
 In this game, there are 3 civilizations, the Greek, Norse and Egyptian, and whilst they all work 
 in a similar fashion, they all have completely different units and strategies. Along with the 3 
 civilizations, you have 3 gods for each 1, adding up to 9 gods to choose from.
  
  Each god has different powers which you can invoke to gain the upper hand on the battle field, 
 however, since these powers are extremely advantageous, you may only use each one once. To unlock 
 the next power, you must advance through the ages, which is done by reaching a certain amount of 
 resources and sacrificing them to advance your civilization and gain new units etc.
  
  The main goal of the game is to wipe out the enemy team (s) , using the numerous recources put at 
 your disposal. You start off with a town village and a villager or slave. You may put these to 
 work either 1. Chopping down trees to gain wood. 2. Mining from the rocks placed around the map 
 for gold and 3. Building farms, gathering from berry trees or slaughtering farm animals and in 
 return acquiring food. All 3 of these are required for numerous units, advancements etc. and you 
 need to acquire them in order to proceed in the game.
  
  For mythological units, however, you need to also have "Favour". This is gained by pleasing your 
 gods. The method is different for all 3 civilizations. For the Greek, you must get your villagers 
 to slowly gain favour by praying to your gods by the church, the Egyptians build miniture monuments 
 to their gods and the Norse fight with the opposition to gain favour. Again, here the gods differ 
 as they all have unique myth units.
  
  The Greeks, in my opinion, are the most well-rounded civilization, whilst the Norse are the more 
 offensive of the 3 and the Egyptians advance quickly and gain resources very fast, although they 
 seem very weak, i haven't played them much so. All 3 of them are equal though if you have equally 
 skilled players on each side.
  
  In a way, Age of Mythology is much the same as Age of Empires, but with it's own twist on it that's 
 really hard to put your finger on as to what it is.
  
  The storymode for this game is quite long, lasting around 30 hours for me, but i took my time during 
 it. If you are adapt to Real Time Strategys, particularly the Age of Empire's, you should find 
 little trouble with learning the ropes of this game.
  
  Ultimately, Age of Mythology is an extremely solid Real Time Strategy, which is sure to keep you 
 busy for at least a few days. The fantastic AI, the large number of maps and the diversity of the 
 units makes Age of Mythology's custom games with the AI very challenging and immersive. Age of 
 Mythology get's a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoseWeed619
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Before there was history, there was mythology: tales of heroes and gods, adventure and war, death 
 and the afterlife. This rich universe of fiction and fable sets the backdrop for Ensemble Studios' 
 newest real-time strategy game, Age of Mythology. Delving into the realms of myth marks a departure 
 from the historical authenticity of the other RTS games Ensemble made famous (1997's Age of Empires 
 and 1999's Age of Kings) . While AoM sports a new graphics engine and three unique factions, on 
 the whole it plays very much like its predecessors. Too much like its predecessors, if you were 
 hoping for a truly different game experience. 
  
  What's New? 
  
  Ensemble's development team consists of perfectionists with an eye for detail, and it shows in 
 the new 3D graphics engine. Rich colors and smooth, intricate animation bring the game world to 
 life. Unlike WarCraft III your view isn't constrained to the immediate area, giving you a higher 
 perspective and allowing you to see more of the battlefield. The 3D engine is put to good use in 
 the single-player cutscenes, where the camera pans and swoops smoothly in amongst the characters 
 for dialogue and important bits of action. More importantly, the engine allows the developers to 
 create some absolutely stunning special effects -- such as whirling tornadoes -- that would be 
 impossible with a 2D engine. Despite the 3D graphics, Ensemble manages to pack tons of units onto 
 the screen without much slowdown. The engine is truly a technical marvel. 
  
  Also new for the veteran developer and distinct from the previous Age games is the addition of 
 three distinct playable races, each representing a different mythos: Greeks, Egyptians, and Norse 
 (For a complete detailed breakdown of the three races, check out our preview of the game from October) . 
 Each one favors a certain play style and collects resources differently, particularly the means 
 by which they win the favor of the gods. 
  
  AoM adds "hero" units, as well. These powerful units based on mythological characters have special 
 abilities, but you don't need to worry about micromanaging their inventory: they'll use their abilities 
 on their own. They aren't as central to one's overall strategy as they are in WarCraft III, but 
 they're a helpful counter against the powerful mythological beasts that you'll face down on your 
 path to dominance. What really impacts play style is the choice of gods; as you develop your culture, 
 you can choose to worship different gods, which will make different units and abilities available. 
 These play an important role in developing your strategy! 
  
  That's what Mythology brings to the table: But how's it play? 
  
  A Single-Player Campaign 
 of Mythic Proportions 
  
  AoM features only one campaign, but it's a lengthy story arc traversing all three mythologies. 
 The campaign game certainly starts off slow -- most of the Greek missions are typical "build up 
 a base and kill the foozle" affairs, easing the player into the game. 
  
  
  
  The engine is capable of incredible visuals. Here, Zeus unloads his vengeance against Troy in the 
 dusk. 
  But after a few missions, the game really takes on a life of its own. Witnessing the Fall of Troy 
 first-hand is truly awe-inspiring. Your characters creep from the Trojan horse in the quiet blue 
 stillness of night, and when the gates are neutralized the screen is suddenly filled with colossal 
 armies clashing in the city streets. By the grace of the gods you can summon meteor swarms to shatter 
 the enemy fortresses, which explode in fiery clouds of debris while the bodies of nearby soldiers 
 go flying. It's enough to knock you out of your chair.
  
  From that point on the campaign doesn't slow down, and the missions become more varied. You'll 
 venture into the underworld (the shadowy boats traversing the eerie blackness of the river Styx 
 are another graphical highlight) , then on to Egypt where you'll wrestle artifacts from other factions 
 in a brutal game of tug-of-war, and finally you'll take a spin with the tricky Norse in the frozen 
 forests of the North. The campaign is very enjoyable with a variety of missions spread across a 
 slew of locations. 
  
  Besides a slow start, the only black marks against the single-player campaign are the game's occasional 
 pathing problems. It's a minor annoyance when my spearmen won't let the giant colossus through 
 so that he can beat on the wall. But that's nothing compared to the frustration of having Egyptian 
 units, who are capable of jumping, leaping into enemy territory when one doesn't want them to. 
 I once had a hero jump into an enemy base on her own and then she refused to jump back out. 
  
  Multiplayer Tweaks 
  
  The Age games have an enormous online following, and Age of Mythology 
 seems to cater to these hardcore multiplayer strategy fans. Gameplay is very much like Age of Kings 
 but with a few tweaks that adjust the feel of the game. 
  
  For instance: Perhaps owing to the 3D engine, the game has a smaller population limit. Moreover, 
 many units require two-three population units each, forcing the player to really make some hard 
 decisions about what kind of a limited army to build. Still, this isn't about small skirmishes 
 like WarCraft III: large armies are very much a part of the game. 
  
  Egyptian mythological units assault a fortress.
  In fact, Mythology is more combat-oriented than 
 any of the other Age games to date. Battles start quicker, usually within the first five minutes 
 of the game. Walls are weaker, and siege weapons are more powerful, so turtling behind defenses 
 isn't a very good option. Unit formations are automatic. Also, there's less micromanagement necessary 
 back at town: Farms never need replanting and schools of fish never disappear. Everything is designed 
 to keep the players fighting one another, toe-to-toe, in combat that would make Helen of Troy blush. 
 The new pace is a boon to hardcore strategy fans, but those who enjoyed the more contemplative 
 pace of the other Age games might be disappointed. 
  
  It's All About Balance! 
  
  Balancing three distinct cultures in the context of a real-time strategy game is no easy task, 
 but the team at Ensemble did an admirable job. The Greeks play a very standard game, and it's easy 
 for them to gain the favor of the gods (simply telling villagers to worship at the temple will 
 harvest favor like a resource) . A Greek Cavalry rush backed by the Poseidon is a favorite strategy 
 of gamers online right now, but already people are devising counter-attacks. 
  
  I found that the Norse were extremely difficult to play. Because they earn favor only by killing 
 the enemy, it's difficult to get ramped up in the early game. However, there are many incredible 
 Norse players online and the early Norse rush is one of the most feared strategies out there, so 
 the race seems to be well-balanced. 
  
  Playing as the Norse requires constant combat to please your gods. 
  The only balancing issue 
 evident is with the relative weakness of the Egyptians. A combination of ineffective heroes and 
 siege engines as well as a lack of early scouting units and the need to build an expensive fortress 
 before one can build powerful units cripple the culture. Still, the imbalance is subtle; the Egyptians 
 can quickly field a large infantry army to put the squeeze on. Balance isn't perfect, but it's 
 close enough to make for hundreds of enjoyable matchups.
  
  Editing and Expanding the Game 
  
  As always, however, Ensemble shines with the inclusion of 
 a great set of editing tools bundled with the game. There's nothing done in the complex single-player 
 game that can't be created by savvy players via the editor. Intricate triggers, cutscenes with 
 camera movements, multi-layered mission objectives -- it's all yours to play with. The editor is 
 great in other ways: For instance, simply draw in a lake, select it with one click, then press 
 a "Beautify" button and it'll suddenly spring to life with cool underwater details and the beautiful 
 wave effects all along the coastline. The tools are both easy and powerful and should add a great 
 deal of life to the game. 
  
  The Final Judgment 
  
  The past year and a half has seen a great deal of innovation in the otherwise stagnant RTS genre. 
 2D engines have been replaced by 3D engines allowing for more cinematics and storytelling, and 
 games are experimenting with new variations of gameplay. Different titles are all exploring different 
 niches: Empire Earth played with concepts of territory and morale while giving players 5,000 years' 
 worth of different units to play with. WarCraft III went in a new direction by concentrating on 
 smaller skirmishes where the actions of individual RPG-esque heroes are critically important (and 
 it has five unique races, compared to three) . Medieval: Total War layers a rich turn-based empire-building 
 game on top of a realistic real-time battle simulation. The upcoming Rise of Nations is looking 
 to add new depth to the economic and territorial parts of the game. 
  
  The murky waters of the river Styx burble in the underworld. 
  With such a clever crowd of competitors, 
 what does Age of Mythology offer? Very little, if you're looking for something new. The game seems 
 centered on offering the competitive online RTS gamer more of the same straightforward combat that 
 marked the Age of Empires games without contributing anything new. It's a rock-solid implementation, 
 but given the obvious talent and ingenuity of its developer, it's a shame that the game doesn't 
 do more to push the envelope. 
  
  There's very little to dislike about Age of Mythology, but short of some incredible visuals there's 
 also very little to set it apart.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss71
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is great. There are three races in the game you can choose from (Greeks, Norse, 
 and Egyptians) . Each one is very different from the other one and have their own personal style. 
 On top of the three races there are three gods amongst each race which you can choose to worship 
 and sub-gods to worship amongst each god thus resulting in never having the same army. The Game 
 plays very smooth and the graphics are very attractive. The game play is a cookie cutter of all 
 the other Age of Empires but that is just fine and expected. The sound effects are good and music 
 is very relaxed. The replay value of this game is the best and offers something new every time 
 you play a new game. AoM has a bit of a War Craft feel to it because of the mythological creatures 
 in the game which is very cool. I love this game because of how much fun it is and how good it 
 looks and sounds yet I dont need a super computer to play it. This is a must have for the computer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxEdwardxXx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic! I bought it more than 4 years ago and I still play it today. It has a long 
 and involving campaign that will easily give you hours of fun and it has a great skirmish-type 
 mode that will keep you entertained just by playing against the computer. The multiplayer system 
 works well, however there are still a few errors. The god power sysytem, which lets you use special 
 abilities or bonuses during gameplay, is an extremely innovative part of this game that adds as 
 much strategy content as it does fun. The 3 different civ's each have 3 different gods, so there 
 are basically 9 sub-civs. So instead of completely having to change civs because you don't like 
 the playstyle of one, you can probably switch gods in that civ and be able to play more comfortably. 
 The myth units are also a neat addition to this game as is the resource of favour to buy said units. 
 The graphics aren't amazing but I can hardly say they're bad seeing as this game is 5 years old. 
 The sound is actually pretty good and the gameplay is just awesome. If you don't have this game 
 you should get it even though it's old. RTS fans will love it and it is definitely worth buying 
 even if your not an RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiffanyownsyou
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology or AOM as i'll call it from now on is a Real-Time Strategy game made by Ensemble 
 Studios (The same people that made Age of Empires (WOOT!^.^) ) In it, you have 3 very different 
 civilizations with 3 gods in each civ. that makes it even more varied. The game is ultimately an 
 improved Age of Kings with tweaks here and there.... Onto the review!!
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is flawless, extremely balanced (With the most recent patches of course) 
 Fun, entertaining and engaging... Each civilization has different ways of playing. And each civilization 
 has different ways of collecting something called "Favor" which pretty much replaced stone from 
 the Age of Empires series, you still have food, wood and gold to collect. Aside from the standard 
 economy booming, you'll have access to 2 different mini-gods to choose from when you advance an 
 age, each god and mini-god come packed with a 1 time miracle, which could range from making it 
 rain thus making your farms produce food faster, to letting meteors rain down from the sky. Another 
 change from the Empires series is Myth Units, they are more than 3 times as strong as a regular 
 unit and most have special abilities, but they do cost a lot more and they are gonna be your favor-suckers.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: I think what makes the graphics so great is that it strikes a perfect performance/beauty 
 ratio, you won't need a mega computer to play the game, especially in the lower graphics, but it 
 will still look good enough to not be an eyesore, the maps are colorful and vivid, and each civilization 
 has wonderful buildings with spectacular armies just waiting to appear. 
  
  SOUND: The sound does what it's supposed to do.... Make the game sound realistic, You'll hear the 
 battle cry of soldiers when you tell them to lay siege to a fortress, or you'll hear the rage of 
 a minotaur while it pummels soldiers into the air... Ahhh fun fun fun!
  
  IN CONCLUSION: Although i was lazy in this review don't let that stop you from getting the game, 
 it's fun, it's action-packed, it's got a great multiplayer, and a wonderful campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhil_svr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Age of mythology is a game in which you will be immersed. The play is same as AOE2 but the different 
 civilizations, the mythical creatures and especially cool god powers makes the game even more exciting 
 and fun to play. The graphics in this game is amazing, but the characters appear small, which sometimes 
 makes you to search for certain characters which become hidden by shadows or something.
  The storyline in the campaign is really gripping and literally makes you to complete the whole 
 game. The way the game rolls through the three civilizations makes the story impressive. But, most 
 exciting parts of the campaign are the last scenarios in each of the civilizations where a god 
 comes to help them. 
  Overall, The game is a must for all those whole like real-time strategy and the Game Spot rating 
 is also absolutely right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohitmukheja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  i will definitely give this game a good score because this is what i wanted and expected from it... after 
 playing AOE ...
  the game has got a good story so that u feel that u r doing something useful..
  also the developers 
 have put a lot of new stuff in the game so that u can have fun like gods and summons etc.. they 
 give u great powers and u can do massive damage to enemy...
  graphics are amazing and also the gameplay is great.
  gamespot gave it 9.2 and i agree to it 
 as i also liked it more than AOE 3. 
  after playing AOE i wanted to play strategy games but with something new and not usual stuff... 
 thats the reason why i was disappointed by AOE 3 as it didnt have anything much new and carried 
 just the plain old stuff with better graphics...
  i enjoyed the game as from the very beginning it has got different varied stuff...
  it has got 
 sll the good old stuff and new unique stuff that u will like to explore...
  once again my opinion is that u will not be able to explore all the options in the very first game 
 play and might like to go for another session which i have also planned.. this game is not very 
 difficult and is just righty complex... u will also enjoy the game more at the higher difficulty 
 levels..
  final words are - 
  u will love this game if u likes AOE and other strategy games.
  this game carries a lot of options 
 and good stuff with the great old stuff too. so u will be left to explore a lot of new options 
 and not the usual boring stuff. 
  get it and enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: williamwillkil
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, very similar to the series, Age of Empires 2. I say AOE2 because AOE 2 and 
 AOE 1 are very different to one another both in graphics and the gameplay. AoM is one of those 
 games that come out, you try it, and you instantly want to get the full version of it.
  
  The graphics are good, the sounds are good, basically everything is good.
  
  However, I do 
 wish that there were more campaigns in the game, but I guess the custom campaigns are pretty good. 
 The Map Editor is absolutely great, and I really love using it.
  
  I really love how you can choose different Gods and then you can get specific bonuses according 
 to the one that you chose. It is really great. The units are also good as well, because there are 
 so many too chose from.
  
  The graphics are also good and so is the gameplay.
  
  I give this game 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pletsky
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  First of all this game is really a must have one. I like it more than any other in the Age-Of-series. 
 The great thing are the many god and the many minor gods who give you each an other type of playing 
 this game. It was also the first game with air possibilities (fighting birds and dragons) . The 
 only mistake i've found in the Age of Mythology is the system of minor gods who is not always right. 
 For example Atlas wasn't a god, it was a Titan. 
  
  Lets talk about some gameplay. They work with the traditional age-up system (to advance you will 
 need a special building and some resources) , you will have to choice a minor god. When you have 
 done this you will get one of each mythics of you minor god. A new thing is also the god power 
 system, when you have chosen you minor god you will get also a God Power (earthquake, rain, gates 
 to open the underworld) .
  
  The last thing I would like to say is something about the cheating codes. Don't use them, you will 
 have much more fun without them.
  
  goodbye and keep up the good work, chap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atruelegacy0
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  AOM is a great game for all strategy-based gamers. The different difficutly settings make it adaptable 
 for each person, and so it is never too hard or too easy. You play through 3 different civillizations, 
 Greek, Egyptian and Norse. You play through real scenarios such as the Trojan Horse which makes 
 it more interesting. The characters are real, such as Odysseus, Arkantos and AGammemnon. The music 
 and graphics are great and add to the experience. You build your army in each scenario ( there 
 are about 30) and battle agains your enemy. You can mine, cut lumber or farm to make money in order 
 to build up your army until you are ready to strike In AOM however, you can use myhtological creatures, 
 such as centaurs, cyclops, giants and trolls. etc. These are the strognest units and also the coolest. 
 You can also use sea creatures, ships and flying unites which makes for a good variety. I used 
 cheats the 2nd i played to aquire money and lumber faster so I could build my army faster. Overall 
 AOM is a great game that will kepp you hooked 'till the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spore_fanboy343
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome!!! Sure ensemble's Age of Empires series sucks, this game does not follow 
 that lineage of gayness. Sure the graphics suck, but the story is top-notch, action packed, and 
 the gameplay is all that in more. The game is even better with the Titans expansion, which, if 
 you guessed, allows you to spawn powerful giant monsters that can wipe out half your opponents 
 troops. When I see that the soldiers of my pitifull enemy trying to bring my Titan down I laugh 
 and say, "Hah, they actually try!"
  
  So basically, buy this game if you want a good solid RTS that may have aged graphics and droped 
 under the raidar, then you should buy this game, most defenetly ****
  
  This game is awesome as strategy can get and you may want the buy all the merchanise of this series 
 to get a know how of how many awesome this game is. I also swear that I'm not saying this to fill 
 in the minimum for this review that this retarded website says I need to make. Seriously, your 
 probabley want to sign up for the forums of Zero Punctuation at the escapist.
  
  I swear to you that that site is much better than this, because your getting the opinions of the 
 rest of the world like people from Australia or Britain (like Yahtzee!!!) !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: logghie
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  In this game you can choose your Mythology. Would you like to be Greek, Egyptian or Norse today? 
 This is one of the best strategy games I've ever played. Its made out of 32 different missions. 
 In the single player you can build on a random map the civilization of your choosing. Strength 
 your economy by getting meat, gold and wood, build and manage an army and fight the computer. You 
 can choose the difficultly and the number of plays to face on the map. If you are done playing 
 the computer you can also try the multiplayer and battle al kinds of enemies. As in many strategy 
 games you start with nothing but a piece of land, bring in some worker and start gathering resources, 
 building structures, farming land, and creating a massive army of mythological creatures. As you 
 level up new fascinating creatures and powers are available to you. After a will you can summon 
 a hydra, cyclops,... and you gain new god powers. Appease the Gods and you will be rewarded. This 
 game takes time to play, lots of it, but its well worth the cost. I can't wait to play the expansion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is a great game. It is a a game developed by Microsoft and it delivers everything 
 you could expect from a real RTS game. The game looks great and even with today's standards it looks 
 good. The game focuses on the same things as Age of Empires I and II. You must build houses and buildings 
 to recruit soldiers to destroy the opposition. This game also features a beautiful singleplayer 
 career which will take you about 30 hours to complete. You will have to lead an Atlantian, Arkantos, through 
 many difficult moments, and you will travel through three main parts of the world: Greece, Egypt and 
 the North. Through this amazing campaign you will fight many mythological creatures and will play 
 through many historical events. Besides the solo campaign the multiplayer is also very good. The 
 LAN version is the best and the frame rate is very steady. The gameplay is very good, many AoE fans 
 will be very familiar with the controls and they are also very easy to learn and to remember. The 
 sounds are very good, there is plenty of voice acting and even if the animations arent's over the 
 edge they still introduce you to the atmosphere in the game.
  I would recommend this game to everyone out there and it is a must have for all RTS fans.
  
 
  My Score 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hockeytx27
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  age of mythology is a strategy pc game that takes you to a time when gods fight in human form. 
 this game is great. its got a great multiplayer. also the multi player is easy to use. if you have 
 the expansion you can fight as the Greeks, Norse, Eygptians, or the brand new Atlantians. you can 
 pick from 12 gods. Zues, Hades, Posedon (greeks) Isis, Set, Ra (eygpt) Thor, Odin, Loki (norse) 
 Kronos, Oranos, Gaia (atlantians) . basscially you build villagers, collect resources (wood, food, 
 gold.) , build armies (from mythunits to humans to heros.) , and destroy your oppenent. there are 
 four basic human units. spearmen (Greeks: hoplite, Egyptians: spearmen, Norse: has no, Atantis: 
 kastropats) , swordsmen/axeman (greeks: hyapists, eygptians: axeman, norse: huscarls, ulfsarks, 
 atlantis: murmillo) , archers? throwing axeman (greeks: toxeties, eygptians: slingers, norse: throwing 
 axeman, atlantis: arcanites (or something like that) .) caverly (greeks: pondromaches, hippokens, 
 eyptians: chariot archers, camerly, elephants, norse: jarls, raiders, atlantis: turmos, castropacs.) 
 overall this is a great game. if you want to learn more contact me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxShadowTongyxX
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Age Of Mythology is a great strategy game. I played for a week and a half, and out of those days 
 several hours at once. The story line begins to get dull throughout the game, starting with a solid 
 story line, and thinning out towards the end, resulting also in a poor ending. The game play is 
 fun, smooth, and addicting. Each of the three civilizations have different ways of doing things. 
 The Egyptians build statues to gain favor of the gods, and the have a Pharaoh in which can enchant 
 buildings to increase unit production, resource income, technology upgrades, as well as favor. 
 Its also a catch that Osiris can use animals as myth units, you can produce them with the Pharaoh. 
 The Norse are the most interesting, and the most different from the other civilizations. Instead 
 of having villagers that do everything, they have the attacking units build the buildings, while 
 the villagers are left to gain resources. They have two different types of villagers. Dwarfs, and 
 normal villagers. Dwarfs gain a bonus when mining gold. Also there is a ox card, which is a portable 
 drop site for resources which is very convenient, and does not require you to build a million buildings, 
 of the same type. The Norse gain favor of the gods by battling. They gain favor for anything they 
 kill, whether an enemy soldier, or an animal. Last are the Greeks. Gaining favor the most annoying 
 way, and at the expense of villagers, increasing your population, and lowering your max units. 
 You must send a villager to worship at the temple. Also gaining resources with villagers, increasing 
 the population you must have to gain enough resources to survive. Though in my opinion their units 
 are a bit stronger, and their unit production is a bit faster. Back to game play. The game plays 
 smoothly, unless there are eight different civilizations playing on the same map, such as in random 
 map mode. Through out the main campaign you play through all three different civilizations, each 
 with different god powers, and units. Over all the game is very fun, and very addicting. Though 
 the major campaign, and story line may not be all that compelling to play, and has little replay 
 value. If your a fan of strategy games I recommend buying, and playing this game. Considering its 
 a fairly old game, the price is relatively low. The graphics for the game are awesome to boot. 
 The multi player may be having some problems. I decided I would check out the multi player, and 
 I was required to create a login and password. Well I filled out the information, than clicked 
 submit, but nothing happened. It just popped up a blue empty box. I don't know if it was my computer 
 or what the deal was, but I never had a chance to play multi player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sc_ajk29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Having played all of the Age of Empires games (except Asian Dynasties) I decided to get Age of 
 Mythology. Since I had heard that it was a great game my many people. I have to say, although it 
 was only $10, my reaction to the game was only average.
  
  I liked how involved the god system was. Although confusing at times, I liked how each god led 
 to a different upgrade path, giving several advantages and upgrades to your units, as well as giving 
 you new units themselves. It increased the strategic considerations of the game.
  
  Not only that, but each god gives you a special power that you can use at any time. These powers 
 provide many effects such as freezing enemies, transforming them into animals, healing your units, 
 giving you additional resources, and so on.
  
  The musical soundtrack was very good as well. I really enjoyed it, much better than AOE1 and AOE2's 
 soundtracks.
  
  However, Age of Mythology does have several flaws that keep it from being the best RTS ever. For 
 once, it still has the "generic" feel that AOE2 has. Although AOM is not as bad as AOE2 in this 
 manner, in that it has heroes and gods with special abilities that stick out, most of the units 
 still feel very generic. The majority of them have so kind of special abilities, and they all do 
 basically the exact same thing. Just simply attack and defend. A bit of a disappointment.
  
  Another thing I disliked was that god powers could only be used once. This is due to balancing 
 issues, but I still disagree with ES. While I understand their fear in that powers such as Meteor 
 might become too overpowered, but with weak powers like Bolt and Lure? Come on...
  
  Overall, AOM is a good game that is definitely worth playing. But there are far better choices 
 of RTS's out there now.
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 10
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 8
  
  Final score: 8.5\10 (great) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martinvald101
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology ( the Original) is a great game. Having the power of the gods that u can use any 
 time. Units such as the Chimera makes the game better. Also with many other advancements make the 
 game good. Also the Adventure mode makes it look better with ability to play with the races as 
 you continue the travels. Age of Mythology Titans make it better with the Atlantis race. And using 
 the Titans for each race. The advancement is greater in this version. All i can say that this games 
 makes Age of Empires look like it was nothin! Also the Atlantis race is best if you know a lot 
 of experience from them. Soldiers turning into heroes is the best. It also makes world of War craft 
 look like nothing as well. They should make another version of this game as well. Through my Opinion...... This 
 is the best game ever created ! I would play it millions of times till i get bored 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HectorOSO
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I first regarded Age of Mythology with a skeptical eye, figuring there was no way it could live 
 up to the Age of Empire series. Turns out I was dead wrong, as this game stands eye to eye with 
 Warcraft 3 in my mind. With different cultures and gods providing lots of strategic choices and 
 the myth units giving a breath of fresh air to the RTS genre, Age of Mythology is a great buy for 
 anyone interested in RTS games. The only thing preventing this game from being truly perfect is 
 the online aspect. While it is decent, games such as Warcraft 3 did a much better job of tracking 
 players skill level. The system of leveling players in Age of Mythology is very confusing, and 
 there aren't nearly as many custom maps as in WC3. Even so, Age of Mythology is a great game and 
 worthy of any PC gamer's time. After all, do you know any other game where it is possible for an 
 elephant to battle a brontosaurus? Didn't think so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicgamerguy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Possibly of the best real-time strategy games (next to Rise of Nations) on the PC. The story will 
 amaze you a lot and the game play is even better. The graphics are amazing piece of work and it 
 has all of the Greek mythology people in the game such as minotaurs, Odysseus, Hercules, and many, 
 many more. If you want a real life time strategy game than get this game and you won't regret it. 
 I have beat this game three times and it never gets old. You also can change the difficulty from 
 easy to titan, if you aren't good at these kind of games. The online play is alright, but I prefer 
 single player campaign. Overall, you NEED to buy Age of Mythology. Also, I suggest you get the 
 expansion pack The Titans. Great game, but not as good as the original. So, go and get Age of Mythology!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dagamedudeguy13
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, it is a pretty fun game. One cool part is the ability to choose gods and mini gods, 
 which helps mix things up with their special abilities and units. It is slightly more detailed 
 than age of empires, which is an ok game. I find that this game is very easy, because all you have 
 to do is build a wall around yourself, and gather resources and advance to the final age. Once 
 you have done that, just build your best units and send them in, and it should be an easy victory. 
 In my opinion, the egyptians are the best race in the game because they are the most technologically 
 advanced. They have many more buildings, much better walls, and upgraded weaponry. The Greek are 
 also very good, because they have an equal balance of power and technology. The norse are, in my 
 opinion, the worst race in the entire game. Their technology is the worst, so their weapons and 
 walls are horrible. The only thing they have is brute strength and numbers. All in all, it is a 
 pretty fun game to play, even if you aren't into fantasy, although if you are, like me, then it 
 will be that much better. P. S. If you need any help or tips, feel free to send me a message. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raichu_Owns
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  Definitely one of the best RTS games out there. The map editor isn't the best, well not as good 
 as AoE anyway. The graphics are brilliant for the time it was made, the sound is elegant, and the 
 gameplay beats modern RTS's. The thing that I really love though would HAVE to be the campaign, 
 it's so imaginitve, and with 9 civilizations, it's great fun for hours! If you are planning on 
 buying this game, pay FULL price for it it's that good. Some games you just have to buy, and this 
 is one of them. The thing I don't like about the Map Editor, is that all the objects have strange 
 names, so it's hard to find the thing you may want, and also the hill thing is too hard to use 
 along with the water tool, it makes everything to squars even on a circular setting. If they EVER 
 bring out an Age of Mythology II, I'll buy a new computer to let it play, because at the moment 
 it sucks. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Plasmakiller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  An ok game for people who really really need an rts. After the main campaign knd of gets boring 
 and if you have an older computer don't expect to see any fighting cause it'll lag. You can choose 
 from a variety of upgradeable units but once your done you just kind of forget. There are only 
 9 gods to choose from Norse, Greek, and Egyptian but their ok. Once again kind of gets boring after 
 a while. Rent it for a while. If you crank it up to titan mode it can get hard when their rushing 
 you. It also has some kind of cool creatures and it related to some things i was studying in school 
 so that was ok. It had alot of heroes in it that were real people and some of the events were historicaly 
 acurate. It will require alot of time so be ready for at least 2-3 hour sesions. Alright you've 
 heard the review now go rent it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VictimGame
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Despite a long and somewhat boring story-mode campaign, Age of Mythology can be played Instant 
 Action, where you choose your opponent and ally, and fight together. You can build Myth Units, 
 which are strong magical creatures that require god favor to build. You can advance through the 
 ages of Ancient Egypt, Greece, and Savage-land, build massive armies and go on adventures of conquest, 
 and fight your way to victory. And hey, it's only Twenty Bucks... So... Yeah... And the Multiplayer 
 was kind of a disappointment, however the game itself is okay if you classify gameplay and excitement 
 levels. One thing that Microsoft can work on in the game is simply graphics. So all in all, I might 
 recommend this game to a collector, however a gamer looking for a great and fun game isn't going 
 to be pointing quite in this direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahularunmishra
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  This is a must play game. The three civs are fantastic. A bit like starcraft... but not exactly. 
 You see, if you play C&C Generals... you KNOW that the GLA are basically the ZERG and the USA is 
 Terrans. When you play Warcraft 3 once again you know that the undead are Zerg and the Humans are 
 Terrans... (other 2 factions are a bit hard to typify based on starcraft)
  But in this game.... none of the civs are similar to Starcraft... well maybe Greece is Terrans 
 :)
  The Egyptians build statues to get the myth units; and spend a LOT of gold.
  The Norse fight to build myth units and are the hardest faction to play
  The regular old Greek 
 are plain and simple. Temple worshippers.
  
  The civs are greatl. Graphics are neat. Games run to around and hour (multiplayer)
  
  Fun game! 
 Fun game! Fun game!
  Fun game! Fun game!
  Fun game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lopur94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology opens new possibilities to gamers. The game is set in the classical times but 
 in the game you will have warriors fighting along side Minotaurs. The game is great because it 
 is a whole new experience. The ability to create mythical creatures and do God Powers will have 
 you playing it for hours. There are three groups and three gods to chose from. This game is great 
 because of a few reasons.
  
  1. You can create mythical creatures depending on what god you are worshipping. You could create 
 hurling cyclops in the grassy greenlands of Greece, to jumping half human-half jackals in the deserted 
 lands of Eygpt, to the clubs bashing mountain giants in the cold wastelands of the Norse.
  
  2. Ability to use God powers. The god powers are picked from the Gods you chose to worship 
 in the game. Maybe you are trying to stall an approaching army from your city so you invoke the 
 the Tornado god power on them and let the tornado suck them away. or you could kill off a few with 
 a thunder storm.
  
  This game is enjoyable and easy to play for all. I recommend this for gamers wanting more RTS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azu32
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  The game especially the single player is quite fun. Theres a couple of factions you can play as 
 in the game and they are all balanced well. The AI of the game is good though they tend to the 
 some things like charge at you with the same units over and over again. They're also somewhat bad 
 a little bit on using there own magics not using it for there advantage.
  Different races reach the aim of the levels in different ways by using different units. Secondly, 
 major characters called heroes are very attractive and contribute to the interesting storyline 
 of the game effectively. Above all, gods of different races get involved with each step of the 
 development cycle from collecting resources to fighting enemies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is a game made by Microsoft Game Studios and Ensemble Studios. The game especially 
 the single player is quite fun. Theres a couple of factions you can play as in the game and they 
 are all balanced well. The AI of the game is good though they tend to the some things like charge 
 at you with the same units over and over again. They're also somewhat bad a little bit on using 
 there own magics not using it for there advantage. The editor of the game though is fun to use. 
 Age of Mythology's graphics aren't that good though it still looks nice. The games sound and music 
 are decent enough that you'll probably enjoy it.
  
  Overall, Age of Mythology is a decent game that people can find enjoyable despite a couple of hitches 
 or problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Im_bettr_than_u
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  AGE OF MYTHOLOGY is like the best game ever!
  its strategy u build civilisations, get food, wood an gold and get god powers to slay ur enemies!
 
  this game is almost the same to age of empires only that age of empires is real while age of mythology 
 is just mythology..
  everything u know about religons like greek, norse and egyption are right here so u produce warriors, 
 heros, seige engines and myth units which kick ass!
  it has the best campaign where all the mythologies link and u play with each mythology.....
  
 and it has great features too! u can build ur own map and play on it!..
  this is really a great game u should bye it!
  and with this game u will never get over it there 
 are plenty of random maps to play and u can take the carnage online and battle it out with other 
 players online!
  and if u want.. add me on myspace.. my url is;
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AntonyIsTheMan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Just right
  Absouloutly awesome. Now with new units, myth units
  
  Difficulty : Just right
  This time you cant just run at them and hope you win no you have to 
 think of stratagy. A remarkble improvement to AI. Enemies now dont stand there and wait for you 
 to kill them, no, they build up defenses and then stand there and wait to be killed.
  
  Online play: So-So
  Somtimes you can`t even connect to play online games.
  
  Variety: AWESOME 
 1Campain mode
  2. Ramdom game mode
  3. History 4. Recorded games
  5. Edit you own map mode
  6. Online game mode
  7. Hundreds of units
  
  Overall:
  A game 
 with variety, awesome gameplay, overall, AN AWESOME GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cenneli
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  I don't like strategy games and their very routine development cycle, gathering resources and using 
 them for development. Warcraft, for instance, is the game I do not even want to hear its name. 
 Age of Mythology, however, changed some of my ideas about this genre. First of all, it has a great 
 pseudo-historical stories based on different ethnic entities. This makes that development routine 
 quite challenging and sophisticated. Different races reach the aim of the levels in different ways 
 by using different units. Secondly, major characters called heroes are very attractive and contribute 
 to the interesting storyline of the game effectively. Above all, gods of different races get involved 
 with each step of the development cycle from collecting resources to fighting enemies. Finally, 
 good graphics and music makes the game very addictive. I strongly advice the game to anyone interested 
 in real time strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warcorer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is truly part of the Age of Empires series. Easy to learn if you have played any 
 other Age of Empires game, but if your new to the RTS games then its relatively easy to learn. 
 The idea of mythology is great when it comes to games just look at this one the armies are distinctly 
 different in almost every way. I have played the Age of Empires games since their very first one 
 and Sierra Entertainment is definitely a great developer of strategy games. So all I have to say 
 is continue the good work Sierra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DezzyKaye
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  This is one of my favourite games on pc. I dont have one of those 'High Tec' computers and this 
 game looks great and plays very smoothly on my comp. Gameplay: 10/10
  This game is one of the most strategic games ive played. Although most people may think that all 
 you have to do is build heaps of horses and archers to win, theyre wrong. Although it may be fun 
 to build a hundred of your favourite unit, youre proberly not going to win like that in the later 
 levels and on harder difficulty's. Youre opponent can easily counter expensive horses with cheap 
 spearmen that are strong against cavelry and not too bad against the other units either. With 9 
 Major Gods and 27 minor Gods with many different god powers, no battle will ever be the same.
 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The music is great but is also quite repetitive after hours of playing. Graphics: 10/10
  I only 
 say 10/10 because thats what its like for me. It looks greatlike many other games, but it doesnt 
 need a 200 dollar video card to play. (Which i dont have)
  
  Replayability:10/10
  After the 35 mission single player campaign, youll have hours of random maps and also Multiplayer 
 that will keep you busy for many hours to come. (There is also an extra camaign available to download 
 from some sites.)
  
  Multiplayer: ?/10
  I havent played enough multiplayer to really answer this at the moment, but if its as good as it 
 sound it will be awesome.
  
  Conclusion:
  This is a great game that keeps the great AOE style while adding in enough new features like Myth 
 units and God powers to keep you interested for hours to come.
  
  Overall:10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure why, but I just couldn't seem to get into this game very much. Age of Mythology has 
 a very good beginning, but After a couple of rounds you are compelled to repeat the same line of 
 action, again and again. The scenario changes e the history is interesting, but not enough to keep 
 you running all night long.
  The graphics were swell and the gameplay was what would be expected from the series. The graphics 
 of the game by the measurements of its age is great , the terrain graphics are wonderful and the 
 water reflections and shadows are very good. The background music that runs throughout the game 
 is also pretty good though not perfect.
  The game is set in ancient times and as the title suggests, deals heavily with characters that 
 are associated with ancient Greek, Egyptian and Norse mythology. The major new thing that the game 
 brings is the use of mythological units and God Powers. The mythological units are usually several 
 times larger than the regular units and overpower the normal units by a great deal. The Hero units 
 are useful against these mythological units. The God powers add a new level of strategy to the 
 game since you get only one God power per Age that you advance through and each one depends on 
 the particular God that you worship. These powers can only be used once per game and can dramatically 
 change the tide of a battle.
  While this game is alot different, it does stick well to the roots of the other games with ages, 
 economy, and battle tactics. This game is a real masterpiece , its story is really magnificent 
 that it can be written in a book and I bet it will receive the best sales award as this story deals 
 with a storyline similar to that of the ancient greek mythology.
  What could be better, a outstanding possibility of making rain or a remarkably good option of creating 
 snakes? Nice game, but not superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herzalot
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  an ensemble studio and microsoft game studio has brought us a game that is best sterategy game 
 has been ever made. the gameplay is solid and lot of units are avalibale. myth units are very nice 
 and chosing the minor gods are fun. the campaign is good. music and sound effects are very good too. you 
 can battle through the waters with ships and water myth units. the single player mode is better 
 then warcraft. also buy this game and you have remindful moments.
  
  about races:
  there are three races in the game: greece, egypt and norse. norse is best race in the game. every race 
 has 3 basic gods and 9 minor gods. when you go through an age two minor gods are avalibale to select. some 
 basic gods have an especial minor god. like hel for loki. and arent availibale for other gods.
  
  list of basic gods:
  greece: zeus, hades, poseidion
  egypt: set, ra, isis
  norse: odin, loki, thor 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jo_Dal92
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is the best game Ensemble Studios has made, i passed the game and the expansion 
 when they came out and stated passing it again recently and its as good as when i first played 
 it, its kind of addictive, and it's on line play its also pretty good, you can create scenarios 
 and stuff and play them on line. So in conclution its a pretty good game, its on line play is not 
 amazing but its good and its pretty fun and exciting game. I highly recommend you either rent it, 
 borrow it, or buy it, because its definitively a GREAT game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NosajWorld
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is a game that you really atleast to me cant get tired with. The game is simply 
 one of th best RTS's on the market and it deserves ita title. It is full of amazing god powers, 
 unitsonly seen in Greece or whatever, a whole campaign thats easy but a good use of time, single 
 player which you can make your own map and everything about it and just play with other computers, 
 theres editor which you can LITTERALLY create your own map from every spec. and put any unit in 
 battle, name them, make their stats change anyway you want and just build what type of map you 
 want to play. The best part though which I still do is called AOM ONLINE or ESO. Online you can 
 battle other people but on the maps ewhich YOU create! AOM is just ne of the most brilliant games 
 out there and anyone can still play it today and not care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Age of Mythology doesn't make any huge departures from the conventions of real-time strategy 
 gaming, but rather represents arguably the most refined example of the genre to date. If you've 
 played any other real-time strategy game lately, especially Age of Empires II, then you'll feel 
 very comfortable getting started with Age of Mythology. In this game the people who made age of 
 empires have now much more polished and gripping than any of their previous efforts. So in this 
 game players must build towns to gather resources to produce armies to conquer their enemies. You 
 get to use three rich mythiological surrunded cultures Greeks, Egyptian and Norse nations. Age 
 of Mythology finally offers a place where mythological creatures contend with mighty heroes with 
 timely support thrown in by attentive gods. There are 32 missions in this ame from the shores of 
 Atlantis to the walls of Troy to the banks of the Nile to the snowy forests of Scandinavia. While 
 I'm impressed with the fantasy elements of the story, I'm also equally happy that the vast campaign 
 tells a single story with lots of recurring characters and situations. I also like the powers you 
 get to use like smiting your enemies to help your troops out. There is also a multiplayer portion 
 of the game which can hold up to two to eight players and is really fun. There is also a random 
 map which you can play when you are done with the single player part of the game. Graphics: I have 
 to say that the graphics are really good. A few levels make excellent use of a low-lying fog effect. 
 Seeing your soldiers fight it out knee-deep in fog is a sight to behold and really adds to the 
 atmosphere of the game. The water lapping at the shores and the awesome snow effect of the Norse 
 levels will likewise leave you speechless. Lighting effects are also top-notch with really cool 
 eclipse effects.
  
  Sound: The sound is great. The soundtrack of the game amazing and suits the game well. Things are 
 much better in terms of voice acting. You don't get the varied nuances of the Warcraft III units 
 but, given the number of units here, that's not surprising. The voice work for the cutscenes and 
 the heroes displays just the blend of sinister and campy. Value: All in all this game plenty of 
 appeal, depth, and lasting value. Though there is some more room for improvement. By taking a steping 
 away a little bit away from history and more in to mythology giving the designers a bit more latitude 
 to do what they want. Even though I'm not a big fan for Fantasy and mythology games I must admit 
 I quite enjoyed this game.
  I give this game 9.2 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamafan3414
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This game does alot of stuff well. For instance the campaign is amazing. It is a pretty long campaign. 
 The only thing I dont like as much though is that it doesnt have an online mode. It only has the 
 local play which I dont like because not that many people own this game. But anyway..... The campaign 
 is great. It is a great story and will keep you entertained for hours. The single-player vs. computer 
 is kind of a joke because it is so easy. The AI is retarded and knows nothing except rush and is 
 stupid. Ha but overall this game is great to take a look at and wil keep you entertained for a 
 long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhaskarchatta
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  It's really worth buying and it's a great game microsoft should keep doing games like that but 
 on first person now, that could be a really perfect game ! Beside that Age Of Mythology Opens a 
 new era of epic games is not just the continuation of Age Of Empires it's an original context, 
 &acute; his gameplay, sounds, the new features that it has it's quite innovative in Mexico (My Country) 
 was a hit, When i Bought it everybody were asking borrow to me so i finished the game and i started 
 to borrow to a few friends but i also told them to buy it to support Microsoft Studios and let 
 them know what a great game they made.
  It's not only worth buying... it's worth playing toooo... Luv the game... And it's bet everyone 
 will love it..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: libbi68
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is a great game that takes the basics of Age II adds in its own sweet stuff. All 
 of the units for the three races are unique and cool to play around with especially the mythical 
 units of course. It simplifies the resource collection down which is nice and adds the new mythological 
 power where you have people pray, build shrines, or kill units to gain that resource. The graphics 
 are very pretty and dont require a beefy of a system anymore. The gameplay is pretty familiar 
 from the Age series so veterans will get into it real fast. Interesting story strings all the races 
 together is nice with some decent voice acting and good music and sound effects. The coolest things 
 about this game of course are the mythological units and the powers you can call down! It brings 
 something new to the table and it works great. Overall a must buy for strategy fans as well as 
 fans of the Age series and mythology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravage19
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Beautifull game. Normal difficulty easy to learn it and with a highly addictive gameplay... This 
 game have beautifull graphics, addictive gameplay, beautifull epic sound and a good value. You 
 can play multiplayer or single player. In single player you can play campain or skirmish battles 
 with at least 11 enemies.
  In the game you must make a choose of your faction (greeks, egyptians, norse) and your major god 
 (every faction have differend major gods) . Greeks major gods are Hades, Poseidon and Zeus. Egyptian 
 major gods are Set, Ra and Isis and Norse major gods are Loki, Thor and Odin. Each of major gods 
 have its minor gods. You must choose your minor gods when you playing every time you advance to 
 the next age.
  
  www. freewebs. com/ravage19 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bella1970
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  Game Play: The game play is awesome in this game cause the difficulty is not really hard nor is 
 it really easy which is why I say just right. Also you actually get to learn about the ancient 
 Greek Mythology and you have fun playing the game and then you really never notice that you have 
 actually learned something. Anyway I give a 10 to this because the game is challenging and fun 
 at the same time.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are PS3 and X-Box 360 worthy.
  
  Sound: They actually talk some Greek in this game and it s kinda funny to listen to them start 
 talking it when you are only giving them a command. And don't worry when the story line goes on 
 they talk in English and the sound quality is perfect which is why I am giving sound a 10. Value: 
 This game is worth spending the money and I think it is much cheaper like 20 bucks now. I would 
 spend money on this anytime.
  
  Tilt: Do I have to repeat myself, you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spirosway
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  Ensemble's a great developer. Their Age of Empires series has long been one of my favorites, not 
 just in the RTS genre, but for gaming in general. But until now, Ensemble's been a one-trick pony. 
 And while Age of Mythology isn't a big enough departure to qualify them as a two-trick pony, the 
 refinement and sophistication of the title should put to rest any fears that they've strayed too 
 far from their established models. In fact, Age of Mythology is much more polished and gripping 
 than any of their previous efforts.
  
  But like I said, they didn't change too much of the series' core principles. The basics are almost 
 entirely the same. Players must build towns to gather resources to produce armies to conquer their 
 enemies. It's effectively the same mechanic that Ensemble, Blizzard and Westwood have reduced down 
 to a science. The big change here is that Ensemble leaves behind the world of historical conflict 
 and moves on to invent a new world of myth. Using three rich mythological legacies -- Greek, Egyptian 
 and Norse -- Age of Mythology finally offers a place where mythological creatures contend with 
 mighty heroes with timely support thrown in by attentive gods.
  
  The single player game tells the story of Arkantos, the leader of Atlantis. A disturbing dream 
 and an invasion or two call him away from his home to join the fight against the city of Troy. 
 Fans of Homer should already be clued in to this but for you non-Classics majors, it's enough to 
 know that this conflict is an important one for the Greek pantheon. The gods all chose up sides 
 and used the siege as an excuse to work out a lot of repressed rage and violence.
  
  But things move beyond this simple war pretty quickly and Arkantos finds himself involved in something 
 much larger. Without giving too much of the story away, Arkantos and his ever-expanding company 
 of heroes is trying to stop a big evil guy from releasing an even bigger evil guy on the world. 
 This plays out over the course of 32 missions from the shores of Atlantis to the walls of Troy 
 to the banks of the Nile to the snowy forests of Scandinavia. I could say so much more but that 
 would just ruin the experience for you.
  
  I will say that this is a much tighter and more interesting story than those found in the previous 
 Age games. Admittedly the subject matter allows for a lot more invention and reinterpretation than 
 the scenarios in the more-historically based Age of Empires games. But even so, the game makes 
 a real effort to be faithful to the idea that these ancient cultures considered myth as a form 
 of history. Bruce Shelley has said that his team approaches myth with as much research and accuracy 
 as any of the purely historical titles.
  
  And while I'm impressed with the fantasy elements of the story, I'm also equally happy that the 
 vast campaign tells a single story with lots of recurring characters and situations. Arkantos really 
 becomes the hero of the story (well, one of them at least) in a way that William Wallace never 
 could have. The plot twists and rivalries that fill the game all assume greater significance because 
 you start to get attached to certain characters and story elements. This identification and interest 
 is supported by some amazing cutscenes that add lots of personality and character to the game. 
 (In one of the later cutscenes, an enemy army stands opposite your own. The enemy general tells 
 you to surrender if you want a painless death. One of your heroes launches a bolt at one of the 
 enemies and says, We surrender. Come closer. )
  
  At first the narrow, single story approach seems like a bit of a weakness. After all, with 32 missions 
 that build upon one another, it takes a while for the game to get to the real cross-cultural dynamism 
 that we all tasted in the multiplayer beta. There, leading Greek forces against Norse or Egyptian, 
 you started to think in terms of complete extermination of an entire group. The actual game requires 
 lots of cooperation between the cultures, not so much in terms of fielding multi-cultural armies 
 but in terms of the purpose of each mission. The Greeks are never out to wipe out the Egyptians. 
 Instead, all three sides are fixated on thwarting the plans of their various nemeses, regardless 
 of the forces they're controlling.
  
  As a result the first several levels are strictly Greek on Greek (note to self: register greekongreek. com) . 
 While I was impatient to get to the Egyptian and Norse sections of the campaign, the fact that 
 Age of Myth takes its time to introduce new unit sets means you get to learn about the game a little 
 at a time. Eventually you may even find yourself in charge of Norse raiders and Egyptian camelry 
 all backed up by a group of Greek cyclopses. Again, I won't spoil the story; I'll just say that 
 the game makes all of this make sense in context.
  
  I'm quite pleased that Ensemble has opted to replace the kill everything missions of most RTS games 
 with much more limited and focused goals. A particular mission might require you to gather three 
 relics at one central location, or merely escort one unit to the other side of the map. As a result, 
 you can be a bit more inventive (and a bit less unclear) about your objectives. Last ditch, heroic 
 efforts can actually turn the tide here.
  
  The god powers are also incredibly influential. And since there are three core gods for each of 
 the three sides and numerous minor gods, there's a lot of room to vary the gameplay. If you'd prefer 
 to focus on a particular aspect of gameplay (like economy) or a particular unit type, there's a 
 god that'll work for you. Each god comes with a special one-time use power that can radically affect 
 the game as well as a batch of special myth creatures that only they have access to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pump_man44
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This game Age Of Mythology was i game i didnt plan to buy i just did . One of the best decisions 
 i have made this game has good a good story line along with a awesome multiplayer making this one 
 of the best games ive played. This is one of those games you can play for hours and still not get 
 bored, especially the multiplayer made me addicted. There are several ways to play online against 
 others making it even more fun, and maps you can download from other people. The new maps are what 
 made the game even funner, trying new kinds of games and maps. In the online there are different 
 types of the kinds of game play like death match, lighting, conquest and so on. All of them having 
 good points of them making the game last me hours . The story was really fun like every other story 
 line they are all good usually. This game i would for surely recommend to anyone who enjoys strategy 
 games along with medieval type games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theeman2000
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  There two great reasons why I love Age of Mythology. 1. I've played it for 2 years, and I'm still 
 not bored of it, and 2. I've never downloaded a single patch for it.
  
  My hat goes off to Ensemble Studios for Age of Mythology. It is about 4 years old, and its still 
 my favorite RTS game.
  
  One reason I like Age of Mythology is because it is versitile. Sometimes I just want to play a 
 game against computers. Sometimes I want to play a campaign mode, and sometimes I just want to 
 cheat. Other times, I want to play online. Age of Mythology can be fun at all of these things.
 
  
  First off it its campaign. It follows the journey of a hero, Arkantos, who must save his home of 
 Atlantis by defeating numerous foes that want to unleash the powers of the gods. His travels and 
 endeavors span 3 regions, and about 30 levels, and with 4 difficulty levels, that makes for a lot 
 of gameplay. One of my few complaints about this game is when the camera zooms in on cutscenes, 
 the graphics are lacking, but it is only to be expected in any RTS game.
  
  The second mode is Random Map mode. This is the standard game where you pit yourself against computer 
 players, arranged in any combinations of teams up to 12 players. One attribute that makes Age of 
 Mythology so cool is just that, ITS MYTHOLOGY. Never before has a game been so deep in different 
 kinds of units. Now you can command armies of Hydras, Minotaurs, and Phoenixes. Also, the units 
 differ between civilizations. It also introduces a new resource, Favor. Favor is a resource that 
 is gathered differently based on the civilization. It is used to buy divine units and upgrades. 
 Lastly, the best part of the mythology is the god powers. Just imagine your army fighting a battle, 
 and they are vastly outnumbered. Suddenly, you activate the lightning storm power, and before you 
 know it, you have the upperhand as many enemy troops are bolted to death. The god powers are different 
 between the different gods you select to worship.
  
  There are three different civilizations. The Greeks, the Egyptians, and the Norse. The Greeks are 
 from the Mediterranean region and have strong units with more hitpoints, but are slower, and more 
 expensive. Their villagers gain favor by praying at temples. The Egyptians are located in Egypt, 
 and their units are cheap, fast, and light. They gain favor by building monuments. Lastly, the 
 Norse are the vikings of Scandinavia. Their units have strong attacks, but poor armor. Also, Norse 
 infantry build buildings. They gain favor by being in combat.
  
  Advancement works in 4 ages. You start off in the Archaic age. The name is self-explantory. It 
 is basicaly an age to scout the map, gather resources, and make some basic improvements. Once you 
 build a temple, you can advance to age 2. In order to advance, you must pay a certain number of 
 resources, usually food and gold, and then you get to choose between 2 gods. Whichever one you 
 choose will influence the god power you get, the improvements you can make, and the myth units 
 you can generate. The next age is the Classical age. Here, military units are finally possible, 
 though they won't be that powerful, and more improvements are possible. Once you build an armory, 
 you can advance. The next age is the Heroic Age. Here, military unit become more powerful. It is 
 also where you can build stronghold buildings (Fortress for Greeks, Migdol Strongholds for Egyptians, 
 and Hill Forts for Norse.) Here more advanced military units can be trained, and also siege units 
 can be generated. Build a market to advance to the final age. The Mythic Age, age 4, is the final 
 ahe you can advance to. Here you can upgrade your troops to full strength, your economy flourishes 
 with more economical upgrades, and you can be granted omnicience. By paying a large sum of gold, 
 you can be granted omniscience by the gods, which allows you to see what your enemies see.
  
  The final fun mode of Age of Mythology is online. Here you can play games, and download new 
 game types. There are many downloadable gae types out there that you're sure to fund one that is 
 fun for you. There are game modes where you have unlimited resources. Others where you don't build, 
 units just genrate automatically. Mos of them are really fun.
  
  There is also an editor mode where all of you programmers can try to create your own game type 
 or scenario.
  
  Overall, Age of Mythology is fun, deep, and a must buy fo all RTS fans. It is awesome!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LevinXIII
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 26, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  ALL strategy games have one thing in common, that is to have good planning and organizing before 
 you annihilate your enemies. Still, this game is somehow unique - It makes you addicted to the 
 game. When I tried the game, the first thing that I liked is the movies. Very-like 3D. And also 
 the sound system, AMAZING. It's like you're standing, watching the war as if it's really happening 
 live. However, there are still lagging and slowing at certain times. When I played this game for 
 a long time, it made me bored playing the same game and again and again. As an overall result, 
 this is a game that no one would wanna miss!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llarrev
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is the more fantasy orientated version of Age of Empires 2 and holds it's own 
 as a stand alone title with great a pom. The Gameplay, as fore-mentioned, is very similar to that 
 of Age of Empires 2, as in you spend a lot of time building up your civilization at a great pace 
 and then crushing the enemy factions. The major differences lie in the units, the buildings, and 
 the resources. Obviously as the game is set in the Age of Mythology, ie the time of the Greeks, 
 the Norse and the Egyptians , the units are very differently. You can command rocs, dryads and 
 frost giants and use them to tear down enemy walls, with a few cheats, you can manipulate flying 
 hippos and laser-eyed Canadian bears. The buildings are different too; the emphasis on the building 
 of temples and religious wonders, such as the Temple of Zeus or the Oracle. Also is the novel feature 
 of the worshiping of Gods, upon selecting a civilization you must choose a prime deity to worship, 
 each civilization has three. Also at the entry of every new age, you must select a God from the 
 pantheon of the civilization you choose. The worship of this God comes with some perks, you are 
 able to train new mythological units, and divine powers. The divine powers allow you to cast powerful 
 godlike spells upon yourself or your enemies, you have a maximum of four and each God has a unique 
 divine power. This all ties in with th resource of Stone being replaced by that of favour. The 
 more the Gods favour you, the more myth units and divine powers you will be able to use. The 3 
 civilizations gain favour in their own unique ways and each civilization has their own hero unit. 
 The campaign is also excellent, though highly mythologically and historically inaccurate, telling 
 the tale of an Atlantean hero ad his struggles after the Trojan War. The story has depth and flavour 
 and an epic feel to it that cannot help but grip the player. Graphically the game is great, for 
 it's time at least and feature Ensemble's first 3D graphics engine, and the video sequences are 
 superb. The sound is also of the highest quality as to be expected from Ensemble studios.
  
  This high value game, is a more colourful romp with the basic Age of Empires format, and is 
 a must hvae for any PC gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gprado
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 14, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology has a very impressive beginning, but suffers from the same weakness of many others 
 strategic games: boringness! After a couple of rounds you are compelled to repeat the same line 
 of action, again and again. The scenario changes e the history is interesting, but not enough to 
 keep you running all night long. And the god's power system, presented as the difference , is so 
 vast and difficult that, in the end, you start choosing whatever looks funnier or colorful. What 
 could be better, a outstanding possibility of making rain or a remarkably good option of creating 
 snakes? Nice game, but not superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobtralizer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 15, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a very well balanced game full of different units, upgrades, buildings, ect. It has great 
 god powers, great gods to choose from, the greatest economy in a game unquestionably, good music, 
 goodish graphics. (no call of duty 3 but it was launched a good while back!!!) AMAZING online play 
 and AMAZING game for LAN playin'!!!! Its easy and fun to learn how to play this game, its hard 
 to be amazing, and its nearly impossible to beat a hardest!!!!! This game has 3 unique civilization 
 types, and 9 different civilizations!!! You cant go wrong with Age of Mythology!! I highly recommend 
 this game to any RTS fan!! I highly recommend this game period!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markono
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  It's really worth buying it i got the expansion too and it's a great game microsoft should keep 
 doing games like that but on first person now, that could be a really perfect game ! The game KingDom 
 UnderFire is that kind of games but it must improve it like advancing the ages and make it with 
 more realism and it will be sure that millions of people will run to the stores to buy those kinds 
 of games, beside that Age Of Mythology Opens a new era of epic games is not just the continuation 
 of Age Of Empires it's an original context, &acute; his gameplay, sounds, the new features that 
 it has it's quite innovative in Mexico (My Country) was a hit, When i Bought it everybody were 
 asking borrow to me so i finished the game and i started to borrow to a few friends but i also 
 told them to buy it to support Microsoft Studios and let them know what a great game they made. 
 Nice Work Buddies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXYodaXx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This game Age Of Mythology was i game i didnt plan to buy i just did . One of the best decisions 
 i have maid this game has good a good story line along with a awesome multiplayer making this one 
 of the best games ive played. This is one of those games you can play for hours and still not get 
 bored, especially the multiplayer maid me addicted. There are several ways to play online against 
 others making it even more fun, and maps you can download from other people. The new maps are what 
 maid the game even funner, trying new kinds of games and maps. In the online there are different 
 types of the kinds of game play like death match, lighting, conquest and so on there are many. 
 All of them having good points of them making the game last me hours . The story was really fun 
 like every other story line they are all good usually. This game i would for surely recommend to 
 anyone who enjoys strategy games along with medieval type games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcoregamer77
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! It is amazing! It is worth getting. If you like Age Of Emires you will love 
 Age Of Mythology. It is all that and a bag of chips. The single player is really fun with a great 
 story line. The single player is not long but it is not short ethier it is just right. It keeps 
 you playing. It also has an online feature. You can verus players around the world. So a challenge 
 is only a click away. The game has four diffculties. Easy, Medium, Hard, and Titan. I found them 
 all to be pretty much the same not that much of a challenge if you go from Easy to Titan. The story 
 line for single player is still great. The online feature kicks ass too. If you own a computer 
 buy this game. Your computer wil thank you.
  
  Review by:
  hardcoregamer77 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  It has been a long time since I passed AOM, but I remember an awesome game was inside it. The gameplay 
 was amazing and had almost as much variety as GTASA! For good measure some humor was thrown in 
 there. The graphics were also really well done, but it seems the quality stays the same for the 
 cutscenes. The single player campaign is pretty lengthy. All of the awesomeness of this game is 
 topped off with an epic sized ending. (EPIC SIZE.. hint, hint*wink*) . So, as this game now sells 
 for abou $20, try making an excuse not to get it. I can't! (unless your REALLY REALLY picky about 
 cutscene quality) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZealotTheAloof
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Although I am not a fan of real-time strategies (mostly because of their hustle and limited time) 
 but I think this one is the best in its genre. Thanks to its great mythical atmosphere and even 
 more great music. The graphics is bright and clear. One of the negative sides is somewhat monotone 
 gameplay, which, though, is one of the characteristics of a real time strategy. I like that the 
 game has lots of races and creatures to choose from, though magic is not very advanced. The balance 
 is just right. In overal the game is mandatory to play for real-time strategy fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshay1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  This game is good it has alot of cool people but in the titans its kind of boring because when 
 you have a titan you cant lose so yeah. Its better than age of empires but i have nothing else 
 to say so ignore everything else. a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordLeckie
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  When i first played AOM i thought, wow thats cool!, ive always been a fan of Greek Mythology and 
 to a lesser extent Egyptian mythology and Norse and this game brings the old tales to life in a 
 fast paced RTS.
  
  The gameplay for the Greek side will be instantly familiar to veterans of Age of empires with the 
 resource system and buildings and units easy to get nito however ensemble have made the other two 
 side very different, first the Egyptians are mainly based on infantry and have quick builing and 
 require very little wood but need a lot of gold and gain favor slowly at first but then ramp it 
 up and are very fast and low armor race, while the norse are big heavy units orientated towards 
 close combat and gain favor by fighting so when fighting them you wont be seeing any myth units 
 till late in the game.
  
  The graphics are great and show a living world with sealife and animals and moving plants and is 
 quite immersive, and the musical scores are also reminisent of those from AOE.
  
  The tech advancement hae been revamped to give you some more choice in what you do with you choosing 
 a minor god to advance and it then giving you varied forces so to keep your opponent guessing along 
 with fearsome god powers.
  
  All in all a great addition to any RTS fans collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  A Fantastic Strategy game for online play and by yourrself.
  
  This game is really fun. I can still play it on my computer even after so many games that have 
 came out sense then. This game is a great strategy game where you creat units and an ecomeny defend 
 and destroy others.
  
  -------------------------
  Graphics (great actualy)
  -------------------------
  I like the 3D a graphics and action in this great game. I sometimes 
 create an entire map with tons of men just to watch them fight. It's really cool.
  
  -------------------------
  Fun (YES!)
  -------------------------
  Totaly fun. Campaign great 
 stories fun battles. Multiplayer, online, single player, creat ur own map this game is great. Just 
 like Age Of Empires 2 this game is fantastic.
  
  If you, ve played agoe of empires 2 and loved it u will love this game too.
  it has some awesome 
 3d action and great RTS fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdsteen
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  At the time this game came out it was the best RTS I had played to that point. And it's still going 
 strong. It is a contender for Best in the Series in my opinion. The graphics are awesome for a 
 pre-AOE III game and the game play is excellent. Nothing like trying to appease the gods of yore 
 by praying to temples or defeating your enemy and looting their treasures to give to the gods. 
 The story mode is the best to play, although you can never go wrong with a good quick skirmish 
 battle. The story mode provides for hours of intense game play and missed meals, while the quick 
 battles allow for a nice diversion from the real world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is really the same as all the other Age of games but its better graphics, better 
 sound, better everything. I love it when you cut a tree down the whole tree comes crashing down. 
 Before in AOE2 you would just see the tree laying down. Also with AOM you get to select a major 
 god and get there powers. Also the maps of AOM are so much better and bigger. Like one of my favorite 
 maps of AOM is the Nile River. The sounds are great in this game but I prefer listening to music 
 while I play RTS so I rarely hear sounds but the first time I heard the sounds they really blew 
 me away. The gameplay is always different because you can always do something different in this 
 game. The graphics like I said are really cool. The animations they have in this version are so 
 much better compared to pervious Age of games. The controls are really simple to just the mouse 
 and that all you need to know. The value of this game now should be pretty cheap now which is pretty 
 cool because this is a really cool game you might wanna pick up just for some quick fun! So in 
 my opinion this is one of the best RTS game out there definitely in my top 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plavo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that you will be able to play for years and years. There is a very competitive multiplayer 
 community, and many dedicated fan-sites. The single-player campaign is average, nothing special. 
 It is the online that makes this game deserve its 10/10 rating. Believe me when I say that you 
 will never become bored of this game. Even now, more than 4 years after its release, the game still 
 has excellent graphics and always has many people, from all over the world, online. Also, the game 
 has an excellent map creator. :)
  
  In conclusion, this is a must for any RTS gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaManMasterer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  The Campaign (single player mode) on this game is only a small part of it, I enjoy the online experience 
 (which is of course free) 10 times more than I do the Campaign mode. But anyways lets first talk 
 about the Campaign. The graphics are a definite improvement over the Age of Empires series (not 
 that AOE had bad graphics) and the game intro movie was incredible, among the 10 best video game 
 intros I have ever seen. Furthermore the music on AOM (Age of Mythology) was absolutely beautiful. 
 Its composed as a truly incredible score that hightens the intensity of the music when engaging 
 in some serious warfare. The voice acting is done well and they've got some ridiculously funny 
 taunts, 36 taunts to be exact (and thats just the ones in english) .
  If you have played AOE II and are used to the view then this will take a bit of adjusting to as 
 the view is just a bit farther away in AOM than it was in AOE II. However, you have - and + keys 
 that will adjust the view to your liking, hopefully.
  
  The resources are for the most part kept the same as in AOE2, you have Food, Wood, and Gold, but 
 there is one more, you now have Favor which you must collect as well. Each civilazation gains favor 
 in their own unique way. For the Greeks, they gain favor by having their Villagers (Villies) pray 
 at their Temples. For the Eggyptians, they gain favor by buidling monuments, the more monuments 
 the more favor, also you are limited to being able to build 5-6 momuments only, and each momument 
 is of a different type, you can also build only 1 monument at a time, and the latter monuments 
 give you favor at a faster rate than the earlier monuments. Your Pharoah can also empower you monuments, 
 which will allow you to gain favor at an even faster rate. Finally, Norse gain favor by fighting 
 and by having Norse Heros on the battlefield, these Norse heros are known as Hesers. They are expensive 
 and slow, but they can take a beating and keep on coming, as well as they tend to build much faster 
 than any other normal unit.
  
  Ok there are 3 different civilazations in Age of Mythology: Greek, Eggyptians, and Norse. Each 
 of these civilazations have thier own unique abilities, strengths, and weaknesses. Greek is the 
 standard civilazation and overall the most balanced of the 3. Eggpytians (Eggy) are the best of 
 the 3 at defense, they have the strongest walls, the most powerful towers and the bets counter 
 units. Greek build at a normal build rate, as they are the standard, the have a nice selection 
 of units as well. Eggy build very slow but many of their building cost little or nothing, such 
 as a granary, houses, market, and storeshouses all are 100% free if you play as Eggy. But since 
 thier normal villagers are so slow when it comes ot building and collecting economy (eco) , they 
 are given a Pharoah and with the Pharoah they can build faster than any other civilazation in the 
 game, but the pharoah can only be at one place at one time, he is not omni-present. The Norse villagers 
 cannot build, they can only collect resources, and they don't have stationary storehouses that 
 they have to take it to, they have what is called an Ox Cart that moves to wherever they are, this 
 immensely helps thier eco. Norse military units are the only Norse units that can build, and this 
 adds a fantastic ammount of strategy to the game, that means Norse can be, if played well, the 
 quickest civilazation in the entire game, and the most offensive.
  
  For those faithful to the franchise, you are used to upgrading or advancing your entire civilization 
 from one age to another age. The same basic idea is kept in AOM but they've added a twist, you 
 can now choose your path of advancement. This means that upon advancing from Archaic Age (the first 
 age) to Classical Age you can choose which god that you want to advance with out of 2 gods each 
 age. There are 4 ages in total which means you can advance 3 times, Mythic Age being the final 
 stage of advancement. Each god has their own unique God Powers (GPs) , a certain new Myth Unit (some 
 gods have multiple MUs per age) , and special unit bonuses. The levels of strategy involved in just 
 that, advancing between ages, is already very deep and entire successful strategies can be concocted 
 based soley on the fact of your god path. The God Powers are a new addition to the franchise and 
 I must say an extremely cool addition. These God Powers usually only have 1 effect such as Frost, 
 you can freeze land units and sea units with it, however you cannot freeze arial units using Frost. 
 Frost's total effect is that ability to freeze units, usually freezing an army is the popular chioce. 
 But say you use the Ancestors God Power over land, then for a certain amount of time you are rewarded 
 with a small quick army of Minions that are erected straight up from out of the ground; however, 
 if you chose to use this Ancestors GP over sea in hopes of aiding your naval army, then a sweet 
 and I mean sweet! army of Ghost Ships would surface from the depths of the sea. If you haven't 
 already got the idea, then let me say it now, this game separates itself from the average RTS (Real-Time-Strategy) 
 game in a very good way. The hardest thing for me to get used to when switching from AOE II to 
 AOM was the viewpoint, once you get that everything else should fall into place. Its been nearly 
 4 years since I played AOE2 also, but the game speed might be a bit faster on AOM, however it has 
 been some time since I played AOE2 so don't quote me on that.
  
  Now lets talk about the units. This is one of my favorite things about this game, aside from the 
 mythological coolness that is seeping out from every corner, this game has a strong focus on military 
 units. And a fair focus as well, they use a thing now commonly known as the Rock-Scissors-Paper 
 Mechanics , this refers to the fighting system. Infantry, the most basic of units, can effectively 
 counter Cavalry, Cavalry can effectively counter Archers, and likewise Archers can effectively 
 counter Infantry. But thats not all, you have 2 more unit types, Myth Units and Heroes. MUs each 
 have different attributes and are good vs different types of units. For example, the Troll is excellent 
 vs Archers and very good vs Infantry, but its not too effective vs Cavalry and its totally ineffective 
 vs Heros. In general, Heros counter MUs.
  So then, the commonly asked question is, What then counters Heros? 
  Well a few things counter 
 Heros, lets first describe which hero we are talking about, and yes it does matter which Hero because 
 each has specific strengths and weaknesses just like any other unit, the only difference is that 
 Heros have fewer weaknesses than any other unit type in the game. Norse Heros (Hesers) are slow 
 moving warriors with great attack and good defense, with a ton of health, they can also build very 
 fast. Eggy Heros (Preists) can attcak at range and have a very low attack and a very low defense, 
 but they can heal nearby units and create Oblisks whihc give them a permanent line of site over 
 a large area unitl someone destroys it, and Oblisks are veyr very cheap, 10 gold to be exact. Greek 
 heros are the most sophisticate dof the entire bunch and range form 4 different ones per major 
 god, each has a special attatck that can be used vs normal units and MUs, each Greek Hero has a 
 specific name and usualy incredible defense and and incredible attatck. The reason for this is 
 that Greek only can have 4 Heros on the battlefield at once, while Norse and Eggy can each have 
 as many heros as they want on the battlefield at the same time, because Norse and eggy Heros all 
 have the exact same attributes as the next and in power and skill, they are only good, while Greek 
 Heros are amazing.
  
  Each Myth Unit has a special attack, at least I think every Myth Unit does, there may be a few 
 that don't I'll check on that latter and update it. MU's specials vary from the Minator's Gore 
 Attack that send its foe flying across the screen, and they can be shot over walls and over treelines 
 by this attack, very powerful, to the Enhejar's Moral Boost Shout, which increases the attack of 
 every unit and building that is near them for a short period of time (this includes flying units 
 as well) . Another thing is MUs cannot ever, and I mean ever, use thier SPs on Heros; but vs human 
 units the MUs can always use their SPs.
  
  Well I think I pretty much covered everything, after you read this review you will definitely know 
 if this is the game for you, or if you shoudl pass it up. my advice, buy it if you like any RTS 
 game of any sort, because this is the cream of the crop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danm_999
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Although not achieving the high that Age of Empires 2 gave us, Age of Mythology is an excellently 
 packaged RTS that provides an interesting break from the Age of Empires mould (ie, magic, dragons, 
 Greek, Egyptian and Norse mythology) .
  
  Augmented by a great campaign and story, the game's factions are different enough to warrant strategy, 
 enjoyment and value.
  
  For it's time, the graphics and sound are great, though neither is immaculate, but certainly does 
 not slow down the offering in gameplay and value.
  
  Online is enjoyable and deep, but problems may be growing in participation with Age of Empires 
 3 out, and the 5 year old age of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herodite777
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: It's easy to learn, but hard to master. The AI is pretty challenging anyways, perfect 
 in all of it's difficulty categories. It is extremely fun.
  
  GRAPHICS: For this genre and this era, it had good graphics. I felt like I was in the Ancient World. 
 SOUND: The sound was great, it was always perfect and it felt me with excitement when I attacked 
 a fort.
  
  VALUE: This game has high value, but not as high as Age of Empires II's expansion pack.
  
  
 TILT: For a great game, play this game. For a great experience, choose this game.
  
  For even people will play you online when your ready. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxxporras
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 8, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  The game sequence is very well thought. Even when this was my first RTS, i got the hold of it pretty 
 smooth. The mythological monsters and heroes put a lot of charm into the game. It is definitely 
 a refined game in all its aspects: sound, plot, options, scenery, etc.
  
  This game can never be boring: different environments, different options to choose from ... I actually 
 played it three times.
  
  I gave it a try to Warcraft and believe it or not, it didn't catch my interest.
  
  In this 
 review I definitely have to highlight its soundtrack. This music is so cool that I actually burned 
 the audio files into a CD and used to listen to it while driving or working. The soundtrack is 
 a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology for PC is an impressive, entertaining game that will captivate you for hours. 
 Here is a quick overview of the game:
  
  The Good: Great graphics and sound affects, long, detailed campaign/storyline, large vereity of 
 units, cool God powers, game offers a lot
  
  The Bad: Battles are sometimes a little slow, cheesy, and unrealistic, repetitve music, sound track-sometimes 
 gets you annoyed.
  
  The game was obviously well-done, and deserves tons of credit. With an amazing campaign, and other 
 great single-player modes, you will be playing it for a LONG time. The game is really impressive, 
 and is definitely worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kroich
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology, from the creators of Age of Empires, was a great twist in the Microsoft's RTS 
 history, from historical and realistic battles, to legends and myths of the ancient civilizations.
 
  
  AOM is quite faithful to its myths' origins and aspects in every way, almost as an encyclopedia. 
 The game brings to the player a world of great stories and tales that actually existed in the real 
 world, from Egypt to Greece and Northlands. As in every game, its factions must be in balance, 
 so as the god powers and heroes in Age of Mythology. The camera's dynamic and cinematic views also 
 were a great surprise in AOM, since it is one of the first 3D strategy games with versatile cameras 
 to come into the market.
  
  The game's campaign is quite addictive and becomes more and more interesting by each level you 
 complete. Campaigns like the main one can be easily created in the game's map editor, with triggers 
 and cinematic tools.
  
  I recommend this game to any RTS or Age of Empires' fan since its quite a good and funny game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcgecko
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  Warning: this is one of my favorite games so there will be some bised.
  If you like mytholagy and\or stratagy this is the game for you. The story isnt so good but its 
 not horable and you get used to the graphics. Like any other RTS (real time stratagy if you were 
 wondering.) you buy troops and villagers to conquer and build but AoM (age of mytholagy) puts a 
 twist by putting in mythacle heros and beasts from the norse, egyption, and greek stories. The 
 monsters are good againsed the normal people and the heros kill the monsters. The heros just pretty 
 much kick butt. now if you get the game I recamend playing the campain before random map. Another 
 neat thing this game has to offer are the god powers. when you pay enough tribute you get more 
 god powers witch does everything from somining gaurds to makeing gold. over all I think its a great 
 game! this review was done by: Kcgecko 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkLord500
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing stratergy game that borrows elements from the Warcraft series and mixes it with 
 the Age of Empires series to make one of the best games of its genre EVER! Not to mention the fact 
 that its mixed well with great graphics, a decent story, and a few extra side games to keep you 
 entertained (including a map maker that essentially lets you create your own story, and, even though 
 I didnt get to do it, there is a online multi-player mode) .
  
  Age of Mythology takes the AoE series and improves upon it time and time again to create AoM, one 
 of the greater PC games available. And its been around for awhile so grab it while its cheap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivan789
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Well what can i say about a Supurb game in the whole world? Its great. I love Age of Mythology 
 the titans because it is the best game i've ever seen! Its even better than age 3. Age of mythology 
 is about fantsy wich is more fun than history. I love the god power system. The god powers is the 
 HIT IS ONE OF THE BEST FEATURES in the game. For example Meteor- very cool and intresting to look 
 at. HEROES!!! every game must have heroes thats why Age of Mythology is soo cool. MYTH UNITS ARE 
 ONE OF BEST FEATURES OF THIS GAME they are more intresting than anything in the game. the 3rd thing 
 that this game gives you completly different civc. even their interface is diffirent. THIS GAME 
 IS 
  
  !!!!!!!!!!!! MUST BUY MUST BUY MUST BUY MUST BUY MUST BUY!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This game lets you play as any of the three races, Greek, Egyptian, and Norse. The cool thing is 
 that you can control a-lot of things from the myths. This means the heroes and monsters and even 
 the enemies from the ancient stories. The God Powers are unique and well balanced for all of the 
 races. The myth units are great and well designed. The campaign has a nice and long feel to it 
 like it was taken from a real myth. The races are balanced and each have their own play styles 
 and are fun too play. The graphics don't look bad but you can see the lack of details on some of 
 them even without zooming in. The sound is also awesome and well done but the game does repeat 
 some sounds and when your playing a long game this gets noticeable but it's no big deal. The music 
 does not seem to get old although i don't know why, it might be because it's so good. Overall this 
 is a great RTS and I recommend it to any Age of Empires fan or a RTS fan in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Challenger52
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  Excellent sounds makes this game more favourite-able... with a good story
  Arkantos, Ajax were the real warriors in the history.. I think that this is a much tighter and 
 has more interesting story than those found in the previous Age games... I'm impressed with the 
 fantasy elements of the story, I'm also equally happy that the vast campaign tells a story with 
 lots of recurring characters and situations. Myth units were really great.. In one of the later 
 cutscenes, an enemy army stands opposite your own. The enemy general tells you to surrender if 
 you want a painless death. One of your heroes launches a bolt at one of the enemies and says, ( 
 We surrender. Move a little closer. )
  
  The real langauges of Greek Mythology.. (Prosheshe, Nei, Eshto, Malista, Howlomei) ... Admittedly 
 the subject matter allows for a lot more invention and reinterpretation than the scenarios in the 
 more-historically based Age of Empires games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csmith1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  This a great game and has many strong points, my computer does play up with the graphics when the 
 Scarab goes on the screen but apart from that this game is fully enjoyable, how can you change 
 the civilisation colour? I played Age of Empires II and thought it was great but I didn't want 
 to get III because it is too modern because of the firearms (muskets) so I looked at AOE I but 
 then I saw AOM and it looked great (with the Myth and Heroes included with it) and I knew I had 
 to buy it, played it for a few days and am only really concerned about why you can't change the 
 colour of your units but apart from that it is a Masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidfan220
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  You can play Age of Mythology for hours with all sorts of different fun, because you can choose 
 how to pick off your opponent. You can build up a fast army and attack his town as quickly as possible, 
 or wait a little bit and build up your technology before you attack. You can pick and choose which 
 soldiers, mercenaries, and healers you want to send into battle. The campaign mode lasts quite 
 a while, providing a storyline to go with the addition of God Powers, which can turn a battle going 
 one direction in a completely different one. Overall, multiplayer gaming in Age of Mythology is 
 particularly good, because the God powers allow you to secretly know what your opponent is doing 
 at all times, if you choose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sangman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 17, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  I won't fill this up with a useless introduction to the Age Of genre, because if you're reading 
 this you probably already know everything about the games Instead, I'll just give some information 
 on Age of Mythology itself. Age of Mythology adds a few new things such as God Powers and Mythological 
 Units which don't exist in the Age of Empires games. Most of these are quite fun to use. I think 
 the inclusion of these 'surreal' things give AoM the edge against Age of Empires 3.
  
  Also, the game has 3 different civilizations (with a fourth one in the expansion pack) which are 
 Greek, Egyptian and Norse. They all play (slightly) differently, and they all have their own unique 
 God Powers and Myth Units, as well as their own ways to acquire them. This is a welcome break from 
 the near-identical civilizations you had in the Age of Empires series.
  
  The combat, when compared to the latest addition to the Age Of series (AoE3) is a lot better. I 
 prefer sword+bow combat rather than lines of musketeers standing still whilst shooting at each 
 other. It just looks much cooler.
  
  Like all RTS games, there's a single-player campaign. It is surprisingly good - I always felt that 
 the campaigns in Age Of games lacked something. This one doesn't. It has a good story, almost all 
 of the characters are interesting, and there are a lot of cool missions which are tied together 
 quite well. Even the standard build a base and destroy something missions usually have a nice twist 
 to them. If the campaign (titled Fall Of The Trident ) is not enough for you, you can also download 
 a free additional campaign on the official website. It's a lot shorter (about 4 missions) but if 
 you're a die-hard fan I suggest you give it a shot.
  
  On to the multi-player bit - As a new player it's quite hard to find a decent room, seeing as there 
 is a lack of a proper matchmaking system and you can't really base yourself on the ESO rating, 
 as most players - good or bad - have a default rating of 1600. Meeting someone with a lower or 
 higher score than that happens very rare. However this should only be a problem in standard maps. 
 There are a few mildly enjoyable custom scenario's available on-line (you'll auto-download them 
 as you join servers using them) but unfortunately most of these are for the The Titans expansion 
 pack. I suggest buying the expansion if you really want more out of this game.
  
  All in all, you should really get this game if you're a fan of RTS games. What are you waiting 
 for? Go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 3.8
Date: Sep 13, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  age mythology has better graphics than age of kings in the greatest detail in the series. but the 
 bad part is there is no map editor. the god stuff is king of wierd but simetimes you wish it should 
 not of been created in the first part. overall this game is worse than age of kings. and age of 
 kings has the map editor so just keep playing with age of kings better than age mythology.
  also adavancing ages is a pain cause you have to pick which god to rule over you and that useless. 
 the multiplayer isnt that great as well. the sound needs to be worked in future age games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_General2000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 13, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  As an heir to the illustrious "Age of ______" series, there's a lot to expect from Age of Mythology. 
 At the same time, due to it's mythological nature, a lot of people didn't exactly know what to 
 expect from it. Luckily, what arrived was a fresh and very enjoyable take on a classic formula, 
 with enough refinement to say it has pushed the series forward.
  
  Age of Mythology is a real-time strategy game which takes place in ancient history... kind of. 
 The ancient historical beliefs of three different ancient cultures (The Greeks, Egyptians, and 
 Norse) are all represented here, complete with Gods, fantastic beasts, and heroes of yore. It would 
 be accurate to say that the mythology the game uses is more or less true to what they believed, 
 even if none of it actually happened (then again, who am I to say that?) . Either way, this opens 
 up a slew of new and very interesting options to the series in the form of units, ages, and mechanics. 
 Now, basically, the game is the same as the others in the series... you send villagers to gather 
 resources, build buildings, build troops, research technology, and eventually move to the next 
 age. Repeat a couple times and throw in some battles, and there you have the game. This time around, 
 though, some things have changed quite drastically.
  
  The Stone resource, so beloved for it's use in building walls and castles, has now been replaced 
 by something even better; faith. Faith is gained in different ways for each faction, but does the 
 same thing for each; it allows the production of unique, extremely powerful "Myth" units. These 
 are mystical creatures from mythology, as the name may have implied, that are often devastating 
 on the battlefield. They are also very, very fun to field. Some examples include massive cyclopses 
 which hurl opponents, venom-spitting wadjet snakes, or valkyrie warrior-maidens who can fight or 
 heal. There are many myth units per team, and the ones you get depend on which gods you choose 
 at each age. Before you begin researching a new age, you are given a choice between two gods; once 
 you've chosen one, you can't go back, so it makes choosing wisely all the more interesting. These 
 gods give you unique myth units, reasearch, and something called a God power. These are one-time 
 use abilities themed to the god you chose, and they tend to be very powerful. Examples include 
 a lightning bolt to strike down a unit, no matter how powerful, or rain which helps grow crops 
 much faster. They are also game-deciding when used properly, and add another interesting element 
 to the game. Finally, there are the heroes. Heroes are the main means to combat myth units, and 
 each race has a different means of acquiring them. The Greeks build famous figures from their mythology, 
 such as Heracles (Hercules) or Achilles, whilst the Egyptians rely on their Pharaoh or Priests 
 to defend them from myth units.
  
  The game's factions, although they number much less than previous Age of Empires games, are each 
 expressed much more in depth than the previous games did and are entirely unique from one another. 
 This is perhaps the greatest new feature the game offers, a Starcraft style of equal-but-different 
 team balancing. All of these factors make playing the game a blast, and also refreshing, since 
 it's so different from previous entries in the series. The visuals are quite good, especially for 
 God-power effects, and some of the myth units look spectacular. The sounds are very good as well; 
 voices and music are unique for each team, and capture the feel of them excellently. Age of Mythology 
 is not quite as impressive as Age of Empires 2, but in it's own way, is even more fun to play. 
 Combined with a great multiplayer, AoM is certainly an RTS for the ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 2, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  I would always think RTS was boring... unless I played Age of Mythology! This game is awesome, 
 really. Has a great story, not common for RTS games, great environments and nice mythological creatures 
 and heroes. I've learned a lot from this game, about Greek, Egiptian and Norse Mythology. The buildings 
 and warriors you train are absolutely fantastic. You'll get bored with no music, just a little!, 
 but this doesn't make a change at all. The tilt is perfect, the story is long enough and if you'll 
 use cheats you can finish it in no time, even though I don't recomend this. The world builder is 
 cute, and is something you can try after the game. If you like RTS this game is made for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holland01
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the ages of Myths. Monsters and Heroes and Gods are normal in this world. Age of Mythology 
 is a game that plays in the ancients times of Greece, Egypt and The Norse. The story is bases on 
 a guy named Arkantos the head character. Arkantos comes from Atlantis ( you know that city that 
 was sunk in the Ocean ) , He goes to the leader to discuss who to send when Argememnon calls support 
 from Atlantis age the siege of Troy. When this chat takes plays. The Harbor is attacked by a Kraken 
 ( A giant See monster) then the real story begins. Arkantos must go to repel the attack of the 
 Pirates and when the battle is ended the Pirates has taken the trident from the statue of Poseidon. 
 Arkantos goes after the Pirates and has found the Trident then he decides to go to Troy to help.
 
  
  Gagarensis is the bad guy he wants to go to Tartarus ( The underworld ) to set Kronos free (a Titan 
 ) . Arkantos first met him when he went home from Troy. Arkantos does not do this alone the Friends 
 he gets in Greece are Ajax, Charon and Odysseus. Gargarensis failed in Greece and went to Egypt 
 to try it again and later in The Norse Arkantos gets a new friend in Egypt named Amanra.
  
  The Story is well balanced and very good there are cutscenes to tell the story. The Graphics are 
 very Beautiful because this is the first game of Ensemble studios that is 3D and it is great. The 
 World is Immensive. and very detailed
  
  This game has a 32 missions campaign so you won't get bored all the time and you have a lot of 
 units at your disposal suchs as : Cyclopes, Chimera, Hydra's, Centaurs, Giants, Scarabs, Anubites 
 etc. In this game you must gather resoures suchs as wood, gold, food. but new is that you must 
 gain favor. Favor is the good will of the Gods, if you gain Favor you can train myth units.
  Whats new about this game is that you have God powers. At every start of a game you can choose 
 between 9 major Gods who are the heart of your civilisation. At advancing you can choose again 
 between gods but this are 2 gods, Every God has his own exclusive power and upgrades so choose 
 wisely. The AI is very great sometimes it's hard and sometimes easy.
  
  The Effects of the game suchs as explosives and Meteor strikes are very beautiful to see. The Sounds 
 are very good for this game
  
  conclusion: This game is a musthave for every gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  As the pantheon of real-time strategy dynasties grows, there are three names that stand out the 
 most. Westwoods Command and Conquer, Blizzards Warcraft, and Ensembles Age of Empires. These 
 series are all venerable, time-tested games and every PC gamer who doesnt have a deep hatred of 
 all RTS should own at least one game from one franchise. The reason these three stand out now is 
 that they have all just released new RTS games. The main rivalry is between Blizzards Warcraft 
 3 and Age Of Mythology, the latest from the team that made Age of Empires. Which one is worth your 
 hard-earned money? 
  
  Age of Mythology, while from the same vein as the Age of Empires games, is very different in some 
 ways. People who grew up on Age of Empires, like myself, will remember how in that game, there 
 were about 20 civilizations, but each had the same basic units and buildings. The only thing that 
 really made a difference were the specialties of each race. In Age of Mythology, Ensemble has cut 
 it down to 3 civilizations, the Greek, Egyptians, and the Norse. However, each race is vastly different 
 and it takes a whole different strategy to master each one. Welcome to the balance that is Age 
 of Mythology. 
  
  Gameplay - The focus of Age of Mythology is not as historical as Age of Empires. Now, mythology 
 has become a part of the game and factors hugely throughout. New Myth units, creatures that never 
 existed in real life, are important if you want to wipe out foot soldiers. Units like the Minotaur 
 and the Hydra for the Greeks, the Mummy and the Anubite for the Egyptians, and the Frost Giant 
 for the Norse are vital to winning the game. They are also expensive, taxing a new resource called 
 Favor, or the goodwill of the gods. Also important are the Heroes, who have a better attack than 
 normal soldiers and are good at fighting Myth Units. Any fans of Homer will recognize Hercules 
 and Odysseus in the game. 
  
  Also important in the game are the gods. Each time you advance to a new age you choose which minor 
 deity you want to worship. The different choices offer up different Myth units and God powers. 
 In Custom battles, you also choose a main god from a list of 9. Which god you choose will affect 
 which powers you can get. The powers are these new attacks called God Powers. These are powerful 
 and can only be used once, but can change the course of the battle. Some bolster your economy, 
 like Prosperity which makes villager gather gold faster. Others, like Meteor, can utterly devastate 
 an attacking army  and send all their soldiers flying. 
  
  Story-wise, this game is strong with a solid backing story and good voice acting. There were some 
 parts that seemed forced and some clunky dialogue, but hey  Its a real-time strategy. Just having 
 a coherent story is pretty good. 
  
  The interface is easy to use and actually playing the game is a lot of fun. The soldiers respond 
 to your commands in their own tongue, and AI is convincing. There are about 32 campaign missions 
 to work through, and then the online and custom battle play. The only complaint I could have is 
 that a majority of the missions revolve around building up a base and attacking. 7 levels in a 
 row are base-building and attacking levels. But there is enough variety thrown in to make this 
 annoying but not frustrating. 
  
  Sound  Very good music, sound effects. The music can get repetitive, and pc. ign. com describes 
 it as being unwhistleable. This is very true, as anyone who has gotten it stuck in their head 
 and tried to hum it at school has found out 
  
  Graphics  Top-notch. The 3-D environments are beautiful and the characters are well-rendered. 
 You will want to use the zoom in feature a lot, just to see the smooth animations. The environment 
 shakes and burns with the use of earth-shattering god powers, and the terrain plays a big part 
 in strategy. The whole game just feels so right when you look at it. 
  
  Lasting Appeal  You will play this game for a long time. The campaign missions are fine, but the 
 heart of the game is in the custom games. Online play is very efficient, with an optional match-making 
 service that keeps experienced players from ripping up noobs. With a large selection of maps to 
 choose from, a built-in map editor, and a plethora of individual strategies, this game is here 
 to stay. 
  
  Last Comments  While by no means the most popular RTS on the market, (cough, Warcraft, cough) 
 Age of Mythology definitely has the content to stand alone. A large number of dedicated fans have 
 already created a backbone of support for this game which will probably be played online for many, 
 many years to come. Is it better than Warcraft 3? Having played both, I would have to say its simply 
 a matter of preference. I own AoM and I plan to buy Warcraft when I can afford it. But in the end, 
 its all about what you as the gamer want. Either one, you cant go wrong. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yo_foo
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 12, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  It never ceases to amaze me how I got into this game. I bought the game believing I wouldn't enjoy 
 it. I was totally wrong. It is one of the most addictive games of all time, one of the greatest 
 multiplayer games of all time. A pleasure to play.
  
  For those that have a mindset against RTS, throw it out the window and play this game. Not only 
 does it change everything you thought you knew about RTS, it opens up a whole new adventure in 
 multiplayer mode.
  
  The graphics are great for a RTS game, especially the detail created for the mythological creatures. 
 The sound is a little dry with constant music glitches occuring on a daily basis and the annoying 
 grunts of the soldiers when you click on them. However the value based on the multiplayer mode 
 is remarkable and impeccable. 
  
  The game takes a quick tutorial to learn but an age (no pun intended) to master making it one of 
 the most memorable RTS games out there. 
  
  :' (
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doctor_Mo
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 2, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure why, but I just couldn't seem to get into this game very much. The graphics were swell 
 and the gameplay was what would be expected from the series - but... it was just missing something. 
 I should note that I very much tend to enjoy real-time strategy that is historical based, so that 
 may be where the bias comes from. Overall, I tried to play a few times and then finally just took 
 it off the hard drive. 
  
  I liked the Age of Empires I, have not yet tried Age of Kings, and am very much looking forward 
 to Age of Empires III. So again, I really think that it was the Mythology theme that didn't click 
 for me on this one. 
  
  Better luck next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramez
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 29, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft Games proved that they really rule the classic RTS games category by releasing this game 
 and before it they produced the famous age of empires series and these two games are really the 
 best classic RTS
  that we can play till now.
  
  This game is a real masterpiece , its story is really magnificent that it can be written in a book 
 and I bet it will receive the best sales award as this story deals with a storyline similar to 
 that of the ancient greek mythology.
  The story is about an epic of an atlantian hero who tries to protect his people and land against 
 an evil hero and throughout the story our hero faces different dangers in diffirent lands and also 
 he faces the rage of the gods of the olympus like Poseidon , Hades and others.
  
  The Gameplay is really interesting , the game isn't very hard to be learned and once you learned 
 it you will find it a real fun , also the game is somehow easy to be played and it can be sometimes 
 addictive in the multiplayer games.
  
  The graphics of the game by the measurements of its age is great , the terrain graphics are wonderful 
 and the water reflections and shadows are very good.
  
  The sounds in the game are stunning , the units responses are wonderful and the music is charming.
 
  
  Finally I recommend this game to any classic RTS gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 3:08 am PT
Review:  Age Of Mythology For PC.
  
  Age of Mythology is the latest in the series of games by Ensemble Studio, a developer well known 
 for its legendary Age of Empires series. Does Age of Mythology have what it takes to live up to 
 its predecessors? 
  
  First off, let's begin with the usual description about the game that should not be surprising 
 if you have read any other reviews. Unlike the historical setting in earlier games by Ensemble 
 Studios, Age of Mythology is set in a time where ''history and mythology are one'' as its developers 
 words it. While you will still see historically accurate Greek units such as hoplites, peltasts, 
 and such, you will also see mythological monsters such as Hydras, Minotuars, and Cyclops. Age of 
 Mythology also contains two more unique civilizations: the Egyptians and the Norse (aka. Vikings) , 
 each with their regular human units and mythological units. For each of the three civilizations 
 (Greek, Egyptian, and Norse) , there are three major gods to choose, each with their own strengths 
 and weaknesses, essentially making the game have 9 civilizations. During the game, players will 
 eventually chose from a set of minor gods to worship, each also with their own focus. Thus, you 
 will find yourself confronted with dozens of different paths to chose that will determine the inherited 
 strengths and weaknesses of your civilization. 
  
  Gameplay : Age of Empires and Age of Kings veterans will see the familiar gameplay present in Age 
 of Mythology. Like AoE and AoK, a standard, non-scenario game, begins with a town center and a 
 few villagers. Like AoE and AoK, there are also four ages to advance. So in terms of gameplay, 
 AoM feels similar to the previous ''Age of'' games. But that does mean that Age of Mythology is 
 an exact clone of Age of Kings with better graphics - this is where ''Mythology'' come in. First 
 is the element of god powers. God powers are essentially ''spells'', as Warcraft III players might 
 think of it as. God powers range from being economically beneficial, such as the Rain power, which 
 increases framing rates, to being potentially devastating, such as the meteor shower, and tornado, 
 both of which can obliterate an entire town. God powers are a new an exciting element for the game 
 that can turn the tide of wars. But use them wisely - you only get 4 god powers, and each can only 
 be used once! The Second new element is the favor system. Favor is essentially the resource required 
 to make myth units (such as hydras, giants, phoenixes) and research certain ''myth technologies''. 
 Each civilization has a different way of gaining favor: the Greeks obtain favor praying to their 
 gods, the Egyptians obtain favor by building monuments, and the Norse obtain favor by fighting 
 enemies. Favor, and its subsequent myth units, adds a whole new dimension to the game. Compared 
 to regular human units, Myth units are very tough in combat. Many myth units have unique capabilities. 
 For example, Medusae can turn other units into stone and frost giants can freeze another unit in 
 place. While myth units can easily trash regular units, their power is checked by the advent of 
 heroes, which are essentially human units that counter myth units. However, heroes are not cost 
 efficient against normal units. This new system of Myth Units &gt; Normal units &gt; Heroes &gt; 
 Myth units, adds even greater potential for strategy besides the already existing tradition counter 
 system (Cavalry &gt; Archers &gt; infantry &gt; Cavalry) . 
  
  Unlike the micro based style of Warcraft III, Age of Mythology focuses more on the macro side. 
 That is, economy is very important to success. Instead of focusing on a single hero like in Warcraft 
 III, AoM focuses on battles with numerous units, taking advantage of positions, and just about 
 any large-scale operation you can think of. In Age of Mythology, town centers are no longer built 
 freely on the map. Instead, they can only be built upon fixed settlements on the map. Since town 
 centers provide your army with extra population spaces, controlling and defending these expansions 
 are very important. Without a doubt, gameplay in Age of Mythology is very variant and deep in strategy 
 for an RTS game. This is what I find to be the most exciting part of the game. The great amount 
 of variety that comes out of it will simply make you want to keep playing and try new things. 
 
  
  Without a doubt, multiplayer in Age of Mythology is a trill. For those of you who tend to stick 
 with single player, you'll find that it too, is very exciting. Unlike the many short campaigns 
 in previous ES games, Age of Mythology's single player features a massive campaign of 32 scenarios 
 that centers on a single grand story. Players will follow the quest of Arkantos - an admiral from 
 Atlantis who at first has his mind on chasing pirates, but eventually realizes that he is involved 
 in a much larger case. Players will follow Arkantos, as he goes around and becomes part of many 
 familiar stories such as the Trojan horse and the recovery of the scattered pieces of Osiris. Honestly, 
 when I first played it, it really felt awkward how they managed to fit a single personality into 
 many well known stories from mythology; but somehow, Ensemble Studios did it so proficiently, that 
 the story flowed like wonder. In the end, I was quite surprised that ES managed to write such story, 
 as you can only modify the original myths to an extent, unlike the fantasy world of Warcraft III 
 where you are not restricted to ''common acceptance of how the story goes''. Age of Mythology's 
 storyline is not as epic as Warcraft III's but that doesn't make it any less interesting. 
  
  Graphics : The 3D graphics are wonderful. Unlike the cartoonish style of Warcraft III, the 
 graphics in Age of Mythology are very organic and realistic looking. The terrain and scenery in 
 Age of Mythology surpasses anything Warcraft III has to offer. The Water, waves, and lava look 
 very realistic, and the sight of god powers such as lightning storms, meteor showers, and tornados 
 are absolutely astounding. The units, however, are somewhat less detailed than the units in Warcraft 
 III, but this is not noticeable as the units in Age of Mythology are smaller. The animation for 
 units are smooth as silk. You'll see Cyclopes and krakens (giant octopuses) pick up unfortunate 
 human soldiers and hurl them at great distances. 
  
  The 3D cutscenes in the campaign are also very satisfactory, and they surpass those of Warcraft 
 III in all aspects. Although ES had to cut back on the detain of regular in-game units to save 
 system requirements, the 3D cutscenes did not suffer from this cutback. The cutscenes uses a different 
 set of ''cinematic'' models that correspond with regular models in the game. Cinematic models are 
 highly detailed and can perform an array of special animations unparalleled in Warcraft III. For 
 example, you will see Odysseus use hand gestures when speaking; you will see Arkantos do a jump 
 attack in one scene, and many more unique animations. Sadly, the full motion video is not close 
 to Warcraft III caliber, but the normal 3D graphics are very detailed. 
  
  Sound : Perhaps the only in-game shortcoming of Age of Mytholgy is the sound. Although it is fun 
 to hear the units speak their historical languages (Ancient Greek, Anicent Egyptian, Old Norse) , 
 it ultimately lacks the pomp seen in Warcraft III. The music, however, is very well orchestrated. 
 The music is similar in style to the previous ''Age of'', with a a continuous flow rather than 
 the ''staggered themes'' style of Warcraft. New to the ''Age of'' series is the element of battle 
 music that comes on when there're enough units fighting on the screen. 
  
  In addition to the solid game itself, Age of Mythology also includes and in-game encyclopedia and 
 a scenario editor. The encyclopedia describes the background mythology of the myth units and the 
 gods in the game. The scenario editor is fairly powerful, although not as powerful as that from 
 Warcraft III. The manual is fairly disappointing and even contains some errors, but when combined 
 with the other documents, documentation should be completely sufficient. 
  
  Age of Mythology is a solid product, easily one of the best games of the year. The tradition of 
 excellence of Ensemble Studios continues! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo9601
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 21, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  Well this game is definitely worth it's money... i've played the storyline campaign for several 
 times now and i'm still addicted to it.. it's simply great! it has an easy learning curve, a quite 
 long and addictive storyline, great sound! only the graphics and the cutscenes are on the downside... everybody 
 who has played this game will have noticed that the cutscenes are really ugly and graphical it's 
 great! just the cutscenes... well for the people who don't have this game yet i insist you on buying 
 it together with it's expansion pack! If you're doubting if this is a great game... then with the 
 ratings and reviews you know enough.. this game will be a great classic... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltfan469
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  
  - Great character details as long as you have your settings on high quality picture graphics
 
  - Does an impressive job of keeping straight which god is which
  - Special god abilities
  - New and improved mythical creatures
  - Not quite history but just as fun as if it was real 
 and really happened
  - Finally decent voice acting
  
  Bad:
  
  - Still doesn't have enough to be a great game that will live on in history
  - Scenarios can 
 sometimes get boring and repetitive
  - Norse is too hard for some beginners to strategy games
  - God abilities aren't foolproof quite 
 yet
  
  Bottom Line:
  
  - Age of Mythology is a good game with some tiny flaws, with some more work this game could have 
 been even better. It still is a good game worthy of being played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Beach_Bumb
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology isnt your typical copy of Age of Empires. There are many tweeks and surprises 
 that give this game the great edge of a good Rpg game.
  There are Mythical Monsters, God Powers, and a great Campain mode. Here's my overview.
  The Campain 
 of Age of Mythology starts you out as a legend by the name of Arkantos. He Is a hero to Atlantis 
 and resides there. But sailing back to Atlantis after defeating Pirates, he recieves a dream from 
 the God of Wisdom Athena.
  She tells him that it is he who will save Atlantis and the world from a deadly threat. So after 
 another a battle with pirates Arkantos begins his Adventure.
  The Camera Angle is great but can get nerveracking. But its rare. Its similar to Age of Empires 
 in Gameplay but this has a very complex story. You travel from Atlantis to the Blistering Cold 
 of the Norse, and even to the shifting Sands of Egypt.
  There are 3 main groups that you can choose from in Single Player and Multiplayer. Greek, Norse, 
 and Egyption. The Greeks must worship their gods for Favor (Power) and Mythical Beasts. They are 
 a common class. Next is Egyption. They must build statues for favor and Norse believe it or not 
 Must fight for favor.
  Multiplayer is very fun, and is hard for it to get dull. Although CPU difficulty is a bit too easy 
 on the hardest difficulty you can still have fun.
  There are occasional Glitches. Like the characters being ahead of the voice. And God Powers not 
 Working, but those arent huge biggiez.
  In Conclusion dudez this game is a great game to keep you busy and having fun for a good amount 
 of time. If you want even better experiance for this game get the expansion pack "Titans". Thanx 
 for your time doodz.
  ~..::The_Beach_Bumb::.~
  
  Graphics are rather impressive. Details are very well done.
  
  The addition that Makes this 
 Age of Mythology are God Powers. God Powers are abilites that you the use can use to Dominate the 
 field. Such as striking lightning bolts, meteors, Summoning great monstrous legends. Though you 
 can only use 4 God Powers ONCE! so Use them wisely.
  In conclusion Dudez This ga
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  The creators of the Age of Empires series has made a new type of their line of RTS games and its 
 Age of Mythology. You don't need to be a RTS fan to appreciate this as it has its own tutorial 
 that helps as after that you go right into the single-player.
  
  The single-player is very addicting as it is a line of missions from land, sea, and other environments 
 and it involves a hero who doubts himself to protect Atlantis but a second later he goes help them. 
 The story is not that good as WarCraft 3's but it has great voice-acting, and clever objectives 
 as you go on a mission.
  
  The multi-player has alot of flaws that doesn't interfere the gameplay, because in order to play 
 Online you have to first install the game, then express install, then install again, then create 
 an account, then connect and log on, and there you go. 
  
  But aside from the glitches and errors, the Multi-player could be fun sometimes if you know what 
 you're doing and paying attention. There are ranked matches and advanced matches (where the user-created 
 maps are) . The ranked matches are fair but the advanced matches don't seem to have enough good, 
 fun, or interesting maps from the users which could was a dissapointment for me.
  
  Overall, this is still a BUY because its single-player is the best I've ever played and if you 
 can ignore the bad stuff about multi-player its still worth playing. The game has great graphics 
 even it was made in 2002, the sound from the environment to the voice-acting is also great and 
 I give it a...
  
  9.3 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistah_spakko
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 10/10
  Whenever a series makes a subseries, or changes around the gameplay alot for a sequel, it doesn't 
 often turn out very well *cough Age of Empires III cough* Especially in the Real Time Strategy 
 genre, with the exception being Warcraft III. Age of Mythology is clearly also an exception to 
 this -- It's just plain a great game in all aspects. 
  
  The game changes alot of things from its predecessor, Age of Empires II. The most obvious of which 
 being the replacing of the "stone" resource, and replacing it with "favour". In Age of Mythology, 
 each of the civilizations appeases their respective gods by doing certain tasks -- the Egyptians 
 build monuments, the Norse fight their enemies and the Greeks pray at temples. By doing this they 
 recieve favour, a fourth resource in this game that allows a player to research certain technologies 
 and build mythological units, such as minotaurs or sphinxes. These are large mythical creatures 
 that are much stronger than human soldiers. They are in turn countered by hero units. The whole 
 mythological concept may seem lame to some, and maybe it is, but no one can deny that it is brilliantly 
 executed, and makes for some actionpacked battles. 
  
  Another blatant change from previous Age games is the inclusion of "god powers". God powers range 
 from the ability to summon a tornado, to the ability to summoning an army to creating a gold mine 
 at the location of your choice. When a player advances in age, like in previous Age games, they 
 must choose one of two minor gods to "worship". Which god the player chooses determines which new 
 mythological unit they may create, what new god power they recieve and what new technologies they 
 can research. The additions definitely make for an exciting game.
  
  The one slight drawback to the gameplay is the lack of further support by Ensemble Studios on this 
 title. The game will not be patched again. At the current state, it is not entirely balanced as 
 well as it could be. An Egyptian player worshipping the goddess "Isis" has a distinct advantage 
 over other players, to provide an example (this is not just my opinion, this is a general concensus 
 of AOM players) .
  
  Graphics 9/10
  The game looks great, nothing bad can really be said here. The game also has fairly low system 
 requirements, which is good, because RTS gamers tend to have older machines than other gamers.
 
  
  Sound 9/10
  As always, Ensemble comes out with an amazing soundtrack. The voice acting in the campaign is decent, 
 and the sound effects aren't bad, but the music is definitely the highlight of the sound for the 
 game.
  
  Value 10/10
  I have wasted many an hour on this game. It is very addictive. While the majority of the replay 
 value lies in the multiplayer, which is still very much alive today (up to 2500 people are online 
 on a busy night) , the single player campaign is definitely worth mention. It is roughly 30 missions 
 long, and definitely worth playing. I have only ever played one campaign in an RTS game that is 
 better than it, the Warcraft III campaign.
  
  Tilt 10/10
  All around, this game is just plain fantastic, and can be appreciated by just about anyone. I most 
 definitely recommend it, and even now, four years later, I'm still known to log on AOM online. 
 Hope to see you there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foggiemx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The game grows on you, if you've beaten the campaign and weren't that amazed by it like I was, 
 then you could try the Multiplayer feature and I guarantee that you'll love it. The amount of variety 
 that a this game has is just incredible.
  
  Graphics:
  Age of Mythology has impressive graphics for a 2002 game. If you don't have a very decent computer 
 then even with the GFX on low the game would still look good.
  
  Sound:
  The sound during the dialogues is very good. The voices are done really well and the battle cry's 
 are also very rich and detailed.
  
  Overall, I think that every RTS fan would enjoy playing this game just because it has a lot of 
 variety.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unshaken
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 25, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  The first time I bought this game I was very excited. Why? Well, because this game is special. 
 The designers of Age of Empires 2 did a fantastic job with the custom maps, multiplayer capabilities, 
 and the story campaigns. So I though that Age of Mythology would be as equally good. But it wasn't.
 
  
  The first time you play this game you will have a lot of fun experimenting with the different types 
 of units and cultures (there are only three cultures, which is too little) . The campaign my just 
 help you get excited about the game because it's all about the rise of heroes and battles between 
 mythical creatures (thus it's name "Age of Mythology") and rival cultures. But after a month or 
 so, you, or should I say "I", just got bored of it. There are way too less variety of units to 
 produce. Like just two units per building (except the Fortress) and what sucks are the units' use. 
 Like in the building where you produce swordsmen. You can produce a swordsman (they are call weird 
 names like hospolite or something like that) . This unit is good against cavalry (read the information 
 by clicking on the units' portraits) and something like that. then the other unit is ONLY good 
 against other infantry. It's like "What the?" It may sound strategic, but trust me, those units 
 are just a waste of population space. So each building has only one useful unit to produce. This 
 just limits the variety of units you can build. and I am very disappointed with the mythical units 
 because they are weak and their damage is not very high. Like the fire giant (or whatever it is 
 called) . it looks powerful and strong, but it's easily killed.
  
  But the game has more positive points. Like the nice landscape. it looks pretty good. Then the 
 independent settlements which you can take over to provide more population space. And the god powers 
 (but the god powers arn't very good because you can only use it once) are very diverse and effective.
 
  
  I would recommend this game if you don't have Age of Empires 2 Expansion or Age of Empires 3 or 
 any other strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vadim_261992
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 25, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is most likely the best RTS I've played in many years. It has all of the essentials 
 that a very decent RTS game has.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game grows on you, if you've beaten the campaign and weren't that amazed by it like I was, 
 then you could try the Multiplayer feature and I guarantee that you'll love it. The amount of variety 
 that a this game has is just incredible.
  
  Graphics:
  Age of Mythology has impressive graphics for a 2002 game. If you don't have a very decent computer 
 then even with the GFX on low the game would still look good.
  
  Sound:
  The sound during the dialogues is very good. The voices are done really well and the battle cry's 
 are also very rich and detailed.
  
  Overall, I think that every RTS fan would enjoy playing this game just because it has a lot of 
 variety.
  
  9.7/10
  By: Vadim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecubedave000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  It takes awile to get this game because in my opinion it is very hard to get use to.... when i first 
 started playing this game i had no idea what was going on or what to do so i kept on loosing but 
 when i knew about everthing about everything i started unleesing deadly stratergys.... the graphics 
 are excellent and i really enjoy the different gods you can pick (Ra for me :) ) there are many 
 troops you can build especially myth units which are speacial creatures that have an advantage 
 over regular troops, and then there are gods which can pounds myth units into the ground. Well 
 when you get use to all the complicated gameplay and can advance into different ages in a decent 
 amount of time and can keep up in score with a hard computer you are ready to play online which 
 is an unforgettable experience because you can talk to your opponents or your team mates (12 people 
 can play at once!) and tell them what you want to do and try communicating good because the best 
 communication between players will always win the game! well i highly recomend this game because 
 the online play is free!! yes i said it free!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugi_nayar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  Calling Age of Mythology anything but great, would be an insult to gaming. This game is just brilliant 
 in every respect and a true RTS. Yet another milestone in RTS gaming by Ensemble Studios, who've 
 made quite a big name for themselves in this field. 
  
  If you've ever played Age of Empires before, you'd have noticed that Ensemble pays a lot of attention 
 to its history. In this game however, they stray into Mythology, a very amazing and fascinating 
 field. So expect to find mythological creatures such as Manticores, Trolls, Frost Giants, Medusae, 
 and many many more. Get ready to be sucked into the wonderful world of Age of Mythology.
  
  Age of Mythology combines the best features of Age of Empires with great new twists and presents 
 itself as a completely new gaming experience for anyone and everyone to enjoy. Even if you havent 
 played a bunch of RTS games before, youll enjoy this game just as much as one that has. For all 
 the complex structuring of the game, its relatively easy to get the hang of. This game has one 
 of the best tutorials, so if youre a fresher at playing RTS, you can become an expert if you play 
 this game enough.
  
  Age of Mythology is based on three civilizations - the Greeks, the Egyptians, and the Norse. Each 
 of these is radically different from each other and thats the best feature of the game as it allows 
 for much experimentation with strategies. Even within a civilization can be found three different 
 sub factions, based on these respective cultures' major deities and there's variation within each 
 sub faction. Allegiance with any of the game's deities gives you special bonuses, such a special 
 miracle-power, a unique mythological unit of some sort or special technology. As you get to choose 
 from three civilizations, nine major gods, and many minor gods, theres really no limit to strategic 
 planning.
  
  As in the Age of Empires, here also you need to collect resources of food, wood and timber. But 
 whats different is that instead of stone, you have to collect favor. Favor represents the powers 
 of your civilizations' gods and is used for summoning powerful mythological units, and gaining 
 special technological advances. Each civilization gains favor differently. Greek villagers can 
 be ordered to pray at a temple, which gradually increases favor. Egyptian workers can construct 
 monuments to their gods that generate favor. And the Norse earn favor from battles. Because of 
 this favor element, the temple becomes indispensable for every civilization as it is here that 
 you summon some of the most powerful units of the game and research special upgrades. 
  
  Theres only one campaign in this game but it includes all three civilizations and comprises of 
 a total 32 missions. You play as Arkantos, an Atlantean Hero, and try to stop Gargarensis from 
 opening the gates of the underworld and releasing the evil Kronos, a monster bent on capturing 
 and destroying the world. There are four such gates spread across the world and it is up to you 
 to encertain that none of them are allowed to be opened. Your mission will take you to each of 
 the four locations and youll have control of each of the civilizations forces one at a time. 
 In the course of the mission youll learn about each civilizations unique powers and abilities 
 and itll get you ready for the random map and online play.
  
  What you have to keep in mind while playing AoM is that you need to explore and capture territory 
 as soon as possible. Unlike AoE, you cant construct town centers just about anywhere. There are 
 limited number of settlements available on the map and it is only here that town centers can be 
 established. So it best you send out explorers earlier on in the game. 
  
  The Hero and Mythical units are very important for your army as these are the most hard-hitting. 
 Each civilization plays differently in this aspect. For example the Greek have few named heroes 
 but theyre very powerful. On the other hands you can have many hero units of the Norse or Egyptian 
 but theyre not very strong and can be defeated by relatively strong normal units. You also need 
 heroes to gather relics. These relics turn out to be very handy as each relic grants your civilization 
 a special bonus and increase your chances of victory. Heroes are very essential for defeating mythical 
 units which can destroy large armies on their own. Each civilization has its own unique mythical 
 units and some planning is required for their best use.
  
  The Multiplayer of this game is really great. As theres so much variety in the game, expect the 
 unexpected in online play. Its best to know what your opponent is playing as, so you can plan 
 out at the earliest. It can be quite a nasty surprise if you dont know what youre up against, 
 and you wont know what hit you. The battles are much quicker in this game compared with others. 
 Another plus point is that you dont need a lot of micromanagement of your base. For example, a 
 farm once created doesnt need to be refreshed again as was in AoE. This helps you concentrate 
 more on the battle aspect. Plus its best to be on the offensive from the start. AoM isnt much 
 defense oriented, as fortifications are weak and against relatively powerful siege weapons, stand 
 no chance at all. So its always best to concentrate more on your army than relying more on base 
 fortifications. This goes doubly if youre playing Norse. As they gain favor from battles, staying 
 dormant for a long time will lead to loss, as you wont be able to summon your most powerful units.
 
  
  The graphics of this game are brilliant. Despite the fact that theres a plethora of units in the 
 game, Ensemble has succeeded in making each unit unique in itself. The effects accompanying use 
 of superpowers are complete. The animations are well detailed and cut-scenes brilliantly done. 
 One might, at first impression, feel that the units are a bit tiny and hard to differentiate, but, 
 believe me once you start playing the game youll appreciate how unique each unit is. The maps 
 are also well designed.
  
  AoM sounds great. The music score is different for each civilization and the battle-music really 
 fits the situation. The dialog has been brilliantly done and the character voices suit them well. 
 The fact that you can actually differentiate a unit just by listening to it is just terrific. The 
 battle music is, at times, a bit subdued but it doesnt much affect the performance of the game 
 and makes for a complete gaming experience.
  
  Overall Age of Mythology is one of the best games in the market and is a must-play for any gamer. 
 If youre an RTS gamer then this game is a must-have for your collection. It provides hours of 
 addicting gameplay and makes you keep coming back to it. Theres so much variety in it that it 
 is impossible to get bored. This is really one of the best PC games ever and youll definitely 
 enjoy playing it.
  
  Go Play !! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemyth
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  The Age of - games have usually been exceptionally good. However the last couple of installments 
 have been less than impressive. Age of Mythology has an interesting premise that never seems to 
 fully realize it's potential. I've always enjoyed free-form building and almost any RTS that restricts 
 that ability has not done well; at least in my eyes. This game forces you to build around a few 
 scattered building plots and really hinders your strategy for base buildilng. 
  
  The combat has always been simply to hectic to micro well but Mythology takes it to a new level. 
 I couldn't even distinguish between my units and the enemy units once a pitched battle was joined 
 much less try any kind of flanking or other semi-advanced tactics. 
  
  The graphics are ok but it is a little difficult to even see units at the higher resolutions. 
 
  
  The sound I was decent as well but nothing spectacular.
  
  Oh well, It's interesting for about an hour's worth of gaming but other than that I don't think 
 much of it myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgon_9
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 10, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is another game in the Age of Empires series from Ensemble Studios. This time 
 around the game focuses on mythological beings, which you can guess from the name. In this game 
 there are only three races you can play as, this may seem like a lot less when compared to previous 
 Age games, but these three races are completely unique. There is one campaign in AOM which allows 
 you to play as each of the races. Starting with the Greeks, then Egyptians and finally the Norse. 
 The great thing about that is the fact that the story continues over perfectly between the races. 
 Instead of splitting it up into different smaller campaigns.
  
  When playing Age of Mythology you'll instantly be able to do most things in the game because it's 
 basically the same as the previous Age games. Collect resources, build building and create an army. 
 While the resources are a little different, for example there's a resource for prayer to a specific 
 god. There's also the usual resources such as gold and wood. 
  
  With Age of Mythology there is the campaign mode, skirmish mode and also online play. For myself, 
 I haven't tried the online mode. I just can't play any real time strategy game at one sitting. 
 I like to play it over a day or two and spend some time thinking about strategy. The only games 
 I could play a map at in one sitting would be Starcraft or maybe Red Alert 2. I have passed the 
 campaign which had a great story and also played many skirmish maps. The game also includes a great 
 scenario editor, which allows you create custom maps.
  
  In terms of graphics and audio, Age of Mythology continues the excellent quality we've come to 
 expect from the Age series. The maps in this game are in full 3D and allow rotating and zooming. 
 This is really great if you like to play these games just to build up a big city. The music is 
 also great in Age of Mythology, one of the best improvements here is the way the music will adapt 
 to what's happening. For example, if you suddenly attack an enemy's city the music changes to something 
 faster and more intense. This makes perfect background music for an attack.
  
  Overall, Age of Mythology is a great game, if you haven't played it yet pick it up. It's a little 
 old but still is a lot of fun. If you like real-time strategy games or games based in the ancient 
 times play Age of Mythology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyms9
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 10, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is a series based on the ancient mythological gods of kingdoms from the Egyptians 
 to the Greeks. The story intertwines plots mixing the Greeks with other ancient kingdoms to create 
 an intriguing story. It isnt an Oscar winning plot, but the game play is strong enough for you 
 to be satisfied and want more. The story added on top to the strong playable characters and units 
 is just the right mix to make this game an instant classic. The graphics and music are pretty great. 
 Another aspect to this games strength is the how you play. In most levels of the game you start 
 with your village. In age of mythology you will need food, lumber, and gold. To build units from 
 buildings. There are several way to collect each resources; From build a dock to make fisherman, 
 building farms, to hunting wild game. Little touches like these makes this game an enriched game 
 with loads of fun and mystical presence. I highly recomend this game for people who enjoy "god 
 games" and the added plots of the fighting gods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franklinzhang
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in Age of Mythology is super! It has great control, a excellent interface and a amazing 
 interactive environment where you can uncover hidden things, like shipwrecks, or just freely explore, 
 it has no limits. There are really no flaws in the gameplay. I would recommend improving the camera 
 like increasing the zoom and the free look. Great gameplay!
  Graphics:
  The graphics of Age of Mythology are one of the best graphics that I've ever seen in mythologic 
 strategy games. The worlds are nicely drawn and the textures are just right. The only issue is 
 the drawing of the people, they should have more motion when they are talking or communicating. 
 Nice graphics though!
  Sound:
  The sound is great. The soundtracks align well with the environment. But the game needs more soundtracks 
 that sound mythological.
  Overall, Age of Mythology is an excellent game that truly shows players what the mythological world 
 is like.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chileanguy2
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is probably one of the best strategy games in the world. I really enjoy it. With 
 stunning graphics, audio, and a very interesting storyline, AOM becomes simply awesome. It's almost 
 a bug-free game.
  
  As I said before, the graphics are terrific, especially playing in high-detail mode. You can appreciate 
 small details, like ladders in the urban centers and the fire in the arrows from ships and archers. 
 It's possible to see how do the soldiers move, and you can even see the weapons of the larger ones. 
 Another shocking thing are the lights. Wow....
  
  The background music, something important in the strategy games, is awesome too. It's relaxing 
 and enjoyable. The special sound effects are excellent too. While alarms in other games sound like 
 bells, they sound like music here. While this can even cause confusion if you are a bit down, it's 
 mostly something excellent.
  
  The game isn't particularly hard for noobs. The difficulty levels are well assigned, that way the 
 less-experienced players will have a challenge that they actually can take, while the experts will 
 have challenges that are enough for them.
  
  Something that I really dislike about AoM is the scenario building interface. It's really hard 
 to use, and units attack each other if they are enemies, something that REALLY slows you down. 
 While scenario-building experts will really love it because they can FULLY customize their maps, 
 the less-experienced players like me will find it a pain in the ***.
  
  The campaigns are probably the best thing in the game. The storyline is awesome, and there are 
 actually CHARACTERS, not just soldiers. While it isn't like a movie, it's really enjoyable and 
 only a few strategy games have such an inmersive campaign game.
  
  To make it short, AoM is an excellent game which will be enjoyed by every player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeraphWrath
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 24, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Ensemble Studios spent a lot of time developing this game from the top down. They even had a limited 
 10,000 person community beta/alpha test in which I was lucky enough to get a VIP invite!
  
  If you enjoy Mythology or just ancient civilizations in general you will like this RTS (Real Time 
 Strategy) game. I will warn you that this game focuses more on the mythology component. If you 
 prefer a non-mythology oriented ancient RTS you might consider buying "Rise and Fall: Civilizations 
 at War" when it comes out, because it focuses on the ancient civs more then the myth.
  
  The civilizations (Greek, Egyptian, and Norse) are well balanced and each has their unique style 
 of gameplay. The units do not have the same stats with just a different animation like in some 
 RTS games, and even the previous AOE games.
  
  Buy this game you wont regret it! This game also has a better online multiplayer environment then 
 games like Warcraft III, and its a lot more fun to play the main game then WCIII. The custom scenarios 
 like Fortblood and Archer Wars are still fun though. Ensemble Studios is another good community 
 focused company who care about your input. A lot of the hardcore and loyal fans eventually are 
 recruited by Ensemble.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar1654
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 19, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. It just has so many things to do in it. You first off should start off with Campaign 
 which will show you through Greek, Egypt, and Norse mythologies. You play as a lead character named 
 archantos, whom is the protagonist. It is fun from start to finish. The environments are beautiful, 
 and so are the character modules. After you are finished, you can never get tired of random map. 
 Playing online and by yourself are both amazing. I have to say this is the best pc game I have 
 played in years. It's only 20 bucks so what are you waiting for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steeljosh36
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 17, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  A really good game that is pretty big! Has a good storyline!! I played it a lot when I first got 
 it so it is pretty addictive.
  
  The gameplay is really good because you can either fool around or play the storyline. Both are 
 very fun but I would fool around a bit before playing the real thing. It takes awhile to learn 
 but you will get the hang of it. It is based off Greek Mythology so it has the spizaz everyone 
 wants. There are occasional cheats to help but they ruin the game. You basically build settlements 
 then start a real village. The best part is when you create your army to take your enemies! You 
 can make calvary and bowman and much much more!!! I love conquering my foes brutally with my forces. 
 You may also use god powers such as meteor strikes, thunder storms, earthquakes, etc. You are in 
 control of everything!!!
  
  The quality is cool but it is a pretty old game so the graphics will not be that up to date. The 
 sound comes out clearly and the music changes depending on what is happening in the game. When 
 you are biulding, the music is calm, when fighting, it is really intense! There may be some glitches 
 or pauses because again it is a old game. 
  
  Overall, this game is pretty sweet and I would buyit and the sequels!!! Have fun!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skablade
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 16, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  AOM was a title I eagerly awaited. I like most strategy PC games and the introduction of mythology 
 made me all the more exhilerated when I ripped of the plastic seal. After quickly scanning the 
 case, I insterted the disc and started installing it. Right, finished installing, let's play.
 
  
  The first thing I noticed when I played the tutorial was the attention to detail in the graphics 
 of the game. The exquisite scenery and realistic units really make the game more enjoyable. The 
 sound effects are pretty good aswell and the sound of a crumbling wall and crashing towers add 
 to the atmosphere of the game. The game has many modes including campaign and random map. I spent 
 hours on campaign and I always like versing 11 other empires on a single player "skirmish". In 
 addition, you can download extra campiagn packs and loads of add ons to enhance the whole AOM experience. 
 The editor is amazing and it let's you build armies of thousand to fight and aid eachother. You 
 can create your own scenarios using this and it's a real plus side to the game. This game has 32 
 campaign missions without the titans or anyother expansion pack. This will let you endorse yourself 
 for hours and hours following the story. In the game there are 3 nationalities. Greek, Egytian 
 and Norse. Each of these has 2 seperate gods that you can choose to follow in your conquest. Certain 
 gods have certain units and specialitites. The god powers can be from rain to help food grow to 
 tornadoes and earthquakes. You have to advance through different ages to gain the best buildings 
 and units in the game. You pray for other sub-gods along the way who enhance your civilisation. 
 You get to use mythological creatures that always strengthen your armies. The game has not yet 
 became broing yet and it's almost endless fun. 
  
  Get this game it's a must-have for strategists and all PC owners. It's mouth-dropping graphics 
 and sound make the game all the better and the gameplay is orginal in the addition of mythology 
 to real time strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zetox
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 14, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  this is a brilliant game, its got a good storyling although i think it would be so muck better 
 if they had more vidoes like the intro (titan gets locked away) , the gameplays really good but its 
 annoying beacause i'd have a BIG army but im not aloud to select all of the units so i have to 
 split them into groups.
  i like the fact that you can have 11 players if you want to do a random map because some of the 
 other games like this can only let you have 4 or 5 oponents.
  online is good to, i like the fact the you have quite a few diffrent battle types by the way im 
 happy to give anyone a battle online, im a bit of a noob... look for 'zetox1) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyskenfan
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  For a person who has'nt played any "Age of..." takes it a little time to come in and learn the 
 whole "system". Even if they are very similar, every culture has it own possibilities and technologies, 
 making it a little bit tricky the first time you play it. The norse are the hardest ones tp play, 
 you'll almost everytime feel that its really hard playing the norse against a computerplayer with 
 "Attacker-AI", because the norse need a bit more time to organise themselves and they can't get 
 godfavor (this is really necessary for advancing and other stuff!) without fighting.
  The whole campaign is fun, long enough and with an interesting end. 
  Also the possilbilty to 
 make random singleplayerfights (like in every "Age of") and your own maps increases the replayvalue.
 
  
  Gameplay: Good, there is a little bit strategy behind organising, but yet not as nerving as in 
 Black & White.
  
  Graphics: Good, it's fun to play with an atlantean army full of heroes, once you've upgraded the 
 game with the titanexpansion. The golden shining, fullarmed cavalery with their golden spears/axes 
 and helmes is a completely great feeling.
  
  Sound: Very good, even if I hated the sound which informs of a attack somewhere.
  
  Tilt: Very 
 good, game. As I already wrote above, it'll let you wanting to play it again and again, it's worth 
 the price!
  What I disliked was, that there only were the 3 (4) cultures. It would have been funny to play 
 with other cultures too, as for examples the Chinese, or the Incas.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcoholhamster
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 6, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  well, this game is good.
  it has some pretty catchy music, the sound is excellent, but the voice acting aint to good. and 
 the things the characters say when you clisk on them is annoying.
  
  my major prob with it is it is incorrect. the stuff at troy is wrong, and i dont like where they 
 place atlantis. off the coast of spain. explain please why they worship poseidon then? sure, greek 
 culture spread east, but i think it only got as far west as italy and rome. plus, there is no evidence 
 for atlantis to be in the atlantic, and it is too far away to realistically reach troy very quickly.
 
  
  apart from that, the game is excellent, very fun, the campaign is long enough, and the actually 
 playing-ness is the best of any age of empires based game, thats including aoe3. the new idea of 
 needing settlements to build town centres is very cool. and so are the myth units, especially the 
 egyptian ones.
  
  the gods chosen are good, although a little obvious for the greek and norse civilisations. athena 
 would have been a better major god choice for the greeks than hades, but of course hades and poseidon 
 have to conform to being evil, as do set and loki, which i found a bit formulaic.
  
  but i played this before i really knew classical/ancient greek culture and stories, so it remains 
 really good for me.
  we often talk about it in my classical studies class, which shows that it does have merit in regards 
 to its historical thingo.
  it covers alot of the odyssey and the iliad, which is good, and tells you about the stories in 
 a fun way.
  
  a very good game, and highly recommendable, it has aged extremely well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermario1991
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is cool!
  First of all the storyline is great, and also the graphics are.
  Also the game is very fun to play.
  The characters and the levels optional if you want it realistic.
 
  Their is also a edit mode where you can create your own land and the people on their.
  During a game, you can make a town to defend yourself, and you can make a army of people, but to 
 get army men you will have to build a curtain building, but to get everything you need you will 
 have to collect food, gold, and wood.
  Get this game and you will love it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherifelgohary
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  Ensemble Studios knows how to make a Real-Time Strategy game after their success with the historical 
 Age of Empires 1, 2, and expansions for each. When I first heard the concept for Age of Mythology, 
 I was excited to play a new RTS game from my favorite game studio. However, what I did not realize 
 at the time was that this is not another Age of Empires game. The gameplay is considerably different, 
 and I will go into detail in the next section. I am a little disappointed with the game since I 
 was really looking forward to a continuation of my favorite gameplay. With that said, it requires 
 an individual to look at Age of Mythology as a completely new game with unique gameplay. Hopefully 
 they will someday resume the historical RTS development that gave them success, but that is not 
 to say that they should not continue to evolve the Mythology setting for a new line of classic 
 games. One thing to expect from Ensemble Studios is that they put care into their products, and 
 Age of Mythology is deserving of a great reviews. Furthermore, the expansion pack may enhance the 
 game and refine the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay:
  Age of Mythology features the best missions in an Ensemble Studios game. It includes a story as 
 well as a good variety of tasks to accomplish. For those that enjoy a good story, this is worth 
 the purchase. I generally do not play the missions, but they act as a good way to learn the game. 
 I am getting sucked into the story, which gives me incentive to keep playing them to advance to 
 the end. The mission design is excellent, and single player gamers should enjoy the 35 scenario 
 campaign bundled with the game.
  Single player skirmishes are a good way to practice against the computer before testing your skills 
 online. Skirmishes are the core of all RTS games and can be played against the AI, a buddy on your 
 LAN, or on the internet for fierce multiplayer action. One thing that bothers me about the internet 
 play is that this game does not fix the problem of player speed. AOM is designed with speed in 
 mind, since the faster player should win. A build order is necessary, and if you don't keep pace, 
 the game will end quickly. However, the game has been refined over Age of Empires 2 to make the 
 game easier to manage. For example, there is a new interface that allows players to select military 
 or villager groups by banners at the top of the screen. Also, they included the usual shift and 
 queue orders and building queues for easy management. The new interface has many little details 
 that take it a step beyond previous offerings.
  The significant changes in Age of Mythology is in the population. In older games, one unit equaled 
 one population. That is not the case with this game. Units can take up different population attributes 
 for balancing the races. Furthermore, houses are not the only way to control population. You can 
 only build ten houses, so the focus of the gameplay is on controlling settlements. Settlements 
 are fixed locations on the map that you can convert to your town centers. This gameplay element 
 is unique since you can no longer build your town center anywhere on the map and it focuses battles 
 over these highly contested control points. I like this in the gameplay, but it does make it difficult 
 for slower players since they will have no chance at turning a game with fewer settlements. It 
 also reduces strategy by eliminated turtling options and creating one way to play the game. Age 
 of Mythology is an offensive game where defensive minded players could struggle from their building/siege 
 push in Age of Empires 2. I prefer defense in an RTS game, so AOM does not fit my style perfectly.
 
  Age of Mythology features three sides that play completely different: Greek, Egyptians, and Norse. 
 They allow you to choose three different gods each, and different minor gods as you advance through 
 the ages. These selection options give you different benefits to fit your style of play. One of 
 the problems with 3 different sides will always be in balancing them. Hopefully, Ensemble will 
 continue to make changes to keep the game balanced. There is a new expansion coming in the fall 
 that will likely upset the balance of the game once again.
  The resource game is different in Age of Mythology with food, gold, wood, and favor. Food, gold, 
 and wood are collected with the usual methods of hunting, fishing, farming, mining, trade, and 
 chopping trees. The new resource is favor, and each side collects it differently. The Egyptians 
 require that you build Monuments, the Greeks require that you send villagers to the temple to pray, 
 and the Norse collects favor by hunting animals or from battles. Favor is important since it is 
 required to buy Myth units or certain upgrades. It plays an important part in the Age of Mythology 
 game design and combat. The reason why combat is different is because of a macro-oriented Rock-Paper-Scissors 
 gameplay element between Heroes, Myth units, and regular units. You still have the Rock-Paper-Scissors 
 gameplay with the regular units with archer, infantry, and horseback classes. However, now you 
 also have to concentrate on your heroes taking out the myth units while you keep them safe from 
 regular units.
  What would a mythology game be without god powers? Age of Mythology has them in spades. Each civilization 
 gets four god powers, one for each age. The powers that you receive depends on your major and minor 
 god selections. The powers range from resource benefits to meteor showers that can obliterate a 
 major base. They add fun to the gameplay and strategy since you have to use them at the optimal 
 moment since you only get one of each.
  
  Graphics:
  The best way to describe the graphics is by saying WOW. It has a beautiful 3D environment with 
 waves crashing to shore and other little details that make it an incredible gaming experience. 
 The units have great animations, and expect to see the Myth units use their abilities with detailed 
 animated effects. The god powers also look incredible and have great effects. My favorite is the 
 meteor shower that has fireballs crashing to the ground crumbling buildings and leaving impact 
 marks on the ground. The graphics are up there with the best RTS games made to date, and definitely 
 heighten the gaming experience. The only thing missing to me are animated god portraits like something 
 that you would see in a Blizzard title. It would be nice seeing a god like presence as you cast 
 spells rather than just pressing a button. The god powers effects are great and hold up well on 
 their own, but some extra personality would help tie in the God and Mythology theme for me.
  
  Sound:
  The music is nice and chances for each side. The voice acting is equivalent to Age 
 of Empires 2, which is a good thing. The sounds shine during the god powers, and they enhance the 
 experience. My only complaint with the way they designed the sounds are that they sound different 
 depending on the sound card that I use. My main machine uses a Santa Cruz sound card, and my other 
 machine uses a Sound Baster Live 5.1. The problem that I have is that some sounds are very faint 
 with the Santa Cruz card. Perhaps this is the result of EAX or some 3D audio settings, but I have 
 yet to find a solution. There are other sound issues listed in tech support forums. I would not 
 call my experience a major problem since it only affects wave crashing, wing flapping, mining, 
 and tree chopping sounds. It would be nice if the game sounded the same with either card since 
 they are both major brands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Hmmm. Well, I played Age of Empires and really enjoyed it, one of my very favorite strategy games. 
 At least , until Mark of Chaos comes out.
  Anyway, Age of Mythology, while an excellent game, is extremely remiscinet of Age of Empires, except 
 the animantions aren't as good. Alright, no one start spitting venom at me, that's just the way 
 I feel.
  Granted, this has a few key elements that Age of Empires is missing. To start with, there's much 
 less emphasis on building and mining resources, which I enjoy. Also, you get to control gigantic 
 monsters, which I love. The cyclopses alone make up for the somewhat jerky gameplay.
  The god powers are a joy, too. I think my personal favorite is either meteors or tornados, especially 
 on the mission when parties of enemies are charging down a long path. When a meteor hits right 
 in the middle of them they go flying everywhere, and when a person dies of a tornado he gets sucked 
 up into it and his body gets whirled around and around. It's the little things you treasure.
  So anyway, while this game is a lot like Age of Empires and has a few annoying flaws, it's definitely 
 worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuberGM
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  Grab some popcorn, because this isn't a short review.
  
  I'm a big fan of playing the opening video when I boot up a new game. From the Ensemble Studios 
 video to the main title screen, it shows you that this game has a lot of action. And they weren't 
 kidding. This strategy game isn't dull at all. 
  
  If you've played the other Age of Empire games before this, you won't be disappointed here. In 
 fact, you'll be quite impressed with the whole myth unit/god power addition - once you get the 
 hang of it. 
  
  When you start up the campaign, it draws you in with the spoken audio that teaches you how to move 
 around and attack. It does the job very well of explaining everything thoroughly. The animations 
 of the fighting and movement are pretty realistic (as realistic as you can get in a game called 
 Age of Mythology) . The campaign is around 25-30 missions, and they all touch on each of the tribes/gods 
 of the game equally as well. There is also a short tutorial video that briefly describes the main 
 differences between the different "styles" of how they play. I find myself playing the videos every 
 so often, because they are just so cool to watch sometimes. 
  
  The interface is very good. It does its purpose of listing all the options you need, but doesn't 
 take up the whole screen to hinder your game play. There are keyboard shortcuts to all the options 
 listed on-screen, which I prefer over clicking the buttons simply because it's faster.
  
  The music is very entertaining. If you're playing in the middle of a long game, the music that 
 plays in the background just kinda makes you focus and zone right into your strategic little fantasy 
 world. The beat and drama picks up when you start a battle, and the sound effects are well done. 
 The axe clanking, myth unit growling, titan pounding, and siege slamming are all implemented well 
 into the game at the appropriate times. Also, each god gets their own cool intro song when you 
 start your game up. Shibby!
  
  The resources are the same as previous AOE games, but with the inclusion of "favor". Favor is exactly 
 what it sounds like. You gain this unit of blessing from your god to create myth units and other 
 valuable units/upgrades. The way to get favor differs for each god. The Norse infantry can build 
 anywhere on the map (but not attack at the same time, obviously) and they gain favor by fighting. 
 As the video says, "They simply fight to please their gods." I thought that was cool. The Egyptians 
 have a pharaoh that can empower the build speed, unit production, and even favor generation. They 
 gain favor by setting up monuments. And then there's the Greek - they just pray at their temples 
 (meaning that instead of building or collecting resources, you could usea butt load of villagers 
 on gaining favor for myth units.) And for those that have the Titans, the Atlanteans gain favor 
 by building town centers onto settlements. Pretty corny if you ask me. 
  
  There are 4 game modes to play: supremacy, conquest, lightning, and my personal favorite, DEATHMATCH. 
 The campaign is designed to help you develop your supremacy skills, so that you understand how 
 to build, how to collect resources, how to create units, which upgrades are worth the resources, 
 and how to work efficiently with a smaller army early on in the game. With Deathmatch, you start 
 off with 15,000 of each resource (and max favor) . This may sound kind of noobish, but the Deathmatch 
 world is pretty competitive, er used to be before AoE3 came out. You'd be surprised by how soon 
 you need to collect resources to keep a good DM game going for longer than, say, 12 minutes. Nowadays, 
 AOM mainly consists of players creating their own maps/scenarios in the game editor (which, I might 
 add, is very elaborate.) I've created one myself and it isn't too difficult to layout the land 
 and units - but it's more complicated if you want to set up triggers. The other game modes that 
 are common are supremacy, and TW (which stands for Total War) . It's just like it sounds, it's nothing 
 but war. No need to collect resources, because you have an unlimited amount, literally. Honestly, 
 it's a great way to practice with countering units and just basically test everything out in the 
 game in combat. 
  
  ESO, Ensemble Studios Online, has been pretty consistent with keeping their server up. There hasn't 
 been an upgraded version in a long time, however. There was a fad a few months ago where pretty 
 much everyone was hacking in the game, and that wasn't too fun for people that were actually good 
 players and were trying to get their ratings up. That's all stopped now, but Deathmatch competition 
 is limited. Most people play supremacy, anyhow, so if you want to jump into the online game of 
 AOM, it's still happenin', you just may be waiting a little bit for a game. 
  
  Playing versus a computer is still good practice before you enter the demonic world of online play. 
 It's got pretty good AI. It knows to build a market all the way in the corner to get the most out 
 of its gold trade, which is more than I can say about some morons. But after you figure out how 
 to beat the computer on hard... maybe even on Titan difficulty, playing other humans certainly 
 brings on a whole new challenge. I was actually amazed by how different each god's style was for 
 1. Resource gathering 2. Favor gaining 3. Combat style 4. Different buildings 5. Units; and yet 
 Ensemble was able to balance out the game sooo well. The biggest differences between Age of Empires 
 2 and AOM are the god powers, myth units, and advancing-to-next-age options. 
  
  The cool thing I liked about the myth units is that there is a really nice circle of countering 
 for the game. Heroes can counter myth units, myth units counter military units, and military units 
 counter heroes. Simple as that. It lets Ensemble go crazy with wild units that can't normally be 
 just thrown in to a believable and realistic RTS. Mummies that can convert units to minions, Cyclops 
 that can throw enemy elephants into the enemy's crowd, Heka Gigantes that can slam the ground and 
 throw back a whole army, or Fire Giants that can throw flaming balls (no pun intended) . 
  
  The god powers are fricken' sweet! You can have a meteor, earthquake, locust swarm, lightning storm, 
 shifting sands, and all kinds of zany yet useful god powers. You can only get the god powers by 
 advancing to the next age though, and in Deathmatch (since you get to level up so quickly) they 
 have a timer countdown that will tell you when that god power will be available for use.
  
  And finally, what I thought was biggest difference between AOE2 and AOM was the option to choose 
 which minor god you would like to use for the next age. You get a choice of one out of two for 
 each age. It's nice because if your enemy chooses one god (for example, which can produce Colossi) , 
 then YOU can choose the god that can give you Medusas or Mummies. It's all up to you though, and 
 what strategy works for you. That's what I love about this game. There are so many ways to win 
 a game by using 100's of different strategies, and being flexible and spontaneous is what makes 
 this a true "real-time" strategy game. When you put two humans together to try to clash your different 
 strategies against each other, "There could be a lot of s#@$ flying around." There are so many 
 variables in this game that makes it have such a high replay value. Never the same game will occur 
 twice. God powers could be used at different times when unexpected, myth units running around the 
 map raiding poor lil villies, and the option to pick which minor god you feel would work best that 
 particular game, is a great formula for a long lasting RTS. 
  
  So far, I've listed all the great things about the game. There are only a couple of things that 
 I found threw the balance off just a little:
  
  First off, there are some overpowering units in the game that can really put the favor of a win 
 in someone that overuses these particular units.
  
  1. (Hades) Gastraphetes. "Archers that are also good vs. buildings." That's exactly what it says 
 in the unit description. Let me say that again: "Archers that are also good vs. buildings!" Ok, 
 let's go into a little more detail about these units. Gastraphetes have a range of 24. Town centers 
 and towers have a range of 20. The units that can counter them (slingers, peltasts, turmas) have 
 a range of about 16; not even close to their range. So right off the bat, a decent group of archers 
 can take out a town center or tower without them ever being hit. Then, as if that wasn't enough, 
 they make their range longer than the units that are supposed to counter them. WTF!? By the time 
 you have enough slingers ready to counter them, the gastras have already taken them out due to 
 their 2 mile radius of range. So basically, gastraphetes are good at killing just about anything 
 in the game - seriously. If you had nothing but gastras as your entire army, you could take out 
 just about any other army they plan to send your way. Other than Petsuchos Ras.
  
  2. (Ra and Isis) Petsuchos Ras. "Crocodiles that have an attack of 55 and a range of 26." I don't 
 think I have to say much. Now, these bad ass myth units are a great inclusion to any group of soldiers. 
 They can stay way clear of the opposing army and zap the crap out of them, as you have spearmen 
 or whatever right in front of them to protect them. They are very powerful and the range can help 
 with taking out those pesky gastraphetes. In huge groups, these things kick ass (and sadly can 
 be overpowering)
  
  3. (Egyptian) Mercenaries. "Backup units that can be instantly created from a town center, and 
 does not take up population." Basically, once you already have your 160 max pop of army and villies 
 on the map, and you have extra gold, pop these black dudes out (with very high hack armor and pierce 
 armor) and it's like adding an extra 30% instant army to your crew to help push them back even 
 harder, so they have an insanely difficult time trying to fight off all those units at once. They 
 last a limited amount of time, but if you're Ra or Isis, they can last up to 2 minutes (enough 
 time for them to run up to help out your army over by your enemy's base.) One thing that really 
 helps is that if someone does an unexpected siege slam on one of your town centers to try and take 
 it out - "poof" instant defense against them. Yeah... overpowering as well. Ya gotta love the Egyptians. 
 
  
  Secondly, if you have the Titans expansion, you may notice that atlanteans are very good at the 
 start of supremacy matches and that they lack in a long term game in deathmatches. And oh ya... 
 the whole concept of that massive titan to crush your opponent may seem cool on paper, but I really 
 think they gave him too many health points and it is really lame that you get to make a titan for 
 free in deathmatch. You'll see what I mean when you play it. 
  
  Other than that, this game will give you 100's of hours of game play if you give it the chance 
 to grow on you. Honestly, after I played AOM, I went back to AOE2 to play, because it didn't seem 
 to do anything for me since I was still addicted to AOE2. I guess because most of the crowd had 
 shifted over to AOM, that I joined the bandwagon. I'm glad I gave it another shot, because I've 
 played it almost non-stop for the past 3 years. Let me put it this way... each time that I thought 
 I was sick of the game, and was going to stop to play another game (or walk outside to see the 
 sun) , I'd always come crawling back a couple days later, petting the CD saying, "I'm sorry I ever 
 left you. Did you miss me?" Yes, I'm a dork.
  
  I gave this game a perfect 10.0 because there is really no possible way to balance anything in 
 the game any more. There is no overpowering god, overall. It's as good as it's going to get. It's 
 tweaked very well, and it shows. And when you can't get it any better, I think that deserves a 
 perfect score. 
  
  Ok, I'm done with this review now. It's true I dropped out of college, but hopefully this review 
 was put together well enough that you can't tell I'm non-edumicated. :D
  
  -G
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ale_jrb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology, in my opinion, is probably the best in the 'age' series, and that's including 
 Age of Empires III. Everything about this game keeps you coming back for more; from its graphics 
 that have 'just the right amount' of detail to the gameplay that is always fun.
  
  The single player on this game is done well by ES. The AI difficulty levels are well set and it 
 is easy to get a game started, with all the right components, very quickly. There is a wide enough 
 variety of maps available, so there's something for almost every mood.
  
  The campaign is also done well, with 31 scenarios and an addictive storyline. When I started playing 
 the campaign, the story was good enough that I didn't want to stop! And that, for a game, is unusual 
 in itself. The campaign utilises all the features that you get in the single player, as well as 
 some only available in the editor. The rich cinematics also add to the atmosphere, making this 
 a remarkably good addition.
  
  The multiplayer steps up a great deal from Microsoft's Zone, which was used in the previous 'Age' 
 games. I find it easy to use, and there's always some action available for us fans to enjoy! There 
 are few errors, and lag is kept to a minimum.
  
  Overall, this game really does bring together all the features that you could want in an RTS game. 
 The explosive action will really keep you coming back for more. A brilliant piece of design and 
 engineering.
  
  ~Ale_Jrb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiCk_99
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  This is a PERFECT game for the RTS gamers that dont have the money to buy a nice 1000 dollar Age 
 of Empires III rig. This game has exceptional graphics even for today.
  
  GRAPHICS - This game has some great graphics!! Waves, fire, etc.
  and you done need a good computer 
 to run it on full reselution!!!
  
  GAMEPLAY - This game has got some REALLY good gameplay. I personally like this games gameplay better 
 than Age of Empires III !!!!
  Its got some really nice multiplayer. Theres a bunch of maps that people made in the map editor 
 (comes with game) that are extremely fun!!
  The god powers are really great too as welll as the myth units!!!
  A fairely lengthy campain 
 is also included in the game its about 32 senerios long not including the "learn to play". The 
 expansion pack will add another 15 or so senerios!!!!!
  
  SOUND - The sound is great its got nice backround music that fits the game and other great sound 
 effests. Ex ~ When a big battle starts this "battle music" automatically comes on.
  
  VALUE - By now you should be able to get this game for about 20 bucks and the expansion for maybe.... 
 15 bucks ( the expansion isn't that great) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragerino_dude
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game makes you feel like a god yourself, cast a ligtning bolt down on your enemies 
 or speed up your gold mine. This game has it all.
  
  Age of mythology will keep you amused for months. There are nine different gods to play with and 
 each has it own six minor gods. The music is great the character animations are great and maps 
 are very unique. Ensemble studios have done well in making this game.
  
  In the campaign there are over 30 different scenarios where you command forces of many different 
 heros in Atlantis, Greece, Egypt, and Scandinavier to stop a cyclops from bringing back Kronos 
 the titan. Although it's not particuarly hard it's fun to play and the cutscenes are great.
  
  The graphics won't stop you from playing the game either. The units have no faults and the 
 terrain is exactly what you'd want. Even the menu screens look great.
  
  One of the most impressive things about the game is the multiplayer function. ESO have done a great 
 job of making this exceptionally great multiplayer and many would agree.
  
  Age of Mythology is definitally what Ensemble Studios intended and It's exactly what i wanted. 
 Age of Mythology is a complete game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshua-X
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  This game is great! But it is better with the Titans expansion, because there is a longer campaign 
 story, and an included civilization. I was addicted to this game for 4 years, because of the amount 
 of features in the game. Not only can you do the main single-player storyline, you can just do 
 normal single-player battles. Plus, there is also multi player, and you can play this game with 
 anyone on line. The sound is very nice, the controls are very well done, especially since it is 
 a computer game, and your controlling "unit" characters. This game may also run slow if you don't 
 own a certain hardrive for your computer. Despite that, I highly recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomwolf1
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I have had this game for quite a long time now and I think I've played through the complete story 
 mode 3 or 4 times! The random maps always keep you coming back for more and the adjustable difficulty 
 settings means that you can change it to suit you perfectly. There is a nice tutorial at the beginning 
 to get you used to the game and then the levels get progressivly harder as you go further on your 
 quest. This gives you time to get the game all worked out and gewt you more prepared for some of 
 the harder levels near the end.
  
  Very good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowplayinghalo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 8, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  for my piece of @#$% computer, this game is amazing. it has awsome graphics, great sound, its pretty 
 cheap for a game with this much, and online finally works! the expansion is also very cool, adding 
 one new race and massive titans for all the sides. this game is extremely fun to play with all 
 the graphics, sound, and hundreds of units runing around in online battles, and, icant repeat enough, 
 it runs very fast. the lowest my frame rate got was 67, and that was in an online battle with 8 
 people who each had 50+ units. my FPS has gotten up to 122 without all the fighting, too. it has 
 a nice long 30 level campaign and each level takes about 30-45 (sometimes a hour) to complete.
 
  and unlike aoe aok, it has ES online, which is as close to the warcraft system as you can get. 
 this game is superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Willhelm
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  I think that age of mythology is one of the best in the 'age of' series yet. Although i havent 
 yet played the new AOE this game really does shine in comparison to its counterparts. The inclusion 
 of myth units, heroes and, in the expansion pack, Titans really makes a difference to the feel 
 of the game. Add to this an involving and enduring campaign and you have got yourself one truly 
 awesome, enthralling game.
  As with Age of Empires and Empire Earth the main objectives of the game are resource gathering 
 and strategic combat. As mentioned before the combat benefits from the inclusion of myth units 
 and clearly defined civilisations with unique units, however the resource gathering portion of 
 the game has also been vastly improved to its predessesors (in my opinion) . Gone is stone (and 
 iron) and in is 'favour' from the Gods. Favour can be accumulated in a different way for each of 
 the three main civilisations. The Norse gain favour by fighting, the Egyptians by building monuments 
 and the Greeks by praying at temples. This favour, once gathered can be used to create mythical 
 beasts or for improvements in the armory that make use of the Gods' wisdom.
  Like many other RTS titles in 'Age of Mythology' you gain technological improvements and stronger 
 units by advancing in 'ages', however in AOM these advancements have a twist. When you advance 
 to the next age you select one of two minor god's, depending on what God you choose you gain different 
 improvements such as Myth units or armor upgrades. And each time youselect a God you gain one of 
 35 'one-shot' God powers such as meteors, lightning bolts of a plague of locusts. These powers 
 can have a devastating effect on your emeny and really help individualise the game.
  I think that AOM is an excellent game that deserves all the praise it gets. I would advise anyone 
 who is going to buy the game to get te gold edition or get the expansion pack if you already have 
 the original; and i eagerly await the release of a sequel to the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HectorIssac
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Primero instlas el juegos; espers ver el gran cinema del comienzo y, esta muy bueno, despues ves 
 la barra de carga que esta estilizada, la musica, ahora comienzas en la pantalla principal que 
 se ve muy bien.
  
  Las opciones de configuracin solo te permiten nival bajo o alto; en micaso estaba por defailt 
 en Alto y a si lo deje.
  
  Primero comienzas con la historia que me parecio entretenido. Las grficas del juegos se nota la 
 mejora notable en el agua y en el pasto, la jugabilidad es mejor; la barra inferior de opciones 
 es igual lo que esta bien; por que la de Age Of Empires III si 3 no me gusto casi ocupa media pantalla 
 para realizar lo mismo (digamos formato 16:9) que no me gusta y, tampoco le gusta a mi amigo. Pero 
 sigamos con Mythology el juego tiene secciones fciles y dificiles esta muy bueno, las campaas 
 fenomenales; lo pase sin trucos ( pienso que los trucos son para novatos) ; ya lo pase en Normal 
 ahora me me voy directo a TItan.
  
  Yo considero lo siguiente:
  
  AGE OF EMPIRES II GOLD: MAS DIFICIL QUE EL AGE MYTHOLOGY
  AGE OF MYTHOLOGY: MEJORES GRAFICAS 
 HE HISTORIA
  AGE OF EMPIRES 3: BUENAS GRAFICAS AUNQUE NO ME CONVENCIERON DEL TODO (UTILIZAN MAS EFECTOS ESO SE 
 NOTA EN EL MOVIMIENTO DE LAS HOJAS DE LOS ARBOLES PERO NO ME CONVENCIERON) Y, UNA BARRA QUE TE 
 OCUPA MEDIA PANTALLA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game-Pro-com
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 29, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is great I couldn't stop playing this game, it was like I was in some kind of a trance. 
 The gameplay in this game was awesome, I loved the objectives and the creatures and warriors you 
 could fight with this game is just incredible and the 2nd one is supposed to be way better than 
 the fisrt AOM so I can't wait to buy the 2nd AOM. The options in building your village is awesome, 
 theres pretty much no limit to what you can do in this game. It's incredible how this game turned 
 out and that it's so awesome that the characters seem so real the way they act. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soad_kickass
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I play this game in 2002 and that day i feel like playing Act of war with great graphic, sound, 
 etc.
  
  As the pantheon of real-time strategy dynasties grows, there are three names that stand out the 
 most. Westwoods Command and Conquer, Blizzards Warcraft, and Ensembles Age of Empires. These 
 series are all venerable, time-tested games and every PC gamer who doesnt have a deep hatred of 
 all RTS should own at least one game from one franchise. The reason these three stand out now is 
 that they have all just released new RTS games. The main rivalry is between Blizzards Warcraft 
 3 and Age Of Mythology, the latest from the team that made Age of Empires. Which one is worth your 
 hard-earned money? 
  
  Age of Mythology, while from the same vein as the Age of Empires games, is very different in some 
 ways. People who grew up on Age of Empires, like myself, will remember how in that game, there 
 were about 20 civilizations, but each had the same basic units and buildings. The only thing that 
 really made a difference were the specialties of each race. In Age of Mythology, Ensemble has cut 
 it down to 3 civilizations, the Greek, Egyptians, and the Norse. However, each race is vastly different 
 and it takes a whole different strategy to master each one. Welcome to the balance that is Age 
 of Mythology. 
  
  Gameplay - The focus of Age of Mythology is not as historical as Age of Empires. Now, mythology 
 has become a part of the game and factors hugely throughout. New Myth units, creatures that never 
 existed in real life, are important if you want to wipe out foot soldiers. Units like the Minotaur 
 and the Hydra for the Greeks, the Mummy and the Anubite for the Egyptians, and the Frost Giant 
 for the Norse are vital to winning the game. They are also expensive, taxing a new resource called 
 Favor, or the goodwill of the gods. Also important are the Heroes, who have a better attack than 
 normal soldiers and are good at fighting Myth Units. Any fans of Homer will recognize Hercules 
 and Odysseus in the game. 
  
  Also important in the game are the gods. Each time you advance to a new age you choose which minor 
 deity you want to worship. The different choices offer up different Myth units and God powers. 
 In Custom battles, you also choose a main god from a list of 9. Which god you choose will affect 
 which powers you can get. The powers are these new attacks called God Powers. These are powerful 
 and can only be used once, but can change the course of the battle. Some bolster your economy, 
 like Prosperity which makes villager gather gold faster. Others, like Meteor, can utterly devastate 
 an attacking army  and send all their soldiers flying. 
  
  Story-wise, this game is strong with a solid backing story and good voice acting. There were some 
 parts that seemed forced and some clunky dialogue, but hey  Its a real-time strategy. Just having 
 a coherent story is pretty good. 
  
  The interface is easy to use and actually playing the game is a lot of fun. The soldiers respond 
 to your commands in their own tongue, and AI is convincing. There are about 32 campaign missions 
 to work through, and then the online and custom battle play. The only complaint I could have is 
 that a majority of the missions revolve around building up a base and attacking. 7 levels in a 
 row are base-building and attacking levels. But there is enough variety thrown in to make this 
 annoying but not frustrating. 
  
  Sound  Very good music, sound effects. The music can get repetitive, and pc. ign. com describes 
 it as being unwhistleable. This is very true, as anyone who has gotten it stuck in their head 
 and tried to hum it at school has found out 
  
  Graphics  Top-notch. The 3-D environments are beautiful and the characters are well-rendered. 
 You will want to use the zoom in feature a lot, just to see the smooth animations. The environment 
 shakes and burns with the use of earth-shattering god powers, and the terrain plays a big part 
 in strategy. The whole game just feels so right when you look at it. 
  
  Lasting Appeal  You will play this game for a long time. The campaign missions are fine, but the 
 heart of the game is in the custom games. Online play is very efficient, with an optional match-making 
 service that keeps experienced players from ripping up noobs. With a large selection of maps to 
 choose from, a built-in map editor, and a plethora of individual strategies, this game is here 
 to stay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jims-Kid
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best strategy games i have ever played. Now every game has squads instead 
 of single soldier recruitment, but not this game. This game recruits one soldier at once, in some 
 cases it's cool, in some it makes you mad. The god powers are cool, and the heroes too. This game 
 is all round fun. I recommend this game a lot. The best thing is this game is only 20 bux, very 
 much worth it. This is a great game. 9 out of 10 stars, no hesitation. When i bought this game 
 i didnt think it would be good because it looked like !@#$% on the back, but i was very wrong!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game because it has some of the best graphics ive ever seen in a long time. 
 I am a big fan of graphics and sound, and this game had them both for me. I also liked the campaign, 
 where you go through each of the missions learning and performing a task for the variety of gods 
 that you have to serve at that particular time. I liked the god effects that you could do in the 
 game, and I liked the myth creatures as well, because with them I dominated my enemies. They had 
 some really creative ideas when they made this game, like the hermes underground path, the rain (i 
 forgot which god used that power) and zeus lightning, which came in handy when that certain god 
 creature showed up, I cant remember it, but I know one of those god powers summons a big dragon 
 that could destroy everything. But anyway, this game is really cool, it fixed the farm problems 
 age of empires had in the past games, and it also has ALOT of characters to choose from and use. 
 I wish I could play this game, but i had to uninstall it and I lost the key for it (tear) Ah well, 
 there are other real time strategy games out there, but they wont be quite the same as this one. 
 If you can, I definitly recommend this game to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrokmyds
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  The reason this game is great is because of the multiplayer. It has a similar formula to AoE, new 
 god powers, blah blah blah, but it finally has a good matchmaking system and fluid online options.
 
  
  All games made by Ensemble Studios have solid gameplay and graphics, and they are all pretty hard. 
 I say the difficulty and learning curve are so high because you need to play a lot to get something 
 going online. But the campaign is still friendly to anyone, and has plenty of length and good level 
 design. It isn't just where you have to beat the other guy every level.
  
  The sound can be repetitive like other strategy games, but it has been improved. This game has 
 special music when you attack a fort or town, and returns to calm when the battle is over. The 
 music will also be different depending on the results of the battle. The sound effects are also 
 a bit more varied; weapons don't always make the same sound.
  
  The graphics also made a decent transition to 3D. You can rotate the camera effectively and the 
 building and unit models are very detailed. The game still doesn't lag on most machines. Units 
 also have about four or five animations for the same action. Unlike the old AoE games, soldiers 
 swing their weapons around realistically and you can see your buildings slowly go up.
  
  Thsi game is a solid title. It sticks to the Age of Empires formula while adding enough to break 
 the mold. It's a revolutionary strategy game and multiplayer game. It's also pretty cheap to buy, 
 so go out and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nunamaker
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 18, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is a very well down RTS game that is sort of a sequel to the Age of Empires game. 
 First off, this game just looks good. I dont know what it is i think its the water its the perfect 
 blue. It has all of the mythological features that we all learned about in middle/high school and 
 know we get to put our god skills to the test.
  The campaign in this game is great. It has to be one of the best campaigns for an RTS. It keeps 
 you into it the whole time. Online is fun all though not too many players on these days and if 
 there is mostly custom games and not real battles. A good part of this game is so many diverse 
 units. From the Norse viking-like people to the greecian gods. 
  Overall, this game is just really good with wonderful graphics and a great campaign so if you dont 
 have this game pick it up!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CtEagan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  AOM is the best RTS I have ever played. The gameplay is amazing and pretty easy to pick up. Featuring 
 tons and tons of units, an easy user interface, and above par AI. The graphics are also very good 
 (for its time) . The land and the units are quite detailed and the units animate very smoothly. 
 This goes great with the awesome sound which, which should be played on high volume. If you put 
 all of this together you get an awesome game that has a great single and multi player. The single 
 player is a 32 level campaign that feature all the culture of the game. It brings you too many 
 places in the world including Ancient Greece, Egypt, and Norse lands. And when its all over you 
 wish you had more. Oh, but wait theres multiplayer and game creator which extends your game play 
 ever farther. This is no ordinary RTS, if you havent where have you been. Get it now!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyp7711
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 17, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  As I said in the short description I just wrote, this game is very similar to Age of Empires 2 
 I believe. I still enjoyed playing the game for like, what, a week? But there again, I'm always 
 drawn towards strategy games such as that of this one.
  
  The game features some new things though, such as god powers which are interesting to use once 
 you've got the hang of how they work, and also there are many more different units to make, although 
 I only say the game is similar because the objective seems too similar, and some of the graphics 
 are still the same from Age of Empires, which I found to be rather 'cheap'..
  
  Overall, I'd say this game isn't worth buying. I can't really see anyone getting much enjoyment 
 out of this game, and I think if people wanted a good strategy they should go for Age of Empires 
 3 or whatever's new at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia217
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  AOM is "the" most awesome game Microsoft had created! This is the nest big thing. Ok, this game's 
 gameplay is similar to those is AOE, but there are a few changes and add-ons such as having God-like 
 powers (since you are in the Gods point of view) You can control an army of mythical creatures 
 such as minotaur, Colossus, and many more! The graphics are a tad bit disoriented, but you can 
 hardly notice it. The online community is also awesome. Get to share your pwning skills with other 
 players! The music is Greek, Egyptian, Norse folk music! Which it just gets to you! If you like 
 AOE or a fan of it, then AOM is a good game that should try it out! Believe me, it's worth playing 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Knight2000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 16, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  this game has it all....... graphices, sound, gameplay and definitlay a good story line......
 
  
  its got 3 races.. the GREEKS, which have strong but expensive units, they are pretty basic. the 
 EGYPTIANS, they remind me of the soviets in RA2.. cheap and large amounts of units but amazing seige 
 weapons, then the NORSE.... they are expensicve yet are soooo mobile...
  
  what really made me love it teh most was the amazing storyline.... i mean i felt it LOTR before 
 i even saw the movies..... what i mean is that its a really good adventure..... i love it and i recommend 
 it to any who loves RTS ..... wait a min.. i recommend it to evey1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is a return to the roots of the series. Indeed, due to the vagaries of Hollywood, 
 the general public often knows more about the mythology of antiquity than it does of the actual 
 history involved. In many ways, the material is now even more accessible than it was before. The 
 gameplay is nearly the same as that of previous outings, except that faith, rather than being an 
 abstracted process of priests converting units over to a side, is a concrete and wondrous thing 
 to behold. Players will once again be able to take the helm of a civilization and carefully mold 
 it into an empire, as Age of Mythology is an RTS in the classic sense: Managing the virtual economy 
 is of prime importance - above and beyond the tactics needed on the battlefield.
  While there are only three proper civilizations, Ensemble routinely boasts of nine, which isn't 
 far from the truth. At the beginning of each game, players must choose a major god from the three 
 available for each culture. Not only does this choice grant a one-time use of a specific power 
 and a unique technology to research later, it also adds a dramatic bonus to the civilization. Those 
 who worship Zeus will have strong infantry and generate favor more quickly, while followers of 
 Hades will have more powerful archers and fallen soldiers will often be resurrected as shades to 
 do battle for their god.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CWD-Brazil
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Im sure if your here you probaly played games similar to this before.
  For example Age of Empires-Age of Empires 2.
  Well this is similar, was it not for the amazing 
 arraw of God Powers you can utilize to crush your opponents. Oh, and did i mention the fact that 
 there are 9 Major gods and over 20 minor gods? Well there are.
  
  The characters are extremely box-like but i guess i cant complain since the only time you see them 
 close up is in the campaign. Oh yea, there is a campaign. A nice juicy long one, to take up lots 
 of your time. Like most games of its kind after you complete the Single Player Capaign its time 
 to move on to the Multiplayer. This game also has a lot of active players in it everyday. Many 
 maps and mods to please the mod-head.
  
  I guess the biggest thing that i loved were the maps. They were very detailed, and made me wanna 
 jump in the game and kill some enemies myself.
  If you can i recommend turning up all the embeleshing effects, the water is very pretty all in 
 its own, especially on the shoreline.
  
  If you liked AOE series you will love this, its like AOE on steroids.
  Worth the money in every 
 aspect. Im gonna go blow some people up with Meteors now, have a good day.
  Cwd
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandy4
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  This game is like no other u travel back to time of greeks, norse and eygptians and battle it out 
 each with their own cool units. If tht was't enough wen u pick to advance their are lesser gods 
 tht grant u special unique units such as anubites - eygptians, manitcore-greeks, and fenris wolves 
 - norse. And if this wasnt enough the gods also grant powers which can be used to destroy ur enemies 
 or improve ur civiisation. 
  
  Multiplayer is a good additoijn to this game with a variety of player made maps. Online also gives 
 the chance for players to earn there way up a ladder or jst to learn new strartegies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom_x107
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  this is an awesome game and still better than the expansion there are twenty two missions, nine 
 gods, lots of units, different powers and much more. it has great graphics and sound and there 
 are lots of heroes . there are lots of good cheats to help you and there are special myth units 
 you get by choosing a minor god. minor gods make units stronger they have one power and one myth 
 unit. the powers are used to summon make buildings that can be captured by an enemy and they can 
 temporarily make units stronger. there are houses and town centers to build population but there 
 are only a limited amount of houses and town centers.
  so this is a great mythical real time strategy game and you should buy it at any chance you have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yavihah
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  okay so now this game at frist I thought that it was gonna be like okay and all that stuff but 
 later on I started playing it and was pretty cool and got me thinking in what to build to eqyuip 
 how to protect me from my enemies and have a lot of foo, wood, gold to create buildings and have 
 a chance of wining to my enemy. the good thing is in the era of mithology so you can bless the gods 
 to have amazing powers and even send them to battle with you! but the enemies can do the same... but 
 still it was great and entertaining after all. I had spend like two weeks playing this game like 
 8 hours daily in those two weeks. so the gameplay I have got to say that is perfect and every sense. is 
 long and long but you can't be bored. the graphics in my laptop were better than in my computer 
 so there almost perfect ( well the game is a pc game so is obvious that they have to have some little 
 flaws) they were some bugs in the game but it din't matter to me at all. the sound was explendid 
 those sounds are like those ages so they did a great job doing that. and last but no least the tilt 
 of the game is super super perfect!! is doesn't get you bored (well when you e beat the game.. lol) but 
 no matter this gaem you have to buy it is great for weekends that you don't have nothing to do 
 and that is the ideal game for those weekends or whatever you want to play it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aedelas
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  The real time strategy genre has some of the most die hard fans youll ever meet, and if you do 
 fall into this category you will be pleased to know that Age of Mythology from Ensemble Studios 
 is a fine addition to the genre.
  
  You begin the story as Arkantos a hero of Atlantis and loyal to the god Poseidon. You begin by 
 defending the port of Atlantis from attacking pirates but soon find out that they have stolen the 
 trident of Poseidon. But upon returning the trident you learn that even more treachery is afoot 
 and the Cyclops Gargenysis is trying to unleash the Titans from their imprisonment, from there 
 your adventure begins.
  
  The story takes place over one campaign and is massive in size, spanning across three different 
 mythologies, Greek, Egyptian, and Norse. Each section has its own unique attributes including units, 
 buildings, god powers and of course the gods themselves.
  
  The three separate mythologies is something that adds a whole level of depth to the game and just 
 as you consider yourself well trained in the ways of Greek Mythology you greeted at the prospect 
 of having to then master the Egyptian and Norse game modes. 
  
  Theres more than just cosmetic aspect to each of the mythologies and this becomes apparent as 
 soon as you try your hand at one unfamiliar with you. One example of this is the way you gather 
 resources. With the Greek and Egyptian modes you use peasants and labourers to gather all of the 
 resources, and do your structural building and repairing. The Norse have gatherers who are more 
 skilled at gathering resources such as wood and food, but also have a Dwarf unit that is skilled 
 highly in mining and acquires it at a higher rate than a gatherer. Neither of these units can build 
 any structures (gatherers can build farms,) so it is down to the Norse military to do all their 
 construction work.
  
  There are other ways in which all three mythologies differ, another way is generating favour. Favour 
 is used in the creation and upgrades of mythological units, such as the Valkyrie and Hydra. The 
 Greeks build temples and have peasants worship at the temple, the more peasants worshiping the 
 more favour you gain. The Egyptians build monuments to their gods and the more you build the more 
 favour you gain, and the Norse gain favour through fighting.
  
  The differences add such a nice break from the game because not only do you have to think about 
 your strategy, but you have to change strategies dependant on which mythology your opponents belong 
 to, something made increasingly challenging if you have more than one opponent of varying mythologies.
 
  
  Like with all games of the genre, units are important and there are certainly plenty on offer. 
 Units are split into three groups, human, myth and hero. Human units are those such as the Greek 
 Hoplite and archers, where myth units are those such as the Hydra, Pegasus and Cyclops. Hero units 
 are those such as the Greek Achilles and the Egyptian Priests. Each unit has its own strengths 
 and weaknesses which makes for interesting combat, for example you cant just send a battalion 
 of Minotaur to an enemy camp, youll need a well balanced army of human, hero and myth. Upgrades 
 are also aplenty and youll find yourself spending just as many resources on upgrades as you will 
 your army.
  
  Those wishing to take on some human competition can do so directly over a LAN or across the internet 
 and this makes for some good gaming sessions. The multiplayer modes are very similar to that found 
 in games like Age of Empires, so should be familiar to a lot of players from the outset. With the 
 ability to send resources to team members that need it you can bet there will be some highly contested 
 multiplayer games taking place, something that adds a good deal of replay value to the game.
  
  As always a map editor is a great addition to a game and Age of Mythologies is no different. 
 Ive always enjoyed it when a map editor comes with a game; it gives it that little extra that 
 makes it just a tad more enjoyable. With the ability to create what ever style of map you wish, 
 you may find yourself engrossed in it for quite some time. Everything is up to you, starting resources, 
 unit restrictions and lets not forget how the map looks. The map editor does its job really well 
 as it will add a whole new level to the game and also add even more replay value.
  
  Graphics are always an important issue for a PC game, if not for the fact the console world has 
 caught up so fast in terms of graphics capability. Age of Mythology doesnt have the best graphics 
 youll ever see, but what you will see are graphics that are smooth, easy on the eye and fit into 
 the games environment with relative ease. The graphics of the buildings are good and so to are 
 those of the units. The intro cinematic for the levels in campaign mode do leave a little to be 
 desired but if you can look past that you will soon see graphics that overall, are very good.
 
  
  Music in a game is important to me and it is good to say that Age of Mythology doesnt disappoint. 
 Theres plenty of tracks on offer and youll pretty much never have the same one repeated only 
 a few minutes after it last stopped. Overall the audio is excellent, especially the sound affects, 
 which are pleasant to listen to and also distinct enough so that within a few games youll soon 
 be recognising the roar of the Namean Lion charging at your walls.
  
  Over all its an excellent game and well worth checking out, fan of the genre or not. It has tons 
 of replay value through the multiplayer side of things and with the ability to create your own 
 maps you may find yourself playing Age of Mythology for quite some time. If you havent already 
 done so definitely get hold of a copy of this game, you wont regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GazzaB
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is truly amazing. Its definitely one of the best RTS's out there.
  This game has much more diversity between its civilizations as compared to its forefathers: Age 
 of Empires and Age Of Empires II. Not only can you create a customized army of mere mortals, you 
 can now add some creatures from Greek, Egyptian, or Norse mythology. These terrifying creatures 
 are sure to send your enemies packing. An added bonus is the use of Heroes to counter those myth 
 units. Norse heroes are the Hersirs, Egyptians have priests and Pharoahs, and Greeks have up to 
 four different heroes at a time (It depends on what age you are in and which god you research) . 
 Greek heroes are created one at a time, although, they can be re-created when they are killed. 
 Another handy convenience is the use of god powers, which can be used to boost your economy for 
 a period, temporarily boost your armies strength, devastate an enemy town, or defend your own. 
 Sadly, you can only use each god power once.
  One other thing I was very impressed with was that you can actually read the history behind the 
 different types of soldier, or read a little about the myth units and their history, the same goes 
 for heroes and some buildings as well. But that is only if you enjoy mythology and history. I found 
 it very interesting.
  If that isn't enough, there is always the campaign. You get the privilege of helping Arkantos and 
 Company destroy all enemies of Atlantis. In the campaign you will find some god powers and such 
 that are only available in the campaign which are very nice and handy. The campaign will also help 
 first time players develop some skills and get some good hints on how to be a good player. You 
 will also find, in the story of the campaign, that this war against the Atlanteans goes deeper 
 that what it seems at first, far deeper, in fact you will be traveling to the underworld at some 
 point. I'm not telling anymore, you have to play the game to find out the rest. It is definitely 
 worth it.
  Let's not forget the other goodies, like a map and scenario editor, audio taunts (which can sometimes 
 liven up multiplayer games) , and personal profiles to keep track of how well you do. Online play 
 is also great. It's a little more challenging since you are playing against real people. Although 
 Microsoft did a very nice job of creating AIs that are fairly intelligent and aren't total pushovers, 
 as the AIs were in the previous Age of Empires games. The rating system on online play is a nice 
 touch and will help even up the games, especially when you search for an opponent.
  The only things I felt could have made the game even better would be the ability to re-use god-powers, 
 and I was hoping there would be some good scenarios included in the game, but there wasn't. But 
 you can play other players' scenarios, or your own, with your friends online, which is cool.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trautandy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  When first playing this game it may seem like the first thing to do is to get a few soldiers and 
 go rampage your neighbor. After the first few times you are annihilated you realize that you just 
 can't cut it with a few men. You need to spend time planning your village. Without the essential 
 supplies you will not be able to survive long. The game makes it seem like all combat, but in reality 
 combat should be far from your mind when you start a settlement. The only other real problem is 
 that in the single player quick game the enemy just doesn't seem to like to attack you. This game 
 is still definitely worth the cheap price tag. The graphics are absolutely beautiful . Not to mention 
 how easy the commands are. The only problem may be when you get in a very large group. You can 
 only control about thirty men at one time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementkid177
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  this game was a very good game an awsome single player and more it had a variety of things to do 
 whether u made a giant ciy or just destroy other civilizations this game was just really fun to 
 play but it got boring really fast once u beat the single player there is almost nuthing to do 
 but jusdt like build an army and destroy an online player or the cpu in offline mode which gets 
 boring in a matter of minutes this game if it were able to is just to rent there is no special 
 thing to this game its fun but no replayability 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Levoth
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is one of the greatest RTS I've ever played in my life. I have played Age of Empires 
 saga all my life , and when I heard that Microsoft was developing a game based on Age of Empires 
 , but with many mythology aspects I was really thrilled....
  
  Age of Mythology have a totally new engine, the other "Age of" games were made in 2D palletes, 
 here we have real time 3D graphics. I think that this is the most natable change in the game. The 
 animations are all really good... everything is so amazing. It is really cool watch a troop of Anubites 
 jumping toward a target, and a Medusa pretrifing a Colossus. In my opinion the water is the most 
 perfect graphic aspect in the game, it is just too real and interesting. Battles in the water are 
 a lot more interesting than it was in Age of Empires II.
  
  The gameplay continues the same, you still have to gather resourses and keep exploring the map 
 for relics and other kinds of treasures. The whole diference now is the way that you build your 
 troops. For your evolution in the game you'll have to pass through many ages , such as Classic 
 Age, Heroic Age and so on... And for every Age you'll pass, you'll have to choose a minor god such 
 as Anubis ( for egyptians ) Atenas ( for greeks ) , and each god have a diferent add-on to your 
 army and your civilization... this add-ons , incluiding powers make the greater diference. 
  
  The game don't use civilizations anymore , it uses Gods. First you must select your god and 
 them start playing with it... Your nation will be blessed by this god , each is too much fun for 
 hours of playing. Other great changing is the heroes, each minor god and god have a different hero 
 , making the game much more interesting in the way you build your troops.
  
  The sounds are really great too. In battle there are much more than sound of swords clashing and 
 arrows firing... you can hear the voice of the heroes screaming at your army to fight. This kind 
 of things increases your interesting about battling everytime 'cause it is really fun listennig 
 to it. The musics are good too, in times of war the music changes for a great "War Song" and in 
 times of piece is the same generic "Peace Song". But of course that every sound is great and althought 
 they could be more interesting and imersive , they are still very good.
  
  I think that this is what I have to say about Age of Mythology , each is a great game that every 
 RTS fan should play... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBRM
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is a great buy for those war-hardened fans of the Age of Empires series. The game 
 interface is changed slighty, and the units are of course mythological as well as some preRoman 
 units. Resources have changed and dropped stone and picked up praise points picked up at local 
 sanctums. While this game is alot different, it does stick well to the roots of the other games 
 with ages, economy, and battle tactics. Another great edition are the god like powers that are 
 equiped to the player as they advance through the ages. Myth units are very unique and fun to play 
 with, and supported by the gods can wreak some serious pain on the enemy. Downpoints for the expectant 
 Age of Empires verterans, would probably be the lack of multiplayer options. Well I mean there 
 are options, it just looks though that it was poorly designed and harder to find games... unlike 
 the Age of Empires most know on MSN's gaming zone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randman2011
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  When I got this game, The graphics were horrible, but after a setting change, the graphics were 
 the best I had ever seen. If you are contemplating on whether to buy this, I would suggest going 
 for gold. Gold edition is the same price but twice as good. Titans expansion is also a must buy. 
 This is one of the best games in my collection, and that's saying something! This game is so easy 
 to use and fun to play. the controls are simple and the fun lasts forever. To buy, I suggest Target 
 because they have it at a cheap price and I just love Target anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemania56
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Pretty Good. I liked it but not a lot. I dont usually like games that you have to manage your armies 
 but this was somehow different. It combined magic and melee and arching together which i like. 
 I also like it's roleplaying aspect. It was also not very expensive which is good. I wasnt expecting 
 what i got. I was expecting a really bad game but it turned out to be actually a pretty good game. 
 I also like how you can pick your god and each has a special set of upgrades and skills. The music 
 was cheesy as in any midevil game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 9, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  age of myhtology is one of the best age of empire series. when ive bought my new windows, windows 
 xp, the graphics are plain awesome and love the sound
  
  but its quite hard and that what makes it great. ensemble and microsoft have done another great 
 job and we hope that they have finish creating aoe3 i hope that ensemble and microsoft would continue 
 their next game that will have great next generation graphic that is up to date 
  
  You rock ensemble and microsoft i support you and hope that ure next game will be a great blast 
 to people worldwide and might be for gamespot's game of the year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: john468
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 8, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  O strategie chiar inovatoare, producatori au fost foarte ambitiosi si au pus totu la punct in acest 
 joc... sunetul ramane la un anumit nivel al calitatii dar grafica pt anul 2002 este chiar forte 
 acceptabila.. si sa nu mai vb de gameplay fiindca fiecare misiune isi are rostul in acest joc. Camera 
 si controlul sunt foarte usor de folosit si daca nu iti ia prea mult timp este bn sa inveti si 
 cateva short-kturi. Eu zic ca Age of Mythology este in topul celor mai bune RTS-uri din anul 2002 
 si sper sa apara si un add-on. Sa auzim numai de bn si astept cu nerabdare sa mai testez si alte 
 strategii. John Over 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythologies is a spin off from the Age of Empires series which brings in gods from historical 
 texts that we have generally only seen and heard of. The game play is actually quite similar to 
 the standard Age of Empires series of games where you start off and slowly build up your armies. 
 However in this game things aren't as realistic, and there are the gods who provide you with an 
 excellent amount of extra help on the side which can easily turn the tables of the battle. Within 
 the game you can pitt civilizations that you would never expect up against each other and play 
 them in a battle to the death. For example, one may question how the Greeks would fare if they 
 have been pitted up agains the Egyptians and their gods. Well don't bother thinking anymore as 
 it is now a reality with Age of Mythologies. Online matches are also an added bonus where you can 
 take the abilities that you have honed to a fine point and use it to clobber your friends or your 
 foes senseless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonfire101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. I mean the graphics are good there is some comedy when you need it and you 
 have very cool powers with which to smite your enemies. I'll admit that the game does sometime 
 work against you but I will overlook that because everything else is just great. When you do have 
 your god powers you are noy allowed to keep for the whole game .I also love the wide range of variety 
 in each level and its also great that you need to explore everythingto figure thing out so that 
 you have a surprise in each level. 
  Although the game has a few flaws it is still worth your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superelite2688
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 30, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  age of mythology is the next rts to come after the aoe 2 series
  it strays away from the predeccsors by allowing myth units
  at first this may seem off putting 
 but 
  once u get into the game youll find it very fun 
  
  there are many strategies to make in the game
  and there are 9 gods to use and 3 races egypt 
 norse greek
  all the gods make it more diverse more than you would think 
  until u start playing 
  
  the graphics are quite good and the music is alright '
  though 
 they could've done more music tracks to make it a a bit better 
  as more dynamic music would've made the game even better
  the musci would b my only dissapointment
 
  
  the gameplay is fine the myth units make it very interesting 
  
  all up its a good game a worth trying out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EZERICW
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology, by Microsoft Studios, is a very, very great game. When playing single-player 
 mode, the clever story makes you feel like you are "Arkantos," the main warrior you use in the 
 game. And with the eye-dropping visual graphics, and the ear-tingling sound clarity, you get most 
 out of the money you spent. The map editor option in the game also gives you full control of Age 
 of Mythology. You can create a real looking map to play and test with yourself with all the characters 
 from the story. The game play is really great with realistic fighting and strategic planning. You 
 also have to gather goods and resources to make the dream army for destroying the enemy. Overall, 
 Age of Mythology is a very good game and is for someone who hasn't experienced the game play and 
 thrilling excitement then you are missing out big time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kooleman8
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Let me show some things of this game that allows me to kkep playing this.
  
  In age of Mythology, there are no wars and no battles that doesn't have the powers of the gods. 
 The best thing is the power of the gods like: meteor shower, earthquake, tornados, A lot of lighting 
 Lighting bolts, Bronze Soldiers (Increase the defence armour) and more..... The campaing mode has 
 a big theme to play and a awesome history to get rid of The Cyclop lord.
  
  Have good graphics, good movements, and the other thing is the mythology creatures (cyclops, minotaurs, 
 scorpion mans, Colosuss, medusas, etc.) , with big power and abilities vs yo foes and also has the 
 history of all heroes in the mythology and creatures that exist in that times. With 3 playeable 
 Races: Nordics, Egyptian and Greeks and three mayor gods to select on each race makes this game 
 "Aaahh what a goodness" I recommend this game in al aforts.
  
  Don't forget; Powers of the gods, Expert soldiers, Heroes of the mytholgy, The sound of the Big 
 cratures steepes, More details and help, consult this forum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitjazagar
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is a good strategy game and very educational because you know of every more important 
 god of Greeks, Norse and Egyptians. The game itself has a good gameplay with nice graphics and 
 sounds, music. The storyline is also great because it has some heroes from the real world like 
 Ajax, Odysseus... The bad thing is for me that there are a lot and i mean a lot of upgrades it 
 gets a little boring over time this upgrading. But it's a superb game that you can even learn with. 
 Heroes get trough time and missions a little stronger but you don't even notice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S_A_D_U_1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  being computer gamer i'v had my share of game playing. If there is one game that I say I've played 
 the most it was this one. I LOVED the Mythological theme to the entire game. I like mythology. 
 I like reading about different mythological creatures and events that happened (sometimes) . The 
 God powers were also very cool they gave each Major god and civilization their own personality. 
 The game was also very historically correct as always. I remember reading about the battle of troy, 
 and the trojan hourse in history class. I liked all the new units in the game as well. all the 
 Heros and creatures and buildings too. one of my favorites was the colosus they were extremely 
 huge and stong. there is just so much that this game has to offer and so much potential. I strongly 
 recoment playing this game if you havent allready. Very cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 22, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Ah, worship me and adore me. Build for me and fight for me. That's what you get to force you civilization 
 to do in this wonderful game. There is competition out there with the Civilization games, but his 
 one takes a slightly different approach to living out your god-like fantasies of controlling a 
 population to do whatever you wish them to do.
  
  I like this one because it is a combination of the Sim City game with the building and construction 
 work with the Warcraft/Starcraft games with those elements and the fighting other civilizations 
 piece. You get to building worshipping points and gain experience to help your warriors fend off 
 enemies and send out armies to wipe them out. It feels great to have such power.
  
  What is best about this game is that it melds together many pieces of the civilization aspects 
 with the long-term play that wlll cause you to fend off temptations to buy more games, just so 
 that you can continue to play this one for hours and hours, days and days, months and months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is one of the best real time strategy games from one of the best developers for 
 the genre. The game is set in ancient times and as the title suggests, deals heavily with characters 
 that are associated with ancient Greek, Egyptian and Norse mythology. 
  The gameplay mechanics are very similar to the developers previous game Age of Empires II, but 
 the environment is completely 3D and the graphics are pretty amazing.
  The background music that runs throughout the game is also pretty good though not perfect. The 
 unit balance in the game is decent and all three sides have their advantages and disadvantages.
 
  The major new thing that the game brings is the use of mythological units and God Powers. The 
 mythological units are usually several times larger than the regular units and overpower the normal 
 units by a great deal. The Hero units are useful against these mythological units. The God powers 
 add a new level of strategy to the game since you get only one God power per Age that you advance 
 through and each one depends on the particular God that you worship. These powers can only be used 
 once per game and can dramatically change the tide of a battle.
  The other new thing added to the mix is favor. It is a new resource that is gathered differently 
 by each side. Favor is required to train mythological units and certain other things. 
  The single player campaign is not extremely long but it has a decent story. The main part of the 
 game that will keep you coming back for more is the random map mode.
  All in all, the game does add a few new things to the mix which is enough to make it an outstanding 
 game when looked on its own. But when you compare it to Age of Empires II, it is not a completely 
 new game but a sort of spin off with much better graphics and enough new gameplay and strategy 
 mechanics to keep you wanting more for months and months. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  Following on from the exceptional Age of Empires and Age of Empires 2, Age of Mythology is one 
 of the best made games I've ever had the fortune to play. Based around three ancient mythologies- 
 Greek, Norse and Egyptian- Age of Mythology is an epic adventure. It has great gameplay, with just 
 the right balance of economy and military and leaving you to do exactly the right amount of micromanagement 
 without seeming tedious. It has excellent graphics, with beautiful landscapes and detailed figures. 
 Excellent attention to detail immerses you in their world- Empire have really done their homework 
 for the Encyclopaedia. Add all this to the best campaign in a RTS ever and you're really onto a 
 winner. There's also an excellent multiplayer community and for those of you of the creative type 
 is the most in depth, yet accesible, scenario design in any game I've played. Not only can you 
 create beautiful levels, but easily managable triggers let you create levels up to the excellent 
 standard of the campaign. The only problem is that you'll have so much fun it'll take over your 
 life. A must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irulehexen
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology takes the very value and innovation that the Age of Empires series led, and added 
 mythological beasts and god powers such as earthquakes and tornados, to create a series of its 
 own- the Mythology series. Not only was the game noted for its audacity to have been vanguard to 
 the particullar situation at hand, but it was not a mere acolyte of its predecssor series, but 
 its own realm and world. 
  
  Age of Mythology has great graphics, and innovations of logistics. The graphics take every detail 
 into account, from water tides to the oars of triremes and the bronze beaks of pentekonters. From 
 night and day, to the chirping of birds, from fire arrows about the ether, and the bricks and hoardings 
 of the castles and barbicans.
  
  The history is also rich, including a display of historical units such as hoplites, peltasts, hypaspists, 
 hetairoi, strategoi, hippikons, et cetera. 
  This blended with mythological units such as the minotaur and medusa, offer chitinous and grotesque 
 vagabonds and horrid behomeths unot the screen, with the stockings of a bloobath waiting to arise.
 
  
  The music is splendid. It can invigorate one with ecstasy, or bring about brooding despair with 
 the sound of the cornicen's footing as the enemy legios prepares to invade. You hear the units 
 groan and bellow when they inflict damage or are wounded, with blood spilling over in torrents 
 of pixels.
  
  The scenario is also good, including 31 missions based on a thick plot and a purpose of the game 
 itself is evident in the campaigns as it never sways from that objective.
  
  Age of Mythology- the ichor of the gods, the ambrosia of Mount Olympus, an oppurtunity you should 
 not miss!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Queen_Umeko
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 11, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Playing a god or godess and build your empire with help of the gods of Greek, Northern, Egyptian 
 mythologies.
  Build your army to rule the sky, water and earth and wipe your enemies out.
  I've played AOM for many years and it's still really fun to play.
  I love the AOE series its 
 just sometimes it gets really boring.
  
  I have this game and AOE II Age of the kings, and I still love to play them whenever I get a chance 
 :P
  
  Highly Addictive and a true classic to the collection of the type of games that I like alot Strategy 
 games that is and games where you can be creative.
  I'm an artist after all creativity is my speciality Muehehehehehehe
  
  Moooo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowprince92
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Like the Age of Empires series, this game will become an instant classic... Esemble studios again, did 
 a wonderfull job, I mean game. This game is simply amazing in all aspects, graphics, sound and gameplay. Altough 
 the game has only 3 civilizations, you won't get bored fast. Now, one of the things that makes this 
 game so inovative, is the mythological creatures you can build, they are sooo fun to use! Another 
 thing, that makes this game inovative, is that when you make in the townhall an upgrade to you andvance 
 to another age, you not only advance to another age, as you also worship a god that that will give 
 mythological units to use and divine powers you can use to benefi your army, or to damage enemy 
 units. Some of the divine powers could do massive destrucion on your enemy army. However there is 
 another diference between this game and a Age of Empires game, instead o you collect Stones, like 
 in Age of Empires, in Age of Mytology, you "collect" god blessings, that helps you create devine units 
 and divine upgrades. This game is really going to be remenbered for a long time, I recommend it to 
 anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duxy33
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  Age of mythology is an adjusted game from the age of empires series which has become an addiction 
 for all strategic gamers. AOM follows on from the series but in a new type providing a slightly 
 different approach. You dont play as nations this time, but you can play as historic myth gods 
 of the Greeks, Egyptians, and Norse. Each has their own distinctive strengths. The graphics and 
 game play has improved too for a better gaming experience. There are cool units to play especially 
 the myth units as each has their unique contribution to the game. They really give you some excitement.
 
  
  One cool feature is the ability to use different god powers. Some can be recognised as life-lines 
 because they really do save you in those tight situations. If not, they can be used to punish the 
 opposition. 
  
  But the best thing I enjoy about this game is the ability to conquer over all. I find it addictive 
 not to leave the game after a win, as I play again with different gods and maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djabzy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  Age Of Mythology is the spin off of the aoe games and what a good one it has been.
  AOE was based aroud history but AOM is more or less just pure Myth.
  Gameplay is pretty much 
 the same but the graphics have been improved.
  In AOM new aspects have been put in such as the Mythical beasts that can be used to fight with 
 and the new story lines.
  AOM is a great RTS game with aspects better then AOE2 but then agen people will not leave AOE for 
 this game. So if you intend to buy this game i would say play AOE first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mophono
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 4:21 pm PT
Review:  We all remember the Age of Empires series, AOM takes the scenery to a higher level.
  
  In Age of Mythology you determine the fate of one of nine civilizations. To be successful, you 
 must gather resources, build your empire, research improvements, train an army, and appease the 
 gods. Survive long enough and you will be able to advance YOUR civilization trough the ages!
  
  At the start of each game you choose a primary deity for your civilization. There are three 
 Greek, Egyptian, and Norse major gods. Each of the gods benefits a different part of your civilization. 
 To progress you have to build myth units, heroes, villagers and buildings. Find your favourite 
 God and start building your tribe! 
  
  A game filled with adventure and enjoyment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galinthas
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:03 am PT
Review:  Having been a longtime mythology buff and D&D player, I was looking for something that would satisfy 
 both my civilization building desires amidst a fantasy setting. This game provided me likely the 
 closest thing I've discovered so far to that ideal.
  
  The option to select between the Greek, Egyptian and Norse pantheons was a nice starting point. 
 The further customization of selecting and sub-selecting your deities allows for a moderate amount 
 of flexibility, though I think I would have liked to have seen more gods overall and therefore 
 more unique units that would have allowed for greater replay. 
  
  Video: I was impressed with the detail that went into the various units graphical representation 
 and the reasonably realistic portrayal of each myth unit. Overall, the graphics of this game are 
 enough to keep you engaged in the ongoing chaos of building and surviving in your world.
  
  Sound: While the background music is often very repetitive, it also was not so noticeable that 
 it became annoying. The sounds accompanying the actual gameplay appeared appropriate and added 
 to the overall enjoyment.
  
  Gameplay: Overall I think the game provides most casual users with a reasonable challenge, and 
 appears to have the complexity and difficulty for the more refined tactician at greater difficulty 
 levels. The multi-player option appears to be well used by many and can further deepen the enjoyment 
 for those who prefer to test their military minds against a more agile human opponent.
  
  The single-player story mode provides a good introduction to the overall menus and building strategies 
 and ramps up difficulty fairly. The option to simply select a free-form map and number of opponents 
 is nice for a (relatively) quick once and done, if you don't have the time to sit through story.
 
  
  Overall, I would recommend this as a entertaining and time-consuming game that has pretty good 
 replay value. I have not as yet experienced the Titans expansion, and will leave comments regarding 
 that till such time as I may do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimitrismarkou
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 7:38 am PT
Review:  please someone bring me back to reality! i am not joking. this game with it's expansion can not 
 be classified. it is one of a kind. it is history by it' s self. the only game that no matter how 
 long you play you just can not be bored. the editors overdone their selves. this game is unique. 
 it's game play is simply fantastic and you have to think not only strategical but like a real ruler 
 of your people in order to succeed over your opponents. despite the fact that there are only three 
 civilizations in the game, their differences are so many that when you play with a different ivilization 
 is like playing a different game. i am playing this game for two years now, but honestly every 
 time i am playing is like the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Injektilo623
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 6:57 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology takes place in a world that combines Greek, Egyptian, and Norse mythology all 
 into one. You can play as any of those civilizations, ally with any of them, or fight against any. 
 Each civilization has its own unique mythological and human units, but still maintains equality 
 between the different civilizations.
  
  Of course, one of the main features in the game is the campaigns. They take you through many levels 
 with each civilization. The campaigns last a long time, are fun to play, challenge your skills, 
 and make you better for regular matches.
  
  There are many different modes to play in Age of Mythology. There are a few difficulties to play 
 against, where the hardest is almost undefeatable to even the best players. You can also play in 
 a few different play modes like Supremacy or Deathmatch.
  
  Online play is probably the best part of this game. It allows players to go online and play against 
 any other Age of Mythology players from anywhere in the world. Players can also create their own 
 maps and scenarios, to be played online or in single player.
  
  Overall, Age of Mythology is a great game. While the graphics aren't the best, they are still a 
 huge improvement from Age of Empires II. The music in Age of Mythology is great, and really fits 
 the mood of what's going on in the game. Anyone can enjoy this game, and the enjoyment lasts for 
 a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furkili
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Like the Age of Empires series, this game will become an instant classic... Esemble studios again, did 
 a wonderfull job, I mean game. This game is simply amazing in all aspects, graphics, sound and gameplay. Altough 
 the game has only 3 civilizations, you won't get bored fast. Now, one of the things that makes this 
 game so inovative, is the mythological creatures you can build, they are sooo fun to use! Another 
 thing, that makes this game inovative, is that when you make in the townhall an upgrade to you andvance 
 to another age, you not only advance to another age, as you also worship a god that that will give 
 mythological units to use and divine powers you can use to benefi your army, or to damage enemy 
 units. Some of the divine powers could do massive destrucion on your enemy army. However there is 
 another diference between this game and a Age of Empires game, instead o you collect Stones, like 
 in Age of Empires, in Age of Mytology, you "collect" god blessings, that helps you create devine units 
 and divine upgrades. This game is really going to be remenbered for a long time, I recommend it to 
 anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nazi100
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. I love this game. The only thing i hate which i hate about most games is that 
 you have a population. Not just a population, but a small population. But the upgrades are cool 
 and the myth units and the gods and then and then and then and then and  
 and the one problem is before when i had a crappier computer my soldiers had shields, but now with 
 the better one i have they  
 this game i really do recommend. The story is hard. That is what i am putting for the difficulty 
 but it really isn't hard besides the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20939572522766106736609805272248-Anailator707
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing!! Its like Age of Empire but with a hole new style!!
  Its the same strategy... Build your civilizaion, and army and conquer!! The
  Only new supply to 
 this game is power.. You must worship your God in order
  to gain power.. With Power, You can create Mythical Creatures, such
  as  
 many more... The 3 main
  Races Are Egyption, Greek,& Norse... The Egyptions must build
  Specail statues to gain power, Greeks must worship, and Norse must fight.
  The Story mode is very 
 detailed and gameplay never gets dull.. Believe
  it or not Thanks to this game i aced my History Test.. Lol... it actually teaches
  You about Mythology.. Overall 
 its a great game thats worth you Money.
  
  
  
  Peace out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aletof2000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:32 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology, what a great idea and what a wonderful game came from this. Age of Mythology 
 is one of the best games I ever played, and the best in the Ensemble Studios "Age of" series. The 
 incredible story, campaign and gameplay makes this an excellent option for anyone who loves Real 
 Time Strategy games. The mythical creatures, God Powers, civilizations, God selection, common, 
 what else can you ask; learning Mythology and playing a really great game at the same time. 
  
  You ccan choose between three civilizations, and each of them has three different "main Gods", 
 giving you 9 different combinations for you to chose. Throughout the game and while you are passing 
 through the 4 ages, you can choose three more "Minor Gods", which will give you another God Power 
 and the possibility of creating unique mythical creature. All of this things contribute to the 
 making of this great game.
  
  .... Just excellent.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfreeman0
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:12 am PT
Review:  Here is a quick part if u do not want hear me moaning on about this game
  Good points
  ~Easy to master
  ~A level editor (all great RTS games should have one)
  ~Loads of campaign 
 missions
  ~Loads of units, buildings and other things
  ~GOD POWERS!
  
  Bad points
  ~Repetitive gameplay
  ~Editor is hard use at first 
  ~Would be better if the editor came with 
 a manual
  ~Campaign gets boring
  ~Not many god powers
  
  Here is the main review
  
  So you go to a shop pick up a copy of age of mythology install it and play the tutorial, all of 
 the sudden your blown away by the amazing graphics and the units variety. You then either build 
 a map and play or you play the campaign. But after a couple of hours you just get bored. Since 
 you realise theres not much variety and all you have to do is to shift your army to the enemys 
 base before they build an army. To tell you the truth games like these are best played occasionally 
 so it feels the same as it did when you bought it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 16, 2005 2:15 am PT
Review:  I go this game from a friend of mine. All I would like to say is CRAP! 
  
  There are less units than there are Telly Tubbies and the game is just super predictable. Upgrades 
 are stupid and so are the spell. I would like to pay my friend to take this game back. I don't 
 know what they were thinking making this game. It was a great idea but it didn't pay off. 
  
  The only good this that I can say is that you win so quickly, its great you don't have to look 
 at the game for to long.
  
  Can someone out there make a better "god based" game? Please 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samson8977
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 14, 2005 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is alright. It has some minor problems. The game is lacking variety. There is a limited 
 amount of different military personnel. I guess this game could be better if it were just alittle 
 bit longer, and more units. I do like games like this, but I was let down by this one. I didn't 
 like the use of the myth creatures, because the heros killed them so easily, If you are going to 
 have a myth unit, make it unstoppable, not wimpy like these. I think someone who likes the age 
 of empires games is going to like this one, but it is not for me. Thanks for your time in readying 
 my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 1:54 am PT
Review:  The series of Age of Empires proved to be very successful captivating RTS game fans all around 
 the world. 
  Age of Mythology has the same structure as Age of Empires but with a lot of differences. 
  The 
 action takes place in a mythological world of greeks, norse, and egyptians. 
  You can worship 9 different major gods and 27 minor gods and every one has its own unique ability 
 (miracles that you can perform only once or twice/ level for example) as opposed to just advancing 
 through ages in Age of Empires.
  The on-line multi-player is great and the single player (the most attractive part of age of mythology) 
 is very enjoyable. The graphics are extremely well done and the sound tracks are of excellent quality, 
 gameplay is excellent and controlling your town and armies is very fun and easy.
  The bottom line is that this game is awesome and if you don't have it in your collection................. go 
 ahead and buy it because you won't regret it if you will.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammml8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Though I struggled to get into Age of Empires I and II, Age of Mythology proved a much more captivating 
 game. Not only were the graphics great but the mythological structure, ability to worship different 
 gods with different powers, and the diversity in the races contributed greatly to an enjoyable 
 experience throughout the game.
  
  My only complaint is that I had become accustomed to smaller armies based on a Warcraft III model 
 of combat so the vast battles in this game proved hard to manage at times. This however, is a personal 
 preference and in no way reflects on the game in general! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamingo121
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is a real-time strategy game set in a mythological world of greeks, norse, and 
 egyptians. The game is packed with features that will keep even the most persistent gamer occupied 
 for a long time. The online multiplayer is a blast but as great as it is I think most will find 
 the single player campaign to be the most enjoyable. The game spans over several long and large 
 areas where its is yous job to complete objectives given to you which usually consist of conquering 
 the land. The game has fabulour graphics packed with many eye popping special effect (the metoir 
 will make you gasp the first time you see it.) The sound track is excellent quality but somehwat 
 limited. Gameplay is a dream and controlling every aspect of your towns and armys is a breeze. 
 The story line is surprisingly good considering the type of game and will soon have you hooked. 
 Overall it is a extremely fun addictive game that fans of the real-time strategy genre will adore. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 2:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is exactly what everyone was waiting for, its fresh and orignial. The civilizations are 
 different, with their own buildings and units, and even myth units and different gods to worship 
 also help with planning ur strategy and keeping the game fresh. To me, this game is the few games 
 that you will keep playing and not get tired of it easily. The graphics and all the sounds are 
 great and what you expect from a great game like this one. The research ability in the game will 
 help you boost your planning. But there is a downfall, the multiplayer can be extremely uneven, 
 and sometimes not even worth playing. But the single player is still awesome, and the skirmish 
 also makes the game better. A great Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nooby_Loki
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2005 2:25 am PT
Review:   this game is great and i would offer it 
 over some other games any time  im just trying to fill 
 this thing in the graphics are rock hard the sound has great music no cheasy things ESO is great 
 online and i guess if you play online like me youd see me my ESO name is Pimple_Face great name 
 i know . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. 
 . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . 
 . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . 
 . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . 
 .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . 
 .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . 
 . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. 
 . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . 
 . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . 
 . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . 
 .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . 
 .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . 
 . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freakytreats
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 5, 2005 5:22 pm PT
Review:  this is the one game i have been waiting for since they released age of emperies 2.
  my one faviorite thing on this game has to be the monsters from the temples and how it never gets 
 tiring as much as you play.
  the best team has to be hades for how you can tottaly demolite your enemys in a huge band of men. 
 graphics have went way up since the last installment of the series and the gameplay is way more 
 smooth this time around so do i like this game at all... heck yes i do and i will be supporting 
 it all the way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigamer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 12, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  This game made me a fan of RTS. I never imagined myself playing these kind of games. at first it 
 was hard to get the hang of it. however the first few levels were easy to get to know all the controls. 
 i found the music and noises to be quite catchy. graphics were beautiful for that time that it 
 was made. in fact it was one the revolutionized graphic. if it wasn't for this game i wouldn't 
 be writing this review. plain and simple, i go to the store now and take notice of the RTS section. 
 i can say that these games have a intelectual side to them as well. and seeing the little hereos 
 kicking but is pretty cool. i'm a fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrPerson
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2005 6:14 pm PT
Review:  There is a very close comparison to age of empires in this game, and why not, it is made by the 
 same company so its not surprising. Comparatively though, it beats AOE in every respect.
  
  In AOM you can call upon the gods to help you conquer your opponents and rule the continent. There 
 is much more variety in this game, for example: when you reach a new age level you can choose one 
 of two gods to aid you by giving you new abilities such as the powers of the gods. They can also 
 give you new units to help you in the front lines of battle.
  
  The graphics aren't that "near 3-D" style like the first two AOE's. For most things it's more 3-D 
 than that, which allows for a full 360 vision rather than just one angle like in AOE.
  
  The sound works with the game almost perfectly and makes AOE sound like NES music. With the god 
 powers, they fit in well with the animation of the abilities aswell.
  
  If your bored and have nothing to do, go pick up this game and give it a try. You wont be sorry. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonheart_z
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2005 2:33 am PT
Review:  AGE OF MYTHOLGY REVIEW
  ------------------------------
  ------------------------------
  
  In my book, Age of Mythology scores between 85% and 95% (I cant sort of make up my mind, yet) 
 out of a possible 100%. I believe Age
  Of Mythology is perfect in every way- from the nice visuals, to the game play,
  And not to forget 
 the excellent scenario editor, cool story line and accurate
  Information of the various mythological characters and creatures (i. e. for those
  Of us interested 
 in ancient mythology) . The only problem I find with Age of
  Mythology, seems to be the game's level of being easy, my younger brother, 16,
  Who hates RTS/RPGs- 
 he cant stand Age of Empires or Disciples, loves this game, but
  Then again he totally adores Warcarft3... may be the level of ease may be a good
  Thing after 
 all.
  .. But really thats just minor gripes.
  This game is right up there among the greatest RTS' ever! From Installing and
  Running this game 
 was a breeze. While playing this game I never experienced any
  'Errors' or 'crashes. The interface and use of 'hotkeys' is totally is totally
  Neat.
  
 
  The online (. PDF) manuals also do a lot of justice to understanding every element
  Of the game.
  
  Take this game online, and it shines. 
  
  I love the huge modding community 
 this game
  Has generated, thereby increasing it lifespan.
  
  The Bottom line is that this game is great! Lovers of strategy games and ancient mythology,
  
 Who dont have this game, should get it immediately. Its absolutely rewarding.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sskkmiller
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is an excellent, Trojan War based, RTS game. It has a great length of maybe 15 
 hours and is a very interesting and sometimes challenging game. The character graphics look kind 
 of boxy which is impressive, especially from the "amazing microsoft" that everyone raves about. 
 The gameplay is smooth but I have yet to try out multiplayer but I have heard good things about 
 it. The maps are great. There are bunches of wild animals, trees, villages, and resources available 
 to you in each map. The game even features 3 different countries to play as through out the story. 
 All in all this is an impressive RTS game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliot_
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2005 3:12 pm PT
Review:  In Portuguese... sorry
  
  Para comear devo dizer que no sou muito adepto de jogos de estratgia, e por acaso este foi o 
 primeiro que joguei, mesmo antes de warcraft, que pessoalmente  o meu favorito.
  Este  um grande jogo, que consegue viciar uma pessoa, at ao final.
  Os grficos para poca, 
 no esto nada mal, me 3D. e tem muitos efeitos interessantes....
  Tem uma jogabilidade muito boa, o que j era em Age of Empire, com poucos melhoramentos!
  O som 
 tambm est muito bom!
  E para quem gosta de mitologia, este  um prato cheio acreditem...
  Eu pessoalmente gostei muito de jogar este jogo!
  Mas tambm no estou acustumado em jogar RTSs 
 por isso no posso dizer grande coisa apenas que no fica mutio atrs de Warcraft 3, mas tambm 
 no consegue ser melhor... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghostgamer05
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:51 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is yet another game from Ensemble studios and Microsofts real-time strategy 
 series. If you played Age of Empires II, then AOM wont be anything completely new. The basic RTS 
 qualities are there. From the economical side the only difference is that you collect food, gold 
 and lumber but not stone. Instead you receive Favour from the gods, which can be obtained in different 
 ways according to which civilization you choose.
  
  From the military side you can train infantry, cavalry, ranged units and sea units, just like in 
 AOE II. The difference is that you can also train mythological units (again they differ according 
 to which civilization you choose) and heroes. There are only 3 civilizations: Greek, Egyptian and 
 Norse, a little bit of a disappointment after the vast selection in AOE II. Though you collect 
 resources, build buildings and fight differently according to civilization, the game remains the 
 same throughout as an RTS based on heroes and monsters. 
  
  Greeks are the standard civilization. It is with them that the campaign begins (which by the way 
 is extremely long but extremely worth it) . Their heroes include the famous Achilles and Agamemnon 
 and their myth units include popular creatures such as Cyclops and hydra. The Greeks have a very 
 balanced civilization. The Greeks gain favour by worshiping at a temple. 
  
  The Egyptians are the second people you meet in the campaign. They have light soldiers but arent 
 very expensive and come in large numbers. The Egyptians are different to the other 2 civilizations. 
 They have very few heroes but one of them (the Pharaoh) has extremely useful abilities, such as 
 empowering buildings as well as units. Their myth units arent that strong went they start off, 
 but like the other civilizations they can be upgraded to become extremely strong yet extremely 
 expensive. The Egyptians gain favour by building monuments and are sort of based on economy.
  
  The Norse are the third to be introduced. They are a very strange civilization, based entirely 
 on military. One of their many strange characteristics (this one is especially weird to AOE II 
 users) is that their villagers can become soldiers and their villagers dont build  their soldiers 
 do! In fact this civilization is based so much on military, that they gain favour by fighting. 
 Theyre myth units include Frost giants, Mountain giants and Fire giants (yes, they like giants) . 
 
  
  But what all three have in common (which is quite new to RTS games) is that each civilization has 
 three major gods: the sort of main one (ex: Zeus for the Greeks) , the evil one (ex: Loki for the 
 Norse) and the odd one out (ex: Isis for the Egyptians) . Then there are the minor gods. During 
 the game, to grow to the next level you must choose one of two minor gods every time you go up 
 a level (heroic age, etc) so in the end you would have worshipped 3 different minor gods. According 
 to which minor god you choose you get certain myth units and upgrades. You even get powers from 
 the gods such as storms, meteors and passageways to the underworld.
  
  After all this you should have noticed that Age of Mythologys main characteristic which makes 
 it stand out from other RTS games is the amount of heroes and myth creatures involved. I personally 
 didnt like the idea of myth units and gods and heroes at first glance, but I loved it. Believe 
 me, try this game out: its worth it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayuran_x
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This game truly is a one of a kind. The graphic is awsome. The waves are really well done. You 
 have different kind of civilization and different kind if gods to choose from. The gods power are 
 awsome. Like the lightning, earthquake, and my favourite the mediar shower. 
  
  Ensemble Studios mixed up the fantasy and real time strategy to make one hell of a game. The mythical 
 creatures and gods are really something worth playing. The online play and off line play is cool. 
 You could download maps and campaigns off the sites if you want to or make up your own. The gamw 
 is awsome I really really recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViktorHannawald
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is a game where you are Greeks, Persian or Egypts and the Norse. You can play 
 a very fun Campaign or just play the Skirmish Mode.
  You are not only having soldiers but also mythological units and heroes.
  
  I think AoM was 
 better than expected. Almost every strategy game I play is either to Easy, Too short or lacking 
 good Features. AoM isn't that. It has everything I would like to see in a Strategy game. Here comes 
 a breakdown in small parts:
  
  Graphics: The Graphics is great. The movement and the looks and everything is just the way I want 
 it.
  
  Gameplay: Great!!! It took me at least 15-20 hours playing through the campaign the first time 
 and then I wanted to do it again on another difficulity level. And when I did'nt want to play campaing 
 there was skirimish mode either online or just against computer AI players.
  
  This game is just amazing and it's one of the best war strategy game.
  The Titans expansion is 
 great I think that the great Titans is too easy to play... What I wanted to say is not that the 
 Expansion pach is bad but Titans is too good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CBThur13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2005 8:17 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty good. I wasn't as hooked as I was with Age of Empires 2 though. I like the 
 Titans those were pretty awesome. Except when they were attacking me, uncool man. I had one big 
 problem with this game though. It takes up 1.5 GB! THAT'S CRAZINESS. I mean come on, Age of Empires 
 2 only took up half a GB and it was more fun and addicting. But oh well, I have survived because 
 it was a good game over all.
  
  Great for Age of Empire fans. Not good for people with small hard drives and cannot afford to use 
 1.5GB on a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fougera
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:36 pm PT
Review:  That is right, Age of Mythology, the next level of domination. In this game you still play in the 
 old times, but you play with the major civilizations of mythology, such as the Greeks, Egyptians, 
 and the Norse people. With each civ, you have three Gods to be ruled under, serving mainly for 
 the sub-God route and to receive certain benefits. Each of the 3 major Gods are major ones on the 
 mythology history, therefore making this game extremely educational while at the same time you 
 can have fun playing it, destroying cities and conquering your enemies. The only thing left to 
 say is, it is about time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 28, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I don't play a ton of games and not too many strategy games, but this one has got me thinking they're 
 more fun in some ways than RPGs (which i thought I preferred) AoM plays quite easily and the game 
 doesn't get in the wary of itself or get tedious like some strategy games do. A strong plot and 
 characters mix three different mytholigical genres in a pretty seemless fashion. The voice overs 
 work well and the script is strong, but not complicated. I had a lot of fun with this and it was 
 easy to pick up again after a few months of not playing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ericktgraziani
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 28, 2005 11:09 am PT
Review:  It was the game that took more attention to me until now, every time that I play it, it seems a 
 new experience and a very grateful one!
  
  When you start to play the game, you fell that it is very different from others RTS games. It is 
 not only the terrific image, but it also puts you inside a fantastic playing game and in its intuitive 
 and imaginary world, you will not stop playing it or if you do, you will always fell that you want 
 it more!
  
  O jogo que mais fixou a minha atenao at hoje, cada vez que jogo  uma prazerosa e nova experincia. 
 Review em PT-BR.
  
  Quando voc comea a jogar Age Of Mythology, voc j sente uma diferena notvel em relao a qualquer 
 outro jogo de RTS. Nao s pela imagem fantstica que te coloca dentro de um incrvel e somente imaginvel 
 mundo, mas pela sua fcil, abrangente e intuitiva jogabilidade, que no vo deixar voc parar de 
 jog-lo, e vai te deixar sempre com um gostinho de quero mais.
  
  
  Introduo:
  Valeu a pena esperar! Os fs da aclamada srie Age of Empires tiveram que aguardar por quase trs 
 anos para conferir a nova obra prima da desenvolvedora Ensemble Studios, mas a espera no foi  
 toa. No final de 2002, a Microsoft enfim lana no mercado o Age of Mythology, com a promessa de 
 um ttulo totalmente revolucionrio para a sua antiga srie AoE, trazendo grficos impressionantes, 
 cenrios picos e uma jogabilidade cheia de novas opes, para levar os games do estilo RTS 3D 
 a um novo patamar.
  E as novidades de AoM comeam pelo enredo, inspirado totalmente na mitologia grega, que serviu 
 como base na criao dos cenrios, personagens, construes, poderes, deuses, alm das unidades 
 mticas. E embora os comandos e controles do jogo tenham se mantido bem parecidos com os da srie 
 Age of Empires, o game traz como principal novidade uma histria muito mais complexa e envolvente 
 do que os seus antecessores, que era um dos principais pontos fracos quando o game era comparado 
 aos seus concorrentes, como a srie WarCraft. Age of Mythology apresenta um enredo bastante original 
 que segura o interesse do jogador para cumprir todas as campanhas single-player, do incio ao fim, 
 e que acaba o levando tambm para o modo multiplayer.
  
  
  
  Jogabilidade:
  Os jogadores dos ltimos games da srie AoE certamente se sentiro  vontade quanto a jogabilidade 
 oferecida neste novo game da Ensemble. Embora ele traga algumas novidades e mudanas, os fs da 
 srie que antecede o Age of Mythology podem comear a disputar a campanha sem passar pelo tutorial 
 que no devem encontrar dificuldades para entender todos os comandos do game. J para os iniciantes 
 que simplesmente no conhecem a fundo a srie Age of Empires, vale a pena iniciar pelo tutorial, 
 que ir lhe ensinar os primeiros passos e automaticamente o jogador ser inserido no incio da 
 disputa das 32 misses disponveis no modo campanha.
  Como dissemos na introduo, a grande novidade em relao a srie AoE  o tema mitolgico. Esta 
 mudana inseriu uma gama de novidades na jogabilidade, que vo desde uma nova classe de recursos 
 para ser administrado  que  a proteo de sua civilizao, usada realizar upgrades e para treinar 
 unidades mticas  chegando at a possibilidade da escolha de qual deus voc ir louvar na passagem 
 para a prxima era (ou idade) , que ir determinar diferentes opes de novas unidades, poderes 
 divinos e melhorias em seu exrcito. A utilizao dos poderes divinos  feita da seguinte forma: 
 quando a partida se inicia, voc j possui geralmente de um a trs poderes para utilizar (dependendo 
 da era em que voc comea e da civilizao em que est comandando) , e com a passagem para as prximas 
 idades (so quatro no total: Idade Arcaica, Clssica, Herica e Mtica) , voc poder ganhar novos 
 poderes, dependendo de qual deus menor escolheu louvar, sendo que cada idade lhe permite escolher 
 entre dois deuses menores para ser o seu protetor, a quem suas unidades iro venerar. Porm, 
 existem dois tipos de poderes, os poderes que ajudam o seu exrcito (como o que melhora os soldados 
 de uma determinada rea com um revestimento de ouro, ou o que faz todos os seus aldees recolherem 
 ouro mais rapidamente, ou ainda o que melhora o ataque de seu exrcito) ou, do outro lado, os poderes 
 que causam danos ao exrcito ou regio escolhida, e que em geral so os mais interessantes (como 
 o que provoca uma chuva de meteoros, o que no permite que unidades sejam treinadas ou o que transforma 
 as unidades inimigas em porcos) . Estes poderes ainda podem ser divididos entre os que possuem efeito 
 permanente, isto , depois que so acionados duram at o final da partida ou at que a unidade 
 em que ele foi aplicado morra, ou os poderes com efeitos passageiros (que so a grande maioria) 
 que duram apenas por um determinado perodo e depois no fazem mais efeitos.  importante ressaltar 
 que cada efeito s poder ser utilizado uma nica vez por partida e que os efeitos que causam danos 
 ao exrcito inimigo (como o que provoca um furaco, por exemplo) tambm podem atingir as suas unidades 
 se elas estiverem localizadas na rea escolhida para onde ele ser aplicado.
  Por mais que o game traga muitas semelhanas visuais e at nos comandos em relao a srie Age 
 of Empires, existem muitas diferenas que valem ser relatadas. Para comear, os recursos so divididos 
 em quatro categorias  Alimento, Madeira, Ouro e Proteo  no fazendo parte, desta forma, o recurso 
 de pedra como na srie passada, e tendo como novidade a Proteo, conforme citado anteriormente. 
 Outra mudana bastante significativa foi em relao ao nmero mximo da populao de seu exrcito, 
 que na srie AoE era pr-definida antes do game comear, e para alcanar o limite era s construir 
 as casas ou castelos at chegar ao nmero mximo. A mudana em AoM  que agora existe uma limitao 
 para se construir no mximo 10 casas, e aps este limite s  possvel aumentar a populao construindo 
 novos centros de cidades, que tambm so limitados a serem construdos apenas em assentamentos 
 pr-marcados no mapa, e no mais pode ser construdo em qualquer lugar e na quantidade em que quiser. 
 Este fator  de extrema importncia, pois na grande maioria dos mapas acaba-se tornando essencial 
 a explorao e dominao de outras regies do mapa, para poder construir mais centros das cidades 
 nos assentamentos existentes, aumentando assim o limite populacional de seu exrcito.
  Alm dos deuses e das unidades mticas, o Age of Mythology oferece uma outra classe de unidades 
 especiais que so os heris. Os heris esto sempre presentes nas fases da campanha, eles no podem 
 ser criados por nenhuma edificao, mas tambm no podem ser mortos em combate e recuperam os danos 
 com o tempo. Quando um heri  ferido mortalmente em combate (isto , acaba a sua energia) , eles 
 ficam cados no cho at que voc domine a regio onde ele se encontra, e neste momento ele volta 
 a viver e comea a recuperar a sua energia. Os heris possuem uma fora maior de ataque contra 
 as unidades mticas em relao s unidades normais, alm de possurem uma caracterstica especial 
 que pode ser tanto de ataque, como de cura ou para incentivar as outras unidades melhorando a fora 
 de ataque.
  Diferentemente do ltimo pacote de expanso lanado para a srie AoE, The Conquerors, que trazia 
 quase duas dezenas de civilizaes diferentes (embora muitas das caractersticas se pareciam de 
 uma civilizao para a outra) , a Ensemble resolveu criar apenas trs civilizaes do AoM, optando 
 por trabalhar para oferecer um maior nmero de particularidades e detalhes sobre cada uma. So 
 elas, as civilizaes: Grega, Egpcia e Nrdica  embora cada uma delas possam ser classificadas 
 em mais trs sub-divises, de acordo com o deus venerado por elas. Cada uma traz diferenas realmente 
 significativas e que precisam ser trabalhadas de maneiras diferentes para conseguir um melhor aproveitamento 
 dos recursos e uma fora maior no ataque. As particularidades de cada civilizao devem ser levadas 
 em conta na hora de construir a sua estratgia, pois elas so essenciais para conseguir expandir 
 e melhorar o seu exrcito mais rapidamente. S para citarmos algumas das diferenas entre as civilizaes, 
 podemos tomar como exemplo a forma de coleta de recursos, em que os Gregos tem a vantagem de poder 
 armazenar o ouro e a madeira em um mesmo local, podendo economizar uma construo se a estrutura 
 conseguir ficar localizada em um ponto acessvel aos dois recursos; e em contra-partida os Nrdicos 
 no possuem construes de armazenamento, mas podem coletar qualquer recurso entre alimento, madeira 
 e ouro em carros-de-boi, podendo contar tambm com uma unidade especial para coletar ouro (os anes) . 
 Outro ponto bastante distinto entre as trs civilizaes  a maneira como conseguir proteo: os 
 Gregos recebem proteo colocando seus aldees para rezar nos templos, os Egpcios ganham construindo 
 monumento aos deuses, enquanto que os Nrdicos recebem proteo ao entrarem em uma batalha.
  A inteligncia artificial e os nveis de dificuldade tambm esto muito bem equilibrados, oferecendo 
 um bom nvel de desafio para agradar todos os tipos de jogadores. No modo Campanha, existem quatro 
 nveis de dificuldades, que podem ser alterados no incio de cada fase, so eles: Fcil, Mdio, 
 Difcil e Tit. O nvel Fcil  indicado somente para quem no conhece nada do estilo ou nunca 
 jogou os games da srie Age of Empires, pois o grau de dificuldade no requer muito esforo ou 
 conhecimento de ttica de combate pelo jogador. Para os fs do estilo ou os que j tinham alguma 
 experincia nos ttulos de AoE,  possvel comear perfeitamente no nvel mdio e quando se sentir 
  vontade com as novidades do game, j se pode passar para o nvel Difcil, para aumentar o desafio 
 e melhorar as suas tcnicas de ataque e defesa. Apenas depois de j estar dominando o nvel Difcil 
  que voc poder enfrentar o nvel mximo  Tit  pois realmente ele traz um grau de altssima 
 qualidade para os adversrios do mapa, necessitando tambm de muito mais tempo (e no estamos falando 
 de minutos, mas sim horas) para conseguir vencer neste nvel. A IA das partidas contra o computador 
 tambm mostra uma qualidade bastante apurada, encontrando apenas alguns pontos por menores que 
 no trabalham to bem quanto se esperava, mas boa parte deles j est sendo melhorada nos patches 
 que esto sendo liberados e podem ser instalados automaticamente pelo auto-update incluso no 
 game. Ainda assim, aqueles velhos problemas de ficar com as unidades presas no meio das construes 
 ou ficar sem reagir corretamente enquanto seus inimigos o atacam esto quase totalmente corrigidos, 
 embora ainda existam algumas pequenas excees que pudemos constatar.
  O enredo trazido no modo campanha  simplesmente fantstico. Certamente um dos melhores j contados 
 por um game do estilo estratgia em tempo real, que tem incio na cidade mitolgica de Atlntida, 
 onde habita uma civilizao grega que venera o deus Posidon, e que sofre um ataque de um grupo 
 que tem como lder um heri que busca libertar um deus do mundo inferior para destruir Atlntida. 
 Para evitar que isso acontea e salvar o seu povo, o heri Arkantos ter que percorrer por mais 
 de 30 misses, com uma histria completamente imersiva e repleta de batalhas picas, em uma histria 
 que envolve traies e novos descobrimentos. O mais interessante  que no decorrer da campanha 
 voc acabar se juntando primeiramente com os egpcios e depois com os nrdicos, e  a que voc 
 ir comandar as outras civilizaes alm da inicial que  a grega, o que se difere da maioria dos 
 jogos deste gnero, que costumam criar uma histria em que as diferentes civilizaes ou raas 
 so inimigas, e voc s pode jogar cada uma delas nas misses contra as outras.
  Alm do modo campanha,  possvel disputar uma partida simples contra at 11 exrcitos controlados 
 pelo computador (podendo ser aliados ou inimigos, de acordo com a sua escolha) , que  praticamente 
 igual ao disputar uma partida em multiplayer contra outros jogadores, lhe permitindo escolher desde 
 o mapa, civilizao e divindade primria, como tambm a condio de vitria, os times e o modo 
 de viso no mapa. Este modo  uma das melhores maneiras de treinar antes de se arriscar nas partidas 
 em multiplayer, onde voc poder encontrar jogadores muito mais experientes e com um alto grau 
 de dificuldade.
  Para finalizar, fica o nosso destaque pela qualidade impecvel do completo manual, lanado totalmente 
 em portugus pela Microsoft, e tambm para o mapa que acompanha o game apresentando de maneira 
 bem detalhada e clara todas as opes de upgrades e unidades oferecidas em cada idade de acordo 
 com cada deus primrio das trs civilizaes, alm de um quadro com todas as construes e suas 
 relaes de requerimentos. Estes detalhes certamente incentivam os jogadores a adquirirem a verso 
 original, e mostra o respeito pela empresa com o pblico brasileiro.
  
  
  
  udio:
  A Microsoft tambm tomou uma atitude bastante feliz em relao ao udio do game, que foi a de dublar 
 apenas as vozes das animaes entre as fases do jogo que ajudam o jogador a entender toda a histria 
 que se passa, porm mantendo as vozes originais em ingls das unidades durante as partidas, para 
 no perder o timo trabalho feito originalmente que certamente no poderia ser mantido se fossem 
 dubladas no Brasil, acarretando naquela tradicionalmente irritante e mal realizada dublagem sempre 
 que se fosse dar alguma ordem s suas unidades. A qualidade da dublagem das animaes ficou bastante 
 aceitvel, mas em alguns momentos  possvel notar certas entonaes de vozes que no caram muito 
 bem para o contexto, assim como alguns sotaques dados aos heris das civilizaes egpcias e nrdicas 
 que acabaram ficando um pouco artificiais. Ainda assim,  louvvel o trabalho dispensado pela Microsoft 
 para ter lanado o Age of Mythology com as animaes dubladas para o portugus, que so essenciais 
 para um melhor entendimento da histria para todos aqueles que no possuem fluncia na lngua inglesa.
 
  Continuando, as msicas e efeitos sonoros do game so um show  parte, principalmente as msicas 
 de fundo que tocam sempre que o seu exrcito comea a atacar o centro da cidade ou a fortaleza 
 inimiga, oferecendo um clima bastante propcio, ajudando a criar o clima pico das batalhas, assim 
 como os efeitos dos poderes divinos, como uma chuva de meteoros destruindo as construes inimigas.
 
  
  MultiPlayer:
  O Age of Mythology permite que se realize partidas em multiplayer com at 12 jogadores via rede 
 ou online pela Internet. Nas partidas pela Internet, existem duas possibilidades, uma partida 1x1 
 por IP Direto ou uma partida neste formato ou com mais jogadores pelo sistema Ensemble Studios 
 Online (ESO) , que traz algumas novidades para os que j era acostumados com o AoE.
  Para jogar pelo sistema da ESO  preciso que o jogador possua uma conta no sistema da Ensemble, 
 mas para quem no tem  possvel criar uma nova conta na hora. Tendo os dados de sua conta,  s 
 se logar e escolher entre uma partida de incio rpido (no qual voc escolhe as caractersticas 
 bsicas da partida que deseja disputar, e o sistema encontra um ou mais jogadores que no momento 
 procuram pelo mesmo tipo de jogo que voc e automaticamente inicia a partida) ou os Jogos ESO Avanados 
 (que neste caso deixa a seu critrio escolher com qual (is) jogador (es) voc ir jogar, recomendada 
 para quando se for jogar com um grupo de amigos, alm de oferecer uma sala de bate-papo) .
  As opes de configurao para as partidas em multiplayer so praticamente as mesmas do que a de 
 uma partida simples de mapa-aleatrio para single-player, permitindo a escolha do mapa, modo de 
 vitria, visibilidade do mapa, tamanho do mapa, civilizao e deus primrio, entre outras.
  
  
  
  Grficos:
  O aprimoramento grfico era uma das maiores promessas durante o desenvolvimento 
 de AoM, que prometia uma qualidade grfica em 3D to boa quanto ou ainda superior aos elogiados 
 grficos de WarCraft 3. E realmente a beleza grfica conseguida pela Ensemble no deve ter decepcionado 
 ningum, pois o visual dos cenrios e das batalhas, incluindo todos os detalhes, ficaram simplesmente 
 um arraso.
  Os grficos esto cheios de detalhes, reproduzindo com perfeio os rastros quando voc anda sob 
 a neve ou atravessa um trecho com gua, assim como as batalhas que acontecem em terra e reproduzem 
 um efeito de poeira se levantando, dependendo da quantidade de unidades que esto envolvidas na 
 disputa e a fora de cada uma delas. Os poderes divinos, como raio, chuva de meteoros, terremoto 
 e tornado, tambm ganharam efeitos em 3D surpreendentes, causando exploses, fogo e outros efeitos 
 bastante realistas.
  E o detalhamento grfico no pra por a: quando uma unidade  morta na gua, surge uma mancha 
 de sangue, assim como quando um Minotauro, um Ciclope ou qualquer outra unidade mitolgica lana 
 seu inimigo contra uma floresta ou um conjunto de rvores, os troncos so arrancados da terra pela 
 coliso, oferecendo uma cena bastante realista.
  S que para usufruir de todos esses efeitos em AoM, voc precisar de uma mquina bastante atual, 
 pois o game  realmente pesado! Alm de um processador acima de 1 GHz e pelo menos 256 megas de 
 memria RAM,  altamente aconselhvel uma placa de vdeo da linha GeForce 3 ou Radeon 8500 para 
 cima com 64 Mb de memria ou mais, pois caso contrrio voc ter que deixar os grficos com a qualidade 
 mnima ou sofrer com a lentido e travadas durante a partida.
  Alm da sua belssima qualidade visual, o game traz dois novos recursos, que so o controle de 
 Zoom para aproximao e afastamento do cenrio (controlados pelas teclas "+" e "-") , alm da funo 
 de rotao da tela, embora esta opo no seja descrita no manual e sua utilizao  um tanto quanto 
 complexa: primeiro  preciso ativar a opo de rotacionar o ngulo de viso nas configuraes do 
 jogo, em seguida, para ativar a sua utilizao durante as partidas, deve-se apertar as teclas "Alt" 
 + "C" e ento a rotao da tela pode ser controlada pelo boto de rolagem do mouse. Para voltar 
 ao ngulo de viso original, basta novamente acionar as teclas "Alt" + "C". Estas opes no possuem 
 tanta utilidade durante os combates, j que aproximar ou rotacionar o cenrio pode acabar diminuindo 
 o seu campo de viso, atrapalhando na visualizao das unidades inimigas. Porm, para visualizar 
 melhor o cenrio e alguns efeitos, como a exploso causada por poderes divinos, estes recursos 
 permitem acompanhar tudo dos melhores ngulos e nos mnimos detalhes, um verdadeiro show visual.
 
  
  
  
  Concluso:
  Grficos de encher os olhos, enredo altamente imersivo, batalhas picas, timos nveis de desafios, 
 campanha envolvente e uma excelente gama de opes no modo multiplayer. Precisa falar mais alguma 
 coisa? Se voc j era f da srie Age of Empires ou do estilo estratgia em tempo real e ainda 
 no experimentou o Age of Mythology est mais do que na hora de correr atrs e comear a jogar 
 ainda HOJE! Se voc nunca jogou AoE ou no  muito f do estilo, no poderia haver um ttulo melhor 
 para comear, pois AoM oferece uma excelente gama de recursos e opes que o torna um dos melhor 
 games do estilo RTS na histria.
   um game para se passar horas, dias e at meses jogando, sem dar chance para se enjoar ou de chegar 
 num limite que no se tem mais nada para fazer. Mesmo depois de completar todas as misses da campanha 
 e de j estar dominando o modo mais difcil de jogo, sempre h as partidas multiplayer pela Internet, 
 que oferecem um novo desafio a cada partida.
  Ainda vale o destaque pela verso totalmente em portugus lanada no Brasil pela Microsoft, que 
 descarta qualquer problema que o jogador poderia ter de no entender a histria ou se complicar 
 com os comandos do jogo, fazendo de Age of Mythology um show  parte.
  E que Posidon nos acompanhe... 
  
  
  
  
  
  Prs x Contras
  Prs Contras
  - Trouxe 
 boas novidades na jogabilidade;
  - Totalmente em portugus;
  - Belssimos visuais;
  - Batalhas picas;
  - Excelentes opes para se jogar tanto em single como em multiplayer;
 
  - Enredo muito bem trabalhado.
  
  - Dublagem das animaes no muito convincentes;
  - Algumas falhas na IA, embora sejam poucas;
  - Traduo peca em alguns momentos.
  Ranking
 
  Notas:
  
  - Grficos: 19
  - Som: 17
  - Jogabilidade: 19
  - Enredo: 20
  - IA: 18
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuardianOfIsis
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 23, 2005 10:55 am PT
Review:  I will take myself back to the winter of 2002-2003, when I first laid my hands on Age of Mythology. 
 Once having played Age of Empires, I thought: "What the heck, I'll give this game a try." Thank 
 God I thought that. Age of Mythology was revolutionary for its time and is still most likeable 
 today.
  
  The story is fantasy; it tells of Arkantos, an Atlantean warrior, who gets sent to Troy in the 
 beginning of the campaign, but later finds out he has to stop a conspiracy involving Kronos, Poseidon 
 and a cyclops named Gargarensis. The campaign exists out of 3 small maps to teach you the controls 
 and continues with the story of Arkantos in the 32-level counting "Fall of the Trident". If I were 
 to only describe the campaign with one word, it would be: brilliant. The value is also high, as 
 it doesn't follow the core of the story completely. It features some fun things to do, like for 
 example bringing down the Trojan Gate or gathering the pieces to the body of Osiris.
  
  Age of Mythology first takes the Age of-franchise into 3D. You can build an army of about 100 soldiers 
 in a random map. I mean, create an army of 100 soldiers, mythical beasts, villagers and siege. 
 That's right: mythical beasts. The new feature of Age of Mythology are the myth units you can make. 
 These include the Centaur, the Phoenix, the Fire Giant and many, many more. You can play as 3 cultures: 
 Greek, Egyptian and Norse. Each culture has its own specialties (f. e. the Greeks having strong, 
 but expensive units.) The most interesting aspect of the game is how, as in every Age game, you 
 need to run a good economy before training your army.
  
  The sounds of the game are really good. A lot of units have their own voices and they talk ancient 
 Greek or Egyptian or Norse. It isn't English; which I find most original. It has a lot of different 
 music too. Around 30 different tracks are included in the game. Another thing which fascinates 
 me in the game, is the Editor. The ability to create your own maps, your own campaigns, your own 
 world. That's a great feature. If you go to an AoM download community, you can even find expansions 
 to this Editor, which allow you to work twice as fast.
  
  I will now discuss some lesser points in the game. For one, the game works by the principal of: 
 Infantry beats cavalry, while cavalry beats archers and archers beat infantry. You might wonder 
 what exactly I find negative? The fact that a large War Elephant (counted as cavalry) can nearly 
 get his ass whooped by a Hoplite. Also, the maps made by Ensemble Studios aren't so great, graphically 
 speaking. I myself have become a mapper in the community of AoM and nearly everyone agrees with 
 that statement. I myself can make maps 3 times as impressive as the ones in the original campaign. 
 However, that's nit-picking, as the genre didn't know any of that impressive map-building yet.
 
  
  Overall: One of my favourite games and definitely my favourite RTS for PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksrocker99
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 20, 2005 10:36 pm PT
Review:  y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y 
 y y e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e ee e e e ee e e e ee e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e 
 e e e e e e e e e e ee e e e e e e e e e e ee
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encimedes
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 18, 2005 12:27 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  Beautiful enviremonts and units, the music just is amazing, has some intresting strategic dephts 
 whem choosing gods.
  
  The bad:
  Does not capture the historical feel as Aoe 2 did, because there is only 3 Civilizations (and they 
 not that diffrent) it cuts in the game's value alot, the battles are too small, has nothing really 
 new and fresh (the gods are just factions that we saw also in Kohan) , it's not faithful to history 
 and myhtology (egypten pirates invade Atlantis that is just in front spain, though atlantis was 
 according to Apleton 11,000 years ago and egypt founded befoe 4000-5000 years ago) .
  
  Eventually, it doesn't recommended for any Aoe 2 fan or hystorical and mytholigy fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolksWagen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 22, 2005 11:43 am PT
Review:  Wow... What can I say? AoM has to be one of the funnest games I have ever played... Ever. It is 
 so godly, it is SO much better than any Age game, for many reasons. As you may know, AoM is a Real-Time 
 Strategy game, just like it's preludes. I can't honestly say it's better than WCIII, because I 
 believe they are two totally different games. However, it doesn't change the fact that is one of 
 the greatest RTS games ever. 
  
  Gameplay - 10 
  Can I put this in one word? Yes? Thank you. 
  Amazing. I believe the gods themselves help Ensemble 
 Studios create this game. There are many different gameplay modes, it's simply amazing. Here are 
 a few of them: 
  
  Supremacy: The normal style game in AoM. Objective is to destroy the enemy fully, or build a wonder 
 (A very expensive monument) . 
  
  Conquest: Basically, the same thing as Supremacy, the only difference is that you HAVE to destroy 
 the enemy, building a wonder does NOT win you the game. 
  
  Deathmatch: A VERY fun mode. In this mode, you start out with an insane amount of resources, and 
 you get every upgrade automatically as you advance among the 4 ages (Archaic, Classical, Heroic, 
 and Mythic) . Basic objective is to be the one to overcome the enemy, and keep pumping out your 
 troops trying to hold, as well as be the quickest. I believe this mode, depends on speed, alot. 
 
  
  Another great feature to this game, is the ability to create your own maps. In these maps you can 
 also create your own scenario, and play with it online, with anyone! 
  
  Graphics - 9 
  The graphics are outstanding. Very realistic looking, and very detailed, I love it. There is also 
 the feature of Zooming in and out so the detail will increase. Another thing is the ability to 
 rotate the camera, so you can see everything and everywhere. 
  Another extent to this, is seeing the footprints on the ground, the waves in the water, and the 
 lighting effects, just simply godly. 
  
  Sound & Music - 10 
  Another top-notch feature in this game. The sound effects in this game were used VERY adroitly. 
 The sound of troops marching gets you pumped before a fight. As well as when you play online, you 
 can taunt your opponents with 35+ taunts. Along with the ability to import your own. 
  
  The music as well, was done amazingly. There are many types of music in this game, and in different 
 situations, they will be played. For instance, if you are attacking an enemy Town Center, a different 
 type of battle music will play, but if you are just in a normal battle, there will be a different 
 track that is played. 
  And like most computer games, if you don't like the in-game music, you can always import your own. 
 :) 
  
  Replayability -10 
  Just great. Online play is so fun, you never wanna quit. You just want to keep playing and try 
 to earn the highest score. While doing this, your stats are ALWAYS recorded, every single detail 
 is. So you can check up on the top players, and see how they compete, and improve your skills that 
 way. 
  
  Not only online play, but also Single Player Story Mode. It is an amazing story, something fit 
 for a Final Fantasy if you ask me. With over 30 missions, you will always wanna play again, maybe 
 raising the difficulty. 
  
  Another offline mode is the Random Map Mode. Where you choose your settings, and play against a 
 computer. You choose all the settings you want, so you can test all of the different options. With 
 3 civilizations, each holding 3 major gods, and many minor gods, you can try to test with each 
 and see who you are the best with. 
  
  Online Play - 8 
  ESO is a great online system to play on. It started out with a few bugs here and there, but they 
 quickly got them repaired with new updates, and I haven't had a problem since. If you wanna go 
 online and play, you will have no problem in doing it, it is VERY fast and exciting. 
  
  Strategic Variation -10 
  How can I say it? There is SO MANY ways you can go about while playing 
 this game. With the option of choosing from 9 different gods, there is basically an infinite amount 
 of strategies you can go about to win. There are some common strategies to this game, but almost 
 everytime I play, I run into something new. Here are a few examples: 
  
  Fast Heroic: Fast Heroic (FH) is usually done with Ra (Egyptian God) , it is when the player rushes 
 to the third age, and rushes his enemy quickly, focusing entirely on advancing quickly. The empowerment 
 of the Priests/Pharaohs help the Egyptians advance alot quicker, if done properly. 
  
  Expansionism: Very common strategy. Most every player has this strategy used in some way or another. 
 It is when the player goes out building and expanding his empire throughout the whole map, instead 
 of building it all in his base. 
  
  Slave and Superhuman: This is usually done with teams, 2 on 2. It's when one of the player gathers 
 resources and gives whatever he has to the other. While the other focuses on advancing and has 
 a super-large army compared to his enemies. 
  
  Thor Dwarf Strategy: This is used as a Economy boost for the Norse god Thor. His dwarfs gather 
 resources faster than any of the other dwarfs in the Norse Civilization. Most players use only 
 dwarfs to gather their resources, and it is a special benefit. 
  
  There are ALOT more strategies that you can go about, or you could make your own. Do what you feel 
 the best with. 
  
  Overall - 10 
  This game is basically all that and a bag of chips (Corny, yes I know :P) . But seriously, any RTS 
 players who doesn't have this game, I now declare legally insane. It is SO much fun, and I can 
 guarantee you will be addicted within a week. 
  
  You ask to rent or buy? You're crazy, get out of that chair and run to your nearest dealer and 
 buy this great game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sampas88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 8, 2005 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Your Civilization has survived through the Ages of Empires and Kings. Now with Age of Mythology 
 you'll engage your Human Civilization in the ultimate challenge against the gods, Mythological 
 Creatures and Heroes of Ancient Mythology. Transport to a time when heroes did battle with monsters 
 of legend, and the gods intervened in the affairs of mortal men.
  
  
  Using familiar elements of classical mythology, Age of Mythology casts players as ancient Greeks, 
 the Norse and Egyptians. Call upon the mighty powers of gods such as Zeus to rain down lightning 
 bolts on unsuspecting enemies. Age of Mythology also incorporates Ensemble Studios' trademark features 
 from previous Age of Empires games, including a compelling economic model, a massive army and battle 
 system, unequaled artificial intelligence, random maps, intuitive gameplay and extreme attention 
 to detail.
  
  Wage war using human armies and diplomacy, progress through development ages, enhance military 
 and economic performance with improvements, and manage economics through resource gathering and 
 trade. Mythology enters the mix when players call upon the gods to act on their behalf or reinforce 
 their armies with more than 20 mythological creatures.
  
  Age of Mythology's 3-D engine delivers impressive graphical detail in a fully 3-D environment, 
 including realistic terrain and lighting adjusted to produce the look of any time of day. In-game 
 cinematics create a seamless, story-based and character-driven campaign. In addition, the game 
 features incredible special effects with astonishing levels of detail, including fluid ocean waves, 
 waterspouts, infernos, lava, tornadoes, earthquakes and smoke.
  
  
  Installation, Settings and Loading Speeds
  
  Age Of Mythology shipped on 2 CD's but the installation 
 doesn't really take long at all. The game also installs a new version of Microsoft XML which is 
 used for the help menus in the game. There are a number of settings that can be changed in the 
 game from resolutions and sound to adding footprints for your armies. The game doesn't take long 
 to load up and the missions are pretty fast to load too, no worries about sitting around waiting 
 for too long here.
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  If you have ever played Age Of Empires on the PC you will know what Age Of Mythology is going to 
 be like, while graphically it has changed quite a bit, the same great gameplay is here. The main 
 changes have been made in terms of refining features, and adding little tweaks to what was already 
 an excellent title.
  
  The basic premise of the game is almost identical to Age Of Empires. As one of the game heroes 
 "Arkantos" you must build towns, gather all of the resources such as Gold, Wood and food to build 
 up armies and weapons to defeat your enemies. The main change here is that while Age Of Empires 
 dealt with a slightly more realistic side of history, Age Of Mythology, as the title suggests, 
 switches to takes of mythological legend with the player taking control of Greek, Egyptian and 
 Norse armies.
  
  As mentioned earlier on, the single player game lets you take the part of Arkantos one of the leaders 
 of Atlantis. The game begins with Arkantos having a rather worrying dream and then having to return 
 home to save his home city of Troy from enemy armies. While I don't want to give too much of the 
 story away, there are over 30 missions spanning the single player game with Arkantos soon leaving 
 his home of Troy and traveling to the Nile and Scandanavia during the game. The improvements in 
 the single player story over Age Of Empires are better than I expected, they help to make the story 
 far more interesting and hold you to the game until you complete it, although I do admit that I 
 was worried at first as it takes a few missions before the story really starts to heat up.
  
  A few more differences over other real time strategy titles are that the game no longer requires 
 you to basically kill everyone else on the map. Sometimes you are escorting people from one part 
 of the map to another, or freeing prisoners and claiming ancient relics. Age of Mythology also 
 incorporates god powers into the game. There are various different gods that you are under each 
 has a special power than can only be used once during a mission such as healing a group of your 
 men, this can really add some good strategy to the title.
  
  The controls in the game are pretty simple. There are new additions to the Age series added, such 
 as various banners that are at the top of the screen which help you sort out the groups you have 
 made, nothing amazing mind you, but I can't count the number of times I have pressed the wrong 
 number on my keyboard when trying to select a group to put into action during an attack because 
 I felt my eyes couldn't leave the monitor.
  
  The game doesn't end with just a single player game though, there are options for random maps via 
 a skirmish mode, a pretty good editor and an excellent multiplayer side which I have played a number 
 of times myself, it is very good and well worth trying out.
  
  
  Graphics & Sound
  
  One of the main changes you will notice over the other Age Of Empires titles is the new 3D graphic 
 engine, it makes a great difference to the game's looks but thankfully doesn't change the way the 
 game is played. The closest game I can compare Age Of Mythology to is the equally excellent Warcraft 
 3 looks wise, while I don't think it quite matches Warcraft, it does come very close. The animation 
 of all the characters/troops in the game is excellent, and when you consider how many can be on 
 the screen at one time it is quite an achievement.
  
  Another nice touch is that, depending on who you are played as you get a different interface for 
 each culture like Egyptian with a sandy effect. There is a lot of detail to the many characters 
 in the game like the Cyclopses etc, each has different animations and little details that really 
 make a difference. The only slight problem I have come across is some slow down when moving around 
 the map, nothing major though and it doesn't happen all the time.
  
  Final Comments
  
  I highly recommended getting Age Of Mythology, it will appeal to most real time strategy fans and 
 fans of the original series. While there isn't a great deal of innovation over the old series, 
 there are lots of little tweaks and improvements and the new 3D engine makes the game a lot better 
 to look at.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mYTH_2k4
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 3, 2005 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The success of Age of Kings and The Conquerors expansion steeply increased the level of expectation 
 people had from Ensemble Studios. So when AoM was announced, people began to wonder whether this 
 radically different approach to RTS could reach the heights of the previous Age games. Well...... 
 the guys at ES did it again!!! 
  
  AoM adds the Mythological element to RTS gameplay while still maintaining the familiarity of the 
 Age of Empires series. The game features God Powers, Myth Units, Heroes and three different cultures: 
 the Greeks, the Egyptians and the Norse...... each praising their own Gods and having their strengths 
 and weaknesses.
  
  The basic gameplay is quite similar to the previous Age games. The resources that have to be managed 
 are Food, Gold, Wood and Favour (Replaces Stone) . Favour is gained by pleasing the gods and the 
 different cultures have different ways of doing that. In AoM, instead of only choosing your culture...... 
 you chose a Major God as well!! Each culture has three Major Gods (eg. Greeks have: Zeus, Poseidon 
 and Hades) and each Major God has his/her set of Minor Gods as well!! You start a typical Random 
 Map game in the Archaic age. Before you advance to the next age (Classical) you need to make a 
 choice between two Minor Gods. Each Minor God has his/her unique God Power, Myth Unit (s) and Civilization 
 Benefits and Upgrades so you'll have to make some wise choices. This method of age advance is followed 
 in the next two ages as well: the Heroic Age and the glorious Mythic Age. As you advance you get 
 more and more deadlier Myth Units (like the Avenger and Mountain Giant) and even deadlier God Powers (like 
 Meteor Shower and Earthquake) . Unlike the previous Age games, you can only built your Town Centre 
 on 'Settlements' and your Farms provide you with Infinite Food!!!!!! The gaemplay mode includes 
 Conquest, Deathmatch and Lightning and the AI opponent can be aggresive, defensive or a combination 
 of both.
  
  Short description of the Cultures:
  
  Greeks: The Major Gods are: Zeus, Poseidon and Hades. The gameplay of the Greeks is very similar 
 to the Civs. of the previos Age games. They collect Favour by praying at the Temple with the villagers. 
 Although the Greeks have only four heroes available to them (one for each age) , their heroes are 
 extremely powerful. The most devastating God Powers available to the Greeks is Lightning Storm 
 and Earthquake.
  
  Egyptians: The Major Gods are: Ra, Isis and Set. The Egyptians are highly dependent no Gold but 
 all their drop off buildings are available free of cost. They collect Favour by building monuments. 
 The Egyptian hero is the Pharoah: A highly powerful ranged unit that can empower buildings to make 
 them work faster. The other hero unit available to them is the Priest. The most devastating God 
 Powers available to them is the Meteor Shower and Tornado.
  
  Norse: The Major Gods are: Odin, Thor and Loki. The Norse gameplay is very unique. They have two 
 villager units: the Gatherer which is proficient at collecting Food and Wood and the Dwarf, proficient 
 in Gold mining. The Norse villagers cannot build buildings, instead their infantry do that job 
 which makes them efficient Raiders. The Norse villagers drop off their resources in mobile ox-carts! 
 The Norse collect Favour by engaing in warfare or hunting for food. The only hero available to 
 them is the Hersir. The most devastating God Powers available to them is Ragnarok (turns all your 
 villagers into Uber Ragnarok heroes) and Nidhogg (Summons the Dragon Nidhogg: the most powerful 
 unit in the game) .
  
  The Single player campaign is very well done. The storyline is very engrossing and the 30+ scenarios 
 in the campaign ensure hours of Single Player fun. The Random map feature ensures infinite replayability 
 after you have completed the campaign. As far as the Multiplayer mode goes, the ESO matchmaking 
 feature is excellent and your gaming experience is incomplete without trying it out. The visuals 
 are very well done and the in-game cinematics are just awesome. The Soundtrack blends perfectly 
 with the gameplay and gets intense during Major Battles.
  
  This is truly one of the most spectacular RTS's ever made!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erickboy
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 1, 2005 7:20 pm PT
Review:  --I thought this was another AOE ripoff, and basicaly it is, but there are 3 civilizations only, 
 each one with 3 governing gods that you can choose from, making that 9 different civilizations, 
 each specializing in something, for example, if you chose the greeeks and your god is Zeus then 
 you will get the power of infantry, and a unique unit that excells at infantry combat. and so on.
 
  --Graphics are way better than AOEII, and the game forces you to place town centers only in designated 
 areas, so the gameplay is a little offensive and fast pace, you have your basic resources but you 
 also have to build temples to pray to your gods, thats how you buy special units that your god 
 gives you.
  --All in all is a good ripoff, with few interesting gamplay twists, the single player campaign, 
 is a bit rushed but you get to play with 3 civilizations.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkymonkey888
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2005 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing this game. It game me a good sense of the past and how the combat is. 
 The units are cool and look great. Some of the ideas are pretty sweet too.
  Ive played online and had a blast too. The campaign is fun and has a good story that takes you 
 to Greece then Egypt then The North. You can also download different maps and campaigns from lots 
 of web sites and even create your own. It also has lots of information about the units and gives 
 you a little history lesson without it taking away the expirence. I highly recommend this to any 
 RTS fan out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 13, 2005 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is one of these games I completely missed on it's release.
  On the look for a new RTS (needed a alternative to the modern setting of Generals) I spotted this 
 game here and after reading all this positive reviews I thought this must be the game I'm looking 
 for.
  Unfortunately it's not and now I tell you why.
  Back in those days when Age of Empires was brand new it was on of the best RTS games around.
 
  I played it very often at LANs and it had a refreshing but also comfortable feel to it.
  A few years later Age of Empires II was released and I realized that the game wasn't fun anymore. 
 Everything just got very very boring and the gameplay had an huge ammount of unnecessary upgrades, 
 unnecessary because it just altered some attributes with no graphically nor a sound feedback. This 
 is ok, most games have them but here it felt overdone just to many stuff which makes the game unnecessary 
 long and as I said before, boring.
  So you might think "what the hell, this is Age of Mythology not Age of Empires II". Well, thats 
 the point, Age of Mythology basicly is Age of Empires II. The same look and feel, the same huge 
 amount of boring upgrades, the same boring fights, the same system in unit mixing. Ok, you have 
 some heros, creatures/units and godpowers you can play with but they not necessarily adding more 
 gameplay depth. 
  And for the heros they respond with the same boring phrases that are also used by your normal soldiers, 
 yawn. So they are miles away from the cool presentation like it was in Warcraft III for example.
 
  And while I talk about presentation I may give a littlebit feedback about the singleplayer campaign.
 
  For the 5 hours I played it I must say that the ingame cutscenes and dialouge are also nothing 
 special. Actualy I wanted to skip them and I'm usually the person who likes cutscenes. They're 
 just not interesting here.
  
  For the multiplayer part I can't really say what it's like I haven't played that by now and I'm 
 tending to skip it entirelly.
  
  So what's left:
  If you're the type of player who likes a slow gameplay, a huge ammount of unit upgrading and you 
 can stand a very economical and repetitive unit sound then go ahead.
  Personaly I had 4 coup of coffee in my 5 hour session with that game and still felt sleepy.
  
 And as soon as I'm finished this review here the game will go back to the Age of Mythology or in 
 other words, simply get's uninstalled.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_of_fire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 30, 2005 9:34 am PT
Review:  As I am writing this review I have played this game for a long time and I know what it felt like. 
 The first time I played the demo felt like going into the past and expreincing something out of 
 this world. Well, it was exactly like that, but, that's was I noticed. The most intriguing thing 
 I noticed was that it got to be one of the best RTS, besides Warcarft, of course. I just loved 
 the way they made up all those great features fit into one game.
  
  The gameplay, is mainly based on, from my experience, Age of Empires. Maybe that's why they had 
 it in the same genre. Microsoft had it going great. I just noticed, after playing this game that 
 it is a lot like Age of Empires, just that it has better improvements. Some of the most stunning 
 features are just the Villagers/Settlers, who just work a lot better in this game than Age of Empires. 
 Many features were also add, like some mythological units, that included the beasts from Eygpt, 
 Greece, Norseland, and many others. 
  
  The story of the whole game is mainly based on Atlantis, and a hero Arkantos. The story begins 
 and ends in Atlantis. Some other place are always used in the game and they just make it even more 
 fun than before. If you compare the weather system of this game and a game called Settler IV: The 
 Ages of Kings (Released, late 2004) , which looked great, Age of Mythology had it better worked out. 
 
  
  The most catching thing in this game or any game is, of course what you see... the GRAPHICS! Well 
 for this game they are just amazing, although, the release was in 2003 it's even better than some 
 games in 2005...
  
  If you are playing a game like this in which you have different cultures and different times of 
 history mixed together, you get a little confused. I did have that problem, because, I always thought 
 that the Greek were before the Eyptians, but this game explains it very good they were not. I have 
 had some history lessons from books and other educational resourses but this game has taught me 
 a lot. 
  
  One more thing that this game involved, along with the case that they have different cultural groups 
 mixed up, is that the languages are so... COOL! I personally think that, no offense to the people 
 out there. If you listen to them they say something wierd in some language and then walk off or 
 wait for your order. 
  
  I had a lot of people asking me how good is this game, of course you can determine by the looks 
 of it... It's just great, I mean the pictures do explaind everything pretty good, but, if you really 
 want to play this game just try the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tejeev
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2005 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is one of the best real time strategy games from one of the best developers for 
 the genre. The game is set in ancient times and as the title suggests, deals heavily with characters 
 that are associated with ancient Greek, Egyptian and Norse mythology. 
  The gameplay mechanics are very similar to the developers previous game Age of Empires II, but 
 the environment is completely 3D and the graphics are pretty amazing.
  The background music that runs throughout the game is also pretty good though not perfect. The 
 unit balance in the game is decent and all three sides have their advantages and disadvantages.
 
  The major new thing that the game brings is the use of mythological units and God Powers. The 
 mythological units are usually several times larger than the regular units and overpower the normal 
 units by a great deal. The Hero units are useful against these mythological units. The God powers 
 add a new level of strategy to the game since you get only one God power per Age that you advance 
 through and each one depends on the particular God that you worship. These powers can only be used 
 once per game and can dramatically change the tide of a battle.
  The other new thing added to the mix is favor. It is a new resource that is gathered differently 
 by each side. Favor is required to train mythological units and certain other things. 
  The single player campaign is not extremely long but it has a decent story. The main part of the 
 game that will keep you coming back for more is the random map mode.
  All in all, the game does add a few new things to the mix which is enough to make it an outstanding 
 game when looked on its own. But when you compare it to Age of Empires II, it is not a completely 
 new game but a sort of spin off with much better graphics and enough new gameplay and strategy 
 mechanics to keep you wanting more for months and months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoRay31
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 22, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  In an age in which excellent games are more prevalent than they ever have been, Age of Mythology 
 charts a safe course through the realm of the RTS game. I am a Starcraft bigot and, in this sense, 
 I wind up comparing almost all of the RTS games I encounter with that game. In some ways, this 
 is unfair to Starcraft because of its age. In other ways, it exposes some of the derivative nature 
 of modern RTS games - usually, once the player has the rhythm of an RTS figured out, it becomes 
 easy and somehow laborious. Age of Mythology most certainly falls into this trap. It is not a bad 
 game and the mythological cross-pollenation is somewhat compelling. But, at this point, gamers 
 must ask themselves, is good good enough? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGENTCLUNK
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2005 2:05 pm PT
Review:  This is a, in my opinion, a quality game. It is yet enougher real time strategy game for the PC, 
 and with so much competition out there the makers have had to try hard to make this game stand 
 out, AND IT SHOWS. The Game Play from what ive played has not changed much, however the graphics 
 are much nicer although they are not incredibly detailed they are appealing to the eye. It is a 
 basic well-known formula, u make a building, which allows you to make enougher building which allows 
 you to make some soldiers so that you can go and kill your oponents. You can also make aswell as 
 foot soldiers, Heroes with a better fighting ability, cavalry which are fast and are good scouts, 
 and archers to attack from a distance. It Also features a multiplayer mode im yet to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shade_boy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2005 2:47 am PT
Review:  This game is the BEST RTS period. age of empires is the only game that you can use to compare it. 
 and its x3 better than age of empires.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are maxed out. you cant finded better graphics in any RTS. Its a real hand 
 full. Its just soo beughtyful.
  
  Gameplay: Seeing how you can use mythical beast of Rome/Greece, Egypit, and Norse mythology. its 
 really great!!! play using your favorite monster.. oh yeah you can use god powers to. how kool 
 is that. yea that pacs a punch to the game right there. and the story is good and fits right in 
 with the gameplay. There are many gods you can pic to worship. 1 out of 3 mane gods. and than though 
 the ages you get more gods to pic from (minor gods they are called)
  
  Story: Since it is bast of a a Greek mythology story its really good. its not the exact story form 
 the myth but it starts out on it and goes into others. it fits together soo nicely.
  
  Overall: i would buy this game and its exspansion pact if i were you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mobking16
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2005 1:16 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is a Real-Time Strategy game that focuses on Greek, Egyptian, and Norse mythology. 
 It is from the creators Age of Empires 1 and 2, Ensemble Studios. The game-play is amazing building 
 armies and gathering resources. The campaign is very compelling with 32 missions with great cut-scenes 
 and voice-acting. The graphics overall are good but not going to amaze you, but the sound is great. 
 There is great value to be found in Age of Mythology, from the campaign to random maps, and then 
 there is the multi player. The multiplayer is quick and easy to get into which makes the experience 
 that much more enjoying. All civilizations are different, there are 9 major gods (including Zeus, 
 Ra, and Odin) and 27 minor gods. You still advance through ages as you progress through a match 
 as you gather resources, build armies, and advance technologies. Overall Age of Myhology is an 
 awsome game and should be picked up by any RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madterps
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 20, 2005 4:09 am PT
Review:  Cyclops, centaurs, minotaurs, oh my! These mythological creatures run amok in Age Of Mythology, 
 the new game from Ensemble, the venerable developer of Age Of Empires. While different from the 
 AOE, it still retains the mechanics of AOE while adding mythological aspects, resulting in one 
 of the best story telling seen in RTS since Warcraft 3.
  
  The chaos began when human warriors battle with mythological units like cyclops, centaurs and minotaurs. 
 The human soldiers are losing badly until the tide is turned when the gods answer the hero's prayers. 
 Now the humans are winning, taking down all myth units in their path. However a black giant appears 
 out of the mountains and proceeds to destroy the humans. The hero lead his troops into a brave 
 charge against the giant.
  
  Thus begins Age Of Mythology, as you take control of a hero named Arkantos in campaign mode. In 
 beginning, Arkantos is fending off mere pirate invasions in Atlantis. However, as the story develops, 
 you will have to take Arkantos to other places like Egypt to defeat his enemies and save the world. 
 In the dramatic end, Arkantos will have to face an unimaginable foe in order to save the world.
 
  
  The campaign, while story focused, is the experience that players get to play through and learn 
 the nuances of each civilization, Greek, Egyptian and Norse. Each civilization has its strength 
 and its weaknesses, Egyptian have Pharaohs and Priests that can speed up gathering of resources, 
 but its military units is very weak against the Greek Myrmidons. You'll also learn strategies like 
 pitting myth units against human units will ensure quick victory, so be careful how you use myth 
 units. They can turn the tide of war quickly.
  
  Despite the epic story of the campaign mode, the real fun of the game lies in its random map and 
 the online play, where you can compete in all kinds of contest, whether it be team battle or free 
 for all. If you don't gather resources quickly enough or build an army fast, you will be overrunned 
 very quickly. So how can you manage to keep building up your army while keeping an eye on your 
 workers? Simple! By using the hot keys, these special keys that are designed for the quick access 
 to everything, for example if you want to see your temples, all you have to do is press Ctrl+T. 
 Now everything that belongs to you will be quickly spotted and quickly utilized to its maximum 
 potential. You might just be able to defeat an opponent or two.
  
  Age Of Mythology is a game that can provides hours and hours of fun for the RTS fan. You can have 
 fun playing through the compelling story or competing for global domination. Anyway you play, this 
 is a very good game for your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suzabbe
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 17, 2005 1:19 am PT
Review:  Choose your Mythology Would you like to be Greek, Egyptian or Norse today? This is one of the 
 best strategy games I've ever played. Loving Ancient Mythology helps but is not a requirement to 
 enjoy this title. Build on a random map the civilization of your choosing. Strengthen your economy, 
 build and manage an army and fight another civilization within a few days, yes I said days. This 
 is not a game you can devote only a few hours to, but then again what good strategy game can you? 
 As in many strategy games you start with nothing but a piece of land, bring in some worker bees 
 and start gathering resources, building structures, farming land, and creating a massive army of 
 mythological creatures. As you level up new fascinating creatures and powers are available to you. 
 Appease the Gods and you will be rewarded. This game takes time to play, lots of it, but its well 
 worth the cost. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2005 5:29 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology could not be a better introduction into RTS gaming. It is set up so that newcomers 
 should not have a problem getting right into this game; moreover, it contains a useful and easy 
 to understand tutorial. The interface is a little streamlined for a strategy game and the graphics 
 are smooth and crisp. It plays a lot like Age of Empires but it has an interesting premise  it 
 being the setting of course. The thought of controlling mythical creatures  and seeing them in 
 action  was definitely the appeal for me. The campaign is loads of fun, and the difficulty increases 
 as you get closer to the end. The multiplayer is quite good. However there is one major concern 
 in regards to the multiplayer. The Greeks are the only civilization balanced enough for multiplayer 
 games, the Egyptians and the Norse are far too easy to overpower thus revealing a disadvantage 
 to those wishing to play them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giddieon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 15, 2004 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best real- time strategy games on the market to date. Not only does Ensemble 
 Studios capture the essence of Ages of Empires in this game it really takes this game to a much 
 high level. If you liked the games in the past this game will have you tuned into the computer 
 for hours on end. Not only does the game play smoothly it looks just gorgeous in the graphics department. 
 This game does only come with three civilizations the Greek, the Norse, and the Egyptians. This 
 game does bring a lot to the table and is one of the closest real-time strategy games scores almost 
 perfect. No console system has this game and I doubt that it will make it to the Xbox. Who ever 
 said The PC has no good games!!! Because this game is packed with fun and you will ware out your 
 mouse playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nictipoloi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 7, 2004 5:33 pm PT
Review:  First the base line: if you are a fan of the AGE series, this game is a must have. It is played 
 very similar to all those games, but this only mean the learning curve will be almost flat. dont 
 worry, you have a new resource, new buildings (temples) , and new units (minotaurs, scorpion men, 
 spectres...) and more important, you have HEROES. Your hero is a very special kind of unit, 'cos 
 it cannot be killed, you unly can have one hero of each, it can enhance the moral of your troops 
 (this is very important, remember you 'll be fighting against monsters) ant they have special and 
 unique powers.
  If you think this is not enough, you can use the Titans expansion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 25, 2004 10:04 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is a great real time strategy game that throws around various ideas from other 
 games that contribute some really great gameplay.
  
  You start up your empire by first picking which god your people worship, from 3 Greek, 3 Egyptian, 
 and 3 Nordic gods. At first glance you would hardly be able to tell the similarly ethnic gods from 
 each other, but they all offer very unique ways to play the game.
  
  The game progresses through your standard build, upgrade, and build more style. You construct various 
 types of buildings, research new technologies to give you the aproprate benefits, and enlist a 
 proper army to take down your enemies. The new little twist Mythology throws into the mix is your 
 ability to use 4 unique god powers through the course of each game, which allow you to either devestate 
 your enemies or assit your people. Powers range from the generic lightning bolt to summoning a 
 portal to the underworld.
  
  The graphics are quite pretty, and the AI is good enough to not totally bore you, though your enemies 
 may not fare to well against you once you get more experienced in the game. 
  
  All in all, Age of Mythology is a great game, and worth a look from any casual fan, and definately 
 a must have for a hardcore RTS buff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2004 3:44 pm PT
Review:  .. best RTS games to be released in years.
  
  Age of Mythology, as the name suggests is the next game in the "Age of" series. This time taking 
 it into the Greek Mythology times. The result is just amazing. You get to use myth units which 
 have special moves such as barging enemy troops away or picking them up and throwing them. 
  
  There are three different sides in Age of Mythology all totally different from one another. 
 The Greeks, Egyptions and Norse. They look different, gather resources in different ways and have 
 different units. On top of that each side has three major gods which give you the choice betwen 
 minor gods, god powers and myth units. You get the choice of which minor gods give you the choice 
 of you want when you upgrade to the next age. Different minor gods give you the choice between 
 different god powers, myth units and benefits to you. (Such as, one might benefit infantry units 
 while another might benefit the strenth of your buildings) .
  
  The graphics are great, while you can't zoom in to a side view, you can zoom in and out with the 
 same point of view. The troops, buildings and maps are all heavily detailed and look wonderful, 
 while the cutscenes look great too.
  
  The sound in the game is awesome! The music fits the game perfectly and the sound units make are 
 great. The voice acting in cutscenes isn't the greatest, but it's not too bad. It's an amazing 
 sight to see your hero Arkanto's hold up his spear and yell and see all the troops around him yell 
 too just as you make them charge into battle. 
  
  The single player campaign is a great length, and has a fantastic story. At the same time letting 
 you play through each side. Then there is the skirmish mode and online play. All three are a lot 
 of fun, and playing online is something everyone must try. I spent countless nights staying up 
 playing till the sun came up simply because id keep saying to myself "just one more game". 
  
  Age of Mythology is one of the best RTS games to be released and all RTS fans should have a 
 copy. The single player is fantastic as is the multiplayer. The game is a lot of fun and very addictive. 
 There isn't much else you can ask for in a game than whats been delivered here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShelobMan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2004 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Unlike Rise Of Nations and other strategy games I've played, this game gets boring really fast. 
 Here is a breakdown of the whole game:
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is solid, but it is the same old-same old. Microsoft actually advertised this 
 as Age Of Empires with "new" gameplay. This is mostly untrue. The game uses the same gameplay techniques 
 like Age Of Empires. Of course the new features can't be ignored either. There are many Gods to 
 choose from for each individual Civilization, and each one has their own special god-powers, and 
 myh-units. The tutorial is helpful, but if you have played Age Of Empires, it is really not needed. 
 It leads straight into the Campaign, which is a nice touch that makes the tutorial matter more. 
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are STILL a pleasure to watch. They are the selling point of this game. 
 Fortunately they don't take too much resources from the PC to run. The cutscenes in-between scenarios 
 are made with the game engine, but they look awesome, so the engine's strength really shows. The 
 different units in the game are animated nicely and when they get killed there are some death-animations 
 that are a pleasure to watch. Overall the graphics are awesome.
  
  Sound: Not much improvement from Age of Empires while playing, but the cutscenes have great voice-acting. 
 The music might get repetitive though.
  
  Value: It takes a long time to beat this one. I finished the Campaign, but towards the end, instead 
 of getting more excited, playing it felt like a chore. 36 scenarios is a big chunk of gameplay. 
 Instead of leaving me wanting more, I was glad when the Campaign was over and quickly uninstalled 
 the game. 
  
  Tilt: The game runs smoothly most of the time. Not many bugs to speak of. Game gets boring towards 
 the end and many might not have the patience to fnish though. Overall this is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 24, 2004 1:03 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology together with the The Titans expansion is the most recent game in the Ensemble 
 Studio's Age of series, and without the doubt it has been improved for even better than the previous 
 ones. Similarly to other Age games, AOM's gameplay consists of gathering resources, building structures, 
 training villagers and armies, and progressing through four ages while trying to either destroy 
 your enemy, build a wonder to gain economic or military advantages or accumulate a certain number 
 of resources to gain economic victory. The major differences with other Age games stem from - you 
 guessed it  mythology. The three civilizations in the game (four with the expansion) are very 
 distinct, not only because of their different units but because they do things differently (more 
 on that later) . On top of that, for each age (four in total) a player can choose a god to worship 
 who provides access to specific god powers (right pic) , to structure and unit upgrades, and mythological 
 creatures. God powers are special actions that range from luring animals on the map (to hunt them 
 for food) to unleashing meteors on the enemy. Building and unit upgrades are god-specific but just 
 like normal upgrades stay with you until the end of the game. Mythical creatures have great stats 
 and special abilities, which make them good against human soldiers. To be able to build myth units 
 god favor must be gained, which the three nations acquire in their own way: Greeks send their villagers 
 to perform religious bows at the temple building, Egyptians build monuments (up to five) which 
 steadily generate favor, and Norse gain favor by doing damage to enemy units or buildings on the 
 map. As said before, civilizations also differ in other ways, more specifically in resource gathering, 
 military units, gods, mythical units, heroes, architecture, etc. Then there are heroes that adds 
 a new strategic aspect to Age of Mythology. Hero units are exceptional at countering myth units 
 and also have the ability to pick up artifacts in temples (which provide bonuses to units or buildings 
 as long as they are in place) . Heroes vary by civilizations: Greeks can have one for each age; 
 Egyptians have one Pharaoh who can heal and empower buildings and many secondary heroes priests 
 who can heal and attack from range; Norse can build many slow and melee Hersir units that work 
 well against mythicals; Atlanteans can promote their units to hero status. The other units of AOM 
 are balanced in the more traditional RTS way (infantry cavalry archers infantry and siege buildings) , 
 the aforementioned mythological creatures mix up the formula in the manner of hero   mythical  
  human   hero. There are also some unique nation-specific units such as Norse huskarl infantry 
 that counters archers, for example. The expansion pack The Titans brought many balancing tweaks 
 and a new race Atlanteans, but above all the option for each race to summon a powerful titan once 
 per game who could destroy the whole civilization (you have to advance to the last age, research 
 a certain knowledge in town center and dig the Titan out of the ground with your villagers) . Unleashing 
 the titan on your enemy is very satisfying and brings extra strategies on the table, adding to 
 the already impressive mix. Like the others two Age games, AOM is published by Microsoft which 
 is good for their serious attitude towards testing and quality. In conclusion, AOM's unique races, 
 god powers, myth units and titans enable to use much more strategies and counter-strategies than 
 the standard RTSs. Therefore, Age of Mythology must be one of the premium RTSs available today.
 
  
  
  
  18/20 - Based on 6 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Excellent.
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - Interface is easily understandable, similar to AOE's.
  3/4 PACING - Campaign 
 kicks off good, then later gets repetitive I've heard. 
  4/4 INNOVATION - Interesting gameplay offered by myth units, god powers, unique races, and titans.
 
  3/4 IMMERSION - Like any single player RTS, better online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skull_kid2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2004 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is a great game and any fan of RTS should own it. It features great graphics and 
 a well put together single player campaign as well as an online component. While at first the concept 
 of the minor gods may seem confusing, in practice it is quite easy and adds another level of depth 
 to an already great game. After predecessors like Age of Empires II, it may be hard to see Age 
 of Mythology living up to its title, but it does just that. The game does have a few problems, 
 but hey, no game's perfect. As for those who think the units are too small, you do know there is 
 a zoom in feature, right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dutch-King
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2004 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is a fun game and ass I told you I never play a lot of strategy games. I loved 
 it!
  
  The way you play is awesome I dont have very much words to make dirty on this but you should try 
 this game!
  I loved the real cool graphics because it was released at nearly the same time as C&C generals 
 and these graphics were a little buggy. 
  I liked the game play but it was a little to difficult for non strategy gamers. I havent completed 
 it do, but I know the expansion pack is mine!
  
  Read my expention revieuw of Age of Mythology
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANSteve
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 13, 2004 8:21 am PT
Review:  I remember the first time I played Age of Mythology. It was only the second RTS game I had played 
 and I wasnt all that impressed. My friends had told me it was a bit of a disappointment. Luckily, 
 I decided to give it another shot and Ive been hooked ever since.
  
  Age of Mythology is one of those rare games where every aspect of the game has been taken into 
 account. The production quality on everything from the 3-D engine, music composition, story writing, 
 voiceovers, and game design are first-rate. As with all reviews, take this one with a grain of 
 salt. This is one of my favorite games of all-time and chances are it probably wont live up to 
 what I write unless youre a big fan of fast paced strategy games and ancient mythology, enjoy 
 online multiplayer and have time to learn the how to play (which takes a bit longer than say, a 
 run and gun game like Halo.)
  
  Gameplay  Age of Mythology is take everything learned about RTS game in the past, and makes a 
 basic RTS Gameplay system that is both complex in its lower levels and simple enough for rookies 
 to have fun (like me, at first.) The biggest fans of the game are normally fans of the fast paced, 
 small army, and economically driven style gameplay, though.
  
  Graphics  To put it blankly the environments and units in Age of Mythology were meticulously crafted. 
 The game plays out in full 3-D environments which if you take into account over 100 units could 
 be fighting on the screen at the same time, youll understand. In addition, once you play the game 
 for a while and see all the effects (fire, water, lightning, lighting, living animals, tornadoes, 
 meteors and more) youll really be amazed  even by todays standards
  
  Sound  Without winning any awards, creating chilling sound effects or playing such a key role 
 as sound has in some past games Age of Mythologys score and sound effects are surprisingly high 
 quality.
  
  Value  Age of Mythology provides a surprisingly long campaign that will take (estimating here) 
 around 20 hours to complete. After that, youll have plenty of fun playing online multiplayer with 
 the tons of scenarios or by just using the match-making system to get into a game really quick. 
 Of course, if you prefer random maps the AI is respectable and selection of maps provided will 
 keep you busy for some time.
  
  Overall, if you like RTS games, mythology, or just want a really well made game I highly recommend 
 picking up Age of Mythology (dont confuse this with The Titans, with I highly condemn.)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithlord
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 9, 2004 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I just recently re-installed it and the fun was still there. 
  
  The graphics still hold up well. I miss the ability to have alot of units on screen like in AOE, 
 but the fact that each race is completely different is a great feature. Each of the 3 sides like 
 I said play differently, which I think gives great replay ability. The whole resource gathering 
 this is still there, as with 99% of all RTS's, but this time it also seems to get in the way of 
 gameplay when you can't create new units until you find more gold. Gold seems to be the most precious 
 commodity in the game (from what I have seen) , and there never seems to be enough. The maps are 
 kind of limited, but they can still be a great diversion from the single player game, which in 
 itself is a very fun story. I think that if you like any RTS, or any RTS from Ensemble Studios, 
 you will love AOM.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sevenwarlocks
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 27, 2004 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology is probably the best RTS game yet made. The three sides each feel completely different, 
 and the different combinations of major and minor gods make the factions highly customizable. 
 
  
  If the game has a major weakness, it is that the first five minutes or so of each game is basically 
 a development optimization contest, and you are not likely to have an even match against any players 
 but those who fall in your precise level of development speed.
  
  Still, it is when these evenly matched battles occur that this game shines. When you and an opponant 
 battle for an hour or more, usine strategy and counter-strategy, pushing back and forth across 
 the board, you will truly feel what RTS magic can be.
  
  I particularly enjoy playing the Norse, -usually as Loki. I like to demoralize my opponants early 
 by encircling their starting base with towers. Then I re-enforce and fortify near all their secondary 
 gold supplies. Sometimes players who are actully good enough to beat me will simply quit when they 
 find themselves in this situation.
  
  I liked this game better that Warcraft III because I thought the emphasis on super-powerful heroes 
 was taken to a silly extreme in WCIII. I don't plan on buying the Titan expansion for the same 
 reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikest21
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2003 1:09 am PT
Review:  There is one thing that i have to say about this game: If only. If only they could've made units 
 a little bigger (i mean honestly every time i try to play i can't figure out if somethings a freakin' 
 villager or an archer) . If only I had enjoyed AOE:2 more than I had liked Starcraft or WC2. I also 
 have to say that if you prefer Age of Empires over blizzard rts' this isn't really going to help 
 you out. Unfortunately I'm not one of those people and right now if its between WC: FT vs. AOM warcraft 
 wins pretty easily.
  
  Gameplay: Pretty standard, keeps the same basic ages gameplay.
  
  Graphics: They're okay, I just wished they had made units more distinguishable.
  
  Sound: 
 The sound is decent, music is good for a mythology game.
  
  Tilt: If you prefer Age games over SC/WC then get this. Otherwise WC3 or especially FT is better 
 for you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
