-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/ageofempires2theaok/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 12, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 9.2, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 9,896 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Ensemble Studios
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Sep 30, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you've ever liked any other real-time strategy game in this classical style, then you'll clearly 
 see why this one deserves so much credit. 

 It would be incorrect, but not entirely unreasonable, to claim that Age of Empires II: The Age of 
 Kings and its isometric 2D playing field seem just like every other first-generation real-time 
 strategy game ever made. Take away the historical context depicting a millennium of military progress 
 since the Dark Ages, and you'd have a game in which you'd stockpile resources, grow your population, 
 and augment your technology, all to amass an army with which to defeat your enemies as quickly 
 as possible. But even as this model has remained historically relevant for as long as history has 
 been documented, so too is it not liable to stop being the premise for computer games anytime soon. 
 And if Age of Kings is any indication of how such real-time strategy games will continue to improve, 
 then we couldn't be more fortunate.  

 Although Age of Kings runs at higher resolutions and looks cleaner and sharper than many of its 
 similar predecessors, you'll find that there's nothing foreign about its appearance. Villagers, 
 buildings, trees, the black fog of war, and everything else on the map will be immediately recognizable 
 if you've played a real-time strategy game before. But even if you've played them all, you'll note 
 several differences in Age of Kings' presentation that make it stand out against comparable games. 
 For instance, all the buildings and units in Age of Kings are shown more or less to scale - town 
 halls and castles nearly fill the screen and loom high above your people. There are four different 
 styles of architecture in the game - Eastern, Middle Eastern, and Eastern and Western European 
 - and although they appear identical in the Dark Ages, by the Imperial Age all four look entirely 
 different and authentically beautiful. Unlike the architecture, your villagers and military units 
 look the same no matter what civilization you choose. Fortunately, almost every one of them looks 
 good, and there are plenty to choose from, such as swordsmen and archers on up to mounted knights 
 and terrific war machines.  

 Age of Kings can look a little bland and washed out before you fill the screen with buildings and 
 military units, but this same sparseness makes its interface clean and effective. The clearly depicted 
 controls at the bottom of the screen and the familiar mouse functionality make this game very easy 
 to pick up and play. Best of all are the descriptive floating help messages that thoroughly describe 
 every unit and technology available, which you can toggle off once you begin to remember them. 
 Your units move quickly and easily from point to point, and selecting a mixed group will automatically 
 assign them to a logical formation, with tougher units in front and more vulnerable units in pursuit. 
 Grouped units will also travel at the rate of the slowest member of the brigade, a feature that 
 ultimately lets you coordinate attacks far more effectively than in most any other real-time strategy 
 game. And as your soldiers fight and win, they quickly seek out the closest and most appropriate 
 target, thus eliminating any tedious micromanagement and affording you the time to oversee something 
 more complicated and tactically viable than a head-on assault. With floating help turned on and 
 all your little units running around at once, Age of Kings can start to look a little cluttered. 
 But it also looks its best at times like this, when the screen is so full of buildings and people 
 you can begin to imagine how their historical equivalents once prospered.  

 Even so, you'd think with only four styles of architecture and one generic set of units, the 13 
 civilizations in Age of Kings would seem identical. And while some of them seem similar, it's to 
 the designers' great credit that most of the civilizations manage to feel very different from one 
 another in spite of any visual likeness. For one thing, each civilization's units speak in their 
 native language, and while they don't say too many different things, it's great to listen to them 
 anyway. Each civilization also has its own unique unit that emphasizes or augments that civilization's 
 strengths, and this also helps distinguish each one from the other 12. Every civilization also 
 has its unique advantages that refer to the historical culture's strengths. For instance, to emphasize 
 the Byzantines' defensive power, their units for countering infantry, archers, and cavalry are 
 cheaper to produce; and to suggest the Turks' scientific achievements, they can research gunpowder 
 technologies at a lower cost than any other civilization. Such cultural distinctions are often 
 subtle but become more noticeable later in the game, when the skillful player who takes greater 
 advantage of his culture's offensive or defensive inclinations will soon find himself in the lead. 

 Then again, to build up your civilization to its strongest potential is by no means a simple feat, 
 despite whatever luxuries the game's elegant interface provides. The original Age of Empires was 
 criticized for combining the pretensions of a complicated turn-based strategy game like Civilization 
 with real-time gameplay mechanics that were borrowed from Warcraft II. But Age of Kings makes good 
 on the original's promises by providing a huge, branching technology tree and a correspondingly 
 profound depth of gameplay that rivals virtually all similarly themed turn-based games. You must 
 constantly reevaluate your priorities when gathering the game's four resources, since those priorities 
 change as new technologies become available; and you must constantly make key tactical decisions 
 based on the order in which you research particular technologies. You need to keep moving forward 
 without spreading yourself too thin, although you're afforded some breathing time to get started 
 early on since you can garrison your villagers within your town hall to defend against a preemptive 
 attack. And yet throughout the game, Age of Kings' pacing is so fast and so exciting as to rival 
 Blizzard's real-time strategy hits. Consequently, under no circumstances should you be prepared 
 to win a war in Age of Kings without a fast hand on the mouse. But similarly, you're not going 
 to win unless you think.  

 Even Blizzard's Starcraft confines you to a basic set of strategies, whose subtle variations separate 
 the experts from the rest. However, in Age of Kings, your options tend to be more flexible. If 
 your opponent is too focused on particular tactics, you can easily allocate your resources into 
 countering whatever it is he's sending your way. Swarms of infantry can be stopped cold by a simple 
 wall; a contingent of archers may kill a line of cavalry but would be hard pressed to damage even 
 a single war machine. Swordsmen can deal with pikemen easily, but the pikemen's reach make them 
 much more effective against units on horseback. At one time, games aspired to such principles with 
 the rock-scissors-paper game as a model. But Age of Kings has so many variants on this theme that 
 to even suggest a similarity between Ensemble's sequel and the old betting game would be to grossly 
 undermine Age of Kings' intricacy. It doesn't take long to realize that Age of Kings is complicated, 
 but your appreciation for its detail will only grow with time as you begin to understand that, 
 unlike in most real-time strategy games, you really do have several distinctly different but equally 
 viable routes toward victory.  

 There are also several different ways to play the game. You can use the random map generator to 
 quickly create a custom-tailored, finely crafted map for up to eight players, or build your own 
 map from scratch. You'll find a consistent challenge in taking on one or several computer opponents 
 set to the default difficulty or above, although you'll soon learn of the computer's propensity 
 to use guerilla tactics and fall prey to particular tricks. You can start with a ton of resources 
 and just have at it in the deathmatch mode; you can set out to kill the enemy king in a regicide 
 match; and you can play one of Age of Kings' five historical campaigns. These campaigns focus on 
 such legendary leaders as Joan of Arc, Frederick Barbarossa, and Genghis Khan in a series of linked 
 missions interjected with voice-over narration describing these figures' tribulations and victories. 
 All five of these, including the William Wallace tutorial campaign, are fairly short and only begin 
 to approach the sense of style and cohesion pioneered by Blizzard's real-time strategy campaigns. 

 But you'll enjoy playing a part in these characters' historical accomplishments anyway, even if 
 the narrators' accents are a little heavy and the artwork depicting the outcome of each mission 
 looks rushed. At any rate, unlike in Starcraft, the campaigns seem more peripheral in Age of Kings, 
 because its historical context and 13 civilizations will keep you interested with or without a 
 plot to back it all up. Of course, you can also play Age of Kings over the Internet, although Microsoft's 
 Internet Gaming Zone can't compare to Blizzard's refined Battle. net.  

 No matter how you play it, chances are good that you'll enjoy Age of Kings if not for its careful 
 historical detail then because its context never takes precedence over the game's playability. 
 And if you've ever liked any other real-time strategy game in this classical style, then you'll 
 clearly see why this one deserves so much credit, even in direct comparison to the finest examples 
 in its category.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (256 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jettpack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 1:23 am PT
Review:  This was the first real computer game i got into and really played (aside from lego racers and 
 all of the other lego games of my childehood) . It was so excellent that i immediately fell in love 
 with the series and concequently went and the first Age of Empires and its expansion, and then 
 was soon eagerly awaiting the release of its excellent predecessor Age of Mythology. 
  Age of Empires II is more or less what all RTS games fallowing it were based on (with a few acceptions 
 like starcraft and warcraft 3, which were unique in theyre own right) . 
  
  I cannot say enough about this game, and if i say any more, i will be at serious risk of sounding 
 like a game touting fan boy......... Oh wait, maybe its to late. lol. So i will just end with this. 
 Any body who enjoys RTS, or just has good taste in games should buy this game. Its cheep, i bought 
 my brother a copy of it and its expansion AOEII: The Conquerers, plus the first AOE and its expansion 
 for $10 at target. GET IT, for histories sake. 
  
  lol
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweetwater94
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2009 6:52 am PT
Review:  This game was the first game I ever really played for computer, and it has to be by far my favorite 
 computer game and video game in general. When this game came out it was all I played and I still 
 love it now.
  
  The basic idea behind this game is that you control one of many different cultures which are all 
 pretty similar but also share distinct differences that really offset gameplay in a good way. You 
 do the usual RTS stuff, build buildings, train armies, research upgrades, etc. Except when this 
 game first came out, these weren't ordinary things in the way they were portrayed in this game, 
 because this game truly was revolutionary for computer games. The gameplay truly is fun and classic 
 in AoE II, and although I did play the campaigns, I spent hours and hours in random map mode (with 
 deathmatch rules, because they are the most fun) , and it really never got old. I do not know what 
 else to say about this game, because it is truly just amazing and is at the top of my top ten video 
 games ever list. 
  
  Graphics: 8.5 The graphics were amazing for when they came out, and they are clearly not the best 
 now but they do have a nice nostalgic quality to them.
  
  Gameplay: 10.0 The gameplay is simple but it was revolutionary in its time and it is still a great 
 formula. 
  
  Campaign: 9.0 The campaigns weren't my favorite part of the game but were still by far amazing 
 and clearly Ensemble put a lot of work into them.
  
  Replayability 10.0 This game never gets old, even though its 9 years old.
  
  Overall (Not an 
 average of above scores) : 10.0 A truly awesome experience that if you have not still played it 
 you must play it now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trapguitar
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Well, Age of Empires II was probably the first strategy game I ever played, I was just a kid went 
 it was launched and immediately it caught my attention. 
  
  Graphics are not bad, bot bad at all, actually they're surprisingly good!!! I mean, nowadays with 
 games like World in Conflict you can easily see a major difference in style but still it is game 
 worth of playing, the campaigns, civilizations you can play with, units, buildings, are just mind 
 blowing!!! :)
  
  I know recommending this game to you right now is kind of lame, since lets accept it: there are 
 better real-time strategy games out there, but if you ever have the chance to play it just do it, 
 have no doubt about it.... I've owned this game for about 7 years and I still play. 
  
  
  Bottom line: a real masterpiece. One of those few games you can still enjoy for years because they 
 never grow old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isur
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  I first received Age of Empires II when I was about twelve, along with the Conquerors expansion. 
 And, while it was good for a long time, I eventually had to ask myself why on earth I was still 
 playing it. There was very little realism in it, the graphics were unimpressive, and the strategy 
 chalked up to "make sure your group of expendable soldiers is bigger than your opponent's."
  
  First off, there were the problems with your armies.
  Different classes of soldiers had very 
 little advantage over one another. There were minor attack bonuses, but nothing impressive. Oh, 
 there were some slight advantages in micromanaging your men, such as ordering your archers to avoid 
 infantry and ordering your men in general to concentrate their attacks on one opponent at a time, 
 but most of the time you were best off just leaving them to duke it out for themselves. Naval and 
 siege weapons, however, required you to hold their hands and make sure they didn't do anything 
 ridiculously stupid (such as chasing after a lone scout for miles and miles when the city was under 
 siege) . If you wanted your infantry to hold their formation to keep the enemy from slipping through, 
 then you could tell them to hold their ground. But then, they wouldn't move an inch, and would 
 only attack after being attacked first.
  My number-one complaint of the whole game is that the soldiers, ships, cavalry, and siege weapons 
 all acted like variations on the same two programs (melee and ranged) and not like soldiers, shops, 
 cavalry, and siege weapons. This cuts the realism back significantly.
  
  Also, there were serious issues with city and unit creation. When you wanted to control your entire 
 empire, you were dragged into a giant clickfest, in which you could only hope you could give out 
 orders half as quickly as the AI could. The pause feature helped, but this made the game drag on 
 for hours on end.
  
  There were some strategy issues, as well. Mainly, if you didn't gather enough resources and create 
 enough troops early on, then you were done for. In other words, there was no room for the underdogs 
 making dramatic comebacks. As soon as one side had the advantage, that was about it (unless your 
 city had lots of serious defensive structures such as guard towers) . There was no room for finesse. 
 You couldn't make a daring run into the heart of the enemy and destroy a key structure, or somehow 
 cripple the enemy at all. Victory came only by producing soldiers faster and researching technologies 
 faster and gathering resources faster and simply overrunning your opponents. What the heck kind 
 of a "strategy" game is that?? Oh, and not to forget that even on difficult settings, the AI is 
 remarkably stupid, and pathetically non-aggressive. If you defeated its army, but still had other 
 things to destroy, then you could set up a group of soldiers outside or inside its town and just 
 wait, and pick off the soldiers the AI sent after you one by one; instead of waiting to build a 
 decent group, the AI would send its soldiers one at a time.
  
  To hit on some specific realism issues: (other players of this game can appreciate the great frustration 
 coming from these problems)
  1. Cavalry Archers and Mongolian Mangudai cannot fire while moving; they must stop in order to 
 attack, even when in a civilization such as the Mongols or Persians.
  2. Byzantine Cataphracts and Persian War Elephants cannot trample enemy infantry. Instead of running 
 through a group, inflicting damage as they go by trampling some enemies and using weapons on others, 
 they must stop to attack.
  a. This goes along with most of the other types of cavalry. Instead of stopping and hacking away 
 at an enemy formation, they should be able to crash through their ranks, scattering infantry and 
 disrupting the advantages the enemy's formation gave them.
  3. Spearmen, Pikemen, and Halberdiers do not have any attack bonus against charging opponents. 
 Instead of planting their spears and letting horsemen impale themselves, they attack like normal 
 infantry.
  4. Horses do not balk upon seeing a bristling line of brandished pikes the way they do in real 
 life (that's one reason why even when muskets were in use, soldiers would form a "hedgehog" formation 
 using their bayonets to keep out cavalry) . 
  5. Knights and other cavalry will trot up to a rank of pikemen and start attacking them as if they 
 were normal infantry, when in real life, they would never be able to reach the enemies without 
 first knocking aside and running past their spears.
  6. The civilizations all have the same units with more or less the same attributes.
  a. Eastern 
 civilizations should be armed with scimitars, daos, katanas, or other more authentic-looking weapons, 
 instead of the standard-issue European sword.
  b. For instance, the Mongols should not have nice, matching, organized ranks of infantry. Instead, 
 they should have a rabble of men armed with scimitars, axes, clubs, or whatever else they can get 
 their hands on, as the Mongol army would be composed of mainly cavalry.
  c. Also, the Mongols should have a wider range of different siege weapons.
  d. In the Conquerors 
 expansion, the Aztec and Mayan infantry should NOT BE IDENTICAL TO THE SPANISH! To be authentic, 
 they should be armed with wooden weapons, stone-headed clubs, and obsidian blades. They should 
 have less attack than the European and Asian units, as they have no steel. But, to counteract this 
 disadvantage, they should be far, far cheaper and faster to make.
  e. The Asian civilizations should have different names for the classes of units, though accomplishing 
 the same purposes as the Europeans.
  f. All of the Blacksmith technologies are named the same things. That's all right for European 
 civilizations, but they should be a bit more original for Asian and American civilizations.
  7. For some reason, every civilization in the game can make Fire Ships. Hmm something tells me 
 that's not right. Probably has to do with the fact that Greek Fire was a secret guarded jealously, 
 and never did get out. Fire Ships should either be left out, or should be unique to the Byzantines 
 (though more expensive) .
  8. The Byzantines are incapable of building walls or gates on the water the way they did in Constantinople. 
 If you check their history books, you'll find that they stretched a massive chain between to towers 
 in the water, and would raise or lower it to keep enemies out.
  9. You cannot garrison siege weapons in castles. In castles, they would have catapults, scorpions, 
 and more inside the walls to help defend. The castle, of course, would need to be made bigger than 
 it is to accommodate this while still looking realistic. Perhaps you could see the siege weapons 
 on the walls.
  10. Siege weapons such as the Scorpion, Mangonel, and Onager are utterly useless. For the price, 
 I'd hope to have something at least slightly more effective than a couple of archers.
  a. While a mangonel/onager is supposedly good at taking out infantry, it cannot hit moving targets 
 (even after you research ballistics) , and neither can the scorpion. Any CP player can render these 
 weapons useless simply by moving their infantry out of the way.
  b. In order to be useful, these anti-unit siege weapons need to either be able to hit enemies more 
 easily, or have far more damage.
  c. The same does not go for anti-building units such as the Trebuchet or Bombard Cannon.
  d. 
 WHY ON EARTH do the siege weapons move themselves like they are possessed by spirits? There are 
 no men pushing or pulling them (except the bombard cannon) .
  11. You cannot put archers on top of walls.
  12. Crossbowmen (using direct fire) can fire and 
 hit a target that's hiding close behind a wall. Kind of defeats the purpose of walls, don't you 
 think?
  13. A stone castle catches on fire when you hit it with a battering ram. How does that happen?
 
  14. When you destroy buildings, they should slowly fall apart, the way the walls do, instead of 
 suddenly just crashing down into a tiny pile of rubble.
  15. When you build things, they should build up step by step, the way the walls do, instead of 
 building up a tiny bit before springing into a giant building.
  16. There should be a separate class of cheap, low-level infantry. Kingdoms would not attack with 
 large groups of dismounted knights (Champions) , they would send in a large group of cheap Men-at-Arms, 
 with a few high-level soldiers to guard the flanks and rear.
  17. As it is, the formations don't do much at all. Unless you have archers in the rear, it doesn't 
 matter what angle someone attacks you from. Units should take more damage if attacked suddenly 
 from behind (if they have no time to prepare and realize that there are enemies behind them, or 
 something) .
  a. There could be a little button or menu to customize formations.
  b. There should be an option to place pikemen up front, or swordsmen up front.
  18. There are 
 no mounted spearmen, or lances. While they might not have been very common in actual use, it feels 
 a little bit empty without them.
  a. In the map editor, you can choose heroes sporting lances, but, like any other cavalry, they 
 must screech to a halt to attack opponents instead of running them down. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  And yet, as much as I have just trashed a game highly treasured by some, no 
 doubt, I still have a great deal of respect for this game. It was ahead of its time, plain and 
 simple.
  And here are what I usually think of as the main concerns for gaming:
  
  1. Depth of gameplay: 7.65/10
  Despite everything I have just said about the lack of commanding 
 strategy, there is a decent amount of depth in the gameplay, especially in strategic creation and 
 placement of defensive structures, bottlenecks, secret attack posts to strike from the rear, outposts 
 to warn of enemy approach, and more. What it lacked in strategy with troop movement and type (and 
 the lack of advantages in hills and other terrain) , it made up for with buildings and sieges.
 
  
  2. Realism of gameplay: 5/10
  They really kept to history in this game quite well. There was rarely a point in which it diverged 
 towards the fantastic, or bent the ways of the past to meet the misconceptions of today. But, despite 
 this, the lack of human intelligence in the soldiers just ruined any fleeting feelings of a fourth 
 wall. The same old problems would come back to remind you that you were still playing a computer 
 game, and that you couldn't think outside of the box.
  
  3. Necessity of player ingenuity to perform well: 3/10
  This just means, "did you need to be 
 smart in order to beat the game?" And in short, you really don't. You just need to have a fast 
 right index finger. The advantages that come from thinking things through were too small to offer 
 a significant advantage unless playing in multiplayer (which I never did) . Also, in order for a 
 game to feel like it rewards you for thinking intelligently or outside the box, it must have a 
 huge dose of realism, and this game just didn't.
  
  4. Ease of control: 7/10
  As I said before, it becomes difficult to keep up with the action. But, with proper hotkeys and 
 well-designed controls, it really isn't much of a problem. But it is still difficult to tell your 
 troops to do what you have in mind, which just stinks.
  
  5. Depth of story and character motivation (and therefore player motivation) : 9/10
  The mission 
 briefings were nothing short of breathtaking, especially for one with an imagination like mine 
 (bragging not intended, recommendation intended) . They were powerful, dramatic, poetic, and stunningly 
 well-voice-acted. It really brought little pieces of history to life in those little moments. If 
 only this realism in the briefings and cutscenes could last without the game reminding you it was 
 just a game...
  
  6. Potential for high-quality replay (Will it bore you after the first play-through?) : 10/10
 
  It'll be as fun the first time as the 20th time, since there is no "one way" to play the game. 
 Also, there's a robust editor that rivals even modern games, along with an AI scripter (to reprogram 
 the AI, if you're into that) and a simple cause-effect trigger for special events in edited maps. 
 It takes effort, but almost any shortcoming in the gameplay (other than the most fundamental issues) 
 can be remedied in the map editor through one means or another, especially putting the player in 
 think-outside-the-box circumstances.
  
  7. Originality in art and backstory and world setting: 8.5/10
  The looks of the game have great 
 potential, despite being 2D. With effort, it was possible to create an authentic-looking city in 
 the Map Editor, but not in actual gameplay. The same goes for the natural landscape; it can be 
 made to look exactly like real life in Editor or Campaign, but not in a random map level. As for 
 originality... I really haven't seen any authentic medieval games out there that have the same 
 reputation as this. So if you play this, you'll probably not be thinking that it's some other medieval 
 RTS game.
  
  
  
  
  In Summation:
  Despite the faults of Age of Empires 2: The Age of Kings, it is still a game worthwhile to play. 
 That is... if you can get past the old graphics and the realism hitches. But no matter what, if 
 you put effort into this game, it will reward you with lots of memories of mouse-clutching moments 
 and that thrill of victory that RTS gamers live on.
  
  ~Isur the Infamous 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinterWolf102
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 2 is a game I have played as a child so much and received a lot of replay value 
 out of it as I still play it today. This game as a campaign which seems to go on forever with many 
 different stories to choose from. The graphics at the time were amazing and the game had many different 
 aspects which all stood out as amazing. The Random Map games are huge with good AI to boot, although 
 I had no personal experience with online mod at that time but had many great times with the Map 
 Editor as well. It is so simple to create a map battle or village with the easy to use Map Editor. 
 This game is one of the best of its time and will always be on my PC. Besides this all AOE has 
 great History to read up on which I enjoy as I love that the game is based in Medieval Times. This 
 also goes for the expansion pack, The Conquerors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dorjebodh
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  this game is my fav
  my dad says i am crazy to play a game for 5 years but the game is the coolest i have ever played, 
 it is better than AOE 3 according to me. simple & hard is how i would describe the game.
  simple because you can learn to play it in a very less time hard because when you play it with 
 real humans you get to know your real worth
  this game is best
  please play this game its worth it.
  about my 10 point rating i would say i have played many 
 games like NFS Halo Prince of Persia devil may cry etc But nothing can beat this game .
  i even play it before my exams its that great so all in all the game is the best.
  this game 
 is the best real time strategy i have ever played
  my fav civilization i britons they have the best archers The LONGBOWMAN who can fire from a range 
 that is the longest after the TREBUCHET so they act as the best defender for the trebuchets 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opendrol
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  This was the first game I've ever played, and it's still going to be in my disc drive when i shut 
 down my computer tonight.
  This game is like popcorn, you eat, and eat, and if you don't have it anymore, you buy more.
 
  I bought this game twice, and it was worth it.
  The graphics sure aren't considered great anymore, but the GAMEPLAY is A. W. E. S. O. M. E., multiplayer 
 included, so it never gets old. there is a variety of maps, different cultures to play, different 
 game modes, and fun through out. The story (campaign) mode is good too, with historic content, 
 so you will be able to skip history class!!!!! BUY THIS GAME NOW!!!!
  (age of empires 3 is also awesome, so buy that one too)
  this game just shouts BUY ME in you 
 ear, and if you have it it's gonna shout PLAY ME (no hom0) . 
  Okay thats it, I think u got the message.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: laherm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't get old. I used to play this with my brother and my dad over our LAN connection 
 back in the day, and although I never was as good as they were (though I might be now) I used to 
 have fun just leveling my civilizations. Leveling your own civilization when upgrading your town 
 hall is a somewhat unique feature to other RTS games. It gives you a sense of accomplishment when 
 your shanty huts transform into decent housing and the infrastructure of most all of your buildings 
 improve - versus the sole ability to build other buildings.
  
  This game made me feel as though I was creating a developing civilization and helping it progress 
 in the world. This aspect might have been the reason why this game's story became so interesting 
 to me. Who would have thought that playing a video game whose purpose is to raise an army vast 
 enough to breakthrough your opponents defenses and ultimately raze their village to the ground 
 could teach me about history? This game not only entertained me for hours at a time but (as ridiculous 
 as it sounds) , by paying attention to the campaign briefing/story I had a leg up in my future history 
 classes. I could tell you all about Joan of Arc and El Cid and when asked to write a report on 
 Joan... most of my research time was spent enjoying another run through her campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: effuuffe
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This review also deals with the expansion pack: "Age of Empires Conquerors"
  
  CAMPAIGN: With the exception of the civilization series I haven't played games which dealt with 
 real historic events and still made it a damn entertaining game! To be honest i've learned of the 
 European middle ages and used it in school - but that's unimportant
  
  SINGLE PLAYER: thanks to the tutorial you're already ready to take on a computer-opponent. if you 
 choose to have alliances the AI gives a decent impression of a communicating ally. And if I'm not 
 mistaken, the game remembers how many games you loose and based on this makes itself harder or 
 easier, inside One difficulty rating, depending on if you lost or not. Which I think is a great 
 thing, when you're playing multi player.
  
  MULTI PLAYER: I can honestly say that there's no end to the fun in this part of the game. Joining 
 with friends to take out some incredibly hard AI opponents and then turning on your friends after 
 the AI is great fun! Now, I'm not saying I hate games like CS, but i prefer a game which demands 
 a bit more "brainworking"
  
  MAP CREATOR: is ok... if you want to make a special terrain or starting with cities... but when 
 it comes to triggers it sucks. In my case, whenever I tested a triggered map, it cracked... but 
 this doesn't changes AOE2's high rating. I would still give the game the same rating without the 
 map creator 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flargo_
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. If you don't have it, you should buy it now. And get the expansion to, its 
 just as great. This game has graphics that are simple, but beautiful and excellent and amazing 
 game play that really makes you want to play it over and over again. The civilizations are great 
 and unique and the map editor is easy to grasp, and it is amazing. The only thing that makes me 
 unhappy is the multi-player. Since it lacks real depth and community. When I compare this game 
 to the modern RTS's these days, I cant really get into them! They usually lag or have to complex 
 of a story or to confusing game play. But this game is nice and simply the best of the best. But 
 of course... since I need 800 characters, I'll just say this is a good game that you should really 
 get. SO ALL IN ALL.... Excellent, superb, Great, Fun, Exciting and Charming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scatheloke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  -- PROS --
  Takes a lonnggg time to beat the whole game in campaigns. You can't finish it in under 50 hours, 
 no chance, whatsover.
  Low requirements, runs smoothly even on older computers
  Cheap haha.
  Well balenced civilizations.
  Online play.
  Create-a-game features (map editor) 
 That is easy to use, and the same one used to make the campaigns! It's built in!
  "Standard games" with different objectvies and etc that you can customize.
  Historically accurate.
 
  AWESUME MUSIC!!!!!
  Good patches.
  
  -- CONS --
  Too many similaries between civilizations.
  Can't get on top of walls.
  Graphics are a bit 
 outdated.
  AI can be STUPID sometimes.
  There's an at least 2 hour learning curve. There's a training campaign though =)
  75 unit cap, 
 including non military units. In some games, its at 200 though, still annoying low.
  
  But don't trust me, heres the trial for it.
  http://www. microsoft. com/games/age2/downloads. htm
 
  Happy playing!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zardoth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  When I first played AOE back in the summer of 98' I was blown away. I felt as if I had been given 
 the power to crush Empires and tear down mighty nations - and indeed I had. Since then I have owned 
 every Age of Empires game - heck maybe even every game made by Microsoft. This was the game that 
 redifinded the RTS genre. Someone somewhere thought to themsleves - what if I gave the player control 
 over everything? What if I let them become kings of their own game, even gods? The followed through 
 with this question and Age of Empires was born. The first in the series was set during ancient 
 and Roman times. Following shortly after came AOE 2: Age of Kings. And it truly was the King of 
 all games. Countless hours saw me spending my days conquering cities and ancient empires long lost 
 to man. I dont know what made me write this review at this late hour - perhaps the fact that I 
 found my old dusty copy of AOE, and fired it up once again. I find that even with the new next 
 generation games coming out these days it still warms my heart to hear that people stil play these 
 classic games. All in all this is a game I hopefully will never forget. And hopefully neither will 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darsona
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a hard game. The game play, once you get used to it, is much better than the first game, 
 and while being complex, is easier to pick up. Between this game and The Conquerors there is more 
 than enough here not to get bored anytime soon, even without the map editor and multiplayer, as 
 well as the bonus map included on the desk. The only problem I have is that each nation's forces 
 look alike. True, European nations, the game's focus, all had fairly similar armies, but it's a 
 bit odd to see a night in shinning armor running around shouting in Japanese. I understand why 
 this can't be, but it's still a bit weird. The Instant Action battles, with their unique game types, 
 are endlessly fun, and the Campaigns are incredibly hard, but then they should be. Gamespot also 
 has a wealth of free maps for download, and they are more than enough to keep you occupied after 
 you finish all five campaigns in Age of Kings. All in all, an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  
  
  
  AOEII was quite unique as well as having some of the old RTS style gameplay people had come to 
 love over the years.
  
  You could build castle walls and seal off your town. You had to produce many farms and homes for 
 population and food. You also had to have people collecting wood, gold, and stone so you could build 
 weapons and buildings and structures for your people.
  
  Like in any RTS game the main aim was to build an army/armies and send them to wipe out your enemy. However 
 in AOEII enemy bases will be sealed off by castle walls, and trying to penetrate them with medieval 
 technology can be a tricky procedure and you'll need to mix up your strategy abit. You can ram castle 
 walls. or spend the time upgrading your technology until you have trebuchets and take out enemy 
 structures from long distance.
  
  You can use armies from  can build Roman centurions, English/French 
 Knights on horses or Arabian warriors on camels, and Japanese samurai. Some civilizations use elephants 
 to ram walls and buildings, while others use battering rams. The Japanese castles look very elegant 
 while the English and French castles have more of a medieval feel. Castles are the ultimate defensive 
 structure as they can reign down huge amounts of arrows at enemies and garrison people. You can 
 also build guard towers where archers or even cannon balls fire from.
  
  Each civlization starts off with very basic militia infantry, but later as you upgrade, you can build 
 knights and more advanced mechanical weapons like trebuchets or even cannons or the first guns.
 
  
  Famous historical figures are also in the game such as Joan of Arc, Gengus Kahn, Sultan, famous kings 
 etc.
  
  You can play through some campaigns that use real events from history eg trying to help Joan of 
 Arc and France fight off the English.
  
  You can also create your own custom missions and put any civlizations against eachother.
  
 
  What also makes the game fun is it's was more non-linear than StarCraft or Command and Conquer 
 games. You could retreat from a base that is overrun and reestabish a base on an island and force 
 the CPU to have to send armies in ships (which is easier to defend against) And you can create your 
 base how you want. You can surround your base with giant walls (you have a drawbridge that allows 
 your people in and out of your base easily) and the resource management isn't as strict as other 
 games. You can spend a lot of time and resources building walls and giant castles and send many 
 waves of attacks and not have to worry too much about running out of resources to collect. Farms 
 can be replenished unlimited times, you can sell wood for gold or stone at markets. Wood is easy 
 to get by chopping down trees.
  
  The graphics were detailed for their time, they went for a more realistic look. The European forests 
 look lush with thick trees and many lakes and streams and you see deer. The Arabian deserts have 
 palm trees. The English and French style castles had more of a darker feel, the Arabian castles had 
 the Arabian style architecture and like I said before the Japanese castles look very oriental and 
 elegant. When units walk they also walk in a realistic formation (like straight lines)
  
  The people spoke sometimes in their native language, the accents weren't too good but it was no 
 big deal.
  After you completed missions the music had a nice medieval/choir sound too.
  
  Overall it was a great RTS game and had great new ideas for RTS gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwndOo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great. It is the first game I ever played, and it sucked me in. YES the graphics 
 are lame, YES it is old but than, why are people playing Diablo 2? If you call yourself a rts fan 
 you gotta try this. I dont know of any other rts that has what aoe2 has... It is great that you 
 dont play futuristic soldier but you play history. Yes, like Joan of Arc. I played alot of rts 
 games, yet im still playing this one-its simple and fun. No one hundred resources needed for building 
 just one soldier. And when you finish campaign (which is really looong) you can start making your 
 own maps, with really simple editor. Instead of usual easy medium hard there is variety of difficultys. 
 If you are a rts fan and you dont have this you never played a real rts before. Just ignore the 
 graphics-the 2d makes aoe2 aoe2. And you will enjoy it. I tried multiplayer recently (LAN) . IT 
 IS PERFECT GAME FOR LAN PARTYS, or inviting your friend. The requirements arent demanding, so almost 
 any computer can run it. And it wont get old-this game is timelles, a classic, a must have. Now 
 go and by it
  Thank you for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings is a strategy game focusing on the middle-ages (which is between 
 700 and 1600) .
  
  Your aim is to build a small vilage, expand it through the years to a mighty empire, and beat your 
 opponents. In order to do that, you will have to construct buildings, gather resources and train 
 a magnificent army.
  
  The look of the buildings is wonderful. Of course they are all the same in the Dark Age, but they 
 bear no resemblance in the latest stages of the game.
  
  Every 13 civilizations have their unique military units, architecture and advantages. Fortunately, 
 some of them are too good.
  
  There are also five exciting campaigns, which are very exciting and interesting to play, and can 
 sometimes be also educational.
  
  The game has also a good multiplayer, whether you play on-line or in a LAN connection (which I think 
 is very good) .
  
  No matter how you play it, chances are good that you'll enjoy Age of Kings if not for its careful 
 historical detail then because its context never takes precedence over the game's playability. 
 And if you've ever liked any other real-time strategy game in this classical style, then you'll 
 clearly see why this one deserves so much credit, even in direct comparison to the finest examples 
 in its category. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  Microsoft has created the ultimate in strategy games. Age of Empires 2 stands out as an achievement 
 in historic real time strategies. Every aspect of AOE2 is more than marvelous and truly speaking 
 I don't know how to explain my feelings regarding the game. Believe me; I have been playing the 
 game for the past 6 years, 5 days a week - 3 to 4 hours every day and yet I don't seem to get enough 
 of it.
  
  The AI of the game can be adjusted and it truly does get adjusted between various levels of difficulty (not 
 like C&C where the easy mode and the hard mode had absolutely no difference) . The game includes 
 all major features of the previous games and adds new features. Unlike AOE1, the wars in AOE2 take 
 place in the dark, feudal, castle and imperial ages.
  
  It improves on the previous games in allowing queuing of units and allowing you to garrison units 
 in a building that allow you to heal them. Archers garrisoned in towers can also increase their 
 effectiveness.
  
  The two most fascinating features of this game are the campaigns and the visual effects. The campaign 
 isn't told in fancy cutscene formats like in the later games of Ensemble or Warcraft 3 for that 
 matters sake, but tells an entire story on a simple piece of parchment with imperfect hand-sketches. 
 And believe me, the effect of that was more than what any cutscene could deliver. The game consists 
 in all 5 campaigns - William Wallace (Scottish Wars) , Joan of Arc, Saladin (3rd Crusade) , Genghis Khan, 
 Frederick Barbarosa (Europe during Crusade) . But what is better is that unlike other games which 
 are good when played in campaign but not so in a random game, AOE2 can be played in Random Game 
 with equal satisfaction as in a campaign mode.
  
  Now for the visual Effects. Well, I have to say
  
  WOW! AMAZING!
  
  AOE2 doesn't use too 
 much of a fancy graphic and rendering items, but simple stuffs available even in way back 1999 
 and yet it provided a graphical impact better than a lot of modern games as well. For instance, 
 on close inspection the barracks will be found to be graphically imperfect with only a few tile 
 sand bricks visible, but when in gameplay, the effect provided by the incomplete bricks and tiles 
 is more than what any modern game can offer you.
  
  To finally finish off my review I must say that if you call yourself an Real Time Strategy (RTS) 
 fan then you must have an Age of Empires 2 (as well as it's expansion - "The Conquerers" which is 
 equally good and has a few other features as well) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dantinho
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 2 is a game alot of people remembered and will remember from years to come, it broke 
 alot of boundrys and came through as one of the best games of its genre ever.
  
  The previous Age of Empires was a very solid game and a very good kick start to the series but 
 Age of Empires 2 delievered a fantastic gaming expierence and the chance to build your own maps. 
 The main theme of the game is the timeline is set in the Empire times i. e. Roman Empire, Joan of 
 Arce, William Wallace and so on. You'll be able to control a select few civillizations and build 
 them up from the few things on offer in the Dark Age to the wonders and privallages of the Imperial 
 Age. This is just the start of the things you can do in this game. You can either select a map, 
 game type and what empires you want in the map and jump right in and play the game how you like. 
 Or you can do the campaign mode which will let you follow stories of how each empire started, also 
 letting you control certain heros themselfs.
  
  The controls of quite solid, its not that hard to learn how to play but learning what to do next 
 will come from your own head most of the time instead of being prompted to do a certain thing. 
 The gameplay can be challenging, even when its set to easy if you don't grow and improve quickly 
 enough the A. I will soon better you in all areas. The graphics are quite artistic and brilliant 
 to see, Its not the most stunning game but the art and models of each building and unit are very 
 detailed. The choose of gameplays are very nice too. Its hard to get bored until after a couple 
 of hours, which brings us too the first problem with this game. It can get repeatative and boring 
 after a while, Alot of the campagins feel the same just with different characters and once you 
 do certain things, it leaves you just waiting but slowly growing. However this kind of problem 
 is too be expected with this type of game so you can't hold it againsts it too much.
  
  Its a fantastic achivement and at a very low price these days, the one or two bugs and glitches 
 that plagued the older versions have been corrected by Microsoft with downloadable patches and 
 the online play is quite solid if you want to play against a friend, but its not really a pick 
 up and play game so be prepared too stay the distance to win.
  
  In all Age of Empires 2 is a fantastic achievement for strategy games and because of this game 
 alot of other games were made just as well. Its deffinatly left a big hole in gaming history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2nDtImEr
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game was incredibly addicting and fun back when I played it. I didn't even start playing 
 until late 2004, but when I started did I ever. The game had been going strong for 4 or 5 years, 
 and there were a ton of incredible custom scenarios to play. Half the player base seemed to be 
 in the custom scenarios. They allowed for endless possibilities in terms of mapmaking, scripting, 
 triggers, etc. I remember spending a LOT of time working on custom maps. 
  
  Anyways, the gameplay is great. Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings (AoK for short) is a magnificent 
 strategy game. I mostly played Deathmatch, where each team started with a lot of resources. It 
 sounds like a noob game mode, but that's where all the experts played. The lobby for random map 
 games, or low resources was titled The Plains (Rookies) , so all the noobs went there. In deathmatch 
 you had to quickly spawn a huge number of paladins (also, everyone played as the Franks on Arabia, 
 because Frankish paladins pwn babies) . Sure the civilizations weren't all balanced but man was 
 it fun and fair seeing as everyone picked Franks anyways. Of course someone might try to pick those 
 damn Saracens but no one would launch the game with the icky Saracens and their mamelukes (the 
 only thing paladins had to fear) .
  
  Enough of my rambling, this game was incredibly fun, but when the MSN Gaming Zone removed the CD-ROM 
 game section it practically died. The expansion still gets decent amounts of users at IGZone, but 
 I liked the original better.
  
  Unfortunately Age of Empires III wasn't nearly as good in my opinion. I got used to playing the 
 low resource games (they gave you WAY too many resources in DM in AoE 3) , but they got old. No 
 one played custom scenarios because 1. they weren't supported at launch and 2. they didn't help 
 your rank. Ranking systems seem to be ruining online gaming. No one wants to play games for fun 
 anymore, they all want achievements, unlockable weapons, and meaningless badges. BAH! Bring back 
 teh pwnage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsox07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review 
 later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this 
 review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update 
 this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will 
 update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. 
 I will update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy it 
 a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy 
 it a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. I 
 enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  Strategy games by and large are a little difficult to be liked or to get used to. When i played 
 Age Of Empires 1, i liked it but it was like an ok feeling.
  
  So when i was given the Age Of Empires 2 - Age Of Kings CD, i was a little reluctant. But when 
 i played it, it almost changed my life.
  
  Ok, coming to the game, this is basically a strategy game where you have to gather resources, start 
 from scratch and build a Formidable empire that is fortified enough to be impeccable and impregnable. 
 Some Gamers today do not like the resource gathering kind of games. They straight away want to 
 fight. But the real fun is to start from scratch and then become powerful. Even in REAL Life you 
 always start from zero then come up. I do not like games like Rise Of Nations where everything 
 happens way too fast. Its too STRATEGIC and there is no focus on the resource gathering part.
 
  
  You wont find that problem in AOE II as everything is BALANCED. The problem of everything being 
 slow in AOE 1 is also solved in AOE 2.
  
  In AOE 2, just like AOE 1 you represent a civilization and fight for its survival.
  
  There 
 are a variety of civilizations. You can either go for the OFFENSIVE BRITONS or the DEFENSIVE Franks. 
 You can also go for the POWERFUL PERSIANS or the Technologically Advanced Chinese or Japanese Civilization.
 
  
  You normally start off with a town centre and some villagers. You have four resources to gather 
 FOOD, WOOD, GOLD, STONE. Food and Gold Primarily for the soldiers. The Wood for the buildings Barracks, 
 Stable etc. Stone for the Castles.
  
  Food can be gathered from berry bushes, sheeps, boars, fish. Wood from Trees, Gold and Stone from 
 Mines.
  
  There are four AGES. You start with the DARK Age, then there comes the INTENSE Feudal Age followed 
 by the FAST PACED Castle Age and the DECIDER Imperial Age. Fight through the ages gathering enough 
 resources to build a big army and destroy the enemy.
  
  GRAPHICS -
  
  The units (Military People, Villagers) and buildings especially the CASTLES look so very realistic 
 even for today's time. The Horse looks like a real horse unlike AOE III where the horse looked 
 like a donkey. The game takes place as early as 800-1100 AD and hence there are no stupid canons. 
 There are Swordsmen, Knights, Archers, Skimshers and Pikemen. The best and the most REALISTIC UNITS 
 you will find in ANY, ANY Strategy game is only Age Of Empires II. The castles and their architecture 
 look impressive.
  
  SOUND -
  
  Its menu theme is unforgettable. The Defeat theme is really emotional and the victory theme makes 
 you really jump in joy. The sounds of swords clashing, arrows raining are all very realistic. Also 
 when a soldier or horse (knight) gets killed the sound effects is damn realistic.
  
  GAMEPLAY -
  
  Gameplay for me has always been very addicting. I have played this game for 10 
 years. Never have i found this game a bore. All other strategy games, i loved but not so long as 
 10 years. This is something very amazing about this game. Also the multiplayer game ROCKS. Its 
 the MOST PLAYED MULTIPLAYER Game after Warcraft and Counter Strike.
  
  A NOTE ON THE CAMPAIGNS - YES, HOW CAN I FORGET, this is the main PART of the game that makes it 
 so popular and one of the greatest games in history of gaming. I PUKED when i played AOE III campaigns. 
 I didnt know a single character.
  
  But in AOE II you can struggle through thicks and thins and help William Wallace. Join Joan Of 
 Arc as she takes you through a hell of a mystical journey. Play the Dangerous Genghis Khan or get 
 to be the leader of the Saracen army by helping Saladin the Great Leader.
  
  The story of AOE II are MOST ACCURATE. You wont find such accuracy in your history text books. 
 Anyways the campaigns IMMERSED me and addicted me to AOE 2. Campaigns in the Expansion pack AOE 
 2 - Conquerors are even Better and more Fun.
  
  So here ends my review. It gave me a GREAT Pleasure writing this review, in short, MY 10 Years 
 of Campaign in Age Of Empires II. 
  
  This game is really Hard to describe to tell you all the truth, especially if you are a person 
 like me who has played and MOST IMPORTANTLY Understood this game as a 10 year old in 1999. It's 
 actually such a great game that it gets embedded in your hearts thus making it unforgettable. 
 
  
  Truly no strategy game comes close to this Beautiful and Unbelievable game. It is ONE of the GREATEST 
 Games in Any Genre and quite easily the GREATEST RTS GAME EVER CREATED.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woot3
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  AOE is an addicting game that has many game modes but some of these can be boring and uninteresting. 
 For example campaign and create a map serve no real purpose in the game. Create a map can ok at 
 best but most of the time it is extremelly annoying because you can only have up to 70 units. However 
 custom matches can keep you glued to the moniter for hours without realizing it. The differant 
 game modes add varity to the game and give you thousands of differant combinations can be played. 
 Up to eight civilisations can play at once in the same map. There is 12 civilisations in the game 
 all with differants attributes. Creating your own civilisation to fight with anouther in a battle 
 for superiourity can at times be outstandingly involving. Death match is a real gem in the game 
 where a number of civilisations fight it out to be the only one remaining. You can only win the 
 game by destroying your opponents. Overall AOE is a game due to its custom matches that you soon 
 won't forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  the best historical Real Time Strategy, which layback u to ancient war and europe domination in 
 the world.
  
  =gameplay=
  
  Age of Empire II : Age of The Kings have a revolutionary gameplay, u cannot find in other RTS games. 
 in single player campaign u can choose in story campaign or skirmish game. in story campaign there 
 are a five story campaign u must finished. if u finishing one campaign u can playing next campaign. 
 in each story campaign, there are different country with different mission too. u can playing british 
 army, french, spanyol, persia. In skirmish game u can choose one of the country. there are alot 
 of country u can play, with each unique units. game play in Age of Empire II : Age of the Kings, 
 must u to build structire such as, market, barrack, or castle. but u will start in The dark Age. 
 and if u has improve each building and units in dark age, u can start to improve too castke age, 
 and imperial age which have a lot of improvement, more strong buildings, more strong units. each 
 units can improve in structure, u can upgrade, for example long swordsman to two handed swordsman 
 (castle age) , and two handed swordsman to champion (imperial age) in barracks. and each age have 
 a improvement to this unit. and u can upgrade ur buliding more strong. in university. u can upgrade 
 ur units ability in blacksmith. and u can create units with more kills ability to destroy or defeat 
 ur enemy.
  
  =graphics=
  
  no more best graphics, but units details can be impressive. u can differ between champion and arbalest, 
 the environment almost complete with alot of trees, green ground, sea, river, bridge. yeah is the 
 best for 2D game. u will choose resolutions 800x600 or more 1024x768, but more resolutions do u 
 choose will make ur units more small. hehe... and also u cannot recognize it.. age of Empire II 
 : Age of The kings can run in (minimum) windows 95, windows 98, 2000/NT, and Windows XP. with minimum 
 specification hardware, 32 MB graphics card, 2.1 sound card. u will enjoy it.
  
  =all performance=
  
  the best historical games on the world, make the game having alot of fans, 
 and more rating in the worlds. and if u never play this game, even late u must to try and u will 
 enjoy. 
  
  =graphics= 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazyGamer_24
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  AOE is a HRTS game (historic real time strategy) where you command your troops, build your economy 
 and complete your objectives like a traditional HRTS game. The graphics are just superb with trees, 
 units, buildings, etc. But one problem is that the units and buildings will look like clones of 
 each other. The campaign is pretty long, it will take you a long time depending what difficulty 
 and how strategic you are. The sound is good too with the sound of swords clashing, rocks smashing, 
 and arrows firing. When you click on a unit it will say something in the language of their faction 
 or if you click on a building it will make some drum noise.
  
  The multi player is fun supporting 2-8 and competitive trying to destroy everyone or build a wonder. 
 There are a variety of game types like king of the hill, wonder race, genocide, etc. You can also 
 play with AI opponents which are very smart and which is why the game is hard.
  
  I really recommend people to play this RTS because it's just fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crusaders21
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Hey my name is crusaders21 and this is my review of Age of Empires II: Age of Kings. I give it 
 a ten hands down. If you're into strategy games, especially RTS strategies, then I challenge you 
 to try this game.
  
  
  There are a number of civilizations, and while each has a different styled layout of buildings, 
 all the units (with the exception of the special units that each civilization has) look the same. 
 You might think that this causes a sense of, "I've played one so I've played them all," but it 
 doesn't. The game makes you feel like each one of the civilizations have their own unique personalities. 
 
  
  
  
  The game also keeps up pretty closely to actual historical events, and all of the civilizations 
 have some sort of advantage. For example, the Franks can build castles cheaper than any other unit. 
 Also, each civilization has their own special unit that can turn the tide of battle. 
  
  All in all, this is a great game that I think you will all enjoy, and I have spent many hours on 
 it trying to beat it. Also, once you beat the game, it has an online feature with which you can 
 compete against other player from across the nation! Thanks for reading this review!
  
  
  
  crusaders21
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: braveheart11
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I love Age of Empires 2, the expansion just brings even more hours of highly addictive fun, must 
 have game for everyone. Absolute brilliance.
  
  The multiplayer is yet another excellent - hours of fun - option you can use, it's a bit tricky 
 to get it going but once you've got it - endless fun with up to 8 friends!! It would be great if 
 they either released a new expansion which fixed things up and made it looks even better, or even 
 a remake - the very same game but with addons and graphic updates - would be one hell of a hit.
 
  
  Once you play it once, you'll want to go back and play it again, and again, and again! Everything 
 is just excellent, if you're thinking about getting AOE3 - don't! Get AOE2 Gold Edition, AOE3 isn't 
 all that great the graphics are excellent but they have abolished a lot of the awesome features 
 in AOE2 why I don't know, because it's killed the game completely.
  
  
  Must have game!! Knights, castles, sieges, catapults, bow & arrows etc, endless hours of fun in 
 the medieval time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danbrch
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review 
 later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this 
 review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update 
 this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will 
 update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. 
 I will update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy it 
 a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy 
 it a lot. I will update this review later. I enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. I 
 enjoy it a lot. I will update this review later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  AoE II is very much like the original AoE game but it is set in the medieval period instead of 
 ancient times. It has some upgrades of sounds and graphics for sure. It has a much better feel 
 to it. The new civilisations are fantastic having a range of all around the world instead of the 
 European empires in the original game. Some aspects that I think could have been improved were 
 the amount of population a civilisation can have. 200 is a little small if you have a huge empire 
 in the game. I think also that the kings should have been able to fight instead of being useless 
 **** that did nothing and run around scared and be strong at that. Very much like the explorer 
 in the new AoE game. This game just like the original can be played endlessly as they are highly 
 addicting and you can't stop playing. Again it is very strategically based and takes time, patients 
 skill and interlect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Safor001
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  This is one of the few games that has only a few cons. When you start it up, I would suggest skipping 
 the rather lengthy intro. It's very long, and you lose your interest. Two old men playing chess, 
 and every time the move a piece a trebuchet gets toppled or a tower is built. But that's not as 
 exiting as it should be. Anyway, it has a lot of positive enhancements to the Age of Empires gameplay. 
 It no longer has the group option, but thats not a problem. It is replaced by 4 formations to group 
 your troops in a overall useless flank formation, a box-like formation (for protecting your group 
 of monks moving all the relics!) , a line formation, and a staggered formation for defending your 
 troops from siege weapons. And garrosining is a great new enhancement. The most notable use of 
 this is castles and town centers, with which you ring your town bell and your villagers scramble 
 into the town center and not only be protected from your enemy, but your villagers will fire arrows 
 at them. Castles are another thing to show up in this game. With castles it gives you a meaning 
 to have huge stockpiles of stone, because walls aren't the only thing you will need to build in 
 this game. Without a few castles in your empire, defending from an attack will be vary hard, and 
 castles don't go down easy. The new battering rams are nice too. They take little damage from arrows, 
 making them the perfect anti-castle/town center, along with the new trebuchet. The trebuchet is 
 a long range heavy hitter. Unfortunately it has no area of effects, but it delivers of whopping 
 200 damage, plus it has a range no arrow, even with all the range upgrades, can't hit it. Another 
 notable thing about this game is you can set the population limit to 200! Meaning larger armies, 
 and more economy. The newer marketplace is good too, with the ability to buy or trade in gold for 
 something else, as well as trading by sea or land. Also, gates are added, as well as the ability 
 to walk over farms or untouched building spots, so you can run through someone wall in progress, 
 or build farms by your town centers so your farmers can run. And also, every civilization has a 
 unique unit, like the Britons have the mighty long bowman, and the Celts the strong Woad Raider. 
 One of the most notable cons, however, in the mangonals/onagers. The will fire on your own troops 
 if they are attacking an enemy melee. But thats no biggy, right? Well, those things fire multiple 
 shots, and have a very large area of effect, as well as a lot of damage, so watch out. Yet another 
 cons is you can't research things you could in the other game, like the wheel. The wheel sped up 
 your villagers by a lot, making them good scout as well as workers. Another thing that is nice, 
 however, is the amazing 'pulls of covering sheets of peculiar item' is the university! 'Loud cheering'. 
 With this new building, you can research upgrades to your towers, like heated shot, allowing them 
 to do more damage to naval units, and stuff like that. It is a lot like the government center, 
 however, so "new" isn't really a good description. But now only 3 way to win exist. Ruins were 
 taken out, and artifacts, now known as relics, can't just be walked up to and taken. You have to 
 create a monk, take the monk to the relic, and the monks walk slow, so its rather depressing, bring 
 it back to the monastery, then toss/garrosin it in. Although it generates gold, so there and advantage 
 to having at least 4 of them. Another great thing about this game is that the civilizations all 
 are different enough to make you experiment with each of the civilizations to choose which one 
 fits you best. Unlike in the first one, in which almost every civilization is the practically same. 
 So go rooting around the tech tree, find what you want in a civilization, and use that civilization. 
 Well, that about wraps it up here... thanks for reading! Please remember to leave a reply! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homeyc
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Have you ever bought yourself a tub of ice cream and wished that it would last forever? And yet, 
 when you thought more about it, you realized that what makes the ice cream so good is that it doesn't 
 in fact last. Sometimes, more is not necessarily better. It's the wanting more that makes a product 
 so good. 
  
  And so it is with Age of Empires II. Initially, I loved this game and wanted it to last forever. 
 Then, I realized that it did. This is a game that can take hours to complete the campaign mode 
 and then even longer if you play multiplayer. The game is diverse and that is both its strength 
 and its weakness. It makes the game interesting because there is so much to explore and ways to 
 advance your army. Yet, at the same time, it feels like you are actually fighting this war because 
 in real life, it would take the same amount of time to complete the game as it did to fight the 
 war.
  
  The controls are really quite intuitive. Anyone who has played a RTS game will be able to figure 
 out the controls immediately. Those who need to be introduced to the unique features of the game 
 can follow a detailed tutorial that was both enjoyable to follow and play. 
  
  What I liked most about the game was the attention to historic detail. I actually felt, as I was 
 playing, that I was also learning about history. If only this is what we could have done in school 
 instead of using boring textbooks.
  
  Age of Empires is an intelligent game that requires both thought and tactics. It is among my favourite 
 RTS games so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Or is it the beginning of a comeback? Some say that 2D real time strategy games are dead. Of all 
 the big name real time strategy games that have been released lately, only Age of Empires 2: Age 
 of Kings boldly steps forward while bereft of any 3D support whatsoever. GASP! In this day of 3D 
 for the sake of 3D, how can they get away with that? On the one extreme we have Homeworld (review 
 still pending) , which promises to redefine the RTS genre by presenting a truly 3D battlefield. 
 Then there are the tweeners like Total Annihilation Kingdoms with polygonal 3D units, and Command 
 and Conquer 2, which incorporated 3D by way of voxels, but didn't really add anything spectacularly 
 new to RTS.
  
  In this crowded field of 3D RTS games, can a completely 2D game like Age of Kings snatch the RTS 
 crown away from Starcraft? Our view as old school RTS players is that the genre doesn't necessarily 
 need 3D like first person shooters do. The longevity of games like Starcraft and the original Age 
 of Empires is a testament to the fact that refined, balanced gameplay will be more likely to hook 
 gamers than 3D for the sake of 3D. RTS games often require dozens of units to be on screen at once, 
 each firing tons of projectiles. If you're going to make a game entirely in 3D then there's going 
 to be a real cost incurred there. Gamers who played TA Kingdoms before last week's patch know that 
 tons of 3D units and projectiles on screen can really bring a computer to its knees.
  
  Age of Empires 2 doesn't rely on neat 3D eye candy to grab the gamer. Instead it brings a number 
 of smaller, evolutionary tweaks to the RTS gameplay that players have really yearned for. Don't 
 get us wrong though. We're not saying AOE2 is great gameplay put in an ugly package. On the contrary, 
 AOE 2 sports arguably the most gorgeous visuals of any RTS game on the market! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saren_Arterius
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  No other game really took my time away from me more than the original Age of the empires and so 
 as soon as the second one came out i snapped it up in a second.
  
  The game is hugely addictive and great fun in any form. The storys are great and the different 
 cultures you get to control are all special. 
  
  The main difference from the old game is that the cultures are different this time. In the last 
 game the cultures were mostly similar in design and the only difference was subtle changes to building 
 design. In 2 however the different cultures are actually different. The aztecs for example have 
 aztec like buildings and character designs.
  
  The combat and buildings you can build have been rebooted and are all a step above anything i had 
 played at the time.
  
  It's probably not the best to by it now as it's time has passed but heres to a great game, one 
 that should be remembered for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j007penz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I have had this game forever, and I still love to play it. Though I can't say that it is much of 
 a challenge anymore, but I am always creating new scenarios to make it harder on myself. I got 
 into the Age of Empires games with the first one, and I have owned every one since then. They just 
 keep getting better and better. From Age of Empires, the expansion pack, Age of Mythology, Age 
 of Empires II, and Age of Empires III they have all been amazing!!
  
  ------------------
  
  I have had this game forever, and I still love to play it. Though I can't say that it is much 
 of a challenge anymore, but I am always creating new scenarios to make it harder on myself. I got 
 into the Age of Empires games with the first one, and I have owned every one since then. They just 
 keep getting better and better. From Age of Empires, the expansion pack, Age of Mythology, Age 
 of Empires II, and Age of Empires III they have all been amazing!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leofiregod
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Back in the early 2000s a friend turned me on to RTSs (Real Time Strategies) . I had always overlooked 
 these games and never really given them a chance. He got me to play this among others that he had. 
 Among all of them, this game was among the tops of the RTS genre. It offers an easy tutorial to 
 get you up to par on all the controls and then turns you loose. Whether you're a beginner or an 
 old hand at this genre, this game offers different challenges for everyone. You can build a wonder 
 if you're wanting a quick fairly easy game with no fighting or you can pick defend a wonder. (Depending 
 on how many people you're playing against this can be very difficult.) Or just go straight into 
 a campaign and take on the role of one of the world's most famous people in their reign of terror 
 or take a stand against such tyrrany. Once you've mastered the game its time to go online and test 
 you knowledge against other gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyzhaze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Based on an age old formula for RTS, build your base, send your scouts, gather resources and fight 
 off the enemy to victory. All this and a bag off good balance between factions (cultures) to set 
 the par.
  
  The campaign screams nothing in particular. The multiplayer aspect behind AOE2 is excellent. With 
 different battle modes, including, assassinate the kind, Wonder (build and hold the cultural building 
 for a timeframe to win) , deathmatch and team deathmatch.
  
  Large array of units in 5 Tier classes, research is a necessity in this game as it opens up new 
 arrays of slaughter and armour to your enemies and yourself.
  
  Unit cap at 200 limits you to balance your army and general population making strategy in the S 
 of RTS quite interesting. If you have an ally, he can focus on resources and donate to you at any 
 time while you focus on defenses and the battlefield. So many ways to work with or against other 
 teams. The possibilities are so many it just keeps going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_of_Games12
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This is the best RTS game ever made for mediveal times, if not the best RTS ever!! The sheer graphic 
 deatil for the time is amazing. In 1999 and 2000 many games were still choppy pixel games.
  The game is very hard at its hardest levels, and the campaign can be tough, but it gives a challange. 
 Here's a tip. If you are having too much trouble playing at your desiered difficulty level go with 
 the better civilizations such as the Byzantines, Chinese or Spanish (spanish are avaliable in conquerers 
 expansion only)
  The expansion is worth buying, because it adds new elements to the game.
  Don't buy this game now, unless your PC can't support better games, but remember the forefather 
 of real mediveal RTS.
  It's too old to play now. I haven't played it for about 4 years. I hope that some other games publisher 
 makes another mediveal RTS this great. But mabye I'm putting my hopes too high... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BSirum
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  i havent played Age of empires 2 for about a year and back then I was thinking this as a good real 
 time stratagy game, so i decide to install it again and all of a sudden its 10A. m next thing I knew 
 it was 4P. M!
  
  I just got addicted to this game and it is now my favorite, with about 15 different civilizations 
 who could go wrong with buying this game? i know i didn't! The game of course takes place in the 
 middle ages, starting in the dark ages and ending in the imerial age and still has beautiful graphics' 
 great value... actually that is the main reason I am writing this review. first of all again there 
 are about 15 civilizations coming from Europe and Asia and all have completly different feels. One 
 think that is quite striking is that when you choose different nations citizens speak the language 
 from that nation!
  Another think is how many map types there are. there are about 17 different map types. I actually 
 thought there are more map types in AOE2 than the stunning rise of nations! the population limit 
 is 200 and its kinda hard to actually reach that limit because in the first AOE my goal was always 
 to not hit the 50 population limit and if I did I had to kill [delete] my citizens so I could have 
 a stronger army and that is what I call a hassle.
  
  
  i know i had alot to say about the value so lets talk about the graphics.
  First of all they 
 are still pretty solid... keep in mind this is a 9 year old game so don't expect anything flashy 
 here. Anyway the graphics are well done and the buildings look great! they almost cover up the whole 
 screen like the castles and wonders etc. The people in AOE2 move alittle jerky ,about 20fps. the 
 trees and other objects are well done bu the cliffs look like thyre' in thin air. the sound has 
 its own share as weel but don't expect loud thundering noises even though they are good but they 
 still sound a little like noises from AOE2. Probably the worst thing in AOE2 is that you cant auto 
 explore your citizens ore your soldiers but that is a minor flaw.
  
  
  This is the best game I have reviewd so far and I never thought it would be this good all of a 
 sudden and another thing is there are great campiegns that should keep you accupied for awhile. Huh? You 
 still here? Go play the game already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makoota
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 2 The Age of The Kings is a strategie game where it mixes war with civilization 
 and it mixes very well. you start with a few villagers, a scout cavalry, and a town center, it 
 seems not so different from other games untill you get deeper into the game. The game boasts sevral 
 game modes including random map which is just a regalur match againts the AI, then there is deathmatch, 
 you start with a massave stockpile of recsource and crush the enemy, there even is a mode where 
 you have a king and try to kill the other team's king. these are followed by 5 campain heroes that 
 involve alot of strategie. there is also a map editer in which you can create your own campain. 
 another thing to mention is the graphics. they are pretty darn good for something that was made 
 in 1999. ther sound is pretty good, it does get a little repetative but it's still fun to listen 
 to all of the languages of the 13 civilizations. the game has very good replay value and the map 
 editer really passes the time. overall, this is an awsome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood-Angelas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Although an old game by standards AOE was one of the first games I bought for my new PC in 2000. 
 As i've played i have truly apreiated the masterpiece that was at the end of my mouse. Graphics 
 were awsome for the time and gameplay was smooth and so far as i know glitchless. With an unlimited 
 no. of hours to play it was one of the best game or even The best out at the time. With the option 
 of 4 campaign stories and a training course to do it easily satisfied my lust for a game to play. 
 Now it can be bought on manydifferant consoles PC. Mac, Mobile, DS and PS2 and i know someone with 
 it for PSP but i think thas downloaded. With AOE II expansion adding the extra campaign stories 
 and more races, units and maps. This was great and then they brought out AOE III and more expansions 
 for that which is brilliant for more up-to-date gaming and for the original classic there's AOE 
 I which although i think is no where near as good as the other two but it is a lot older but the 
 series is awsome and im in anticipation for a fourth!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacksaibot
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  I was greatly impressed by the second Age of Empires. The creators did an excellent job by taking 
 the critiques on the first game and improving as well as expanding on the greate features and game 
 play that made the first Age of Empires such a good game.
  
  The graphics are a great improvement; a lot crisper and more detail. Each civilization has a more 
 unique look to their buildings; however, the units are just about the same aside from unique units 
 (which brings more of a variety) .
  
  The sound effects greatly improved and the music fits perfect with the time setting of the game. 
 Although some sound effects still sound a bit fake, it's better than the original AOE.
  
  The AI improvements moved toward the right direction. It brings a good challenge even though it 
 can become totally frustrating at times (because the CPU can control multiple units at once and 
 we humans have only one brain) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xX-GamerBot-Xx
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  AOE is a HRTS game (historic real time strategy) where you command your troops, build your economy 
 and complete your objectives like a traditional HRTS game. The graphics are just superb with trees, 
 units, buildings, etc. But one problem is that the units and buildings will look like clones of 
 each other. The campaign is pretty long, it will take you a long time depending what difficulty 
 and how strategic you are. The sound is good too with the sound of swords clashing, rocks smashing, 
 and arrows firing. When you click on a unit it will say something in the language of their faction 
 or if you click on a building it will make some drum noise.
  
  The multi player is fun supporting 2-8 and competitive trying to destroy everyone or build a wonder. 
 There are a variety of game types like king of the hill, wonder race, genocide, etc. You can also 
 play with AI opponents which are very smart and which is why the game is hard.
  
  I really recommend people to play this RTS because it's just fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pablo_SL
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This games totally defines RTS games and it is the father of all the games that after it. I'd say 
 that it is even better than starcraft because, appart from offering a funnier gameplay, it is placed 
 on the middle age and not in a distant created future. 
  The campaing might be the best part of the game, but I can't say that the multiplayer and skirmish 
 modes are worse because they totally rock. I remember when this game came out back in 1999 and 
 I also remember the shock it produced on me, I must say that thanks to this game I became a RTS 
 fan and I still play it today (I may play for ever) . If you're a true RTS fan then this is a MUST 
 have so go and buy it know if you haven't. I could continue to speak about this game, but I'd take 
 hours to finish writing so I'll just say that this is the best RTS ever made and also one of the 
 best games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azu32
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Age of Kings can look a little bland and washed out before you fill the screen with buildings and 
 military units, but this same sparseness makes its interface clean and effective. The clearly depicted 
 controls at the bottom of the screen and the familiar mouse functionality make this game very easy 
 to pick up and play. Best of all are the descriptive floating help messages that thoroughly describe 
 every unit and technology available, which you can toggle off once you begin to remember them. 
 Your units move quickly and easily from point to point, and selecting a mixed group will automatically 
 assign them to a logical formation, with tougher units in front and more vulnerable units in pursuit. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrTea
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings, is a strategic game where can control armies of the Japanese, 
 the Scottish, the British, and many more. The controls are great and easy to get used to. The map 
 creator is great fun when you're bored or you just want create a great base. If you don't like 
 to play with missions, you can play Custom Game where you can go up against, or join, six people. 
 I cannot judge the online because the server was taken down this may bring down the score or maintain 
 it's perfect ten. If you're looking to buy a strategic game or you just want to create an army, 
 this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_lover_77
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  i ve never played a game like that before. its extremely enjoyable and amazing game. the game can 
 also be played on old systems with a very nice graphic details just like commandos. i admire it's 
 devalopers who made a game like that which can be considered as ever green and never ending game. its 
 very hard to play and very difficult to win without a fool proof planing. during gameplay it ll 
 be easier that u pause the game and make yr moves. anyway i suggest this game to every game lover, because 
 its realy the best of its kind. u can play from a different countries and nations and can enjoy 
 by fighting as different kings. in this game u ll play as a president/leader of yr nation u ll ve 
 to manage yr food, wood, gold and stone.
  during this u ll also ve to build up yr army to defend cuz the enemy ll attack again and again 
 and from different sides of yr state. he ll come from a dark and fogged area and suddenly attack 
 on you, so give your full attention to each and every necessary point. it ll be the best way that 
 u better pause the game again and again and during that deeply analyse the battlefield and yr homeground, keep 
 an eye on every movement of the war, dont take it light cuz its war. fight as brave and famouse conquerors 
 of the historical world. its realy heart-warming and full of excitement, it is the game which deserves 
 to be the best. game_lover_77 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggleJUGGLER
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  back in the day without amazing graphics and games like oblivion that have hours of missions there 
 was age of empires 2. this game set the tone for real-time strategy games. its formula (build city, gather 
 resources, and build army) has been use hundreds of times. even today i like it better than any 
 other of my pc games. the deal is you go through the ages build up big army and destroy. it simple 
 bur, it can take hours to finish a game if you have the right difficulty setting. overtime your 
 city will become vast with many walls and troops to defend your people. the game has some campaigns 
 along with the normal death match you'll spend at least 20 or so. the races don't differ much besides 
 the look of their cities and their special troops. if your pc sucks and you want a good game this 
 is the game for you and for everyone else in that matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigguy12345
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I love strategy games and have played them all my life. This one really stands out more than all 
 the others. It goes into detail and is very fun, you can battle the all time great battles that 
 really happened. If you want to get into strategy games and are looking for the one for you this 
 one is great to start off with. Though not the best graphics, the game play really makes up for 
 it, by the options, weapons, and the technology and even the soldiers. If you like strategy games 
 or want to try them this is the best for you. Beginner and expert strategists. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerailias
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  it's a pretty good game. it just needed some more guy's that you could build and a easier way to 
 make your own missions. really didn't get what i had to do to make my own missions but it was a 
 pretty good game. they also could have put in more races that you would be able to play with. i 
 liked the game. they mebey could have given each race there own kind of building's. would like 
 to see a futeristic age of empiers. in all it was a pretty fun game that i would play and play. 
 i also tried to make my own missions but i just couldn't understand how to do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawq902
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect for any body who loves those challenging strategy games. The campaign mode 
 is fun and not to difficult but not easy enough that you can fly right through it. Online multi 
 player is awesome with so many good game types to choose from. This game also has a great variety 
 of different nations to choose form, it's tons of fun messing around with all the different military 
 troops and stuff. The fun never ends when your playing. I highly recommend you go out and pick 
 up a copy of Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tayne33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  I have always liked the Age of Empires series. They are so complete, their stories are expertly 
 expressed in their campaign battles, there units are many and varied, and their multiplayer modes 
 are exhilarating.
  
  Age of Kings builds upon the foundation of the first game, expanding its groundbreaking technology 
 to include more unit types, and to increase the individuality of each race. It includes a series 
 of six single player campaigns, each with its own story, and constituting approximately 7 individual 
 missions.
  
  Even though the single player option is so immersing and well rounded, it is in multiplayer combat 
 that this games true potential shines. It has a multitude of gameplay options, ranging from deathmatch 
 to regicide. It can sustain combat between many people, and allows each persons skill to show, 
 creating battles that I can assure you can take hours, closer even to days to complete.
  
  Absolutely brilliant, this is one game I will continue to play for many years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinWinthrop
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This game caused me to fall in love with the strategy games. It was great graphics at the time. 
 I loved the sound effects. It had the progression through the ages thing which I loved. I loved 
 the castles and being able to conquer the world. What really made this game fun for me was that 
 when you killed people, especially the innocent ones, they had the most woeful screams and sound 
 effects that made it hillarious. In its time, it helped to redifine strategy games and I loved. 
 it. I also loved that when some of them died, they got tossed in the air. That was the case in 
 some of the expansion packs. Long story short. This game has the feel of historical progression. 
 It has great graphics. It has great sounds. You'll spend hours on it. I give it a 9. Cool Rule. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  This game age of empires age of kings 2 is the best game ever.
  
  The graphics in this game are exelent and the sounds of the troops fighting with each other is 
 very good
  
  i say that this game is the best stratagy game ever way better than star wars becasue it is set 
 in the castel age and not in the future. this game layout when you play it is layed out very well 
 and all of the buttons and menus are layed out well and they do want they say they do. and it is 
 a very easy game to play and the mulitplayer of very good you can have another player as the enemy 
 and you each have allies which are played by the computers. so i say this game is perfect for people 
 who like the castle age battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eminem_trick_01
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  The player controls a society and guides them through four ages . The game begins in the Dark Ages, 
 where very few buildings and units are available. After a short time, the user gains the ability 
 to advance to the Feudal Age, where more upgrades, buildings, and units become available. The next 
 age is the Castle Age, in which the powerful castle may be built, and used to produce powerful 
 units. Finally, the user can reach the Imperial Age, which is reminiscent of the early years of 
 the Renaissance. Once the user has reached the Imperial Age, they gain access to all the upgrades, 
 units, and buildings that may be built for their specific civilization.
  
  The player directly controls the citizens, and can order them to move or attack (all units) , construct 
 new buildings, gather necessary resources (villager units) , and perform a range of other tasks, 
 such as repair damaged buildings or garrison inside castles or town centers for safety.
  
  Although the playing area includes cliffs and hills, these additions do not actually add to the 
 height of the land, but just represent an area where units must move around, and buildings cannot 
 be built, giving the illusion of height.
  
  There are four types of resources, all of which are necessary: wood, food, gold, and stone. Wood 
 is used for building structures, providing renewable food resources, building ships, and training 
 archers and some other units. Stone is used for defenses like castles or towers, and gold and food 
 are used for constructing units and researching technologies. Often, one of the difficulties of 
 a certain scenario or map is that it has a small supply of one type of resource, forcing players 
 to adjust to this shortage.
  
  Age of Empires II has a much more advanced and varied set of technology trees than the original 
 Age of Empires. To acquire technology, the player must first construct buildings. Each building 
 offers a range of technology which can be researched, for a price. Technologies build upon each 
 other. As technologies are researched, a wider range of buildings and units become available. Technologies 
 may benefit military units (by perhaps increasing their defense attributes) , civil units (villagers 
 can benefit from technologies that make them move faster and therefore collect resources more efficiently, 
 etc) , or buildings (e. g. by researching technology that allows castles and towers to fire at units 
 at their base) . Technologies vary greatly in benefits and costs.
  
  In the game, technology plays a central role. Early in the game, players must constantly assess 
 priorities and allocate scarce resources between creating new units, upgrading existing units, 
 and researching to upgrade to the next Age. Too much emphasis on researching technology and moving 
 through the Ages without creating military can leave a nation defenseless. On the other hand, putting 
 resources into a large population at the expense of progress can lead to defeat if the enemy has 
 progressed and is able to field a small but more powerful attack force.
  
  The number of technologies increase through the Ages, as does the price of said technologies. A 
 special part of the game that was added in the expansion is that each civilization gets a unique 
 technology in the castle when it goes into the imperial age. This technology generally benefits 
 the unique units of the civilization or enable some special upgrade which is not available to other 
 civilizations. In addition to this, some civilizations also have some inbuilt technologies or upgrades. 
 The special abilities of each civilisation vary greatly and are roughly based on the specialities 
 of the civilisations as they were in the 10th-14th century. for example, the Mongols can harvest 
 meat 50% faster than other civilisations, the buildings of the Byzantines automatically get more 
 hit points as they progress into the next age or the fact that The Franks can build castles for 
 much less than other civilizations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat1913
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  The tutorial campaign explains everything you need to know perfectly and its pretty fun too. The 
 graphics were good for when it came up and i still like the way they are now. The gameplay is pretty 
 intense and the resources they put in the game like wood, food etc were perfect as was the cost 
 of what it took to build buildings. There was not many glitches i could find in the game infact 
 i found none. This game is truly a great game and is one of my top rated games ever for skimishes 
 the battles are quite intense and theres plenty of cool tactics you can use in the game that will 
 leave the enemy clueless as to what to do. Overall this game is amazing get it or play it all the 
 way through if you have not. Better than age of empires 1 and from what i have seen of the third 
 in the series its nothing special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallen293
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say that AoE2 is prob one of my all-time favorite games. It had it all: great graphics, 
 great sound, involving game play, fun campaign mode, and excellent multi player modes. When you 
 get a sequel to a great first attempt you want the second effort to blow away the first one (well 
 ideally) , and thats exactly what Age of Empires 2 did. Don't get me wrong I wouldn't say that Age 
 of Empires 1 sucked, but it was the building blocks that opened the door to much more features 
 and unique gameplay the itself could offer. If you are not into the multi player aspect of things, 
 then the single player and create a campaign will definitely keep you busy. There are 5 total campaigns 
 in the age of kings, which each campaign has many missions to complete.
  The multi player aspect of the game is really endless, you could play team death match or capture 
 the flag or everyman for himself with multiple factions. Yes the graphics may not be good compared 
 to todays standards but game play wise, still a classic and a definite must to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhaskarchatta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Age Of Empires II: The Age of Kings: This is what is call Real Time Strategy game... This is really 
 a great game to play for hours and hours... No boring nothing... You will just go deep deep and 
 deeper in the game... It just as if you are not playing a game. It seems to be you are a member 
 of the world you are building with your hand and protecting your kingdom and people of the world... 
 The first time when I start to play this game years back I was just go playing hour after hour 
 day after day... It also happened sometime that I have not slept all the night playing the game 
 fully imersed in the game.. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings ( AOK from here on, for brevity's sake) is the A. D. mirror 
 image of the B. C. Age of Empires. Games are scaled to cover 1,000 years, from the Dark Ages to 
 the early days of gunpowder. It hews steadfastly to the traditional formula of empire-building 
 games: explore, gather resources, research better technology, create the strongest army you can, 
 then conquer the map.
  
  Back in 1995, Microsoft was still not being taken seriously as a game publisher, and AOE was launched, 
 in part, to change that notion. Ensemble Studios had to carry some heavy baggage: they were tasked 
 not only with creating a game that would polish Microsoft's image, but also something that could 
 go head-to-head with Civilization, one of the most respected products in the history of entertainment 
 software. Thus the designers were trying to achieve the depth of the greatest turn-based strategy 
 games, while being forced to do it with a mass-market real-time interface, because real-time games 
 were red-hot at the time. Miraculously, they pulled off that delicate balance with stunning success.
 
  
  AOK is also a real-time game, but this time Ensemble didnt have quite so much to prove. One senses 
 that this sequel was created in a looser, more relaxed atmosphere, one that encouraged the designers 
 to go all-out and have fun.
  
  AOK embodies a host of new features that should delight fans of the first game: 13 new civilizations 
 (including the Japanese, the Mongols, and the Vikings) , a plethora of new units, formation tactics, 
 an enhanced trading system, new and tasty technologies (such as Conscription, which jacks up the 
 speed of unit-creation) , and spectacular new architecture. In fact, the castles, watchtowers, and 
 walls are rendered close to scale, which gives them an imposing heft and presence.
  
  Regardless of which race you play, everyone starts off in the Dark Ages. Your goals here are crude 
 and simple: deploy your villagers to gather food and stockpile enough resources to construct two 
 Dark Age buildings (one of which must be a Barracks) . You can create a militia force at this stage, 
 but I'd advise against it: Dark Age units are very expensive and weak (plus you're not likely to 
 encounter any really dangerous enemy forces until you reach the Castle Age) . Nor would I waste 
 any time and villagers gathering gold and stone. You don't even need much food - if you have more 
 than 50 military units, your economy is probably unbalanced. The goal of Dark Age strategy is simply 
 to get out of the Dark Ages as quickly as possible.
  
  Then it's on to the Feudal Age, where your horizons open up somewhat. Military units are still 
 not very cost-effective (although crude Watchtowers are a good investment) , but now you can build 
 stables, train archers, and erect stone fortifications. Food and mining are advanced by the invention 
 of the fish trap, the double-bit axe, and the humble wheelbarrow. The tempo accelerates. Expect 
 some skirmishing.
  
  By the time you advance to the Castle Age, gold and stone become the more vital commodities, defensive 
 works become truly formidable, units become more affordable and more powerful. Build a University 
 to start down the path that leads to gunpowder, and Monasteries to crank out Monks (very useful 
 for healing friendly units and converting those of your enemies) .
  
  Finally (if you've survived thus far) you reach the pinnacle of medieval civilization: the Imperial 
 Age. Armored paladins, fearsome siege engines, and crude firearms make units quite deadly. Technology 
 flourishes. Crop rotations yield efficient food supplies, block printing allows the Monks to convert 
 at long-range (a great abstraction of the propaganda value of books!) , and naval power comes into 
 its own. If you amass enough wealth, you can build a Wonder of the World. Wonders are ruinously 
 expensive, but if you can create one and defend it successfully for two or three centuries, you'll 
 probably win the game.
  
  Victory comes in several flavors, whether you're playing online (against a single opponent or as 
 part of an allied team) or solo. You (or you and your teammates) decide on the conditions: play 
 for high scores, play against the clock, or go whole-hog with a Deathmatch. In that configuration, 
 all players start with enormous resources; the fighting is immediate and sanguine.
  
  My favorite Victory Condition, though, is the Regicide mode. All sides get a king, a castle, and 
 a modest number of laborers. He whose king survives the longest wins. And unfortified kings are 
 very weak (rather like chess, actually, only chess on steroids) . Multi-player Regicide games are 
 often characterized by treachery and deceit, rather than big smash-mouth battles. Very refreshing. 
 Overall, the Coolness Factor in AOK is amazingly high. Imaginative touches abound, such as: Customized 
 terrain (islands, rivers, forests, deserts, etc.) . Different maps make for very different gaming 
 experiences;
  
   Authentic architecture and language for each civilization; villagers respond to your orders in 
 Norse, Greek, Chinese - whatever is appropriate. A small feature, perhaps, but one that adds color 
 and charm;
  
  Formations that really make a difference in combat;
  
  The ability to hide garrisons inside buildings, then launch them in surprise attacks - even a farmer 
 with a hoe can do some damage in those circumstances;
  
  - Subtle variations in hunting - deer and boars can provide lots of food, but you must assign multiple 
 Villagers to dress and carry the meat, otherwise the carcasses rot before your eyes. Boars can 
 kill if a military unit does not accompany Villagers who stalk them, but they can also be lured 
 into town, where they can be dispatched and processed very quickly.
  
  A well-crafted system of unit balance: true, there are some Imperial Age units that are powerful 
 (Paladins, Elite Cataphracts, etc.) , and who routinely annihilate enemy units while suffering only 
 20 percent casualties. However, there is always a counter-strategy to be employed against them. 
 Paladins, for instance, can be stopped by a mixed force of Pikemen and trebuchets, costing only 
 half as much to produce.
  
  A damned good artificial intelligence - belligerent, sneaky, and frequently unpredictable.
  
 
  AOK is a vivid game as well as a deep one, even though the graphics don't appear to have changed 
 much from those seen in Age of Empires. Siege engines recoil when they fire, debris spews out when 
 cannonballs smash into masonry, and naval encounters are extremely picturesque. Unit animations 
 are terrific: troops set on aggressive will charge boldly at all visible enemy units, beginning 
 with the nearest, and keep fighting until overwhelmed. I've seen aggressive cavalry smash through 
 a defensive line and wreak havoc on the enemy's infrastructure - a perfectly executed blitzkrieg 
 operation. Troops can be ordered to patrol, stand guard, hold their ground at all costs; you get 
 a real sense of tactical flexibility.
  
  Basically, then, The Age of Kings fulfills the sequel wish list for fans of the first game and 
 goes even further. It brims with creative touches, visual delights, and dramatic sequences of cause 
 and effect. As a multiplayer game, it should become a classic, if only because its many built-in 
 variants give it tremendous replay value.
  
  I'd venture to say that it's an equally good solo game. Given the many ways you can handicap one 
 side or the other (not to mention the custom scenario editor) , you can fine-tune the pace, scale, 
 and tilt of every solo experience. However you set things up, the AI will give you a run for your 
 money.
  
  The default game speed is simply too fast, however. Solo games, particularly those played on large 
 maps, will almost always degenerate into a frenzied click-fest. You seldom have time to savor all 
 the subtle features or actually plan a battle using real tactics and formations. You are given 
 maybe ten seconds to respond to a surprise attack, leaving you with only enough time to draw a 
 box around the nearest assortment of troops and hurl them forward as a disorganized mob.
  
  Fortunately, the designers have not been dogmatic on this point. Overall game-speed is adjustable 
 via the Options menu (but only after you've started a game, not when you're setting one up) , and 
 you can fine-tune the tempo by hitting the plus/minus keys.
  
  The default number of units per mission is 75, but players with brawny systems can handle up to 
 125 units without suffering more than a slight slump in performance. Be advised, though, that it 
 can be very confusing to control that many units, especially on a large map. By all means, take 
 the time to group your forces rationally and assign hot-key numbers to the more important groups.
 
  
  I would also suggest playing on the easy setting until you become thoroughly comfortable with the 
 interface. At moderate difficulty, the AI will gang up on you and probably overwhelm you with sheer 
 confusion. Example: it takes 30 seconds to produce a Cavalry Archer, and during that interval your 
 Villagers can gather approximately 80 food units and 20 gold. During that same amount of time, 
 the computer can gather at least 100 food and 50 gold, while cold-bloodedly micromanaging everything 
 else with perfect mathematical efficiency. At this breakneck tempo, it only takes 10-12 minutes 
 to advance from one age to the next, which detracts from the feeling of epic sweep that should 
 characterize each game or campaign.
  
  A few other design choices are questionable. Farms, for instance, automatically become fallow after 
 a certain period and Villagers must then be assigned to replant them. This is an irritating distraction; 
 either do away with the concept, or make it automatic.
  
  But try as I might, I cannot find any significant flaws in this game. It's far superior to the 
 original, and certainly one of the finest strategy games to come along in many moons. Buy it with 
 confidence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViperMelbourne
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 3:08 am PT
Review:  Iv'e spent many long hours with this game, well and truly getting my monies worth many times over. 
 I'll get straight to the point with singleplayer, it sucks!! Multiplayer is the only way to go 
 and unfortunately the glory days are gone as for some reason the zone stopped accepting CDROM required 
 games so game spy took it over but it's not the same.
  
  As to the actual game, whats to say? You build up resources, build an army and send them in. Seems 
 simple but it isn't as every second counts in this game, tactics play a huge role as do allies 
 in team games. Like the saying in texas holdem, it takes hours to learn, a lifetime to master and 
 this game definately falls in this category.
  
  This game has single handedly taken a large part of my life away and i'm not complaining either, 
 lots of fun memories.
  
  I hope one day Ensemble studio goes back to medieval warfare and does an updated version. The game 
 would be an instant blockbuster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is fantastic. It has that RTS feel where you build your city you build your armies and 
 you conquer. Campaigns are excelent. It's also a learning exsperience to teach you about the history 
 of Europe. Multiplayer online is the greatest way to experience the power of this unique great 
 game.
  
  Graphics are good for a half 2d 3d type game. Intresting graphics but the graphics aren't the reason 
 this game is so fun and memberable. Plus back when this game came out the graphics were pretty 
 good and they aren't bad so don't expect some 2d crap glitchy game because its not.
  
  Sound, sound... well its not great,, its just plain bad.. bad soundtrack.. if you call it a soundtrack 
 and the sound of people dying and such is just bad I usualy play the game with the sound off because 
 the rest of the game is an engaging fun experience.
  
  Value of the entire game is absolutely excelent. If you are a fan of Age of Empires or a fan of 
 RTS games (Real Time Strategy games) or you have yourself a computer or even if you like europe 
 and medieval times and like games in general this game is perfect for you and anyone. And if your 
 a fan of AOE then all the better.
  
  Tilt
  
  The Good, Addictive gameplay for hours and hours of engaging battles strategy and fun conquering 
 and fun history lessons and even creating your own campaigns and playing them online with thousands 
 of other people.
  
  The Bad It can be said in one word, Sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cricket6496
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a hello! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is so different in some aspects to other real-time strategy games, and yet so similar 
 in others. The game is set in the Dark Ages, and progresses into the Imperial Age. Like it's predecessor, 
 AOK begins at a basic age, and calls for you to advance your civilization through the other ages.
 
  
  At it's core, the game is a typical RTS game. You need to collect resources (there are four) to 
 build a civilization. At it's highest level, the game branches off into a million possibilities. 
 Each player can with different ways, from destroying and conquering the other civilizations, to 
 collecting 4 special objects, to building a unique world wonder. The great thing about this particular 
 RTS is that you can't just walk into someone's city in the first 10 minutes and crush them to pieces, 
 as you can in other less thought out RTSs (read: Blizzard) . There aren't any major balance issues, 
 either, as each civilization is based on their real counterpart, and his minor differences in unit 
 production.
  
  Starting with sound -
  The music is really loud, but it does fit the game well. It's not incredibly intense, since this 
 game isn't supposed to be a Starcraft type rush-fest. The music needs to be turned down manually. 
 The sounds are good as well... swords clang, arrows whoosh through the air, rocks crash, and buildings 
 collapse with realistic sounds.
  
  The gameplay works like all other RTS games. You collect resources and build units and buildings. 
 In this game, however, attacks work differently, and truly vary depending on what you attack. For 
 instance, archers will take hours to destroy buildings... as they would in real life. Regular infantry 
 are no match for cavalry, either. This way, there are no rushing strategies that actually work 
 like they do in Starcraft or Warcraft.
  
  The great thing about the multiplayer games is that there are random maps. This way, there is none 
 of the map memorizing that happens in other games, in which an opponent can easily guess where 
 you have expanded your buildings to. Units are also put into formation when grouped, which helps 
 dramatically when moving them long distances. All units move at the same speed, so they don't split 
 up.
  
  My only gripe is the multiplayer. Once again, hardcore players have transformed the game into a 
 build as fast as humanly possible and rush the opponent game, which is far from what the designers 
 had in mind. The game could potentially turn into a game that is similar to Sid Meier games, in 
 which players use diplomacy to advance their nation. However, kids online don't want to play that 
 way... they want to kill kill kill really fast and claim supremacy. However, you probably won't 
 find the cut and dry strategies that you find in other RTS games. There won't be a Archer Rush 
 strategy that is uncounterable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJMarra
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings is quite literally a glorious game. It heralds as the successor 
 to the highly successful RTS Age of Empires. AoE II had a lot to live up to, and it quite clearly 
 pulled it off. The best part of AoE II, of course, is its gameplay. As in most RTS games, the goal 
 is to build a base/town, build an army, conqueror enemy. In AoE II, there are three unique ways 
 to do it, but I'll get to that later. To first start off in the game, you must build a base. To 
 build one, you need resources, such as wood, food, stone, etc., the necessities to survive. To 
 collect resources, you must first make villagers. You can create buildings with villagers, attack 
 enemies or wild animals with them, or use them to repair damaged buildings. To collect resources, 
 you can either set up a Lumber Camp or a Mining Camp, where harvested resources can be dropped 
 off. Your villagers will then go to battering down trees or picking away at mines. Which I found 
 helpful in AoE II was that once you assign a villager a task, their name will change also. For 
 example, if you take a villager and assign them to cut down a tree, their name will change from 
 Villager to Lumberjack . This all really helps in the long run once you've depleted your local 
 resources and you forget what your villagers were doing.
  
  But for all of this to happen, you need to keep your enemies at bay. You can have your villagers 
 raise up walls to protect your city or other buildings. For example, I laid a basic wall around 
 my city for protection, but I was trying to protect my Wonder (which I'll explain about later) , 
 so I built a wall around that also. On the outskirts of the walls, you can create guard towers 
 to blast away at the enemy while they advance. Towers come in two forms: Arrow tower or Cannon 
 tower. The latter is used only in the later part of the game, but both are extremely effective. 
 However, towers have a limited range to them (meaning they can't shoot at targets far away, or 
 extremely close) , but this can be overcome (meaning the extremely close part) with an upgrade from 
 your University. To better protect yourself, you can create Castles. Castles act like fortresses, 
 in which they fire a barrage of arrows at any incoming enemy. Castles create your civilizations 
 exclusive infantry and can be garrisoned by a long string of people.
  
  If defending yourself is not enough, or not particularly your interest, you can take the offensive 
 and create an army. Building an army is not mandatory in AoE II, because there are multiple ways 
 to conqueror your enemy (which I will talk about later) , but building an army helps a lot. As with 
 most RTS games, AoE II has the basic string of soldier types: Melee weapon units, ranged units, 
 mounted units, siege weapons, and a Navy. All of these types of soldier have both their advantages 
 and weaknesses over the other. For example, Pikemen have a clear advantage over Calvary, but are 
 quickly cut down by Archers. It's this system alone which makes AoE II such a compelling and strategist 
 game. To further strengthen your troops, the local blacksmith can quickly (and expensively) upgrade 
 your armor and your weapons to have an advantage over your enemies. The dull thing about this, 
 however, is that the effects aren't visually shown on the soldiers.
  
  However, sheer numbers and force won't usually win the day in a battle in AoE II. Turning on the 
 Advanced options, you and your troops must utilize and master the way of putting your troops into 
 formations. Formations can help turn the tide of the battle because each of them has their own, 
 unique advantages. You can simply line your troops in a stacked line, advancing toward the enemy 
 to shove them back, or you can space out your troops to avoid impact damage from siege weapons. 
 You can also form a box around a special unit (such as a Monk, which will be explained in more 
 detail later) , or you can perform a flanking maneuver, by splitting up your troops and having them 
 fight the enemy from both sides. It's a shame Ensemble didn't put more formations into the game, 
 but I can believe how that would confuse people, and I guess the four right there are the only 
 ones you really need.
  
  As I've been saying about most things in this review, I kept stating Which I will explain more 
 later , or something to that equivalent. Well, now would be that time to explain the uses of Monks 
 and relics. Relics are holy items which are scattered along the map. There are usually five relics 
 to a map. To capture a relic, you must use a Monk. A monk is a slow and weak unit created at a 
 Monastery (a Medieval church) . Monks are useful in battles, because they can both heal troops and 
 convert enemy units (or enemy buildings, if you have the upgrade) . When a monk has captured a relic, 
 the monk must huddle back and place the Relic in your base's/town's Monastery. There it will generate 
 free gold for your civilization, which helps greatly once all of the known gold nodes are depleted 
 from the map. Relics, as described by Wikipedia, generate free gold because this reflects the historical 
 realities of the power and influence that possessing famous relics brought to a church . Collecting 
 relics has two advantages, meaning they don't just generate gold. Relics can also be used to win 
 the game. To do this, you must collect all of the relics off of the map. This is a somewhat difficult 
 task, because your enemy is also trying to achieve this goal, but it pays off (literally) and it 
 beats completely destroying your enemy.
  
  But destroying your enemy and capturing relics isn't the only way to win. For those players who 
 are to lazy to conquer your enemy, yet to afraid to leave the safety of your base, you have the 
 ability to construct a Wonder. A Wonder is a large building which takes a massive time to build, 
 but in the end, it pays off. Wonders, if they stay in one piece for long enough, can also win you 
 the game. However, Wonders obviously cause a lot of attention, and any nation which is not your 
 ally will quickly set off to destroy it. Maintaining a Wonder is difficult because you will be 
 face with heavy bombardment for a long time, and if all other nations are either Neutral or your 
 Enemy, building a Wonder is probably not the smartest thing to do because you will attract a lot 
 of attention to yourself.
  
  But enough about its gameplay, and onto its graphics. Even for a 2D game, the graphics on the game 
 are still something to look at. Villagers will hack down trees, soldiers will move around restfully, 
 birds will fly through the sky. It's these simple things which make AoE II so pretty. The best 
 thing about the graphics, however, is the view of the aftermath of a battle. Once a battle is finished, 
 you can see the destruction and carnage of the previous fight. Bodies of infantry men, horses, 
 and siege weapons will scatter the ground. Slowly the bodies will decompose and finally turn into 
 skeletons, which lie on the ground for a very long time until finally disappearing. This is probably 
 what made battling so fun; seeing the aftermath. I don't think any other game (except maybe StarCraft) 
 does this, and this is what truly makes an RTS game good. To not have the dead simply disappear 
 and just lay on the ground rotting really ups the terms of realism of the game itself.
  
  Next thing I'd like to talk about is the sound of the game. Everything is brilliantly done, as 
 your troops will talk in their distinct language instead of just English. Not many other RTS games 
 attempts to do this, or at least try to do it realistically. Battles are also something good to 
 hear, as you can hear the swords clanging and people falling over dead everywhere. Age of Empires 
 II also has a very funny and very useful taunt system. The game holds 42 pre-set taunts, ranging 
 from Attack an Enemy Now to You played two hours to die like this? .
  
  The value of the game is simply astounding. Even eight years after it was released, I still play 
 it to this day. The game is good, actually, that Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds used the Age 
 of Kings system for their own benefit (but it didn't really work out so well in my opinion) . The 
 sheer array of units and buildings you can create really makes the game feel realistic and fun. 
 To increase its replay value, Ensemble added in a World Creator, so you can create your own maps. 
 It's really gratifying to create a small town, and set up an army for you to conquer it. You can 
 also create a string of maps, and compile them into your own campaign, further adding to the replay 
 value. Age of Empires II really springs your imagination, and gleefully lets you create worlds 
 of your own.
  
  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings is a worthy addition to any person's collection. Those who 
 still haven't played will still find it to be a wonderful RTS game. If those words are not convincing 
 enough, the recent success of the games sequel, Age of Empires III (which has so far spawned two 
 expansions) will help persuade you into buying this revolutionary classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Well Age of Empires II spans from the fall of Rome through the Middle Ages in which players 
 lead one of 13 civilizations into greatness. You get to play as the British, The Scottish, French, 
 Mongolians so an and so forth. In the singleplayer campain, you'll take part in one of five historical 
 campaigns. You can choose to champion Joan of Arc, Genghis Khan, Fredrick Barbarossa, Saladin, 
 or William Wallace (training campaign) . I really enjoyed playing through each campaign, as they 
 felt far more epic than your standard attack/defend base RTS campaign. What is great about this 
 game is that you accually get to set men in formations which can have a geat effect on the battlefield. 
 You also get four unit formations to choose from, Line, Staggered, Box, and Flank. There are also 
 random maps your can play and there is a multiplayer part of the game aswell which can hold up 
 to six players and is really fun to play. Graphics: Age of Empires 2's graphics are clearly better 
 than its predecessor's graphics. The most noticeable graphical advancements would be the sheer 
 size and scale of things. Buildings are very large in Age of empires 2, much larger than AOE's 
 buildings.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack music in the game is really well done and it suits the game well. Also the 
 voice acting is also really well done. Everything should sound the way it should like the clashing 
 of sword to the falling of the buildings.
  
  Value: All in all Age of Empires 2: Age of Kings is a great and fun game. It also has supriseinly 
 good replay value. What I did not like about is the lack of unit and buiilding veriety beside the 
 special unit and building for each nation. Other then the special building and unit everything 
 does about the same thing. All in all this is a not bad game but evenually I found that this game 
 kinda losts it's charm compard to there RTS games today, but I had loads of fun with Age of empires 
 2 when it first came out. I give this game 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makhdoom82
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  Creators of this games did a wonderful job ... it provided hours and hours of LAN gaming and it 
 looked pretty nice by standards of those times ..... i have it in my collection if you are buying 
 it now ... then it would definately be a good addition .... very few games have been made like 
 this .... so far no perfectly identical game exsits expcept those which have been created by same 
 developers .... lots of history based combat and single player story based on true events ... a 
 must buy for any collector .... !!! resource gathering and stuff .... !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jul 11, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 2: Age of Kings is an RTS set in medieval times. Like the first game, you start 
 in an age of depression and death. Last time it was the Stone Age, this time, the Dark Ages. In 
 games, you can advance through 4 different ages in medieval history. And, throughout the ages, 
 your troops improve, as does your knowledge. Sounds good so far right? Not really. The gameplay 
 itself is no fun. Half of the time your barley getting by on the resources you have. You spend 
 too much time just sitting around waiting for enough resources instead of fighting. However, because 
 of the way the soldiers fight, that's not really an issue. The soldiers fight unbelievably stupid. 
 Let me set up a for instance for you. In front of you there are two enemy soldiers, one with a 
 sword and behind him, one with a bow. The swordsman charges you and the archer prepares to fire 
 an arrow. Who do you attack? The swordsman of course because he is about to attack you. Not in 
 this game. Oh no, the enemy doesn't charge you swordsmen, but rather your archers, unaware that 
 they are being cut up by men with swords. When they have catapults what do they do? Not attack 
 your walls but rather your soldiers. The AI is so mind numbingly stupid, it takes what little fun 
 that might be in the game away. The campaigns are also really bad. Some missions give you some 
 ridiculous objectives like There are 10 castles in the area. Destroy 8 of them . Fun stuff huh? 
 One part that plagued both games were priests. Ok, so they can heal you troops. That's fine. But 
 the converting drives me crazy! If your enemy has 8 priests, he can convert 8 of your troops, then 
 you have to battle them, then they convert 8 more troops. They can defeat your army without ever 
 building a single soldier. The graphics are solid for the time, but they are really bad nowadays. 
 The sound is the worst I have ever heard. Everybody speaks in their native tongue, so you can't 
 understand anybody. I twouldn't matter anyways because you can barely even hear them. Plus, the 
 music sounds horrible. I hate this game. I'm very lucky I got it so cheap. Don't buy this game. 
 Don't even think about it. You won't like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: libbi68
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Age II is a great game for strategy fans overall. While intimidating at first youll get use to 
 all the resource managing and research tree and such. While pretty much all the units are the same 
 for each country and all look the same, its nice to have the subtle differences as to which country 
 has better strength in certain units. The unique units for each country are also cool varying up 
 the gameplay a bit. The art of the game looks great for the time with all the structures for each 
 country looking different for the most part and the environments looking nice as well. The music 
 is well done and the voice acting isnt the greatest but for this kind of game it does well. Overall 
 the game is awesome and will keep you wanting to comeback for more and more. A must buy for any 
 strategy fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helium_flash
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 25, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 2 is definitely one of the best RTS games on the PC even to date.
  
  The graphics are decent. You won't be able to identify every blade of grass and the faces of your 
 units look like smeared play-do sometimes, but this doesn't make the experience and worse. The 
 buildings are very nice looking and the landscape is good enough. Nothing to brag about, but nothing 
 to scoff at either.
  
  The gameplay is just what you'd expect from a great RTS game. There are plenty of ways to micro-manage 
 your units. There is a hotkey for almost everything. All the units are easy to understand as there 
 is a description of all buildings and units when you drag your cursor over the icon before you 
 wish to make said building or unit. There is a good amount of difference between the classes and 
 each class has its own strengths and weaknesses. The gameplay is RTS perfection.
  
  The sound is decent also. Nothing to brag about, but nothign to scoff at. It is really nice to 
 hear each classes individual language when you click on the units. Nice music plays in the background 
 and it all sounds very good.
  
  There is a lot of value with this game. The campaign mode is very good. There are many campaigns 
 in AoE2, each with their own story of real historical events. The campaigns are very well played 
 out, and between the actions, the story is told out in nice hand drawn pictures with a narrator 
 that fits the role of each campaign. Also, the many maps, classes, add many, many hours to the 
 game. Online is also very fun, although it's not easy at first to get online. Playing a Castle-Blood-Fair 
 is a great experience and can take hours for a single match. AoE2 offers tons of value and is a 
 game you won't put down for years to come.
  
  AoE2 is my favorite RTS, and is much better than StarCraft (which is also own) . Even nearly 10 
 years after it came out, this game is still very fun to play. If you are looking for an excellent 
 RTS, and don't mind the age that it shows, AoE2 is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinpu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  AoE II is an incredible RTS game, with very well constructed campaigns with which you could lead 
 the great empires of the Medieval Age. Besides these very enjoyable missions the game stands out 
 for it excellent graphics and its strategic game play with a very sensible economic tactics (based 
 on four resources) , and military strategies: every faction with its own army units and every single 
 unit with their own skills, and attack/defence bonuses; and the possibility to make several army 
 formations. But theres only one lack, the possibility to rotate the camera, and choose the building 
 rotation. Im pretty sure that you are going to enjoy AoE II even nowadays. And dont forget the 
 lot of content that adds its expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blitzkrieg10
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 17, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This game was surprisingly good to me because I had no idea what to expect from this game. This 
 game has a large variety of civilizations you can choose from, each of which is unique with different 
 technologies and unique units. This game has two main features, one is the campaign. The campaign 
 is not the greatest because it is not long and contains a few, completely different, scenarios. 
 But the feature that really caught my eye was the custom game/multiplayer feature. The fact there 
 is so much freedom in this game mode makes it great to begin with. The fact you can choose the 
 type of game, teams, number of players, type of map, difficulty of AIs and the rules (which techs 
 are allowed) , gives the game a great deal of variety and keeps it different everytime you play. 
 Ensemble Studios went above the call of duty with this game and deserves a look at next time you 
 are at your local game provider. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flareon_eliza
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  Unlike most high-profile PC games, Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings is consumer friendly. It 
 isn't demanding in its requirements. On top of the trend of quality graphics, remarkable and innovative 
 gameplay, and fast-paced action packed campaigns and customizable scenarios, AOE2 is like an affordable 
 masterpiece that anyone can take home.
  
  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings is proves to be very difficult to improve. It's one of those 
 few games which can exist forever independently and need not be improved or developed into some 
 other dull succeeding franchise.
  
  Although AOE2 did not quite break huge sales records for RTS games, it gave the world something 
 from which one can easily understand global history and different cultures of man. With its highly 
 addictive gameplay, it's a fun way of learning exciting things which usually are perceived to be 
 boring (since the medium always had been tedious and uninteresting) .
  
  Believe it or not, AOE2 can -- in a way -- help you win chess games! Improving analysis and wise decision-making 
 skills are just two benefits that gamers can get aside from pure entertainment. So, it's more than 
 just worth the money. That's a relief. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russruss1234
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 26, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  When someone mentions Real Time Strategy, Age of Empires is one of the first games to come to mind, 
 along with other great games like Starcraft and Warcraft. It is a sequel to Age of Empires one 
 and although the graphics are little improved, the game is a whole lot better. Age of Empire II, 
 like most RTS's has a great multiplayer. The AI is great, and challenging and there are many races 
 to choose from. (Although some are very similar in appearence and play.) It is pre-squad RTS meaning 
 you will have to make units individually, but they produce fast and can be grouped in an organized 
 fashion. You can also take the action online to play against your friends which is always great. 
 The single player campaign is also very well done as well. You can play as several different conquerors/military 
 leaders and conquer a certain part of the world. My personal favorite was Genghis Khan. If the 
 campaign isn't enough for you, you can create you own campaign in what I think is the single best 
 map editor to date. It is simple, fun, and gives you plenty of freedom. On the downside the sound 
 isn't all that great, and while a dying champion may sound great, it gets quite repetitive when 
 40 die in a row. The music also is enough to drive one insane.
  
  Overall:
  Pros:
  + Great Multiplayer.
  + Many races to choose from, easy with their own advantages.
  + Base 
 building is very fun.
  + You can have huge somewhat realistic battles.
  + Amazing Map Editor.
  + Great Campaign.
  
  Cons: + Races are all relatively similar.
  
 + Graphics are bleh.
  + Sound is repetitive and can be annoying.
  
  In conclusion: If you don't already own this game, I would suggest borrowing from friend for a 
 few weeks to test what you missed out on! It is loads of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aislanluiz
Rating: 7
Date: May 22, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Its easy to learn, fun to play, difficult to finish without many saves.
  The graphics is OK for the year, gameplay is quite simple and multiplayer is adctious.
  Buy it, 
 play it, and thanks to Microsoft, always good games, no bugs, excellent support.
  Play it on 486's and enjoy!!! Some maps takes to long to finish, u have to be calm, or you will 
 lost. Train a lot of army, all your screen if you can, and send all at same time, if you not win, 
 do the same again and again. Small attacks only strenght the enemy and you always will be defending 
 counter-attacks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamesempire
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 20, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  This is Props the best Historic Real-Time Strategy game of them all. If u are looking to buy a 
 Historic Real-Time Stategy game then this should be your pick, this game may be old but it will 
 take some doing to beat this game in enjoable contents. Well that all i can really say, BUY THIS 
 GAME, it is worth your money belive me. Also there might be newer versions of this game but none 
 will beat this although they are still very good games, If u Cant Stand old game graphics then 
 the newer versions are for u. By Flame Valcanas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogermao
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  The best RTS i've ever played. The theme is good ,and the gameplay is great. This game is good 
 for anyone, whether your a game fanatic, or a history teacher. Unlike many other games, the fun 
 doesn't wear off after 2 hours. THe campaigns are fun and intriuging. The races are both unique 
 and different. With more than 10 races, and each with a unique unit, plus al the other units, the 
 game can be played ofr a long itme, without you feeling l ike you've done this before. Each race 
 has its own strengths and weaknesses, making it fairly balanced. One of the best RTS's I've played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirrelik
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 7, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  i have age of empires 3 as well which had all the changes i wanted from this 1 which was the graphics 
 which in this game were very bad for example when a building collapses it just dissaperes and is 
 replace by some rubble and the warning sound when sum1 attacks u gets so annoying along with tht 
 the computer players advance very quickly so u get left behind. But there is a silver lining becuse 
 the stary missions are good fun (although hard) and the ability to make your own levels and maps 
 is great. The best thing about the game is the free play match because its momplete carnage. all 
 in all a ok stratigic fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsdaydave11
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires II is an amazing game. The ages are a very innovative, creating a different playing 
 style from other games like it. Many other games have been made to imitate it, but few have successfully 
 done so. The graphics are nicely detailed. The music is fits the game perfectly, giving the game 
 a nice ambiance. You will notice that the game does try to incorperate some history into it with 
 the historical campaigns and even a entire history book on old warefare. AoE2 is a good RTS all 
 around and is a good game to start out with for beginners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skateboardking
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 23, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Still have a blast playing this old game. What it lacks in graphics it makes up for in good old 
 fashioned fun. The different nations add to the variety and replayability, while the interface 
 is complicated enough for you to keep learning new tricks for a while, but simple enough to pick 
 up and start playing right away. The computer is not the most challenging opponent, but this is 
 a great game to play with a bunch of friends. Being as old as it is, you can't expect the graphics 
 to be worth much, but as far as 2d graphics goes, these are the best and you can play this game 
 on any computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 21, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 2: Age of Kings:
  
  Age of Empires 2: The Age of Kings is like most strategy games, once you start playing you cannot 
 put it down, this game is that fun. It is so much fun to just play the random map and just build 
 up and take over other civilizations and conquer all of their land. Sadly, the fun does not last 
 forever though, as a warning this game can get pretty old pretty fast, seeing as how it is so addicting 
 at the beginning of the game. This game has a single player mode, but guess what it is not very 
 fun at all. They are not so much about building the biggest army, but bringing a leader across 
 the entire big map full of obstacles and it is quite boring. The fun however is in the random map 
 mode, where you pick everything on the map, from the number of teams to the size and location of 
 the map. The one thing that I found kind of annoying on this almost perfect mode was I spent all 
 this time and money building up my army, and as soon as I got inside of my enemies stronghold they 
 immediately surrendered which really made me mad. Since I put all that time into building my army, 
 and then I go and have them surrender. This game looks good considering that it came out in 1999 
 and that it is in sprites and it looks quite good. There are so many different things that you 
 can build and everything gets upgraded, it looks cool. Some of the guys that you can build look 
 really quite cool. You can really tell if something is higher up than something is, which is sometimes 
 hard to tell in these games. One thing about this game that I did not like was that you couldnt 
 rotate the camera around at all, so you cannot see if you by any chance missed a spot when you 
 build a wall or something like that. This can be a problem if you are being attacked and the enemy 
 is coming in through little holes and cracks in the wall.
  
  This game has some pretty cool sounds. The music is very catchy and other things like that. There 
 are a lot of background noises like swords swinging or horses making noises. There are some cool 
 noises that are made when you are being attacked. There are no voice-overs, which are not really 
 a bad thing, but they could be in there, but they are not. I honestly do not have any complaints 
 here; even though there is nothing special in this part of the game either.
  
  So overall, this is a pretty fun game. It is a fun strategy game that just falls short. The way 
 that your enemies might give up to easily just ruin some of the fun in this game. I mean what is 
 the point of building up a huge army, to have the enemy forfeit so easily. This is my only complaint 
 about this game, but if you are a fan of strategy games this is a fun game because it is so cheap 
 and pretty easy for anyone who is new to the genre and wants some good old medieval action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcvdevil
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  From the moment i started playing this game i knew that i would become addicted to this game. I 
 like everything in this game, starting as a little town an becoming a great civilization, reenacting 
 what great conqueros did is awesome, this game even helped me in my history class in high school.
 
  The intros of each of the campaing scenarios explain a lot of why thoss events are occurrying 
 why we have to fight, and in the coclusion of the scenario we are told what happened after the 
 battles we fought. In this game we are also able to create our own campaing, so if we get bored 
 of playing the same campaings (thing that i think will rarely pass) we can create one and play it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rai8ers4lyfe
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  THis game is great, the only reason u shouldn't have this game is if you're retarded or don't own 
 a pc. The graphics for this game are great for a pc and for a windows 98. Also the gameplay if 
 the best i've ever played and is extremely addicting, if you like pc games then this is a must 
 have. The sound for this game is awesome, there is a different sound for every thing and they're 
 fun to hear sounds. Also the music that they have is okay, but i prefer to listen to my ipod. this 
 game is very valuable because it's a lot of fun for a very low price, GO BUY THIS GAME ON EBAY. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fattymcfatfatty
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 2 was by far the best real time strategy game of its time. I think it was until 
 C&amp; C came out when age of empires really became the inferior game. The game had so many crucial 
 parts, and it was very educational for people to learn about history. One of the most fun parts 
 about the game is how many factions there are to choose from. Most RTS games only have around two 
 to three this game had i believe around fifteen. it also had some cool cinematic elements throughout 
 the game. The sound quality of the game was pretty good. the only negative i have about this game 
 was the lag. All together it is a very good game for its time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanedajjj5757
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 2, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  hands down, this game definately rose high up from it's prequal which was basically a big flop. 
 the basic premise of the game is the same of course, but each individual civilization/race has 
 its own unique overall objective. also, it is harder to hack and/ or input cheats during multiplayer 
 games. the graphics and sounds have made a giant leap forward and left the first game in the dust. 
 this the game i enjoyed and played the most out of the entire series. the net game mode had better 
 communication and diplomacy controls that made much more sense than in the first installment... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffinballow
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This article is about the PC game. For the Nintendo DS game, see Age of Empires: The Age of Kings.
 
  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings Developer (s) Ensemble Studios Publisher (s) Microsoft Latest 
 version 2.0a Release date (s) 30 September 1999 Genre (s) Real Time Strategy Mode (s) du &auml; r en 
 sweden, MP over IPX, TCP/IP, Modem, GameSpy Arcade, or GameRanger Rating (s) ELSPA: 3+
  ESRB: Teen (T) Platform (s) Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 2, Apple Macintosh Media CD (1) System 
 requirements Pentium 166 MHz CPU, 32 MB RAM, 200 MB HD Input Keyboard, mouse Age of Empires II: 
 The Age of Kings is a real-time strategy computer game set in the Middle Ages. It was released 
 in 1999, and it is the second game of the Age of Empires series developed by Ensemble Studios and 
 published by Microsoft. Because of its commercial success, an expansion pack was released: Age 
 of Empires II: The Conquerors Expansion, followed by a Gold Edition, which bundled together the 
 game and its expansion, and a true sequel, Age of Empires III.
  
  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings is sometimes called Age of Kings, or abbreviated as AoK, AOE2, 
 or AOE II.
  
  Contents [hide]
  1 Gameplay 2 Civilizations 3 Campaigns 4 Technology 5 Wonders and relics 6 Scenario editor 7 Soundtrack 
 8 Modifications 9 Online play 10 Other platforms 11 External links [edit] Gameplay
  The player controls a society and guides them through four ages . The game begins in the Dark Ages, 
 where very few buildings and units are available. After a short time, the user gains the ability 
 to advance to the Feudal Age, where more upgrades, buildings, and units become available. The next 
 age is the Castle Age, and finally the Imperial age, which is reminiscent of the early years of 
 the Renaissance.
  
  The player directly controls the citizens, and can order them to move or attack (all units) , construct 
 buildings or gather resources (villager units) or a range of other things.
  
  There are four types of resources, all of which are necessary: Wood, food, gold, and stone. Wood 
 is used for building structures, providing renewable food resources and training archers, stone 
 for defenses like Castles or towers, and gold and food for constructing units and researching technologies. 
 Often, one of the difficulties of a certain scenario or map is that it is short one type of resource, 
 forcing players to adjust to this shortage. This can be avoided by playing in a Deathmatch game 
 type, wherein the player is given resource stockpiles in the thousands.
  
  The real-world maps available in the expansion (Scandinavia, Central America, Sea of Japan etc) 
 are small versions of real-world territories, with geography very close to their real-world equivalents.
 
  
  The original game comes with five campaigns, and the expansion adds three more, all of which reflect 
 some event in history, like Joan of Arc leading the French to battle, or Genghis Khan's invasion 
 of Eurasia. There is also a Standard Game feature, which pits a player against a set number of 
 Computer players for control of a map. The usual goal in standard games is to defeat any enemies 
 and force them to surrender, but other goals like building and protecting a special type of building 
 (called a Wonder ) also exist.
  
  In multiplayer mode, up to eight players compete with other nations for world dominance, online 
 or offline. Microsoft Zone used to be the most popular Internet server for The Conquerors, but 
 the Zone pulled its support of the game June 19th, 2006. After a hiatus, Ensemble Studios established 
 multiplayer support on GameSpy Arcade. There is also an open source multiplayer effort called GTADS 
 that allows 1 vs 1 for Age of Empires and Age of Empires II. GamePark also supports Age of Empires, 
 Age of Empires 2 and Age of Empires 2 The Conquerors.
  
  [edit] Civilizations Age of Kings beta screenshotIn the original Age of Kings, the player can choose 
 from 14 civilizations. Each has a distinct personality, with particular strengths and weaknesses 
 patterned on the real civilizations. Each civilization also has some unique units (ships and warriors) 
 with more-or-less historically accurate names, e. g. Mameluke for the Saracens. The game's civilizations 
 are sorted into four different architectural styles:
  
  Western European North/East European Asian Middle Eastern Britons Celts Franks Goths Teutons (meaning 
 Germans) Vikings Chinese Japanese Mongols Byzantines Persians Saracens Turks [edit] Campaigns
 
  Campaigns consist of a series of scenarios of rising difficulty, depicting major events in the 
 life of a famous historical character, e. g. a famous battle, the building of a famous monument, 
 or some well-known anecdote. Only the William Wallace and Joan of Arc campaigns allow players to 
 control the character itself as a special unit. The campaigns usually start with a range of existing 
 resources, buildings and units already in place, thus avoiding the laborious process of building 
 a nation from nothing, which can become tedious. The original game's campaigns include those of 
 William Wallace (a tutorial campaign) , Joan of Arc, Saladin, Genghis Khan, and Holy Roman Emperor 
 Frederick Barbarossa I.
  
  The Conquerors Expansion pack adds 4 more campaigns to the game featuring the new civilizations. 
 In the Attila the Hun and El Cid campaigns, the player controls the said character. In the Montezuma 
 campaign, the player plays as Cuauht&eacute; moc, the last emperor of the Aztec empire. The final 
 campaign recreates various battles in history, such as the spectacular naval Battle of Noryang 
 Point between the Koreans and Japanese, the Battle of Tours fought by the Franks and Moors, and 
 the Battle of Agincourt, in which the player must control Henry V and his army through a heavily 
 fortified Northern France.
  
  [edit] Technology
  Age of Empires II has a much more advanced and varied set of technology trees than the original 
 Age of Empires I. To acquire technology, the player must first construct buildings. Each building 
 offers a range of technology which can be researched, for a price. Technologies build upon each 
 other. As technologies are researched, a wider range of buildings and units become available. Technologies 
 may benefit military units (by perhaps increasing their defense attributes) , civil units (villagers 
 can benefit from technologies that make them move faster and therefore collect resources more efficiently, 
 etc) , or buildings (e. g. by researching technology that allows castles and towers to fire at units 
 at their base) . Technologies vary greatly in benefits and costs.
  
  In the game, technology plays a central role. Early in the game, players must constantly assess 
 priorities and allocate scarce resources between creating new units, upgrading existing units, 
 and researching to upgrade to the next Age. Too much emphasis on researching technology and moving 
 through the Ages without creating military can leave a nation all but defenseless. On the other 
 hand, putting resources into a large population at the expense of progress can lead to defeat if 
 the enemy has progressed and is able to field a small but more powerful attack force.
  
  The number of technologies increase through the Ages, as does the price of said technologies. A 
 special part of the game that was added in the expansion is that each civilization gets a unique 
 technology in the castle when it goes into the imperial age. This technology generally benefits 
 the unique units of the civilization or enable some special upgrade which is not available to other 
 civilizations. In addition to this, some civilizations also have some inbuilt technologies or upgrades, 
 for example, the buildings of the Byzantines automatically get more hit points as they progress 
 into the next age. The Franks can build castles for much less than other civilizations.
  
  [edit] Wonders and relics
  Relics are special unique items that are scattered around the map, 
 and can only be picked up by monks. Once placed within a monastery, a relic steadily generates 
 free gold for the civilization that holds it (this reflects the historical realities of the power 
 and influence that possessing famous relics brought to a church) . To capture a relic from an enemy 
 monastery, the monastery must be destroyed. The relic will then be expelled so that a player may 
 capture it with a monk.
  
  Monks are vulnerable units (they can only defend themselves by converting their assailant, which 
 takes time) . A monk carrying a relic will quickly attract enemy units, so strategies are needed 
 to protect him (e. g. researching faster conversion, sending monks in convoy so one can heal the 
 other, protecting the monk with a military escort, etc) . If a monk is moving with an escort, the 
 monk (s) will go to the back of the military escort.
  
  It is possible to set the game such that victory is achieved by collecting all available relics, 
 or building a Wonder. This is the case in several campaign scenarios. To win, all the relics must 
 be held for a specific uninterrupted period of time, depending on the size of the map.
  
  Wonders are massive structures that require large amounts of resources and time to build. If a 
 player completes a Wonder, and it stands intact for an uninterrupted period of time, they win. 
 If a Wonder is destroyed before the countdown is finished, the countdown resets. Each civilization 
 has their own Wonder, typically a famous work of historical architecture, as opposed to the original 
 Age of Empires, where each civilization's Wonder was based on their generic architecture.
  
  In addition, the Dome of the Rock appears as a decorative building in Saladin's campaign as 
 do the Pyramids at Giza, but neither can be built by any civilization. Another decorative Gothic 
 cathedral shown in Joan of Arc and Barbarossa's campaigns appears to be also based on the Aachen 
 Cathedral (upon which the Britons' and Teutons' own wonders are based, too) . Finally, in Ghengis 
 Khan's campaign the Great Wall of China is present, portrayed by several blocks of conventional 
 walls united with defensive towers scattered throughout.
  
  [edit] Scenario editor
  Age of Kings also includes a built-in scenario editor. It's similar to the one from Age of Empires, 
 where players can make custom missions and series of missions. The largest difference from the 
 design of the editor of the first game is the use of triggers . These are used for performing actions 
 once the conditions become true (If they do) .
  
  For example, a player can create a trigger to declare victory as soon as a building or unit is 
 visible. A player can create triggers with multiple requirements or results. Killing certain soldiers 
 can change the ownership of a building to another player as well as increase the health of the 
 building. There is a huge abundance of possibilities. If multiple triggers interfere with each 
 other, the game crashes.
  
  To use the triggers in the scenario editor, create a new trigger and assign a condition and effect 
 from the list. Occasionally there are variations to how many soldiers can be assigned triggers 
 too. For example, if a player wants to make 6 soldiers patrol, at times they can only select the 
 trigger for one, and six individual triggers must be made, while other times six can be selected 
 at once.
  
  In the expansion there is an addition of a few triggers. Units and buildings can have their names 
 changed, their health increased, and attack increased just to name a few.
  
  [edit] Soundtrack
  The CD itself is actually 2 audio CD tracks. Track 1 appears as the data track, 
 and track 2 is the soundtrack of the game as a Red Book audio track.
  
  A glitch in the game insists that the CD is in to play the BG music, thus if you are using a crack 
 you will hear no music, another interesting fact is that in Star Wars Galactic battlegrounds if 
 you have the cd in, and are running AOE2 on a crack you will hear star wars music.
  
  [edit] Modifications
  Many modifications (mods) are available online, as it has basic data files 
 which (with proper programs) can be easily customized and tweaked. Websites such as Age of Kings 
 Heaven offer mods, utility programs, maps, and scenarios created or found by its members.
  
  Also Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds, based on the battles of the Star Wars movies and released 
 in 2001, used the Age of Empires 2 Genie engine.
  
  [edit] Online play
  Age of Kings was available to play online against fellow gamers on the Microsoft Gaming Network, 
 so that you could test your wits against other gamers. It was a very popular game having figures 
 of over 100 people in a room at any one time constantly. Gamers had created their own Custom Scenarios 
 to which they would challenge other gamers to pit their wits against each other. Scenarios such 
 as Castle Blood Auto, Soldier Store, Empire, Radical Blood and Archers Advance.
  
  After many successful years on the MSN Gaming Zone, however, as of June 2006, the Microsoft Zone 
 retired from hosting games, which left a great number of players disappointed. Gamespy was proclaimed 
 as the official successor of the Microsoft Zone, however it was soon realized that not many players 
 decided to join Gamespy. Instead two prominent websites were advertised in the Zone game rooms: 
 Empires Legacy, and Gamepark. After a huge battle , Gamepark managed to get more players and in 
 the end the two websites agreed that Empires Legacy would link to Gamepark. Gamepark has at any 
 given time about 100 players playing Age of Kings (however up to 1000 players can be found playing 
 Age of Conquerors) , equaling the Zone in popularity; Microsoft, though, still supports Gamespy. 
 Other matchmaking AOE clients are, the AOE Zone Client, and the IGZ Client.
  
  [edit] Other platforms
  The PlayStation 2 version was released only in Europe and published by 
 Konami. The Nintendo DS version was released in the US on February 15, 2006. It features a turn 
 based battle mode rather than real time strategy genre used in the PC version. A Windows Mobile 
 version exists for Pocket PC. A version for mobile phone exists (Subjected to country) . A version 
 of this game was set for Sega Dreamcast but with the lack of popularity and sales of the console, 
 the game was canned with only a demo existing. A version of Age of Empires II for Macintosh OS 
 8, 9 and X was published by MacSoft Game Studios. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiowns
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  While there are tons of other worthy games like Age of Empires II: Age of Kings, this one has it 
 all. There is online mode, campaign mode, random maps, different types of random maps, custom maps 
 and more. There are tons of different civilizations, and you can make them differently every time 
 you play.
  
  The many kinds of units get more custom according to you civilization, for example some civilizations 
 may give bonus attack points to Archers or some may have better research or cost efficiency, either 
 way there is not limit. Plus, you have custom units and special upgrades as well.
  
  The training mode is a hybrid training campaign mode, where you learn the basics of playing. Then 
 you can go on to more advanced missions, with certain goals in each one.
  
  The random maps are the most commonly played and the most fun. You can build your civilization 
 from scratch, and watch it's population and size grow into something that will make you proud. 
 As you go on you can advance your civilization through 4 different ages, and advance your technologies. 
 There are many different strategies to winning, whether it be to build up a massive army and go 
 on an all out attack, build a wonder and have it survive long enough, hold all the relics for a 
 certain amount of time, or just kill off your enemies one by one, it's your decision. There are 
 also opportunities for trade routs, whether by land or sea.
  
  The music in this game isn't half bad either, even though it is repetitive. There isn't much else 
 to say about that.
  
  The only few bad things about this game are clipping glitches, and not much else.
  
  I would 
 HIGHLY recommend this game to anyone who is smart enough to play it, and you don't have to be too 
 old because all it is, is point and click. Great concept. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  No doubt along with Super Smash Bros. this was up in my top 3 for favorite games when I was younger. 
 I don't play it anymore because it got old and whatnot but it lasted a real while and was alot 
 more awesome than the already great Age of Empires 1. If I was to describe the gameplay I would 
 have to say... AWESOME. This is just so much to play. You just click and all just like in all real 
 time strategies now, but Age of Empires was one of the most innovative of them all and made the 
 genre great. There's nothing amazing about the graphics, but they were nice for the time and really 
 had some good unit models. The environments were cool, but there was too much empty space on most 
 maps, not really a problem, but even back then there was a little room to be better graphically. 
 Still, the graphics are really good. I loved the sound effects in this game, they may sound retarded 
 to some people, but just hearing them brings back great memories and the sound of the addicting 
 songs as well. I loved the voices, I used to think they were saying homo over and over again. If 
 you think this is a strategy game without value, you're dead wrong. I mean all strategy games have 
 tons of value and this was no exception. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killianfeehan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay in this game is superb. An amazingly in depth and realistic game which takes warfare 
 to an entirley new evel. There are so many different civilisations to choose from. British, Celtic, 
 Saracean, French etc. The campaigns in this game vary from Joan of Arc to William Wallace and Gengies 
 Kahn, and all of them are superb.
  
  The graphics in this game are superb in this game for 1999! The could even rival alot of games 
 that have been released today! I feel that Microsoft have paid attention to every soldier and every 
 building which varies in every civilisation and each is as good as the next.
  
  The sound in this game is its weakest point. The sound is virtually non-existant apart from the 
 cut-scenes when they are introducing the campaigns and going to different levels in the campaigns.
 
  
  The value in this game is perfect. It is a very long game but not to the extent where as it is 
 too long. What else can I say?!
  
  This game combined excellent warfare and sophisticated city building. There is no specific group 
 of people that this game would appeal to. It is superb on every platform but it is not perfect. 
 The one fact that I do not like about this game is that it takes too long for an individual soldier 
 to die. It also takes a little bit of time to adjust to the gameplay than other games but once 
 you get settled into it, the game is outstanding! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chesterocks7
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires II the Age of Kings was the first strategy game I ever owned. And I have to honestly 
 say that it was probably the most enjoyable game I have played and that I have the best memories 
 of. When I got into the game, I really didn't have any a huge gaming history, so I don't really 
 have the ability to compare it to the other games of it's time, but purely objectively, this game 
 is great. The only way I can think to describe this game is that it has amazing quality. The graphics 
 don't compare to whats out nowadays, but the gameplay makes it incredibly easy to overlook that. 
 The depth of variety between the different cultures and the historical feel do not leave much to 
 be desired. The campaigns are historically accurate and give you a real feel that you are living 
 history. This is one of those games that you instantly fall in love with. Every aspect of this 
 game really hits the spot while playing it, and I can't think of any other game that I have enjoyed 
 more. If you have never played the Age of Empires series, you owe it to yourself to purchase this 
 and the Conquerers expansion and have one hell of a gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 3, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  This may just be the best historic RTS ever. Ensemble tuned Age of Kings to provide depth and excellent 
 game mechanics without bogging the game down with too many techs or too long of a time-line. In 
 spite of it's relative age, AOK remains a very satisfying RTS. The single-player campaigns are 
 forgettable, but skirmishing - even against the CPU is so much fun and is so rewarding on its own 
 that you will never notice. The only area where Age of Kings has not stood the test of time well 
 is graphics. With the advent of true 3D RTS games like Age of Mythology, AOK just looks old at 
 any resolution. If you only have access to an older PC than AOK is right up there with Starcraft 
 in terms of gameplay. Even on a newer machine AOK is worthy of a fresh look if you haven't played 
 it in a while, and if you haven't played it yet at all then by all means grab a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lasertoffe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  I've played pretty much every single real time strategy game on the market for the last 8 years 
 or so. But I always find myself coming back to Age of Empires II.
  
  The game play is awesome. For once different playing styles are acctually premiered. You don't 
 have to play aggressive. It is acctually possible to win the game by playing defensive. The most 
 rewarding thing I've done with this game is playing with a friend.
  
  We team up against a map full of computer controlled civilizations. One play defensive and one 
 play offence. The other night a game lasted 5 and half hours! And we didn't even notice.
  
  Great value, great game play, great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TyphoonNL
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  This was one of my first games I loved to play hours. and later I also found out it could be played 
 online, and that really rocked. There is a lot of choice wich kind of team you want... i preffered 
 the Spanish cause they had that monk that was sitting on a donkey :) and you could move quite fast 
 to pick up relic's...
  and when you builded the castle you had some kind of cannoneers that where riding on horses and 
 that also really oowned...
  This game is an all time classic that still is fun in this kind of age, or ppl with a low resolution 
 graphical card :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyktech
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  AOE2 is great! Those 3 words is all I need to say. Age of Empires 3 may be next gen but AOE2 takes 
 us back to creating our own classic battles, it also brings back memories. For example the time 
 I made an army of elephants and made Japan invade the Turks? Good times...
  This game is never ending. With a build your own map skill and in career mode never ending fun 
 like building your own city/army and going to war and advancing through history's greatest pastime 
 that YOU created. If you do not have this on your computer/system get it now! AOE2+AOE3=OMG AWESOME, 
 but if you can only buy one thats fine they both rock... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herodite777
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is SWEET. The graphics (for an RTS of that era) was pretty good. Considering it was a 
 sequel to one of the best games, and that it was better, this is probably the closest to the best 
 game you can come by.
  
  I enjoy this game still, even more than Medieval: Total War II and defiantly more than other RTS 
 games. If this game can still compete with modern PC RTS games, it is extremely great. This game 
 was Game of the Year for a reason, you know. It makes all other games look bad of that genre. The 
 AI was awesome, and the multiplayer was one of the best multiplayers around. It still is, as people 
 still play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSmerf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Great game, diverse single player options, difficult campaign and online capabilities. I've played 
 a few games online, but didn't get into it very much. The game alone has good features and offers 
 a variety of different techniques which work. The graphics are nothing special, but landscapes 
 are pretty well done. This is pretty much a must play for people who like strategy games on PC. 
 Actually, most people who enjoy strategy games most likely own this game. I'd suggest this game 
 to all age levels since there is little gore and no bad language. The developers of this game should 
 be proud of a game everyone loves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fixer38
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Most strategy games are noticeable by some key factors : Tactics, Big Armies, Good Sound and Graphics, Game-Play 
 etc. Age Of Empires has all these features and stays fresh to this day. In AOE you basically play 
 one of the Middle-Age armies or sides. You can choose from a mouth-full of nations or sides and 
 these include - China, Japan, Vikings, British, Celts and many more. All sides are unique with 
 strong building designs and units. While it may be unreal that some sides fight against each-other 
 its not as important as the game-play itself. You start the game with a town-center, a hand-full 
 of villagers and a scout. Your objective is quite simple : Advance from the Dark Age to the Imperial 
 Age and kill your enemy. While it may sound easy at first you will quickly learn that you need 
 to manage many things at once. These include : Gathering resources, Scouting the map, building-up 
 an effective army and defending your own base. Its hard but it is extremely fun while it lasts. 
 The combat in AOE is awsome, the portion of units you have is crazy not to mention all the tactics 
 you can employ. Out-smarting your enemy is king in this game. While you can still win a bloody 
 battle it is still extremely satisfying to see your army take minimal loses. For exsample : Placing 
 archers on a hill to cover your swords-men below will work really well in your favor. While the 
 tactics you can employ really matter if you are going to win or not, the action does not go limited 
 to ground only. Massive naval battles take place early in the game and the beautiful graphics and 
 sound make the battlefield come alive before you. Everything in AOE particularly looks and sounds 
 really good. Despite some bugs AOE works just fine on almost any machine.
  
  Overall many games have good parts and bad parts. AOE has so many good parts that the bad parts 
 sink into the shadows. IF you like Strategy-Games, you will no doubt love AOE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toritofine
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best strategy games ull ever play. Course, there arre better games now, with 
 better graphics and stuff, but this is definetly the king of all. Lots of civilizations, buildings 
 and units to create, everything is cool on this game, i loved the scenario editor, all i did was 
 make tons of scenarios charged with thousands of units to create ultimate wars that slowed down 
 my laptop for like 15 minutes lol... u even hear the units talk in their language when u click 
 on them. campaigns are just great, and its very fun to play online with ur friends. music wont 
 bore you. The only bad thing i find is that units are repeated on all of the civilizations with 
 only sum changes. But making that aside, its a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duudeV2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I liked Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth. I had to try to get into it. It was slow at 
 first. It got better, but not by much.
  
  I fell in love with this game. I love the classic style of this game. So simple, so easy to pick 
 up and learn. Even better than Company of Heroes. This game is definatley one to play.
  
  For starters, each military unit is single, so instead of having groups of maybe 5 each, you can 
 move each individual at a time. Grouping them together is easy as hell too, just click and drag.
 
  
  Building is simple too. All you have to do is pick the spot you want . One camera angle at all 
 times, there's no camera situation either.
  
  The graphics are definatley a classic style. They're so old, so simple. Like Roller Coaster Tycoon. 
 I loved that simple.
  
  This game is so simple it's good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXXXGMRXXXX
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  The second installment of the AOE series is an instant hit, and it has so much going for it:
  
  1. Graphics: Everything is displayed with amazing detail, from the trees to the water to the 
 infantry. Also, so many things are shown on the screen, yet it all comes together beautifully. 
 The opening cinematic, although only happening before the actual gameplay, stun your eyes as beautifully 
 done and executed. 5/5
  
  2. Sound: Even though the playlist is not existent, the music that is played during the game will 
 get you into the mood to play. The noises of buildings and voices of the people when clicked on 
 are amazingly done. Fighting armies and the horn of war are incredible sounds that put you into 
 the game. In the single player campaigns, the voices of the narrators are particularly effective 
 in giving a sense of reality. 5/5
  
  3. Gameplay: Amazing. 5 single player campaigns are filled with varying scenarios and even a training 
 section. The single player games are fun experiences. From regicide, to death match, to random 
 map, you can't go wrong. 13 civilizations, each with special abilities, will provide endless strategies. 
 The games will usually last for more than an hour, giving you plenty to do. Multiplayer is a phenomenon 
 in itself, as you instantly become addicted. 5/5
  
  4. Difficulty: Very hard. This is an RTS game that requires you to come up with a good strategy 
 and execute well. This is not just an RTS that you can breeze through. The campaign requires good 
 playing, especially since there is no way to set difficulty. Single player games can be very easy 
 or near impossible, depending on the number of AI and the levels. In multiplayer, the presence 
 of non-AI makes the game harder. Even though it's difficult, the challenge will make it all worth 
 playing. 5/5
  
  5. Replayability: The campaigns are always worth playing over, as it never gets old. Single player 
 games can be played over and over. There are many maps, and many more to be downloaded. Every game 
 can have a different strategy, or a different civilization. You can vary the number of computers 
 and the difficulty, change the rules, or make a team game. Multiplayer games pit you against many 
 others, playing many different scenarios. If you stick to this game 100%, you will never need anything 
 else. 5/5
  
  6. Story: In campaign, this is done excellently. All 5 campaigning scenarios have a narrator who 
 talks about a certain hero. Before each mission, there is one of these, showing the gradual improvement 
 of the narrator's civilization. The words and illustrations are shown during it, providing more 
 than just a voice. At the end of every game, a list is given of who did the most in terms of society, 
 military, economy, and others. These categories are broken down into subsections that specifically 
 show who did what during the game. It builds the games result quite nicely. 5/5
  
  Final Verdict: 30/30 Recommendation: GET IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zenodoros
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  I never really understood why AOK is the most popular and critically acclaimed of all Ensemble 
 Studios games. Even when it was released, the graphics seemed outdated and patchy - somehow even 
 more so than the original. The units themselves don't look or feel especially unique or even from 
 the medieval period - certainly the cavalry units (particularly the knights and cavaliers) appear 
 to be from the middle ages, but the infantry units - even unique units like the Frankish Throwing 
 Axeman and Japanese Samurai - do not look distinguished or from the time period. I always had trouble 
 picking one unit from the other in a lot of battles, and I find that you need a particularly heavy 
 knowledge of the unit's appearances before you can really micro effectively. The upper hand is 
 that the building sprites are very beautiful and are on scale - unlike in AOE1 inwhich houses were 
 smaller than some units, and the water is greatly improved.
  
  I can't remember much of the sound, but that's probably the problem. I can instantly remember music 
 from the first game, Age of Mythology and to a lesser extent, AOE3. It's nothing to do with playing 
 them more recently, because I haven't. It's just that the music isn't especially memorable, which 
 was a great disappointment to me after loving AOE1's soundtrack so much. Once again - it's not 
 all tears, the units now have different voices (including some female ones!) and there's even a 
 unique sound effect that plays when you start a game for a particular civilization - a nice touch 
 that I wish would be implemented in future ES games. For example, you'll hear bagpipes if you play 
 as the Celts, or strings as one of the far-eastern civs. Definitely gets you into the mood.
  
  Well, maybe it would if the civilizations were more distinguished. I was amazingly excited 
 when I learned that there were unique units for each civilization, as previously there was little 
 difference between civs in AOE1. But a single unit still isn't enough. Most of them still play 
 the same - bar one unique tech and one unique unit. It would be overwhelming to see this after 
 coming straight from AOE1 - but that's really the only way it could be. Otherwise, there's nothing 
 special about the individual civilizations - most of the unique units never seemed to appear in 
 many battles either (one major problem about multiplayer - it was just spamming of two or three 
 different units throughout) . There may be almost 20 civilizations in this game - but it feels more 
 like there's just one.
  
  The good thing is the single player game. The campaigns in this are like the ones in AOE1 rather 
 than AOM and AOE3 - meaning they have great historical basis, are set in different eras and feauting 
 different historical features, and overall are just more interesting than more recent ES campaigns. 
 I'd go as far as to say I enjoyed single player more than the multiplayer in some instances.
  
  Other than that, though - this name never did much for me, and I never understood why everyone 
 likes it so much. It's the worst ES game to me - if only because AOE1 is so nostalgic to me - and 
 the only reason you should play it now is because it's so cheap.
  
  Get it if it's less than 10 bucks - but don't expect to play a really revolutionary RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game in the Age of Empires series. It takes everything from the old game and makes 
 it many times better. The gameplay is deeper and there is a lot more strategy and tactics involved. 
 The graphics are probably the best that any 2D RTS can offer. It almost looks like they are 3D 
 models. The graphics are highly detailed as well. The game not only looks good but sounds good 
 too. The only flaw is that the sound can get a little repetitive but i'm usually too busty playing 
 to notice. The music is nice and i personally thought it was catchy the first time i heard it. 
 The multi-player on-line is probably one of the most addicting part of the game. Overall this is 
 a great game that any RTS fan will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  The Age of Empires series is well established, and with great reason. Everything about this game 
 just seems to click, whether it be the campaign, multiplayer, or the straight up battle. The game 
 takes place in the middle ages, and stays there. This is a great aspect of the game. Unlike other 
 RTS games that have you jumping from primitive times to the future and never really experiencing 
 any of the ages, AOE II keeps on the same great track the entire time. The fact that the different 
 playable civalizations are so different in their own adds so much to the game too. You can spend 
 all of your time playing one civilization, which is possible, or play them all because each has 
 its very own unique units and researches which make the way you strategise and play the game so 
 diiferent. This is an awesome game that will get you into the RTS gaming world, a keep you there. 
 It's worth your money if you like RTS games, the middle ages, or are just looking for a great game 
 to waste away the hours. PS: BUY THE EXPANSION TO GO WITH IT, IT IS WORTH IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinizegreywing
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Phenomenal! This is what definatly stands out in AOE II. There are multiple ways you can play the 
 game... whether you are a warmongerer or just like to develop a civilization, you will find plenty 
 to love here.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are solid, if not spectacular. It does it's job well.
  
  Sound:
  
  Similar 
 to the graphics, it does it's job reasonably well. The rousing opening track is a real stand-out 
 for me.
  
  Value:
  
  It came out in 1999 and I still play it today. Does that tell you enough?
  
  Overall, Age of 
 Empire II is a thoroughly enjoyable game. If you are a fan of the strategy genre, or just medieval 
 history, I would definatly recommend checking this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIS_AMERICA
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 5, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Ensemble Studios can't be beat when it comes to making the best of RTS games. AoE II shows the 
 world that learning about ancient civilizations and laying waste to others in not only fun, but 
 also educating.
  
  GamePlay: No RTS game to date has even come close to surpassing or even mimicking the gameplay 
 in AoE II. It has excellment mission designs, an easy to navigate interface, and the best single 
 and multiplayer options of any RTS game. Not only that, but with simple controls and layout to 
 various buttons on the keypad, this game is easy to play for both the hardcore and casual gamer.
 
  
  Graphics: Although dated to today's standards, AoE II still stands strong as one of the best looking 
 and fastest running RTS game to date. With excellent detail in the buidlings, it definately over-shadows 
 the low poly count on the characters of the world.
  
  Sound: Right from the get-go, use hear the infamous AoE tune, which will stick in your head for 
 some time. Other than that, the clinging and clashing of the swords is above average.
  
  Value: Long! This game is enormous when it comes to replay value. The single player adventure alone 
 can last up to 20-25+ hours, and even more. But adding the other solo and multiplayer modes, the 
 value for AoE II shoots up easily to 50+ hours.
  
  Tilt: In my opinion, no other RTS game has even come close to surpassing AoE II, not even AoE III. 
 That definately shows that AoE will end up being one of the greatest RTS games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanMichael_89
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  This game makes time fly, when your playing for an hour it feels like only 10 min went by. This 
 game is great and it makes you feel like your an emperor and your controling everyone in your emipire 
 or civilization. You research and upgrade people and buildings while fighting against other opponets 
 who are trying to wipe out your whole empire. The only thing that can protect you against this 
 is your own army that you must create which means you can have archerists, horses, barracks, catapolts 
 and differnt special people like elephants and throwing axe-men and people of that variety.
  
  You cut wood, mind for stone and gold, hunt animals fish and much more to make your economy 
 good. This game is really fun and addictive i would reccomend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightwarrior179
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires II: Age of Kings never held high expectations from me as I was thoroughly disappointed 
 with the first Age of Empires. But surprisingly I found this game carved out into perfection. The 
 flaws of the previous AOE are certainly corrected and there is a thorough detail, history and legends 
 of each civilisation. Unlike previous game this one deals with medieval warfare, so in the most 
 advanced ages like Imperial Age you have Hand Cannoneers as a unit. The units are well explained 
 along with the various events in the campaigns.
  
  Ah, campaigns. The vital part of this game. It has a storyline with really well built scenarios. 
 Joan of Arc, Barbarossa, Genghis Khan and Saladin are the four campaigners. The music that plays 
 on while you create plots enthrall you. There are even taunts mostly for multiplayer which are 
 really comical like My Granny can beat you or Oh no! A wonder!. Graphics were theworst part of 
 the first game in AOE but Age of Kings show true detail stuff and there are lot of changes in the 
 environment and units as well. Worth the value certainly as except the campaigns you can create 
 your own scenarios and campaigns. And there are always the Random Map, Death Match with their different 
 winning conditions.
  
  The one addition in game modes is Regicide. Here you will be provided with a king (yes finally!) . 
 You have to save your king and kill the enemy's king. Unfortunately the king is a NAU (Non-Attacking 
 Unit) and is pretty all much useless. Also I have noticed many times in Regicide that if you have 
 multiple opponents you have a collapse of AI. The oppenent's never advance beyond Dark Age (the 
 most primitive one) and gather all resources for none. We can easily climb on to Imperial Age and 
 make mincemeat out of them.
  
  It is of value because this game unlike the first is not hellbent on defeating players at Easiest 
 Levels. A must-buy for any strategy fan as this is one of the best in Historic RTS. Best in the 
 series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongholdluva
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  AOE 2 is a great sequel for a great game I have owned AOE since i was like 5.
  
  Gameplay: Again I'm not a fan of Campaign mode but it's much better than the DS versions Campaign 
 mode. I like the Fact That there's a Deathmatch mode were all you do is kill other factions (Sweet 
 death) . Then theres the The Regenecide Or whatever it's called were you kill other factions kings 
 while protecting your own. (fat dude runs FAST) I like the diverse unit and faction selection and 
 the fact you can build a fortress with a gate and theres even a castle.
  
  Graphics: Improved from the first games where when they did a big puddle of blood would appear 
 and your guy would be dead. The units look better too.
  
  Sound: Better than last time They spoke a mixture of languages you had every faction speaking porteugues 
 and whatever else. I love the them it fits this game very well.
  
  P. S. Gamespot the first AOE deserves better than what you gave it. I would give it a 10 because 
 it's Really addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_Red13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 14, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this game played at a friend's house I was instantly hooked, and after alot of 
 waiting I finally got it for my birthday since I was broke at the time... this was around 4 or 5 
 years ago, and this game hasn't gotten any worse since.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10. Amazingly displays the culture and society and atmosphere of ancient times, and 
 captures every bit of it all from chopping down trees to bombarding castles with canons. Just unbelievable.
 
  
  Graphics: 8/10. Sure the game was released in what, like 1999? They aren't perfect (duh) , but for 
 a game like this the graphics will blow you out of the water. Sorta.
  
  Sound: 10/10. Seems to place you right inside the blood-stricken battle... amazingly immersive.
 
  
  Value: 10/10. Worth every penny plus interest.
  
  I truly believe that anyone can buy this game and fully enjoy it. Yes, ANYONE. I know that's a 
 stretch, but this game has appeared to have revolutionized the concept of PC gaming for years to 
 come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bocob
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 8, 2006 11:08 pm PT
Review:  I got this game with the Collectors edition about 2 years ago. I opened it and I just played it 
 non-stop for about 1 and a half years! It was extremely addictive and it was a game that you could 
 never say no to! I bought Age of empires, Age Of Empires: The Rise Of Rome Expansion, Age Of Empires 
 II: The Age Of Kings, Age Of Empires II: The Conquerers Expansion AND the Age Of Empires Soundtrack 
 all For $100!!! It was the best value for a load of games. Definately an awesome game as I said. 
 It has a great range of Units, Civilisations, buildings and worlds. It does an excellent job of 
 doing countries on a strategic map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moby_Kain
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 3, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires II has so many improvements over its predecessor that makes it a genre all of its 
 own. This version finally comes through with all the promise of empire building and moves away 
 from the Command and Conquer war. Still based in DirectX but adding the new dimensions of the current 
 version for GFX/SND features, including sprites speaking their native languages. Many of the bugs 
 from version 1 have been obliterated.
  
  The game-play has had such an overhaul that this would be the best of the entire series, including 
 the expansion and version III. It is true to the RTS category and challenges the player with new 
 facets.
  
  After choosing a culture to attune with, players must work with their selections respective strengths 
 and weaknesses to strive through the Dark Ages after Rome. As per usual you must begin with the 
 Hunter/Gatherer strategy to feed your new empire, while learning your cultures technology tree 
 and progressing through the ages.
  
  As the game moves on your units become focus ranging from the mass attack of foot Infantry to the 
 all out Siege Weapon assault. This is inline with your opponent as they being to send some form 
 of offensive incentive. Eventually you will need to start achieving objectives of your own or in 
 the single player story line.
  
  For the single player side there are 5 campaigns which are extremely fun and depending on difficulty 
 challenge your strategies and tactics for hours. There is also an amusing chess like mode called 
 Regicide where you must protect your King and assault your opponents Monarchy simultaneously.
 
  
  The biggest change to this version has been the ability to construct castles. These buildings cost 
 immense resources while providing strong defences giving you the opportunity to send larger troop 
 offensives to your enemy encampment along with the unique unit this building provides.
  
  As per the technology trees and cultures, so is each unique unit determined for example Persia 
 has a War Elephant with massive vitality and heavy damage, but as you would expect is very slow.
 
  
  The AI has been significantly improved with each unit in a group getting a taste and your opponents 
 are not as aggressive. And the number of units you can command has been increased to 200 maximum 
 now in comparison with many other similar games on the market.
  
  With all these improvements and the replay-ability of this game, you owe it to yourself to grab 
 a copy for your collection, it is very tough to have the same experience anywhere in game and will 
 give hours of entertainment value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  When Microsoft released Age of Empires in 1997, it had high reviews. Some people loved the war, 
 and the building of an Empire. People liked the wide variety of troops that you can make to topple 
 your enemies. Others, like myself, were completely letdown. There was more war, less building of 
 an Empire. So what some of us hoped for was a huge improvement with the release of Age of Empires 
 II. Did Microsoft succeed? Well, it would be hard to argue that they didnt succeed! Age of Empires 
 II combines great battles, empire building, and everything a Real-Time Strategy games need.
  
  Microsoft did indeed do many things right in The Age of Kings. There are many new changes in 
 gameplay in this game, as well as the numerous bugs in Age of Empires fixed. Without a doubt, this 
 is the greatest Age of Empires game in the series, and one of the best Real Time Strategy games 
 in general.
  
  In this game, you must choose from many different civilizations in the game, each with its own 
 unique attributes, as well as its strengths and weaknesses. There are also units and technologies 
 for each civilization that arent available for some. It is amazing how all of these civilizations 
 can be the so similar, yet different. Age of Empires II, The Age of Kings, takes place in the Dark 
 Ages, after the Roman Empire was toppled. You start off in the Dark Ages, with only a handful of 
 villagers and a Scout. You must use these to help improve your tiny force, into a thriving civilization.
 
  
  These villagers are the most important types of unit in the game. They are responsible for the 
 gathering of the four resources in the game: food, wood, gold and stone. These resources are very 
 important for many reasons. You must use these resources to build armies, buildings, defences and 
 researching technologies needed. You must also use these villagers to build the structures needed 
 to win the game.
  
  Ages in Age of Empires II are like different steps in a civilization. When you advance to the next 
 age, you get more technologies to research from to improve your civilization. Also, you get to 
 build new buildings to research technologies and build new types of units. Advancing to the next 
 age is the best way to improve your civilization, and is extremely vital.
  
  There are five different types of units: Infantry (for example, Long Swordsmen, Pikemen) , Cavalry 
 (for example, Knights and Scouts) , Archers (for example, Crossbowmen, Longbowmen) , Siege Weapons 
 (for example, Mangonels, Battering Rams) , and ships (War Galleys, Demolition ships) . They all have 
 their strengths and weaknesses against each other. This makes it very important to make many types 
 of units.
  
  There are also many units in the game. They all have their strengths and weaknesses against each 
 other. For example, Spearmen and Pikemen have an attack bonus against all types of Cavalry. Cavalry 
 and Infantry both do a lot of damage against Siege Weapons, and Siege Weapons do more damage against 
 buildings.
  
  I will now state the changes made in Age of Empires II over Age of Empires. You will find in these 
 game five different military campaigns: William Wallaces Learning Campaign, Joan of Arc, Saladin, 
 Genghis Khan and Frederick Barbarossa. In these campaigns, you must complete objectives based on 
 the character in the campaign. These campaigns are extremely fun, and should keep you occupied 
 for hours.
  
  You will also discover that there is a new game mode: Regicide. In this game mode, you must protect 
 your king, and slay all of your opponents kings. The last team (or teams, in allied games) with 
 their king standing wins. This game mode is fairly good; yet it is also very challenging, as although 
 you start off with more villagers and a castle (Ill get to castles in a moment) , you also have 
 much less resources than in a basic Random Map game. This adds an extra challenge to the game.
 
  
  Another big change in this game is the ability to make castles. Castles are buildings, which cost 
 a lot of stone, yet they provide great protection. They shoot many arrows at an enemy at once, 
 and are very useful on defence. Not only that, but also this is where you can build your civilizations 
 unique unit!
  
  Each civilization has their own unique unit. They all have their different strengths and weaknesses, 
 and they all provide their own role in combat and their own fun. The Turks unique unit is the Janissary, 
 a type of archer (a gunman) that does a whopping 18 damage and a large range, yet it has a long 
 cool down time between shots that makes them hard to use, as well as little hit points. The Persian 
 War Elephant really packs a punch, dealing 20 damage and fully upgraded has 600 hit points! Despite 
 this, it is very slow, and if enough Pikemen is attacking them, its lost. This feature really 
 makes the civilizations a bit unique from the rest.
  
  You can also garrison units in certain types of buildings. You can put Infantry, Archers and Villagers 
 in Watch Towers, Castles and Town Centres. And a bonus in the game is, that Villagers and Archers 
 inside will actually fire on units! This is indeed very useful. Not only does it help defend your 
 town with covered archers and villagers, as well as keeping your people safe from being harmed.
 
  
  Also, in Age of Empires, while the Al was extremely intelligent, you were extremely stupid. But 
 now that has been fixed, as your units are smarter now than they were in Age of Empires. Now, your 
 units dont become lost as much when you send them into mazes, and your troops will attack units 
 when they are a few footsteps away. Plus, your opponents dont mass you with their strongest units 
 10 minutes into the game.
  
  Also, in Age of Empires, the unit supply limit was a mere 50. But that has been changed in this. 
 You now have an option of 25 (??) , 50, 75 (standard) , 100, 125, 150, 175 and 200 (my favourite) . 
 This makes the game more free, and also does help build armies and villagers, so it works out well.
 
  
  There are many ways to win in this game. Some people like to throw everything all the time in the 
 game, from early in the game to late in the game (me) . Others wait to upgrade their units to the 
 max, and make huge armies and quickly destroy their opponents with a few types of soldiers. Others 
 like to make an ample amount of siege weapons backed up by some different types of units. There 
 are many strategies in this game, and you can develop your own strategy game after game. If you 
 were to find five different Age of Kings players and checked out their strategies, all of them 
 may be different.
  
  There are also many other changes, like units and technologies, but I dont want to get to that 
 now. Ill get to the basic game features now: Gameplay, Graphics, Sound and Value.
  
  Gameplay in this game functions well, and is extremely fun. It is fun to control your own empire, 
 and have war with other civilizations. Age of Empires and the Rise of Rome were not entirely, but 
 mostly war. But that has changed in this game. You now actually can build a great empire, and wage 
 war at the same time, which the original seemed to lack.
  
  The graphics arent excellent, but theyre good enough to satisfy many people. What I didnt like 
 is how the units seemed 2D, which is now disappearing in games. There isnt much that is 3D. It 
 wouldve also been nice to see some nice little things in the game. I wouldve like to have seen 
 the trees blowing in the wind. Another thing I wouldve liked was the water ripple when a ship 
 goes through it, in what it normally would look like. However, they are still quite good, and will 
 not overly disappoint. The sound is also great. When you click on a unit, they say something in 
 their native language! Each civilization has their own native language that they speak that no 
 one else does. I have never seen that in a game! All that I often hear in all Real Time Strategy 
 games is people speak English, but not in this game. There is also a great soundtrack in the game, 
 which gives a different feeling in the game. Also, the FX sounds in the game are also very well 
 done, and hearing them all in the heat off battle is amazing. However, I did encounter a few glitches. 
 One I heard was when the game started, the music started turning choppy, and repeated itself a 
 lot. Another one I heard was that there were many clicks going on in the music, to the point that 
 the music eventually stop. Despite all of the problems, there is great sound in the game.
  
  Now as far as value goes, there is a lot in this game. There is a lot of replay value in this 
 game. You can spend hours at a time, playing one map, or a few maps. You can develop new strategies 
 after every game, and you will never get tired of it. I have had this game for years now, and I 
 am still finding new strategies to play. There are also five different military campaigns, so that 
 throws in some more value as well. There is also a map editor in this game. You can set up your 
 own situation, in which you can choose your troops and towns, and also set your opponents. You 
 set diplomacies, objectives and many other things to make a map unique. This is a fun little thing, 
 to set up your own situation, or even re-create the real games campaigns (I do that a lot) ! You 
 can even recreate historical recreations if you want, such as the Battle of Hastings, or the Crusades.
 
  
  What do I think of the game? I say that it is one of the best Real-Time Strategy games around. 
 There is so much to do, and it is great to take control of people in the middle ages. There is 
 just so much to do in the game, and you will not get tired of it. At one time, this was my favourite 
 game around, and when it was overthrown of that position (by Diablo II) it was still my favourite 
 Real Time Strategy (until Starcraft came into my life!) . But to this day, it is still one of my 
 favourite game of all time, and still not tired of it. That is how great it is!
  
  Overall, you definitely owe to have Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings in your collection. It 
 is simply too good to pass on. There are tons of positives in this game, and only a few negatives, 
 which is what all games should try to get. If you like Real Time Strategies, but for whatever reason 
 have never played this game, you must buy this game. It is just too good to pass on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Code_wizard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 18, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  The definitive RTS in short; Age of Empires 2 raised the bar in 1999 with a higher level of refinement 
 and ingenuity. Although the basic game play is not new, Age of Empires builds upon and reworks 
 the mechanics bringing progressive strategy and clean cut Rock-Paper-Scissors logic to the genre. 
 In addition to this achievement the game boasts a wide variety of civilizations to choose from 
 each with there unique game play intricacies which provides a unique experience with each civilization. 
 If this wasnt enough to prove the games greatness, the games random map generator provides endless 
 hours of play and a unique experience with each game. On top of it all there is an in-game encyclopedia 
 with history and characteristics of each civilization. Age of Empires 2 is not your ordinary RTS. 
 From top to bottom this game is a gleaming example of what an RTS should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 16, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  the age of kings is the most well built game i ever played i like it because its better the the 
 first age of empires game on the plus side a little bit u learn about history and get to actually 
 fight back in those days. age of kings is the age of empires game in the series cause age of mith/titans 
 ,age of empires 3 went to tech and made the new ones too hard and too difficult to understand? 
 age of kings is the best cause you have castles cannons trebs and more common cilivations out there 
 right now. the multiplayer is great fun to play too and you can put ur custom made maps on the 
 multiplayer set up too. the map editor is better than the original aoe1 map editor it has more 
 trees elivations tons of more builds heroes and ect. this game you can play for ever and ever untill 
 you die. now i stop talking now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_General2000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires II shaped an entire generation of real-time strategy games, even more than it's 
 predecessor Age of Empires did. Here we have a game that takes one of the most exciting periods 
 of history and translates it faithfully into great game. This formula has been copied so often 
 after AoE2's release, it's a testament to how great the game is.
  
  The visuals were amazing at the time, especially the structures and towns one could build. Battles 
 looked epic and played as such. There was unrivalled depth in unit types, counters, buildings, 
 research... it was all there, refined to an art. There were a slew of factions, all very distinct, 
 with unique voices and 4 different kinds of architecture to accurately represent them in. Combined 
 with sprawling, randomized maps and a ton of game options, Age of Empires 2 was an unstoppable 
 juggernaut.
  
  Certainly one of the best multiplayer experiences I've had in the RTS genre, and not to be missed. 
 If multiplayer wasn't your thing, it had multiple fully featured campaigns and a robust skirmish 
 mode. Simply put, a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kon-Kai
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  I played AoE II ages ago - but I can still remember it like it was yesterday!
  
  What made this game so good? I don't even know where to begin - the overall game play was smooth 
 - no absurd sticking or glitches to worry about. The story line for AoEII is incredibly engaging 
 - I suppose at some stage we've all heard the stories about Joan of Arc and King Arthur and this 
 game puts you right there with them, battling it out. The varied campaigns keep you occupied, playing 
 against the computer is cool too - Also setting up your own custom game is very easy.
  
  Another thing I liked about this game was the diversity! You weren't stuck with the same boring 
 stuff over and over - you could mix it up and do your own thing. The replay value is great - I 
 played the campaigns over and I still make a mess with the skirmishes - to be honest the possibilities 
 are endless with this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlashNovice
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  RTS is my thing... and I think Age of Empires 2: Age of Kings is a solid RTS, as its gameplay, 
 and user interface is preety easy to get used to.
  The first time I opened this game, I read the manual (unit strength, technology tree, and the like) , 
 played the Tutorial campain, and went on from there. I managed to beat to beat the entire campain 
 in under a month in the Hardest difficulty.
  
  Everything is great, but the units looked like clay people, but that is just me...
  
  Otherwise, 
 buy this game if you want a good RTS, and don't have enough to buy Age of Mythology...
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 25, 2006 2:24 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires II is perfect for the PC gamer who isn't all bothered about graphics and the like. 
 It is an incredibly good strategy game, though very dated now, but still fun never-the-less. The 
 gameplay is fun, challenging (depending on the difficulty level) , endless and anything but linear. 
 You'll find there are many ways to end a war, be it diplomatic or military.
  
  As I mentioned above though, the gameplay is dated, AI is very predictable and often quite boring 
 - they hardly ever seem to take the military way around things, I've been to their city and found 
 only farms and universities without a single barracks in sight! But my favourite aspect of the 
 game, admittidly has to be the Scenario Maker in which you create your own maps with your own objectives 
 and units, fun at first and also very addictive, you may soon tire of it as it can often make the 
 AI even worse... hard to belive it could get any worse, eh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hafaholo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  IF you truly are in love with the rts genre, all hands down this is a MUST PLAY! The game takes 
 place back in the medievil times with the britons, celts, persians, and all different kinds of armies. 
 The game is kind of hard to start if you are a new player, but you should grasp the feeling of 
 the game in about an hour. Back when the game first came out around 1998, the game has really good 
 graphics and still does. The game has all different kinds of wepons, upgrades, and armies. The campaign 
 is good if you like to play alone, but if you are a gamer that loves to play online the game has 
 a great mutiplayer experience. So if you are a lover of rts games and dont have this game, Go Pick 
 it Up NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yodax007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 18, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  This is THE RTS to play. I started playing the first one the year before kindergarden, and I have 
 not stopped playing these games since. The gameplay is awsome because of the variety of possibilitys 
 to do stuff. You can build up your armys right away and try to eliminate the enemy immediately, 
 or you can try to create a good flow of resorces and then go and take them out in small increments. 
 The graphics are sub-par, but who cares aslong as you have an awsome game. The music is really 
 well thought out for each of the campaigins too. Now, because it is sort of old, its only about 
 20$, and that's with the expansion pack. This game is definately an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgostonF
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Age of empires II is a game anybody who likes RTS's should play.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is very fun and addicting, the game is about starting with a few people and one 
 building called a Town Center on all levels except for campaign mode. You must create a village 
 and an army while defending yourself from your opponents attacks and attacking him as well. The 
 campaign mode is great aswell, It tells true stories, and needs you to do different objectives 
 in each mission. You can also create your own levels which is very fun.
  
  Graphics: The buildings and people are very detailed and look great and different in each nationality 
 you choose. There are lots of different terrain and decorations aswell, and each place you play 
 in will reflect what it's supposed to be as you explore it.
  
  Sound: The sound is good, you can hear the the grunts of soldiers and villagers, and arrows being 
 shot, ect. Each area has cool music playing in the background that matches with the area. 
  
  Value: This game can last you very long. Creating your own levels is endless fun, campaigns 
 and instant action are also fun and lengthy.
  
  So, Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings is one of the best RTS's made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 27, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Age of empires 2 is a great RTS game. When the first two came out back then I used to play them 
 all the time. Now I just don't have the time because I kinda Lost intrest playing it with Age of 
 empires 3 that has came out and there are many other good games out there to be played.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay was one of the best back in it's day and it is still quite fun even though 
 it's several years old. It was one of the best of it's day but with new technology there are newer 
 and better RTS out the like Company of heros and Cossacks 2. The only thing that i found a little 
 annoying is the lack of Unit devercity because all the nations had pretty much the same type of 
 buldings and units accept there special units which come out of there castle which some where the 
 same aswell.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are still quite nice to look at even though it's old just look at the screen 
 shots and you'll know what I mean. They Accually have the buildings bigger then the people not 
 like the first AOE where the buildings where as tall or shorter then the people themselves.
  
  Sound: I just love the sound track it suits the game well and the voices for the units in there 
 own langangue. 
  
  Value: I would say that the Replay Value is quite good. You can play AGE2 many times though the 
 campains and the random made maps that your can play and in the Mulitplayer part of the game. 
 
  
  I give this game 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilan27
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires The Age of King is one of the best games I have ever played the graphics are .... 
 well good. Age of Empires III was must better however, it looks so real. But this game is good 
 also.
  
  Age of Empires The Age of Kings is great because you can build you own empires like fishing dock, 
 stable and such. Killings enemys is fun, but what was sometimes annoying is that when you lost 
 track your soilders they can start fighting dudes stronger then them. I remember once my villiageer 
 started attacking a knight, which is weird.
  
  Anyways, this game is good and I recomd it to mostly all those Age fans that wants a good fun time, 
 to bad you can't buy it anymore, i lost mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oooVooo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This isone of the bets games of all time.. 
  If your like me and u love Strategy Games this is the stuff for you...
  I started playing this 
 around 4/5 years ago, i got hooked from the start and i still play it time to time...
  
  Single player is good but this game is all about the Multiplayer gameing!!!
  Test your skills!!!!
 
  
  Too bad ZONE clossed down.... 
  
  ALL TIME CLASSSSSIC!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Microsoft really outdone themselves with this one.... 
  Once you know your way around the game 
 it gets even better it becomes like second nature to you... 
  
  I dont think there is another Strategy Game that is better than this...
  To be honest i dont 
 think there is ANY game better than AOK! 
  Age Of Empires: The Conquerors Expansion is also bloody brilliant!!
  but i .... hmmm... to tell 
 you the truth god knows what one is better.... 
  GET THEM BOTH!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larsypoop
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  Sequel to Ensemble Studio's original Age of Empires series, Age of Empires II has lived up to and 
 then surpassed my expectations. It successfully delivers everything (or almost everything) you 
 want in a fast paced real-time strategy game. Clean graphics, intuitive controls, a wide range 
 of options and battles of paramount proportions.
  
  Considering that 95% of the game's enjoyment lies in Multiplayer, I shall cover that first. 
 
  In a nutshell, this game is all about ruling the world through military might and out-strategising 
 (new word) your enemies. You choose one of over a dozen civilisations with which you make your 
 own piece of history.
  In a standard game of deathmatch, you start of with 3 villagers, a scout cavalry and a town center, 
 and only limited resources. You have various basic civilisation-building goods spread out nearby, 
 such as trees, sheep and gold.
  You must then quickly build an economy, set up a defensive system and start thinking about how 
 to dominate your sworn enemies.
  
  With a vast selection of troops, buildings and siege weapons at your disposal, there are many different 
 ways to rule the world. High in resources? Build a Wonder of the World, giving your enemies only 
 a limited amount of time to knock it down. Quick at advancing through the four ages? Build a monastery 
 and collect all 5 Ancient Relics, which again creates a deadline for your enemies to put an end 
 to you. Like destroying stuff? Build a massive and tactical army with which to drive through the 
 enemies' defences and attack them in the heart of their town.
  Each civilisation has its own unique advantages, which can make all the difference for serious 
 players, where every soldier is gold. It also creates a 'rock-paper-scissors' scenario, but only 
 on a small scale; in the end, it all comes down to military might, experience and a fast mouse 
 hand.
  
  You can play play against or with 7 other civilisations at a time, and they are divided into allies, 
 neutral, and enemies, their corresponding behaviour is obvious. This range of stances creates the 
 possibility for cool multiplayer options. Free for all 8 players, 3 vs 2 vs 3, 4 vs 4, 1 vs 1, 
 2 vs 2 vs 2 vs 2 etc. Even if you play exactly the same settings over again, the map will be different 
 and the experience is a totally different one.
  Though there is an online and offline multiplayer mode, online is mainly fun with friends. Versing 
 randoms on the Microsoft game website is still enjoyable, but the games are too concentrated on 
 massive armies, and there is little empire building involved.
  
  The story mode isn't half bad either, following historical campaigns of famous freedom fighters 
 such as William Wallace and Joan of Arc. They offer a unique experience where you control the faction, 
 and have to meet certain objectives. The maps and units are also historically accurate, save the 
 fact that William Wallace can't moon the English.
  
  Creating your own maps and scenarios is great fun and extends the gameplay by another couple dozen 
 hours. This is where you can get really creative and do stuff like starting everyone off with one 
 villager and no resources, or divide the world by a small river cutting through the middle of the 
 map, and only one river crossing, creating a bottle neck resulting in huge battles for control 
 of that one point.
  Though the game is 2D, it is so well made it almost appears 3D. The graphics are smooth and to 
 scale, and their is virtually no lag, even on old computers.
  
  A great milestone in the history of RTS games, and a must have for almost anybody.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 3:16 am PT
Review:  Age Of Empires 2 Age Of Kings For PC.
  
  Age of Empires is a beauty of the computer system, an intricately designed game that will leave 
 you broken, breathless, and begging for more. Crush your enemies in your firm grip, possess total 
 control of your villagers, your soldiers, your buildings, go berserk and wage war towards your 
 allies and neutrals, destroy every single building, every single obstacle in your path, do it all 
 with this game, this great game with the name of Age of Empires. 
  
  Gameplay : The gameplay of Age of Empires is very delicate, one single soldier can throw the entire 
 war off course. Your objective of this game varies from totally crushing 
  your enemies, building a Wonder and protecting it for 10,000 years, reach the limit amount of resources, 
 or get a certain character to a certain place, depending of if you are playing single player modes 
 or the special campaignes 
  You work your way up the technology ladder, trying to gather as many resources as you can. You 
 gather resources by building villagers, the more there are, the faster your resources pour in. 
 The problem is, villagers cost money to build, valuable resources. So your choice, spend money, 
 or not to spend money. There are also technologies that enhances the villagers workpace, and those 
 are always good choices, because resources are the main backbone of your economy, you cannot do 
 anything without enough resources. 
  As your resources grow and you have enough, you must advance to the next age, which allows you 
 a wider variety of units to build, a wider arrange of technology, and new buildings to construct. 
 This is always a good idea, its not a good one to fall behind on your enemies, as they process 
 through the ages, they are able to build stronger buildings and units, and are far by superior 
 to your troops. 
  
  It is always important to have a good military system as well as a good economic one. You must 
 be always be able to defend yourself from incoming attacks from your numerous enemies. A good defense 
 is always very important. Walls to temporarily keep your enemies out and delay them from invading 
 your bases, and towers to fire arrows at the invaders. Towers should be posted near walls and the 
 scattered throughout your entire base. A couple of hit-and-run calvary knights to weave around 
 enemy lines and to take down the siege engines are very important, as they commit a lot of damage, 
 especially to your walls and towers, as well as towers and castles, stocked with some Archers and 
 Skirmishers for extra power, to fire arrows at the ground troops hacking at your defenses. 
  
  There are many different types of units, each with their different strengths and weaknesses. 
 Archers, as their name indicates, fire arrows from a distance. They are, however, not endurable, 
 and will fall to enemy attacks (and especially Skirmishers) if you do not provide them some protection. 
 Archers are best used when posted on high elevation or cliffs so they can weaken or kill passing 
 enemy units. 
  
  Ground troops are otherwise known as militia. They should make up most of your army, for they are 
 both durable, strong, and cheap. There are many different kinds of militia, some using swords, 
 the others using spears. However, as strong as they are, they do not stand a chance against knights. 
 Knights are the heavy troops, and there are two types, light calvary and heavy calvary. The Light 
 Calvary tend to be a little faster, and are best used for sweeping to the flank of your enemys 
 units and hacking away. The heavy calvary is best used for direct, head-on attacks on the enemy 
 bases. 
  
  But what would an army be wounded and broken? Well, thats what Monks are for. They have two purposes 
 and two purposes only. They can be placed at rendez-vous points or at your base to heal hit-and-run 
 troops. The other purpose is to convert enemy troops to your side. Converting takes energy points, 
 and Monks take time to recharge. Monks are also very delicate, but that should not stop you from 
 exploiting them to their fullest potential. Post them behind your walls and have them convert enemy 
 troops that are hacking away. Your troops will die during battle, and it will take resources to 
 replace them. To minimize that effect, try pulling away seriously wounded units and having them 
 run to a Monk hidden nearby, and repeat that process for every unit in the red area. 
  
  Siege engines are powerful but slow units that are used for taking down walls of a base not breached 
 easily. There are two types of siege engines, the mass effect and the wood and stone. The wood 
 and stone are best used for buildings, and some of them, such as the Trebutchet, can fire from 
 a very long distance. Others, such as the Battering Ram, must get directly up close in order to 
 attack. The mass effect, for example the Mangonel, can be used against wood and stone as well as 
 units. Be warned, however, that mass effect troops will not only damage your enemy, it will damage 
 you as well. Siege engines are delicate, however, and also expensive, and should always travel 
 with heavy escorts. 
  
  Technology, a very important part of a game, this game, anyway. As I said earlier, quality over 
 quantity, and as you advance throughout the ages, you should always try to research as many technologies 
 as you can without running your resources dry. There are many different types of technologies, 
 varying from increasing the HP of your walls and buildings, or upgrading your units so that they 
 become stronger and more endurable. 
  
  But who ever said that brawns was the only way to win? No, diplomacy is also important. Enemies, 
 naturally, will attack you, but you are free to retort and attack back. Neutrals will or will not 
 attack you, and you are free to attack them. Allies will actually aid you in your quest to crush 
 the opposition, and you cannot attack them as long as you remain allies. 
  
  There are many different civilizations, each with their own 
  unique technologies, advantages 
 and disadvantages, and unique units. There are over 10 civilizations to chose from, try playing 
 them all! 
  
  You would not believe the number of options and possibilities available in Age of Empires. Build 
 a huge empire and wait to crush your enemies, or build a small army and attack them right away 
 straight from the beginning. Build a Wonder and protect it from all enemy attacks, or try to attack 
 a Wonder yourself. Do anything and everything in this game, a masterpiece of the 21st century. 
 
  
  
  Sound : The music is somewhat limited, so I suppose it doesnt really count, although all of the 
 music they do produce is good. The sound, however, is varied and spectacular. Its a fighting game, 
 so naturally you will clash in battle, and when that does happen, you can actually hear the ringing 
 of swords coming together, or each and everyone of your units dying from sheer number. Anything 
 and everything, the sound of Age of Empires is truly a miracle, but its not perfect. Some sounds 
 are a bit off, it doesnt really sound appropriate for such a thing, but overall, you dont notice 
 it, not really. 
  
  
  Graphics : The people look like ants, and you look like youre looking at them from a birds eye 
 view, but thats not a bad thing. It actually makes controlling your units easier and less of a 
 task. Pretty good for a computers graphics, you can see the blood bursting when your unit dies 
 in either battle or suicide. 
  
  Well, of course! How can you leave such a magnificent game untouched? You can play Age of Empires 
 for a long, long time before you actually get bored of it. Why? Because you can do anything, ranging 
 from campaigns to special modes of gameplay. 
  
  Age of Empires take a long time to learn, and even longer to perfect. Its not an easy game, but 
 that only adds to the amount of fun and exhilaration. It can be hard, but hey, thats all good, 
 isnt it? 
  
  Rent, buy? Well, you cant rent computer games, but you can try borrowing it from a friend, however. 
 If you cannot find a source to temporarily play, however, I would definitely recommend this as 
 a buy. This is a great game, perhaps nothing short of miraculous. Although it is my beliefs that 
 no game is ever truly perfect, and this game still hasnt broken it yet, it still came close, and 
 thats worth more than words or reviews can ever say to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00Joseph00
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  When I first began playing real time strategies, I got hooked onto them. They are a wonderful way 
 to spend gaming time, and just time in general. I think it builds up intelligence while being fun.
 
  
  Age of Empires II brings a lot of great unique civilizations and many different units into the 
 fray. Each unit has its advantages and disadvantages. For every unit that can overpower another, 
 there's a different unit that can destroy that one. It's very much like "rock-paper-scissors". 
 But there's plenty of thought processes that go along with this game. You are hard-pressed to build 
 up your civilization quickly by gathering resources, building more units, constructing new buildings, 
 creating resource drop off points, and making military units. All the while many different opportunites 
 come up to raise more resources.
  
  You also will need to have an efficient way to protect your town [s] , so walls and lookout towers 
 are available to create. Castles are very necessary to protect your units, but you cannot leave 
 it undefended either, because there is an answer to long-ranged castles: longer ranged, siege trebuchets. 
 There's tons of different things to do, so most people won't get tired of this game fast.
  
  It looks and plays beautifully with little lag, especially if you have a more modern PC. The 
 sound is all great also with memorable music and sounds for each little thing that happens.
  
  The heart of this game resides within its multiplayer. The campaigns are very entertaining 
 and fulfilling, but nothing beats a big four-versus-four match from scratch.
  
  Pick this game up and play it if you ever find it. If you can't find it, order it onlien. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cliff122316
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  this game is simply one of the best RTS's available. the gameplay is fantastic and the game has 
 a trmendous amount of variety while sticking to a solid formula. it is also very interesting in 
 its chioce of units and lifestyles for each civilization. this game provides countless hours of 
 gameplay and it is a great value. one underated aspect of this game is the online play which adds 
 another dimension and many more hours of gameplay. in addition to randomly generated games, the 
 game features interesting historical storylines which the player can battle his way through in 
 a variety of ways. there are many gameplay strategies that prove to be affective and provide depth 
 to the game. now if only those damn farms would replant themselves.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fkholmes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  Really the only great thing about this thing is scenario making the campains are a waste of time 
 because they are so so so so so so so os os so so sooo Hard, they are fun and sort of long but 
 they are VERY frustrating.
  
  The graphics are pretty good espcially for a RTS. The music and gun shots and stuff are excellent 
 also the worlds are fun to set bases up in. 
  
  It is fun for quite a while and if you are really in to medieval stuff and RTS then this game will 
 probably last you indefinetily it is.
  
  I must admit I have some fond memories of playing the original Age of Empires on my old computer. 
 
  
  Yeah so in summary this is in an awesome game just not uber awesmoe!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  This game is exactly what Real Time Strategy stands for, and offers... YEARS of gameplay. No other 
 strategy game can top this, and if you enjoy RTS, and don't already own this, you HAVE to get it.
 
  
  Game play:
  The game play of this game was phenomenal. There were over a dozen factions to choose from, which 
 each had their special abilities which can suit any type of play, whether he is the defensive type 
 to stay in the game, offensive to take everyone else out, economical, or any other type of strategy. 
 The game is also based on true events, and can tell you some about history, like Saladin, Joan 
 of Arc and any other Medieval hero or legend. The game will take you across a campaign which is 
 surprisingly fun, yet educational. In the skirmish mode you can choose from Many European and Middle 
 Eastern factions, such as England, Saracens, and Scottish... GO GRAHAM CLAN!!!!!
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics were great, and they were able to keep from 6 men mysteriously forming 
 into one. The graphics also allowed good fire affects, and the arrows shot from your bowmen don't 
 just disappear, and neither do the bodies... for a while. The graphics of this superb game are 
 even good enough to keep you coming back to play the game 6 years after its release.
  
  Sound:
  The sound I thought was great, though they could have added a few more sword clashing 
 and shield bashing affects. Other than that with all the different weapons on the field it still 
 sounds great, and the siege equipment has a nice crash when its rocks come crashing down on troops 
 and buildings alike.
  
  Overall this game is honestly, to my opinion, one of the best ever, and no matter who you are, 
 if you own a computer (which you must to read this review) , you MUST buy this game. For the current 
 price of ten or so dollars, you might even pick up an extra one for the heck of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gidthekid56
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 1, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  i actually got this game by accident, i was trading a game with a friend and he said he was going 
 to give me Warcraft 3 for my GBA, and when i got home and popped the disk in, it turned out to 
 be Age of Empire 2, at first i thought of just quit the game and return it to my friend the next 
 day, but after about an hour playing i guess i got "hooked" and i kept playing ever since. There 
 is only one "down-side" i can think of at this moment and it's that each game take a long time, 
 the longest game i've played online is about 4 hours long, when you play against good players and 
 you're good yourself it turns out to be a really fun but long game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanehunter24
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest games of all time. In AOEII, you play through 5 historically accurate 
 campaigns that will surley challenge your skills. I honestly think this will take the player of 
 this game about 1 1/2 months to finish. It's a fun game, though. You go through four ages, each 
 with more than the last. And another cool feature this game has, is that the soliders for each 
 civilization speak that civilization's real language!
  
  The Pros: Excellent Gameplay, historically accurate, and fast paced combat.
  
  The Cons: Ridiculous 
 missions, slow rescource gathering, annoying wild animals.
  
  Over all, this is still a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight-Blade
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  A Massive Improvement over its predecessor, AoK brings the Historical element of the first game, 
 and really shinks its teeth into a more indepth and more interesting peice of the Histoiral timeline.
 
  
  From being able to choose whatever faction/race you want in this game, more recognize able people, 
 The Britons, The Vikings, The Presians, The Japanese, The Chinese, The Mongols, The Franks, The 
 Turks, and the Teutons, all of these people are playable, all of them have their strengths and 
 weaknesses, their special units, From the Britons, The Long Bowmen, to the Teutonic Knight, to 
 the Japaness Samurai, all of these special units including more are offered in the game, all of 
 them do better against certian other special units than others. 
  
  1) The Gameplay: remains the same with the idea from the first one, of building, upgrading, and 
 destroying/converting through out the game. Gather resources, research technologies, upgrade your 
 empire, build your armies, unleash them upon your enemies, Convert or Destroy your Enemies bases. 
 However, its introduced a new element to it. The trading system and Diplomacy system. Forge Alliances 
 with those you trust, Stay Neatural with those who have economical Benefits, or Swear Oathes to 
 Destroy those who oppose you. ethier way you'll have fun with this, atribute to the game. Also 
 trading resources, can be really beneficial to you, your allies, and even your enemies, it really 
 speeds up the gameplay somewhat , especially if your in a map with low resources, and you need 
 to build and stay on top of things. The Game Play is a Excellent improvement over the first Age 
 of Empires game. 
  
  2) The Graphics, are great, even better than Age of Empires 1, the detail to the game tribled. 
 For its time it had excellent cinimaxitics. 
  
  3) The Storyline, to each of the 13 races, was very interesting, and it gives you a Historical 
 insight of what actually went down in History all those years ago. it has breif commentary, so 
 its not like there making this stuff up completely, its cool they got Historical Facts and used 
 them for a game. 
  
  The Map Editor and Muiltplayer features were overall the best inclusion of this installment, it 
 brings a closer feel to your mind's eye and heart of what the actual times were like. Also the 
 fact that you can build massive armies and attacking your enemy using tactics, it was beautifully, 
 it works really well. This game is Worth playing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sow_dwpreX
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 23, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  Age Of Empires II makes a mark enters the games of strategy for the countless variation of game 
 forms. With an interesting amount of maps and civilizations it creates the gigantic possibility 
 of possibilities of departures in its multiplayer, is to say that things as detail of maps, its 
 sizes and characteristics leave the different game completely, the strategies and strategies for 
 departures in Age of Empires II. The great force of this game is exactly in the tools supplied 
 to the players who can create more and more strategies to each new game and each new adversary. 
 Without doubts it can have similar... But equal never to the game that really it deserves to be 
 considered "the The Game strategy". It are with the educative part with the historical details 
 and characteristic of you vary civilizations. The part is a game. In my opinion one of the best 
 games of strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesGru
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Better than the new one thats comeout aready. (AOEIII)
  Better than empire at war.
  Better than command and conqwer.
  Even better than Rome Total War!
  
  I played all the Strategy 
 Games sience... I 1st started playing Games.
  And this is the best one i played ever!
  
  1st of all the grathics is good.
  
  The best one is Online play.8 players online, Create maps 
 and put them online. Custom modes like CBT, CBA etc.
  
  Offline it has a good campain mode, create maps, all kinds of game modes, record your game, over 200 
 units or vechiles.
  Lots of reserch to have, lots of buildings, all kinds of units, Allies!, And diffrenfent kinds of times.
 
  
  I RATE THIS A 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemyth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This game will always stand the test of time regardless of whatever new directions RTS's go. This 
 game is perfectly balanced and has so many strategies behind it that no matter who you are you 
 can find a balance of difficulty, city building, and war that will keep this game forever and always 
 as a good backup game to go to at the very least.
  
  The graphics may be dated by today's standards but they are still beautiful. The sound suffers 
 the same fate and graphics but again it is more than passable even still. 
  
  Regardless of your gaming ability or level this game can appeal to you. I've been playing RTS's 
 since the advent of Dune 2 and this game still can always impress me every time I go to play it. 
 My wife doesn't play video games and yet i'll come home to find her furiously building her towns 
 and buying off the computer ai in order to keep from fighting with them.
  
  Which brings me to another point. The ai is not perfect (thank goodness) but i've yet to see another 
 series that had the depth of strategy that these games have held.
  
  Just an all around spectacular RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtizio
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  After almost two years in development, Age of Empires 2: The Age of Kings is finally out, and the 
 verdict is in: This game is extraordinary.
  
  - Battle alongside heroes of the day. Strive with one of following heroes to victory: Joan of Arc, 
 William Wallace, Genghis Khan, Saladin, and Barbarossa.
  - Command one of 13 mighty civilizations including the Franks, Japanese, Byzantines, Vikings, Mongols, 
 and Celts. Each with unique attributes, buildings, technologies, and specific combat units based 
 on its historical counterpart.
  - Choose the path to greatness. Will it be an economic path created out of craftsmanship, trade 
 and diplomacy? Or a military route of siege and naval warfare? Or by building a Wonder of the World 
 that will stand the test of time?
  
  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings is the sequel to the award-winning, best-selling, real-time 
 strategy game Age of Empires. Age of Empires II spans a thousand years, from the fall of Rome through 
 the Middle Ages. In it, players lead one of 13 civilizations into greatness. The game keeps the 
 epic scope of Age of Empires' game play while evolving the combat and economic features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmm0070
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  I wont write the same review for this game and the expansion but... this game is simply great. 
 It has such a Big variety of mods and warriors and tecnologies, upgrades, ages, .... Too Much! 
 Great! In this game you have to control a group of peasants which then can create other buildings 
 to create warriors and groups and monks and catapults etc. You can win in many different ways depending 
 on the mod: my favorite, conquest. Here you must destroy all enemies' buildings and organize your 
 groups by using different strategies (defensive, offensive, etc.) . Until you start developing the 
 game incredibly. Multiplayer is awesome and cheats make it even more fun! great game for all ages. 
 play it, i reccomend it for everyone.
  
  thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvercineplex
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 29, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires II is a great RTS. This is an example of how RTS's should be made. There are a lot 
 of different civilizations that you can be. The historical information in this game is quite neat 
 too.
  
  The gameplay doesn't differ from most other RTS. There are no features in this RTS that will revolutionize 
 the RTS genre.
  
  The sound unfortunatley is quite under what I'd expect. It doesn't sound clear at some points and 
 even on occasion crackles a bit.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. Nothing to really say about them.
  
  If you love RTS and history, 
 this might be the perfect game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordiepordie66
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 28, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  overall i love this game the people buildings house everything is kool all the features are awsome 
 the interactments are amazing and the battles where kool! the campaign levels suck there really 
 boring and stupid. the deatmatch or online was awsome also playing with friends is the best fun 
 you will ever have. the game graphics where really good the main characters and stuff actually 
 looked liked the main characters and stuff. i thought this game was better than warcraft so anyways 
 this game is a highly addictive strategy game you will like this game! the controls take getting 
 used to and so do the how to do things but overall this game is awsome! so go check it out this 
 game is called age of the empires 2 the age of kings have fun and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSergeant
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires II improved on many aspects of the original while still following the base RTS gameplay 
 template. While still lacking in some regards, it presented itself very well overall and won the 
 hearts of both gamers and history buffs alike.
  
  I was surprised, but interested, when I first heard Microsoft would be producing a sequel to Age 
 of Empires. Like most people who had played the original, I'd enjoyed the single player campaigns 
 and the map editor even more so. However, there had been vast room for improvement, so I was looking 
 forward to seeing if the second game would learn its lessons from the first.
  
  Did it ever.
  
  While there were many new features in the game that truly impressed me, all 
 in all I found it was the same formula used in the original AOE that sold me on the sequel. First 
 of all, I loved the immersive historical re-enactments offered in the myriad of single player campaigns. 
 Many of which actually taught me things I had yet to learn in school. I had never heard of the 
 Holy Roman Empire or Emperor Barbarossa, I had heard about Joan of Arc but I did not know the story, 
 and I knew most of the history around the Third Crusade but that particular campaign gave me further 
 depth of understanding.
  
  If any of you are sitting there thinking: Yeah, but its a game. They were probably really inaccurate 
 think again. While the maps may not have been completely accurate to 16th century Europes geography 
 - along with a few other minor inconsistencies - the overall historical information used was very 
 accurate. Later on in my school years, when topics like the Hordes of Genghis Khan or Sultan Saladins 
 occupation of Jerusalem came up, I found 90% of what I was being taught had been covered already 
 in the game.
  
  Second in my list of appreciated features was the new map editor. I had just as much fun making 
 all sorts of crazy scenarios in this game as I did with the original AOE. Probably even more so 
 now with all the new units and structures I had at my disposal.
  
  Lastly, there were the small features that I truly appreciated. Formations paramount among them. 
 Being able to take a group of spearmen, a group of swordsmen, and a group of archers and line them 
 up behind one another in proper military formation may not have offered any real tactical advantages, 
 but damn did it ever look good. There were also vast improvements in the games pathfinding AI, 
 so units would be less likely to get stuck in nooks and crannies on the map if their destination 
 waypoint was set a fair distance away. The enemy AI was also improved to make things more challenging 
 for the player, unfortunately it still had many of the same suicidal tendencies seen in most RTS 
 AIs of the time.
  
  Now, to the flaws. While AOE II seemed to be free of the bugs and glitches that plagued AOE, there 
 was still room for improvement in other aspects of the game. There could have been much more diversity 
 in the appearance of the individual units; archers fighting for King Richard and archers fighting 
 for Sultan Saladin during the Third Crusade looked identical. Also, with the possible exception 
 of the mobile trebuchet, most of the siege engines were not as effective as they could have been. 
 All in all though, these small flaws did not tarnish the games shine.
  
  Age of Empires II was masterfully done in my opinion, even though it is an older game by todays 
 standards it still has a lot of replay value. I would even go so far as to recommend it as a good 
 learning tool for history teachers to use if they want a fun way for their kids to research our 
 past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyvasey
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires was one of my favorite games back in 1999 and it still is now. The game is incredibly 
 well-balanced and put together in a cool medieval setting. It contained a ton of different unit 
 types and the games actually felt epic, not like the 15 minute skirmishes we see in today's RTS's. 
 Age of Empires had a reasonable pace to it, something that today's Warcrafts do not. Age of Empires 
 is an awesome game and a great way to start this genre for those not already familiar. I have many 
 RTS's in my arsenal, but none of them, even the newest, can really touch of Age of Empires II: 
 The Age of Kings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  This is my review of Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings, one of the greatest RTS games ever! AOK 
 is absolutely amazing.
  
  Gameplay: Superb gameplay which is really addictive. Any RTS fan in general will really like this 
 game because of the way it's set out.
  
  Graphics: Great graphics and a nice touch from Ensemble Studios which show how RTS games are really 
 into graphics.
  
  Sound: A quite nice song which really gets annoying after a while but still dose'nt spoil the game 
 so I'll say it's good.
  
  Value: Perfect value- you will be playing this game for years to come. Like me!!!
  
  Tilt: 
 Perfect RTS game in every way, a must-buy if you like RTS games and if you don't, this is'nt a 
 bad addition to your collection anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FronzenShock987
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  One of the best medieval strategy game ever! This game repeats history in Europe! This game is 
 like an medieval movie that I saw 1 week ago. This game and the movie is very similar.
  
  Age of Empires 2: The Age of Kings, has an fantastic story. conquering other lands, having a war 
 with who ever you like, and together equals to an great strategy game. This game has smooth graphics, 
 pretty realist sounds from the middle kingdom, and exciting gameplay.
  
  This game has missions that repeats history, but some of the missions does'nt. Controlling your 
 army's to destroy building, killing people, and destroying road vehicles.
  
  It all adds up to one conclusion. This is one of the best games in the world if you ask me. The 
 oldest games, are actually the best games. And the news series, of the original version it's self, 
 can never beat the original game which started the whole series!
  
  Hope everyone enjoyed this game as but as I did. Have fun! :) : D:) : D:) : D:) : D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narsilflammer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 14, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  Age of empires 2. Is a RTS game for all players of any level. The random skirmish map is really 
 good practice for going online. The Campainghs are Fun and full of great historical figures William 
 Wallce, Jhon of arc ect. The game is very deep and has many thing to do in it. The graphics are 
 great for the time when this game was made. And it's full of fun and interesting challanges. Creating 
 your own campaingh is fantastcly good. I think that Age of kings is great all the way round. The 
 game is so good that i always find room to lay it :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajmyers82
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This was the first RTS game I played on the PC, and I was instantly hooked. The game play is addictive 
 and has enough levels and difficulties to provide an enjoyable gaming experience for any level 
 of gamer. You have the option to play against many different computer generated characters, as 
 many at a time as you like, and at several different levels of difficulty. There is also the choice 
 of what economical level you want to start at that allows you to start with nothing and build from 
 scratch, or start in an advanced society that doesnt require as much initial input. The economic 
 portion of the game is simple enough that it doesnt require a complicated manual to understand 
 it, but it is in depth enough that it doesnt seem useless, tedious, and boring. The fighting is 
 the same way. Its easy enough to learn how to attack and defend, but theres also an opportunity 
 to develop your own specific, unique fighting style. 
  
  The graphics in the game arent outstanding, but they are serviceable. The environments vary enough 
 that you can find a terrain that suits your fighting style or find one that challenges you. The 
 navy portions of the game are a little weak, but they can be avoided when playing a single player 
 game. 
  
  Overall this is a great RTS game for players of any level who enjoy a variety of game play options.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StonePirate
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  At the time this game came out, it was the one game everyboy who was anybody owned, and for the 
 right reasons too. 
  It offered hours of immersive gameplay, allowing you to make your own campaigns, scenarios, play 
 multiplayer with your friends, fight normal battles or play the highly addictive and challenging 
 campaigns.
  The graphics, at the time, were of the best quality, only rivaled by Command and Conquer, which 
 was still far behind technologically. The fact that your civilization could conquer other areas 
 of land, capture the other players' sheep and cattle, create huge castles, recruite massive armies 
 and fleets and also drag your civilization to victory by diplomacy or war.
  You have to love and respect this game for what it made, it set the standard for al lother stragedy 
 games world wide and started a legacy.
  Looking back to it you could criticise certain aspects of it, but the gameplay is impecible and 
 I could still play this game now and not get bored, so if you don't already own this game buy it 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_rulz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  GOOD: Great strategic depth; random map generator is excellent; fun and fast gameplay; great balancing 
 of resources; generally good sounds; in-game encyclopedia; all 13 civilizations play and feel differently
 
  BAD: Still too much resource micromanagement; terrible voice acting; campaigns drag on at times 
 and don't sustain your interest
  
  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings is an amazing game. It consumed a large portion of my life 
 a few years ago. It is a very well-crafted, deep, strategic game, truly a masterpiece of the RTS 
 genre.
  
  Age of Empires II opens with a cool opening cinematic and nice main menu. The theme song is well-suited 
 to the medieval time period. You can either jump right into the campaign or you can test yourself 
 with a random game. Although the campaigns are well-made, detailed, strategic, and fun, they can 
 be very hard and generally don't sustain your interest throughout the whole campaign. The voice 
 acting is terrible and the storylines are based off of real events, so don't expect any surprises 
 (unless you REALLY don't know world history) . There is lots of content to be had in the campaign, 
 however.
  
  The real gem in this game is the random map (or standard map) . The Age of Empires series is renowned 
 for its amazing random generation abilities. The maps that come up are incredibly fun to play on 
 and are never unbalanced. There's several types of maps you can play on, as well, such as "Mediterranean" 
 (big lake in the middle) , the reverse, "Continental" (you're all on a big continent surrounded 
 by water) , "Coastal" (good, even mix of water and land) , "Highlands" (lots of cliffs and grassland, 
 but little water) , and many more. There are plenty of game types as well, including Death Match, 
 where you start with tons of resources and can focus on just eliminating the enemy. You can also 
 choose what age to start in.
  
  About the ages (which is where the "Age" in the title comes from) , you start in the Dark Ages and 
 advance through the Feudal Age, Castle Age, and Imperial Age, with the technology, strategy, tactics, 
 variety, etc all advance between the ages. Resource gathering is a very large part of the early 
 game. There are four resources (food, gold, wood, and stone) , and you must create an "army" of 
 villagers to sustain your empire on a standard map, where you start with limited resources. One 
 of the most challenging parts of the game is getting off to a good start. There are five difficulty 
 levels to choose from, but there's huge gaps between the difficulty of each difficulty level, and 
 advancing up even one difficulty level takes a lot of work and can be frustrating, especially when 
 the level below is too easy. The AI is amazing for an RTS made in 1999. They know how to wage combat 
 relatively well, learn your vulnerabilities and weak points, and play off of the strengths of their 
 civilization. There are 13 civilizations to choose from in the game and each one excels in certain 
 areas (the Britons in archery, the Persians in cavalry, the Goths in infantry, etc) . Each one has 
 one unique unit and for each civilization, several units and advancements are unavailable for production 
 to emphasize the uniqueness of each one. Each civ really does have a unique feel and differences 
 in playing styles, and even each age has its own playing style (which, accordingly, changes for 
 each civ as well) .
  
  The game is truly satisfying when it comes to combat, as well. Completely comquering a rival empire 
 is not only satisfying, but also fun and often time-consuming. The satisfaction and power you feel 
 after crushing each and every one of your rivals is unmatched by any game. There are many types 
 of units and many ways to use them. Unlike other strategy games of the era, there is no "super 
 unit" that you can build a ton of and conquer the world. This system is a complex series of checks 
 and balances, but serves to add amazing strategic depth to the game. There are a variety of researches 
 to get, as well, and all of them are useful. The graphics were revolutionary for the time, and 
 still look decent today. It was one of the first RTS's to feature nearly to-scale structures, and 
 not soon after this game was released, 3d strategy games began emerging en masse. The sounds of 
 battle are satisfying and realistic, and each civilization's units more or less speak their native 
 tongue when you give them orders (although speech is limited) . However, voice acting in the campaign 
 is terrible. That is one of the few complaints for sound. There is no in-game music, but that only 
 amplifies the atmosphere, and the title music is awesome.
  
  Overall, Age of Empires II is an excellent, well-rounded, deep, strategic, immersive, and fun game. 
 The 13 civilizations are all unique and have a unique feel, and different strategies, mostly revolving 
 around the importance of resource gathering, evolve for different eras. There is a ton of variety 
 and depth to this game, and I reccommend it to any fan of the RTS genre. It is a true classic.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing the sequel to this great RTS. I wouldn't say it's the best of all time, but I 
 really enjoyed the added cultures. The more upgrades you can do. The graphics are still in ned 
 of help. I played the living crap out of this game. Very challenging when you have multiple computers 
 playing against you. Fun playing against my GF also. We loved to play with and against. The game 
 is again like any other RTS. I like most is the game evolved around ancient medieval times. It's 
 my favorite part in history. So that helps when I play games like this. I prefer the Total War 
 series, because in opinion that's a RTS to me, and plays much much better! If only AOE could somehow 
 make their game look like that. That would be interesting to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horus92
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires II lets you relive epic adventures that many other games won't. Beside teaching 
 a good amount of history, it makes you feel a great sensation as you prepare your army or launch 
 a full-time attack. As well asbeing quite realistic, it provides with different scenarios, missions 
 and situations, as no game you play in it is as the other. Also, the game's missions are unexpected. 
 It is not only battling what to do, but protecting, gather resources and other objectives are fundamental 
 for the game. I strongly recommend this game for anyone who is in the mood for a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcqueen_keith
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 29, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings is the sequel to the popular game Age of Empires and its expansion 
 Age of Empires: The Rise of Rome. Age of Kings doesn't reinvent the RTS formula, but its one of 
 the best games in the popular genre.
  
  The gameplay is extremely smooth in Age of Kings making it easy to learn the basics of the game 
 quickly. If you have ever played any other RTS game, you should know the basics already as this 
 is exactly similar to other real-time strategy games. The interface is well thought out making 
 it easier to control your army than in some other games in the genre. More importantly though is 
 that Age of Kings is very fun to play.
  
  The graphics in the game look good but not great by any means. Other RTS games were able to have 
 more advanced graphics in their games, so why this game doesn't feature as good graphics is a question 
 only the developers can answer.
  
  The sound in the game is also good with plenty of variety. This is good because there is a lot 
 of sound during the game, from the trumpet that sounds whenever your units are attacked to the 
 celtic bagpipes played in the starting celtic campaign. The voice acting is also done well but 
 not as good as other similar games.
  
  The value of the game is amazing. This game offers dozens of hours of gameplay in the single-player 
 campaign, the random map feature that creates a randomly generated map to play, various other game 
 types like deathmatch, and great multiplayer action. The single-player campaign feature historical 
 events ranging from the French Joan of Arc campaign to the Genghis Khan campaign. The random map 
 feature is the single best part of the game and where you will spend most of your time.
  
  This game is extremely enjoyable, that provides a good challenge to all RTS gamers, and if you 
 are going to buy an RTS game this year it might as well be this one because the great experience 
 you are getting out of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armor_Key
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 12:41 am PT
Review:  I got this game, when I bought a new computer. First I tough it was just another "not-so-entertaining" 
 game, but I sure was wrong. It's something like Warcraft, accept there are no fantasy creatures, 
 so much magic casting etc. I remember that monks could cast some brainwashing. There are still 
 heroes in this game, and very good amount of them. You also need to collect gold, food, wood for 
 certain things. There are huge amount things you can do, it can be really strategic. Really fun 
 game, I remember editing my own battle area, I didn't get bored for hours. It really was that 
 fun. Even the main campaign can be fun.
  Well, the graphics are ok, for the game that old, also sounds and the music are nicely done, not 
 so much to say about it.
  Pretty good game, better than the Age of Empires 1 and 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyler_is_kool
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 26, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is just soo fun because of the stratagy and stuff and you can make building collect food 
 stones wood its cool!!!
  
  The graphics isnt that good but it doesnt matter its still fun!!!
  
  You make boats castles 
 church farm every thing in the olden days
  you can research lots of stuff you can make a huge army make lots of houses. The game is just soo 
 fun you wouldnt want to stop playing it.
  
  I cant wait to get age of empire 3 it going to be soo kol.
  i dont think you should get age of 
 empire 2 because age of empire 3 is going to be wayyy better!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitecoconut
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  An amazing game for its time. If you haven't tried it, and are a fan of RTS then this would be 
 an excellent choice. 
  
  The graphics aren't as great as other games but for its time its simply a classic. Multiplayer 
 is a lot of fun and the single player campaigns are challenging and worth play as well.
  
  Look forward to countless hours of fun with this game!
  
  P. S Make sure you pick up the expansion 
 Age of Conquerers because it adds to the fun and there is a lot of additions such as automatic 
 rebuilding of farms and other little things that make your game much more enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ParanoidTears
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Is it possible that there is a better RTS? I think not.
  
  The first 2 years of playing can be more fun than those first few hours on that new game you've 
 been waiting months for!
  
  The gameplay is suuuperb.. it never tires.
  
  Graphics are old so aren't great by todays standards but are bloody good enough!
  
  True fans 
 will have bought the collectors edition so they could have the amazing soundtrack on CD!
  
  Most notable however is the online gameplay! It's a whole new game!
  
  If you have a PC and 
 you do not have this game you're stark rvaing mad.. (Although it's possible you just don't like 
 RTS) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  I sttil play AOE is the bottom line that I have to put.. One of the best multiplayer startegic 
 game that I played ever
  
  GOOD: Great startegic play, very stable game, and the gamesplay is awesome. You can spend hours 
 on end creating your army and great nation to defeat your enemies. You hardly get sick of the game. 
 There are so many options in the game you can try out.
  
  BAD: There really is nothing bad to say about the game, compared to AOE 3 the game's graphics are 
 not so good, but still it's the best there is when it some to game play.
  
  Even with AOE 3 out it's still the game preffered by most players, and loved by most LAN and online 
 players. Used to spend hours playing online with my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  Man, I still remember nearly all of the games I played at msn gaming zone playing this game. It 
 was just awsome, all the fighting that I did, some for clan honor (any ex COD members out there 
 who remember?) other times just for plain fun. I used to be really good at this game, but I evolved. 
 Everyone does. But for old times sake, this is a great game to play. The graphics are very nice 
 with more scenic stuff to watch and just admire at the work that Ensemble Studios did to this game. 
 It is set in the middle ages and you select one of the races and try to conquer the known earth 
 at the time. I liked conquest the most. You start out with alot of resources and you just fight 
 until the last man stands. I also liked Regidice mode where each player had a king and you had 
 to kill all the other kings while trying to protect your own. They had great maps on this game, 
 but the very best one was the gold rush. Man, we would all rush to the center where there was alot 
 of gold and you would do everything you could to protect that gold stockpile, because there was 
 no other source of gold avaliable. The Campaign was challenging, and you know what? This game is 
 also very educational as well, so when you are asked why you are playing this game, you can say 
 you are studying for your history exam, because I learned almost all I know about the middle ages 
 from this game. One problem was the farm business again, which they still didnt fix, but they did 
 eventually. And my personal all time favorite thing about the game was the create a map feature, 
 where I would make a ring with the cliffs and I would fill them with various characters and heroes 
 and they would just duke it out. Man I cant even count how many hours I lost of my life doing that, 
 but I had fun. If you havent played this game yet, I highly recommend that you do. You will not 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HugoFromBoss
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This will and all ways will be an all time classic RTS. Combining challenging game play, brilliant 
 sound and brilliant graphics (for its time) as well as a fully fleshed out online mode, Age of 
 Empires II is an Impressive sequel to the original.
  Before this, I had also played on the original 'Ages of Empires' game and some of the expansion 
 packs. This being the first game of its kind, I was completely amazed and stunned by it. 
  Then, when this game finally came out I rushed down to the shops and brought it. I can just remember 
 the excitement that was in me when I was taking off the seal and putting it in the disc drive. 
 I thought I was going to burst. Once I had played on it, I found that it was even better than I 
 had ever imagined, the graphics were simply superb, the game play was excellent and amount of new 
 buildings, units and researches that you could get were simply amazing. 
  You can pick from a list of 13 different civilizations, each with its own unique unit and a team 
 bonus. You start the game in the 'dark age', with a few basic essentials, food, wood, gold, stone, 
 and three villages. With these things you can build a mill, a dock, a house, a farm or a barracks. 
 You collect resources and slowly build up your civilization and advance through the ages to be 
 able to build more advanced buildings such as Castles and Universities. If you have loads of resources, 
 and enough people, you can even construct yourself a Wonder. You then start to create your army 
 and once you have enough units, you can launch an attack on a rival civilization. The team, who 
 conquers all the other civilization and gains world domination, wins the game. 
  You don't have to go it alone though. Early on in the game you can offer money and resources in 
 return for friendship and therefore you can become allies with another civilization. This can be 
 a useful tactic because not only can you trade but you can also ask to borrow resources when you 
 are a bit low, and if you get stuck in battle, you can just give your allies a shout and they can 
 come and reuse you. 
  As you can see, 'Age of Empires' is an absolute class strategy game which really cannot be beaten. 
 If you like this one then I recommend getting a few of the expansion packs, of which there are 
 quite a few now. It would also be nice for Microsoft to bring out an 'Age Of Empires 3' and take 
 the whole thing one step further and really stun us all. If you want a good strategy game then 
 this is a must-have and believe me, by the time you come off it you will wonder where all the time 
 has gone too. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: garen01
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  there is no other game in the market where you realy feel like you are conquering the world. resource 
 management and technology advancements are very realistic, but not confusing like civilisation 
 where you have a billion too many choices. the most exciting thing about this game is that you 
 get to take charge of real armies and fight real historical battles. the between story movies are 
 fantastic adding a true historic feeling to the game that will have you stuck on the screen for 
 hours. i cant see any faults in this game and wouldnt replace it for any new game in the real time 
 strategy genre of games on any console. and i dont think there are alot of people who would disagree 
 with me. just buy one, wait till midnight, pop it in your pc, put on your headphones and get ready 
 for some sleepless nights!!! ENJOY!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russian8
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  age of empires has always impressed me in it's creative and artistic qualities it brings to the 
 gaming world and still conquers to be the best strategy game series of all time.
  
  the graphics are great for an early released strategy game that continues to impress the gaming 
 world to date as it mixes artistic styles with contemperary images.
  
  the gameplay is good for it's game type and it still manages to throw new possible controls at 
 any chance it gets.
  
  the sound is good and is at a decent relistic quality. the music in the game is put in the game 
 well and is a good tone maker.
  
  the game is just plain fun also when you get to build any scenarios possible and it becomes very 
 addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onikage123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  This was a classic strat when it 1st hit PC's and if u play it you'll see why.
  Brilliantly fun gameplay coupled with exellent maps and variety in forces prooves to be a winning 
 combo and with fair campaigns etc. what could go wrong? The gameplay is standard strat fair with 
 u building up a base, researching technology and foraging different types of supplies by fishing, gold 
 mining etc. But its so well presented and done in AOE that honestly it feels like a whole new game. 
 The map maker is exellent, the campaigns are exellent but to be honest the funnest things is just 
 doing random map. Its so fun that it'll take a whole lotta time to get boring.
  The graphics are actually pretty gd and have aged fine. They're not comparable to say WC3 but they 
 get the job done.
  The music is fine but a bit strange. You'll see what i mean but as i always say it fits the mood.
 
  Overall a great Strat and for a budget price with the expansions its a worthwhile purchase. Happy 
 maiming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix-Suns
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  This game is a fun and enjoyable game, while also teaching you about some history about the world. 
 In fact, my private teacher introduced to me this game! LOL. Although she said the fighting part 
 was bad, she said this is a very good learning game. This game is easy to learn and has a variety 
 of events. It is kind of hard in the beginning when you have to start from scratch. However, after 
 building your army to defend your country, and setting up your base, and getting enough resourse 
 to feed your people, it will get quite fun. This game is good, because you don't have infinite 
 supplies. You'll have to think about how much resources are you spending on each event. For players 
 who like to kill!!! Set up YOUR STRONG ARMY and enjoy kicking other players or computer's ass. 
 Also, beating all your rivals is not the only way of winning! Creating special builidings also 
 can earn you a automatically victory. For people who love war, the variety of army choice will 
 feed your appetite. Despite the fact of all the good stuff, the only thing bad about this game 
 is the minimum choice of civilization. But overall, I will encourage you to buy this game!
  
  : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires is amazing. There is no question. The amount of options and landscape differences 
 in this game is incredible. The graphics are good, the gameplay was excellent and the sound was 
 excellent. The lifespan was never ending so what was possibly wrong with this game. Nothing, If 
 you buy this game then you cannot go wrong. You can play this game for hours and hours. This is 
 one of the games that you could do a gaming streak of long hours on. Multiplayer is fantastic and 
 personally I cannot see really any major fault in this game. A true masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: excaliburblade
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 8, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 2: The Age of Kings brings the AoE series into the middle ages. Improvements in 
 the visuals as well as the stunning Campaign stories truly make this game amazing. AoK brings a 
 new look into medieval seige warfare. The old Iron Age strategy of massing foot soldiers and flooding 
 your enemy with wave and wave of troops is over. The cause of this change is of course gunpowder. 
 Yet, the Imperial Age, welcome to trade with China and the use of black powder from fireworks to 
 warfare. Thus ending the reign of the mounted knights. The cannoneer, so long long bowmen, this 
 unit can be trained in 3 months were a long bowmen takes 7 years of intense training. Hm...
  Needless to say AoK is a great improvement in this series installment. City battle seiges seem 
 to be more about the actual seige weapons and calvary counter attacks than actual foot soldier 
 seiges. This provides more realism, but takes way from the fun of massing foot soldiers and sending 
 them to the slaughter. I'd recommend this game to any age of empires fan or strategy game fanatic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gladiatorji
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 3:40 am PT
Review:  Old age gaming, with the brand of Microsoft, the empire will never end.
  Nothing flash in the game, it only take two weeks to get boiled.
  The difference between countries 
 is obvious, however the balance is not that good. Only you feel getting something may be the history. 
 Stil the branch of technologies are spendid.
  From the point of view of RTS, this game include most of the specification. The graphic is good 
 enough with not too high hardware requirement.
  So try it, don't like it, throw away. 
  The map generator can extend some time of playing this game, if you want to try some 'die hard' 
 sence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cid8807
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  The game's single-player campaign consists of following the exploits of five of history's greatest 
 generals -- including Joan of Arc, Saladin, and Richard the Lionhearted -- through several of the crucial 
 battles of their careers. Naturally, the five missions available for each in the game don't approach 
 historical accuracy. What they do do, however, is provide an excellent feel for the strategic challenges 
 faced by these leaders and gives a "History Channel" overview of the story of their lives (See? 
 Video game can be good for you) . More importantly, each of the missions in the campaign is well 
 designed and provides a variety of fun strategic challenges. These range from the need to take 
 down three English castles during the Siege of Orleans to Yohitsune's fight with his rebellious 
 cousins at the Battle of the River Crossings. The in-campaign story breaks and dialogue are very 
 well done and help give a genuine sense of historical import to what might otherwise seem like 
 isolated skirmishes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings is Microsoft's sequel to its popular real-time strategy PC 
 game. With AOE II, Microsoft has again proven it's a monopolistic powerhouse. 
  
  In Age of Empires I, users created powerful civilizations from the ancient world. AOE II covers 
 the medieval period. You will learn and employ Middle Age skills, units, and tactics as you try 
 to become the supreme conqueror of your tiny digital world. 
  
  The objective of Age of Empires is to create a civilization and use it dominate. You start off 
 with a small town center and a handful of laborers. The laborers will gather important natural 
 resources (food, lumber, stone, and gold) and use those resources to create more units and facilities. 
 
  
  The real fun behind it all is combat. Combat units will first serve to defend your small community 
 from wild animals more than rival armies. But as time wears on and your community grows (as does 
 your competition's) , your unites will serve more offensive duties. 
  
  The first combat units you start with are militiamen. Move up in epochs and your unit selection 
 will grow with the new facilities that can be created. You will be able to boast a collection of 
 archers, horsemen, warships, armored infantry, and catapults. Your causes for war will be like 
 those in the real world: over territory, natural resources, or for the pleasure of devastation. 
 
  
  The AOE II experience covers four time periods with thirteen peoples to select from. Each race 
 has its own distinct unit or units. Civilization appearance and architecture is not as varied. 
 The differences are regional. But it is nice to see some variety and distinction. 
  
  There are various modes of play. Most gamers will choose to partake in random maps for the quick 
 play and arena-style combat. You will find a nice selection of stages and game types to play in. 
 The choices vary from regicide to erecting a wonder for a set time. All random modes are available 
 online through LAN or over the Web. 
  
  The creators have included a campaign mode that has you taking part in major medieval historic 
 events such as William Wallace's fight against Edward I or the Third Crusade. There is even a wealth 
 a easy-to-read historical information about the people, places, technology, and events of the Middle 
 Ages. 
  
  Microsoft has managed to reproduce and exceed the values and quality of the first Age of Empires -- no 
 small feat. RTS lovers would be doing themselves an injustice to pass this title up.
  Reader's Ratings for Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings (PC) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  The game is great with its powerfull graphics and the the biuldings its like you can make a powerfull 
 empire the units to are awesome and the sound oh fat mama there great i mean this game is then 
 one of my best rated game its beaten matel arms. This true rts is sure to be ensemble happiest and 
 best games ever yet and its better than Aoe3 Aoe2 is better to the new series i mean its the best 
 of the Age of... series i mean who can beat this rts game
  
  The graphics are trully awesome that the buildings look totaly real i mean how great can it be 
 the way they make the model of the wonder its so real i mean you just can beat the middle ages 
 since the best part is preparing your trrops to heavy battle well i mostly always build my barracks 
 in the middle of the battle so they wont have to travel far i mean when they are fully train and 
 ready to come out the next thing you know they be fighting their rivals in a few seconds.
  
  The sounds are great i mean they come out int the right time the right place and the right 
 person since Aoe1 sounds isnt really good but Aoe1 graphics are awesome since which rts can beat 
 the Ao.... series i mean ensemble really has true passion of making games since i just hope they 
 continue their next project because i dont seem to see any new projects from them??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holyman2
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  this game is fun and all but, the game could of been a lot better. Now i know that the people who 
 made the game made it with fewer stuff be cause of the exspantion pack. But i still think that 
 they could of made it a bight funner because: You can only be a few empires but really and the 
 campaion could of been funner but overall i think it is a good game if you have a lot of time on 
 your hands to do stuff but if your like me and have a Older/Younger brother who loves the computer 
 and lets you only have like 1 hour on the computer i would not say "get this game" i would say 
 "get a game that is easyer". Why you may ask because, you have to beat all partys on the field 
 to win right well duh but that can take a while because if you are on normal up then they advance 
 at there own paste which is usaly faster then me, but still if your like me and raise a army fast 
 and kill them while there in the fedal/dark age then it will take 15 min. top. 
  
  Now the game takes a while to learn because of all the moving and good stuff and bad stuff and 
 i have had the game for 3 years and still dont know what stuff means it took me 6 days to figur 
 it out so only if you have a lot of time get this
  
  Thank you for reading this
  ~Holyman2 
  ~My rating for Age of Empires 2 The Age of Kings: 5.4 mediocre
  
  Read more of 
 my reviews and learn more about them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supadan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect for wars, fight, and surviving. Although it is a very old game and the graphics 
 aren't top notch, personally this is one of the greatest PC games ever... The controls are simple, 
 you only have to use the mouse! You go round on huge maps, making a life, and battling against 
 the enemy - which you could have loads of, on lots of different maps, with many different typesof 
 armies, who specialise in there own way. I would advise and good PC gamer to get this game, it 
 is very cheap, VERY addicting and you are on it for hours. It has won the game of the year award 
 one year, and i am not surprised... it is fantastic and i still play it now, the people who came 
 up with this game are genious' and i thank them all... GET IT NOW, YOU WONT REGRET IT... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Ahh the dog days of 1999... Everquest, Quake 3, Unreal Tournament, Heroes 3 and Age of Empires 
 2.
  
  In the minds of the many LAN party addicts and MS Zone gamers AoE 2 did more for the genre than 
 any one game, even Starcraft. And, why not? AoE 2 invented balanced sides, unique units, paper-rock-scissors, 
 mind-blowing online play and had beautiful graphics to boot.
  
  Sure, it crawled on a P166, the "minimum" requirement and it was probably the last main stream 
 game to work on 3 year old PCs but, what the hell? It was fun and it will forever remain in the 
 minds of gamers as one of the greatest games ever made.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  Well, it wasn't Homeworld, but it wasn't bad either. The graphics featured in AoE 2 put many of 
 my friends on the grill back in the day: "Will this work on my P200 with 24 MB RAM", "How about 
 my 686 166Mhz? etc. Well, I don't know how it worked on their PCs but it didn't start on the 486 
 I had at that time... yeah, I was really sad.
  
  But, on to the facts.
  
  For a game released in 1999 the resolution in AoE 2 was downright amazing. A whooping 1280x1024 
 pixels could fit on screen at the same time along with the simply, yet beautifully animated buildings 
 and backgrounds.
  
  The detail featured in AoE2 was never seen before in an RTS game. Buildings looked superb, they 
 were animated well and they grew from the dark ages to the Imperial ages in both grandeur and architecture. 
 The plethora of building models and the surrounding animations (birds flying, villagers working, 
 horses grazing) all made for a true feel of "I'm actually living in this medieval village!
  
  Units were superbly animated and drawn, with unique styles and great detail paid to everything 
 from the galloping of the horses, to the death of the archers and the destruction of the trebuchets.
 
  
  There were problems however. Explosions were poor... very poor for this time period. Starcraft, 
 one year earlier, had much better explosions. Furthermore, the poor 2D graphics of AoK didn't even 
 TOUCH the majesty of the pseudo-3D graphics of Tiberian Sun or the glory of Homeworld.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  What AoE 2 lost in the graphics department, it made up in the sound department. 
 To this day I don't think there is a better sounding RTS than AoE 2. This game is like an orgasm 
 for the ear.
  
  Amazing music accompanied by awesome, clear, and concise sound effects and UNIQUE languages for 
 each faction in the game. Add to all of that some great voice actors for the campaign intros and 
 you got a whole cake with frosting, and a cherry on top.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Microsoft and Ensemble scored big points with the fans because of this category: Gameplay in AoE 
 2 is hard to put in words... not because it's needlessly complicated, but because it's amazingly 
 good.
  
  Looking at the game mechanics in AoE 2 might make you wonder what's so great about this game, because, 
 honestly, this all seems pretty logical for most "Age" games today. In 1999, it was not.
  
  AoE 2 featured the same 4 resources as it's forbearer: food, wood, stone and gold. Resource gathering 
 was still a huge part of the genre back then and AoE 2 follows by the book as far as this goes. 
 You could assign as many villagers to one resource as you pleased, farms ran out and so did the 
 rest of the resources. Of course there were different gathering sites for each type of resource. 
 Not surprisingly the first 3 ages in AoK are mostly a run for the gold/stone and the last age is 
 all out war. Obviously this doesn't stand the test of time too well. Its just way too annoying 
 to go running for resources, and, most of the time, not even getting to use all of them.
  
  Never-the less, resources were important... and no resource was more important than stone. AoE 
 2 is still the leader in fortress building. No game after it or before it does castle building 
 so well. Wall building and castles were of utmost importance in AoE 2. Not only did castles build 
 your special unit but they built the most important piece of artillery in AoE 2: Trebuchets. Along 
 with cannons (which are made practically useless since they appear only very, very late in the 
 game) trebuchets are the only sure fire way to destroy walls, and if you can't destroy walls in 
 AoE 2, youre dead.
  
  Castles also provided defense, but after a few years of practice online, they became more of a 
 "last-ditch-effort" than real defense. Never-the less AoE 2 was among the first, if not THE first 
 game to provide this kind of balance between defense and attack.
  
  Speaking about attacking, AoK brought 2 amazing additions to the genre: unique units and the paper-rock-scissors 
 (PRS) system.
  
  Unique units are pretty self-explanatory. Imbalances abounded among these units and the nations 
 that possessed them (Teutonic Knights ruled the battlefield for months before a patch was cooked 
 up) but, just like in any other game, people found ways to get passed them. Fair to say though, 
 that some unique units were totally useless. The French and Mongolian units were especially bad. 
 Low on HP/Attack and defenses these atrocious archers were easily defeated by much cheaper, much 
 better, archers that were common to all nations.
  
  The PRS system, however, was by far the best thing AoK brought to the genre. A perfectly and ingeniously 
 thought out system of prey/predator, it finally whipped out the practice of the 50-unit-of-the-same-type-rush 
 and it dawned a new era of progress on the RTS community. For those of you who don't know, the 
 PRS system is a unit-balancing mechanism. Using PRS every unit is strong against one unit and weak 
 against another. For example: Knights kill archers, archers kill swordsman, pikemen kill knights, 
 and swordsmen kill pikemen. A 360-degree circle in which each unit is represented.
  
  This system was extremely successful in AoK. It was really balanced to perfection. While in games 
 like EE, even with this system, the unit imbalances are absurd AoE 2 PERFECTLY orchestrated HP 
 with attack and with the PRS system to make no unit a 50-rusher. Finally, the PRS system encouraged 
 spying and exploration. If someone was stupid enough to mass hundreds of Paladins it would be nice 
 if you could use a mass of much cheaper Halberdiers to take them out.
  
  Among other additions were domestic animals, a well-made system of waypoints and rally points, 
 accessible interface, formations, idle citizen button, friend/foe colors, team locking, enhanced 
 diplomacy, tradable resources, trade between nations and other such minor additions that helped 
 enhance the game.
  
  AoK also featured an expansive tech tree. Both military technologies and non-military technologies 
 were well represented in this tech tree. You could upgrade your tools, your farms, your villagers, 
 etc. You could also upgrade you Men-at-War, Pikemen, etc.
  
  AoE 2 didn't lack units... no, it had a TON of units. In fact, to this day I haven't built every 
 unit available in AoK. The upgrade tree for units is huge. A whole new gunpowder age opens up after 
 you finish with most research in the Imperial age. Units rage from horsemen, to camels, to elephants, 
 to all kinds of artillery, to musketeers, and pikemen, and horse archers, and everything that goes 
 through your mind. Units are well spread throughout the ages and make for interesting combat whenever 
 youre ready to attack.
  
  What makes AoK great though, is not each individual game mechanic, it's how they're put together. 
 With a plethora of maps and an even bigger selection of strategies, battles in AoK are spectacular. 
 AoK is the first game to truly emphasize strategy and well built tactics. It's easily the most 
 strategic game released in 1999 and it's just absolutely a blast to maneuver armies, ambush groups 
 from hills or from behind the woods, send your early scout to kill a few villagers, or any other 
 crazy or conventional tactic invented through the years. It all ties together like an awesome orchestra.
 
  
  Minor problems drag this game down... which is a shame. Things like no auto-rebuild for farms, 
 and the resource run can get really annoying and bog you down with too much attention on the economy 
 and little attention to the war in the early stages of the game. Minor national imbalances also 
 drag the score down a bit.
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  
  The first was a great game, but the second is an AMAZING multiplayer game. The same amazing games 
 on small maps, everyone dashing for resources and fighting small wars are enormously augmented 
 in fun factor with AoK's balancing.
  
  Throw in lagless multiplayer through Zone and a group of players that goes above 2000 people, even 
 at this time, online and you have one of the best multiplayer games ever made.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  If you need proof of the greatness and popularity of AoE 2: AoK you need not 
 look further than google. Typing in: "AoE 2 Strategies" will result in so many results you'll be 
 stunned. People made a strategy on how to have you soldiers piss, in what order to build houses, 
 or how you can use psychological warfare on your opponent. Yeah AoE 2 is that great.
  
  Go out now and get the Gold Edition to also receive one of the greatest expansion packs ever made, 
 and enjoy hours of fun and discovery. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 27, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  It would be incorrect, but not entirely unreasonable, to claim that Age of Empires II: The Age 
 of Kings and its isometric 2D playing field seem just like every other first-generation real-time 
 strategy game ever made. Take away the historical context depicting a millennium of military progress 
 since the Dark Ages, and you'd have a game in which you'd stockpile resources, grow your population, 
 and augment your technology, all to amass an army with which to defeat your enemies as quickly 
 as possible. But even as this model has remained historically relevant for as long as history has 
 been documented, so too is it not liable to stop being the premise for computer games anytime soon. 
 And if Age of Kings is any indication of how such real-time strategy games will continue to improve, 
 then we couldn't be more fortunate.
  
  Although Age of Kings runs at higher resolutions and looks cleaner and sharper than many of its 
 similar predecessors, you'll find that there's nothing foreign about its appearance. Villagers, 
 buildings, trees, the black fog of war, and everything else on the map will be immediately recognizable 
 if you've played a real-time strategy game before. But even if you've played them all, you'll note 
 several differences in Age of Kings' presentation that make it stand out against comparable games. 
 For instance, all the buildings and units in Age of Kings are shown more or less to scale - town 
 halls and castles nearly fill the screen and loom high above your people. There are four different 
 styles of architecture in the game - Eastern, Middle Eastern, and Eastern and Western European 
 - and although they appear identical in the Dark Ages, by the Imperial Age all four look entirely 
 different and authentically beautiful. Unlike the architecture, your villagers and military units 
 look the same no matter what civilization you choose. Fortunately, almost every one of them looks 
 good, and there are plenty to choose from, such as swordsmen and archers on up to mounted knights 
 and terrific war machines.
  
  Age of Kings can look a little bland and washed out before you fill the screen with buildings and 
 military units, but this same sparseness makes its interface clean and effective. The clearly depicted 
 controls at the bottom of the screen and the familiar mouse functionality make this game very easy 
 to pick up and play. Best of all are the descriptive floating help messages that thoroughly describe 
 every unit and technology available, which you can toggle off once you begin to remember them. 
 Your units move quickly and easily from point to point, and selecting a mixed group will automatically 
 assign them to a logical formation, with tougher units in front and more vulnerable units in pursuit. 
 Grouped units will also travel at the rate of the slowest member of the brigade, a feature that 
 ultimately lets you coordinate attacks far more effectively than in most any other real-time strategy 
 game. And as your soldiers fight and win, they quickly seek out the closest and most appropriate 
 target, thus eliminating any tedious micromanagement and affording you the time to oversee something 
 more complicated and tactically viable than a head-on assault. With floating help turned on and 
 all your little units running around at once, Age of Kings can start to look a little cluttered. 
 But it also looks its best at times like this, when the screen is so full of buildings and people 
 you can begin to imagine how their historical equivalents once prospered.
  
  Even so, you'd think with only four styles of architecture and one generic set of units, the 13 
 civilizations in Age of Kings would seem identical. And while some of them seem similar, it's to 
 the designers' great credit that most of the civilizations manage to feel very different from one 
 another in spite of any visual likeness. For one thing, each civilization's units speak in their 
 native language, and while they don't say too many different things, it's great to listen to them 
 anyway. Each civilization also has its own unique unit that emphasizes or augments that civilization's 
 strengths, and this also helps distinguish each one from the other 12. Every civilization also 
 has its unique advantages that refer to the historical culture's strengths. For instance, to emphasize 
 the Byzantines' defensive power, their units for countering infantry, archers, and cavalry are 
 cheaper to produce; and to suggest the Turks' scientific achievements, they can research gunpowder 
 technologies at a lower cost than any other civilization. Such cultural distinctions are often 
 subtle but become more noticeable later in the game, when the skillful player who takes greater 
 advantage of his culture's offensive or defensive inclinations will soon find himself in the lead.
 
  
  Then again, to build up your civilization to its strongest potential is by no means a simple feat, 
 despite whatever luxuries the game's elegant interface provides. The original Age of Empires was 
 criticized for combining the pretensions of a complicated turn-based strategy game like Civilization 
 with real-time gameplay mechanics that were borrowed from Warcraft II. But Age of Kings makes good 
 on the original's promises by providing a huge, branching technology tree and a correspondingly 
 profound depth of gameplay that rivals virtually all similarly themed turn-based games. You must 
 constantly reevaluate your priorities when gathering the game's four resources, since those priorities 
 change as new technologies become available; and you must constantly make key tactical decisions 
 based on the order in which you research particular technologies. You need to keep moving forward 
 without spreading yourself too thin, although you're afforded some breathing time to get started 
 early on since you can garrison your villagers within your town hall to defend against a preemptive 
 attack. And yet throughout the game, Age of Kings' pacing is so fast and so exciting as to rival 
 Blizzard's real-time strategy hits. Consequently, under no circumstances should you be prepared 
 to win a war in Age of Kings without a fast hand on the mouse. But similarly, you're not going 
 to win unless you think.
  
  Even Blizzard's Starcraft confines you to a basic set of strategies, whose subtle variations separate 
 the experts from the rest. However, in Age of Kings, your options tend to be more flexible. If 
 your opponent is too focused on particular tactics, you can easily allocate your resources into 
 countering whatever it is he's sending your way. Swarms of infantry can be stopped cold by a simple 
 wall; a contingent of archers may kill a line of cavalry but would be hard pressed to damage even 
 a single war machine. Swordsmen can deal with pikemen easily, but the pikemen's reach make them 
 much more effective against units on horseback. At one time, games aspired to such principles with 
 the rock-scissors-paper game as a model. But Age of Kings has so many variants on this theme that 
 to even suggest a similarity between Ensemble's sequel and the old betting game would be to grossly 
 undermine Age of Kings' intricacy. It doesn't take long to realize that Age of Kings is complicated, 
 but your appreciation for its detail will only grow with time as you begin to understand that, 
 unlike in most real-time strategy games, you really do have several distinctly different but equally 
 viable routes toward victory.
  
  There are also several different ways to play the game. You can use the random map generator to 
 quickly create a custom-tailored, finely crafted map for up to eight players, or build your own 
 map from scratch. You'll find a consistent challenge in taking on one or several computer opponents 
 set to the default difficulty or above, although you'll soon learn of the computer's propensity 
 to use guerilla tactics and fall prey to particular tricks. You can start with a ton of resources 
 and just have at it in the deathmatch mode; you can set out to kill the enemy king in a regicide 
 match; and you can play one of Age of Kings' five historical campaigns. These campaigns focus on 
 such legendary leaders as Joan of Arc, Frederick Barbarossa, and Genghis Khan in a series of linked 
 missions interjected with voice-over narration describing these figures' tribulations and victories. 
 All five of these, including the William Wallace tutorial campaign, are fairly short and only begin 
 to approach the sense of style and cohesion pioneered by Blizzard's real-time strategy campaigns.
 
  
  But you'll enjoy playing a part in these characters' historical accomplishments anyway, even if 
 the narrators' accents are a little heavy and the artwork depicting the outcome of each mission 
 looks rushed. At any rate, unlike in Starcraft, the campaigns seem more peripheral in Age of Kings, 
 because its historical context and 13 civilizations will keep you interested with or without a 
 plot to back it all up. Of course, you can also play Age of Kings over the Internet, although Microsoft's 
 Internet Gaming Zone can't compare to Blizzard's refined Battle. net.
  
  No matter how you play it, chances are good that you'll enjoy Age of Kings if not for its careful 
 historical detail then because its context never takes precedence over the game's playability. 
 And if you've ever liked any other real-time strategy game in this classical style, then you'll 
 clearly see why this one deserves so much credit, even in direct comparison to the finest examples 
 in its category.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DriftRS
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires does not have the epic story lines of some other RTS's such as Warcraft 3, mainly 
 because all the campaigns are based of real histroy, however it does have a very nice tech tree, 
 and the pacing is superb.
  
  The graphics are all pre-rendered, and thus it uses a 2D isometric view which cannot be changed. 
 However this view does make it very easy to see all your units, which is important when you have 
 huge forces just before attempting to destroy the opositions castle (or whatever else you feel 
 like destroying) . When a unit goes behind a building, they will appear through it as a coloured 
 outline. It all works very well and I have no real complaints.
  
  The sound is nothing spactacular, although the little speaches explaining whats going on before 
 every campaign are nice. Nothing to write home about, but no problems either.
  
  However it's the gameplay where AOE2 really excels, if your after an RTS which puts stratergy above 
 all else, AOE2 is the game your looking for. It may not include the hero's and RPG style elements 
 that can be found in other RTS's, but in sacraficing those elments, it creates a very balanced 
 stratergy system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilan94
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  When you first play Age of Empires 2 The Age of Kings, you know that you can't stop. The sound 
 and game play are excellent and you can't stop playing. However it may be good it does need help 
 on some of its cheats. For one, natural wonders, I can't seem to turn back to my old team and I 
 am stuck as an animal. The map editor needs help also, I could never understand it. It should be 
 better for Age of Empires 3. For all people who want to try age of empires 2 The Councers Expansion 
 I would have to say that you would have to buy the age of kings first. I bough the couners Expansion 
 first and then a message appeared saying that I need the age of kings. So I got the age of kings. 
 Its a good game. Age of Kings should have more maps, more map types and more civilization. 
  
  It could be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia217
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires II is the best PC game ever played. You command an army o soldiers to conquer other 
 lands for resources. You are in charge of everything! AOE has great graphics and the gameplay is 
 even better, it. The stories are based on the real historic events that happened. You can command 
 legendary people like Joan of Arc or Genghis Khan! The music here is very cultural form different 
 places, and it matches the events too which is cool! Age of Empires is a game that if you are thinking 
 on buying it, you should! You won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltfan469
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 18, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  
  -Great great great multiplayer on Gameranger
  -Scenerios are incredible
  -Entertaining for all ages and all skill levels
  -Many games were originally based on this game 
 style
  -Random map is a revolutionary addition to the gaming scene
  -Fighting techniques and building techniques are endless
  
  Bad:
  
  -SOMETIMES become boring 
 and overdrawn throughout some of the scenerio missions
  
  Bottom Line:
  
  -What makes a game perfect to some people is different then what makes a game perfect to me
  
 -A good 80 hours of my life has been spent on this game and I regret only a little bit of that 
 time
  -Random map techniques will go down in history as an amazing feature 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djmsoccer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  this game is great. i've played all previous versions of A. o. E., and thus far, i like this the 
 best. my favorite factor is that not can you only be more than one civilization, but that each 
 civilization has different versions of inventions. some have better siege weapons, and some have 
 better military units than others. all in all, this is definitely worth buying, and i think that 
 it's a classic. This game features new military controls, as well as controls for keeping all of 
 your villagers working, and your militias busy. I really suggest this game to anyone who just wants 
 a fun game to play on their computer that's not filled with vulgarities and excessive violence. 
 Age of Empires: The Age of Kings is a wonderful game, and i highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teddy22
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 18, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! There is so much you can do with it. You can go through the campaign levels 
 which offer you challenging tasks to complete from large battles to defending your city. The design 
 your own level is tons of fun and allows you to play developer. It takes relatively no time to 
 get the hang of the basics in map making. The advance functions take some getting used to but are 
 a ton of fun to add into your maps once you get it all down. The online feature is fun if you can 
 find someone to play with. The graphics are great for the time this game was made and the sounds 
 are very realistic and but you in the battle. The game play is explained very well in the first 
 level and you develop your own style and strategies quickly. Because of all the different modes 
 this game has you never run out of things to do. It is a great game that I recommend for any person. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementmaster92
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Well this game is a good kick @ss game. Liked the graphics, liked the gameplay, liked everything. 
 I always use the vikings since they are always a bunch of savage people. Liked the full tech tree 
 option (I use that otion always when I play the game, it gives me an big advantage against the other 
 civilizations) . Well I liked basically everything of that game once you play it you cant stop playing 
 the game. It rulze the entire AOE series! Man if you are a fan and dont buy this game well you 
 just are a pathetic loser and wanabee. So play it or die trying (realy im not kidding) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_miroku
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Ultimate strategy game; amazing historical plots, game-play, and soldier variety. Only slight lag 
 under massive overuse. Since a child I've adored this game. Run through campaigns as heroes of 
 the past, such as Joan of Arc and Genghis Khan, and lead great armies against opposing foes. Build 
 up your empire and rise above those around you through allied combat or total annihilation. Buildings 
 and units can be made through the surrounding resources, such as stone, gold, meat and wood. The 
 ability to create your own maps and scenarios is also a plus. I strongly recommend this for RPG 
 and strategy fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 22111993
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Overview
  The player controls the fortunes of a medieval nation from the Dark Ages up to the beginnings of 
 the Renaissance. As in most RTS games, the player directly controls villagers who can be sent to 
 gather resources or build various buildings, which can in turn be used to develop advanced technologies 
 and train military units. The usual objective of the game is to defeat competing nations on the 
 battlefield, but other victory conditions exist. The game's combat system features an elaborate 
 Rock, Paper, Scissors system of counterunits and balances which ensures that no single unit can 
 be massed to win a battle. In single player mode, players can either fight a quick battle against 
 computer opponents or follow the life of historical personalities through a series of campaigns 
 of rising difficulty, interspersed with cutscenes. In multiplayer mode, up to eight players compete 
 with their nations for world dominance. The most popular site to play The Conquerors online is 
 www. zone. com
  
  Civilizations
  
  Age of Kings screenshotIn the original game, the player could choose from 13 civilizations, each 
 having some distinct advantages and disadvantages in line with the historical civilizations they 
 were modeled after. Each civilization has a very distinct personality that is enhanced by a region-specific 
 building set, unique units like longboats and berserks for the Vikings, and more-or-less historically 
 correct language for the civilizations' units. The game's civilizations include:
  
  Britons 
  Byzantines 
  Celts 
  Chinese 
  Franks 
  Goths 
  Japanese 
  Mongols 
  
 Persians 
  Saracens 
  Teutons 
  Turks 
  Vikings 
  The Conquerors expansion adds 5 more civilizations to the game, including 2 Meso-American civilizations. 
 One more civilization is added to each building set except the Middle East civilizations so that 
 the 4 sets have equal number of civilizations in them. The Meso-Americans, however, have only 2 
 civilizations.
  
  Spanish 
  Koreans 
  Huns 
  Aztecs 
  Mayans 
  The game features several campaigns where the player can follow the life of an historical personality. 
 Campaigns consist of a series of several scenarios that are linked by cutscenes; each scenario 
 might depict a famous battle, the building of a famous monument, or some well-known anecdote from 
 the personality's life. However, only the Joan of Arc campaign allows you to control the character 
 herself. The player gets a glimpse of Ghengis Khan in his campaign, and William Wallace is a powerful 
 unit in the final mission of his campaign. The original game's campaigns included:
  
  William Wallace (tutorial campaign) 
  Joan of Arc 
  Saladin 
  Genghis Khan 
  Barbarossa 
 
  The Conqueror's Expansion adds 4 more campaigns to the game featuring the new civilizations that 
 are included in Expansion. In the Attila the Hun and El Cid campaigns, the player actually gets 
 to control the said character. In the Montezuma campaign, the player is Cuatemhoc, a great soldier 
 in the Aztec Empire and future emperor. The final campaign takes various battles in history to 
 create complex scenarios, such as the spectacular naval battle at Noryang Point between the Koreans 
 and Japanese, the Battle of Tours fought by the Franks and Moors, and the Battle of Agincourt, 
 in which the player must control Henry V's army through a heavily fortified Northern France.
  
  Attila the Hun 
  El Cid 
  Montezuma 
  Battles of the Conquerors 
  
  Cheat Codes
 
  To execute a cheat, press Enter and type the cheat into the chat box that appears, then press 
 Enter again to enter the cheat. Some cheats can be toggled on/off by typing them again, e. g. 'Marco' 
 and 'Polo'
  
  How do you turn this on: Creates a very strong unit, the "Cobra Car". 
  I love the monkey head: Creates a very fast moving villager (VDML) that doesn't do anything. Good 
 for scouting, and can fire arrows just like regular villagers if garrisoned in buildings. 
  To smithereens: Gives you a Saboteur unit, a much stronger version of the Petard (A unit included 
 in the Conquerors expansion pack) . 
  Natural wonders: Allows you to become Player 0, essentially controlling all the wild animals. 
 
  Aegis: Eliminates all training, building and researching time. This means that all units are instantly 
 trained, all buildings instantly constructed and all technologies are instantly researched. 
  Robin Hood: Gives you 1000 gold. 
  Lumberjack: Gives you 1000 wood. 
  Rock on: Gives you 1000 
 stone. 
  Cheese steak Jimmy's: Gives you 1000 food. 
  I R winner: Wins instantly. 
  Wimpywimpywimpy: Loses instantly. 
  Resign: Resigns, resulting in instant defeat. 
  Black death: 
 Kills all enemy units and buildings, resulting in an instant win. 
  Marco: Reveals map. 
  Polo: Removes the "Fog of War". 
  Torpedo#: Kills a player. For example, typing Torpedo2 will 
 instantly kill all units and buildings of Player 2. 
  When Aegis, Robin Hood, Lumberjack, Rock on and Cheese steak Jimmy's are used, they aid all of 
 the players in the game, not just the one who entered the code. All codes are entered without capital 
 letters. If Torpedo# is used and the number is greater than the number of players, the game crashes
 
  
  One of the key ideas in Age of Kings was to give each civilization one or two unique units that 
 can be made only by that particular civ. They are usually created at the Castle, (see above) but 
 the Longboat, Turtle Ship and Missionary are made elsewhere.
  
  Britons: Longbowman: An archer with longer range and attack than a regular archer. It is a translation 
 of the historic Welsh longbowman, utilized heavily in the Hundred Year's War. 
  Franks: Throwing Axeman: An infantry unit that throws an axe at a small range. Their attack depends 
 on the enemy normal armor, not the pierce armor. The Throwing Axeman is based off acounts of Frankish 
 foot soldiers throwing their axes in battle. 
  Goths: Huskarl: This infantry unit is highly resistant to arrows and gets high attack bonuses against 
 archers. This unit is apt for the Goths, because they were known as raiders, able to blow down 
 enemy fortifications. They are based on the proffessional fighters that many Germanic tribes kept 
 on retinue. 
  Teutons: Teutonic Knight: A slow, but powerful infantry unit. Its armor resists most attacks, and 
 it has high HP and attack power. Its only weakness is its slow movement speed. They are based on 
 the warrior monk order who went to the Holy Land and, later, Eastern Europe. 
  Celts: Woad Raider: Very fast infantry. Woad Raiders can defeat the most vital units in an enemy 
 army, siege weapons, monks, and archers, and run away quickly before slower units can fight back. 
 
  Vikings: Longboat and Berserker: The longboat is a naval unit that fires multiple arrows in a shotgun 
 effect. The berserk is an infantry unit that slowly regenerates health. Both are based on Viking 
 units. The Longship is a small, strong ship similar to actual longboats. Berserks are based on 
 accounts of Viking Warriors going berserk in battle, with a vicious lust. 
  Byzantines: Cataphract: A cavalry unit that can easily defeat masses of enemy infantry. The Cataphract 
 is based on real Cataphracts used since Ancient times. They represent the fact that the Byzantines 
 continued to utilize old and powerful military tactics against their less organized enemies, such 
 as the Goths. Outnumbered Byzantine soldiers were able to defend their empire for many centuries, 
 just like the Cataphract. 
  Turks: Janissary: A hand-cannoneer with longer range and no minimum range. The Jannissaries were 
 among the first professional gunmen. Though they used various weapons, they favored gunpowder, 
 and were famous for their capture of Constantinople. 
  Saracens: Mameluke: A ranged cavalry unit that is strong against other cavalry. The Mameluke is 
 based on the slave warriors of the time. Horses were naturally shy of camels. Arab camel units 
 performed very well against the less agile European heavy cavalry. 
  Persians: War elephant: A slow, but immensely powerful cavalry unit that deals trample damage (damages 
 adjacent enemy units) . They are not historically accurate. Ensemble Studios mentioned on their 
 Gamespot showcase that the War Elephants were not extensively used in the Middle Ages by the Persians. 
 
  Mongols: Mangudai: A cavalry archer that is strong against siege weapons. The real Mongol Mangudai 
 were able to dessimate their opponents with feinted retreats along with hit-and-run tactics. The 
 Mangudai technically have no weaknesses; they are stronger than other archers, tied for the fastest 
 unit with the Light Cavalry, thus being able to hit-and-run cavalry and infantry, and are strong 
 against siege weapons. 
  Chinese: Chu Ko Nu: An archer that attacks via bursts of rapid fire. Real Chu Ko Nus were known 
 for their rapid fire shots. The Chu Ko Nu represents the superior technology to the West, as Arbalests 
 and Crossbowmen were at a great disadvantage against the Chu Ko Nu, who had higher HP, fire rate, 
 and attack power. 
  Japanese: Samurai: An infantry unit that is strong against other unique units. The Samurai made 
 it a point to attack the strongest warriors in the enemy army while on the battlefield. In Age 
 of Empires II, the unique units are usually the strongest units in an army, which would make them 
 natural targets for the Samurai. 
  [edit]
  Wonders and Relics
  In certain game types, victory can be achieved by collecting relics or building a wonder. Relics 
 are scattered around the map and can be picked up by monks and placed within a monestary. Reflecting 
 the wealth and influence that relics attracted to the church that held them, relics will slowly 
 generate gold for the player that holds them. If a player holds all the relics on the map for an 
 uninterrupted period of time, they win. To capture a relic from an enemy monestary, the monestary 
 must be heavily damaged. The relic will then be expelled so that a player may capture it. Wonders 
 are massive structures that require large amounts of resources (and time) to build. If a player 
 completes a wonder, and it stands for an uninterrupted period of time, they win. Each civilization 
 has their own wonder, as opposed to the original Age of Empires, where each civilization's wonder 
 was based on their generic architecture.
  
  [edit]
  Scenario Editor
  Age of Kings also includes a built-in scenario editor whereby players can make custom missions 
 and series of missions. Complicated battles and plotlines can be created using triggers. The population 
 limit in the Age of Kings scenario is only 75 per player, instead of 200, the maximum population 
 limit per player in the actual game. The simplicity of the editor has allowed less technically-skilled 
 players to participate in community.
  
  The PlayStation 2 version was released only in Europe and published by Konami. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: W0lfbear
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is good i mean the wars and hours of fun you can have. Get a friend or two set up a lan 
 game and you will all be battling for hours. The sheer strategy involved is breath takeing. If 
 u want a multiplayer game that wont tax your pc and is fun and easy this is the one for you. These 
 days everything has flash but no depth. Well i think if the age of empires 3 game is this good 
 then hell yeah just have to wait until i get a better pc to run age of empires 3 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrokmyds
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is great.
  
  You have a large choice of civilizations, many game types, memorable campaigns, and gameplay that 
 puts starcraft to shame.
  
  Truly my favorite RTS, I have not stopped playing it since I got it. Maybe there'd be a two week 
 dry spell, but I am addicted to this gift from God.
  
  Anyone with an open mind to strategy games will love this version of the same game made hundreds 
 of time by countless companies. What makes it stand out is the relative simplicty and perfection 
 of gameplay.
  
  For its time, the game has amazing graphics, and is "lagless." Its all pre-rendered in isometric 
 view, making it run smoothly on any machine that meets the requirements.
  
  The game also has tons of units, including unique units for each of the 11 civilizations. They 
 are upgradeable in many ways, including armor, attack, unit type, and other things such as movement 
 and production speed. There's cavalry, infantry, archers, seige weapons, monks, and mixes of those.
 
  
  World, play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Just when everyone thought the Age of Empires game had reached one of the limits of its age, Age 
 of Empires 2 had to arrive. Here's a breakdown of this near-perfect game:
  Graphics: 10/10
  The detail's there. The animations are there. The effects are there. Almost nothing else could 
 be hoped for in this imitation of reality. The major improvement over the first Age of Empires 
 is most noticeably the larger unit and building size. This has the effect of immersing the player 
 inside the world of the Goths, Vikings, Byzantines, Chinese, Koreans, etc. while commanding their 
 legions across real world maps!
  Sound: 9.5/10
  This is the only place where Age of Empires 2 didn't improve overtly from Age of Empires. The monotonous 
 voices and meaningless voice records are still here in abundance in AOE2. However, the sounds ARE 
 much more realistic, such as the mill and the farms. But this score of 9.5 is just to show that 
 there is still something to be improved on.
  Gameplay: 11/10
  As with the original, Age of Empires 2 is another classic in the RTS genre. The action's just as 
 spectacular as the original, if not more interesting, with MUCH more variety in the units available. 
 Also, AOE2 follows with history more closely by implementing trebuchets, galleons, etc. Another 
 huge jump from AOE1 is the presence of cinematics before a campaign perfect with both voice acting 
 and different templates for different missions! A must see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  aoe2 is perfect. i seletced 'difficulty' hard and learning curve more than 4 hours, beacuse seriously 
 thats what its like if you PLAY ONLINE. the game itself its easy and the AI is terrible, but multiplayer, 
 sheesh if anyone has played serious multiplayer they would instantly give this game a 10. i was 
 addicted to multiplayer on this game for a number of years in which ive also gained many friends. 
 this game is not about graphics but about gameplay, which is why i love old games so much and despise 
 new ones. 
  try going onto zone. com and learning the 'zone rules' which make multiplayer 10000x more fun. :) 
 this game will always be my #1. the expansion pack is pretty decent too, but if you play online 
 it is better for random matches, but aoe2 is better for death matches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SH_guY
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  I dont play many real time strategy games, but I've got to say this has to be one of the most enjoyable 
 games I've played. The environments are so real and the historical backgrounds to everything make 
 it educational and interesting at the same time.
  
  The basis of Age of Empires II is to build a city and let it grow into a dominant empire. You can 
 achieve total supremacy through a number of different options. You can build your military power 
 (ie. starting wars and knocking down other cities/towns bit by bit) or you can take control economicly 
 by making allies with everyone until your all one big happy family. These principles make it much 
 like the original Age of Empires, however this one takes another step forward in the series by 
 offering different campaigns, structures/buildings, armies, heroes and technologies. Other little 
 differences between the original are that this one features a new technology system where by different 
 civilisations have different control and accessibility to different technologies. This can make 
 conquest alot more challenging and makes you strategise more now taking into consideration you 
 not only have to build the basics but you also need certain buildings like blacksmiths to upgrade 
 your armour, barracks' to make soldiers, market places to buy/sell and trade with other cities 
 &amp; towns, town centers to make villages etc. The general idea is to use your civilisation to 
 the best of it's abilities.
  
  This game like the original also features a large wealth of historical information, relating to 
 all the respective armies, civilisations and locations throughout the game. Alot of references 
 to heroes which are playable and their roles in real life historical campaigns are also included, 
 and information is given to you about your mission after each quest which replicates that of the 
 events that happened during the time.
  
  Overall this is a very good game. If your a big fan of civilisation or RTS games, this one is definently 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vornagar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings was the highly anticipated follow up to Age of Empires. This 
 RTS game really makes you plan and think your moves and put some major time into playing it.
  
  Gameplay: You have many races to choose from in this game. From Vikings to Persians all the 
 games races are different and each have their pros and cons. Basic RTS rules and gameplay are present. 
 Get your gatherers in this case peasents and go get food, lumber, gold, and more stuff in order 
 to gain more troops and advancements. The real golden point of this game is the ability to upgrade 
 your age so you can research new weapons and new units. I personally like to use the Persians and 
 use the elephants. Their a real blast. You can also change a lot of factors in the game like how 
 many players are present, how big the map is, how much time you have, and much much more. The AI 
 in this game is supringsly good depending on what difficulty you put it on.
  
  Graphics: I have yet to see a RTS game that has even surprised me with its graphics. Age of Empires 
 II is no exception. You have a bullseye view of your empire and all units look really small and 
 the polygon count is not the highest lets say. Also, there isn't much variety in colors so maps 
 look dull and not visually appealing at all. However, the cut scene graphics in this game look 
 simply amazing.
  
  Sound: Age of Empires II really scores big in the sound department. Each of the individual races 
 actually say things from their own language which is really a neat and cool feature. You can hear 
 almost every individual gun fire or spear being thrown during a battle sequence. The makers really 
 went above and beyond in sound.
  
  Value: This game has high replay value with the added feature of multiplayer. Whether you want 
 to play with yourself, against the computer, or agaisnt other people you will spend hours doing 
 so.
  
  Conclusion: If you want one of the top 5 RTS games out there check out Age of Empires II: The Age 
 of Kings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion this game is still a very good and indepth game which focuses on many different aspects 
 of life. There is the need to gather food which can come from the fish or from the animals. Agriculture 
 is also another means, to make things even more complicated mills have to be refreshed after they 
 have been used for a long time. Besides the sustaining portion there is also the construction of 
 the war effort within the game where you start off with the basic soldiers and then move onto the 
 much more advanced soldiers as you gain more and more money. The age advancement along with the 
 special units are nice touches to the game, and make this still one of the premier tactical games 
 as there are so many more things that it emphasizes on besides just fighthing. However I Think 
 it would be better if they increased the amount of people that you can have as a max. 200 feels 
 a bit short in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyp7711
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  I love this game, well loved. I haven't been on it in ages, but I remember I used to force friends 
 to come over so I could play them in this game over the LAN.
  
  It's one amazing game, although I didn't ever really become that much of a professional at it. 
 I'd play AOE3 if I had it, although I don't so no. But still, I'm sure that game is just as good, 
 or even better :P
  
  The graphics aren't particularly that good for this game, but for the time it was released I guess 
 they were.. the sounds are interesting, but still a bit boring :P
  
  I didn't really go the campaign modes, and I just stook to the skirmish modes, but this is common 
 for me to do when it's a simulation war game, I seem to never do the campaigns, looking at Total 
 Annihilation, and Warcraft 3..
  
  I'd recommend this game to anyone who likes games of this nature, although I'd probably advise 
 you to buy Age of Empires 3 actually, but I've never played it so don't take my word for it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. It was fun building a civilization and fighting off enemies in random map games.
 
  
  I loved the campaign and everything in it. The campaigns of great leaders was fun to play and relive 
 the destruction of Asia in Genghis Khan, lead France to victory in Joan of Arc, Make the Holy Roman 
 Empire, and fight off crusader knights in Saladin.
  
  The random map games are fun to play and improve your civilization and of course fight off enemies 
 and build Wonders.
  
  The multiplayer is decent and you have fun playing with friends and fighting against them. It gives 
 you a chance to get better with knowing your enemies.
  
  Overall, this game was the funnest game next ot AoE 3 and Axis and Allies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irulehexen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Age of Kings, heir to the Age of Empires throne. This 'king', however, is one of wisdom and not 
 of mere whim. Its 'reign' is one of a golden age- strategy. It redefines the strategy genre, and 
 makes it more acute and of larger scope. New civilizations, more features than the original, and 
 of greater latitude art Age of Kings.
  
  No longer does one control the might of the Romans, Greeks, Carthaginians, Minoan, but civilizations 
 such as the Teutons, Byzantines, Japanese, Vikings, etc. No longer is one in the realm of the classical 
 world but in the Middle Ages. Rome has fallen and the Western world has plunged to the pestilences 
 of the Dark Ages. Meanwhile, the Eastern Roman Empire or the Byzantines, and the Saracens and Chinese, 
 et cetera, are experiancing a golden age- technological, agricultural, economical, and cultural 
 innovations and logistics. Now, you must take one of these civilizations and be the imperator over 
 all.
  
  The greatest satisfaction is the addition of the new civilizations, the diversity of the militarical 
 units, and the scope of latitude. You get to control civilizations such as the Byzantines, Saracens, 
 Franks, Vikings, Teutons, Turks, Britons, Mongols, Chinese, Japanese, Persians, Celts, etc. With 
 each civilization, you pass through four ages of innovation, cultural, technological advances- 
 the Dark Age, the Feudal Age, the Castle Age, and the Imperial Age. Unlike in Age of Empires, each 
 civilization has its own unique unit. For example, only the Teutons have the Teutonic Knight, and 
 only the Japanese have the samurai. The game also includes a history section, ranging from each 
 civilization to the advancements of gun powder and the first firearms such as the arquebus.
  
  Age of Kings- rule the day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mm_s0ldier
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  For a game that is coming on being out for 6 years now i believe. yet still it is unmatched in 
 replayablity. Ive sat at my computer sleepless nights trying to overcome my insomnia by playing 
 other player at a random map.
  
  Here is my "Critic" if you would call it that.
  -GAMEPLAY-
  This game is a work of art and is truely a true strategy game. no matter how good 
 you are someone with a better strategy will bet you. The game play is simple and not complicated 
 but its still a challenge. And with the ability to create your own scenerio u can make the most 
 challenging map ever. If your good enough.
  SCORE- 10 of 10
  
  -GRAPHICS
  Okay. So there are new games that take up 5 GB of Hard drive and create the breatetaking and stunning 
 virtual worlds that emerous you in a fictional world that seems almost TOO real. Well this isnt 
 like this but still the gamer must remember that this was the best around 6 years ago and for its 
 time it was stunning and revolutionary and basicly defined the strategy genre.
  SCORE 7 of 10
  
  -SOUND
  Okay this game has a cornicopia of sound from a sound everytime 
 you click something to a library of over 2000 sounds there is no releive for the wary of sound.
 
  SCORE 9 of 10
  
  -VALUE
  This game compared to most games today which cost $40 and upward is an absolute steal. From when 
 it first came out to now it has been an best-seller. This isnt for no reason its because it has 
 supplied 10x the entertainment for half the price.
  SCORE 10 of 10
  
  -REVIEWER'S TILT
  Now this is a no brainer as you can see from my absolute praise of this game you would be blind 
 not to realize this is my favorite game. This gets a perfect 10 of 10
  SCORE 10 of 10
  
  OVERALL 9.5- A must have for any Die-Hard Strategist fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S_A_D_U_1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games of all time. I love everything about it. the sound/music, the units, 
 the maps, the muti-player, the civilizations, the different game modes. it is all perfect. first 
 off i loved the campians. it was the first thing i played and i was amazed at how historicly correct 
 they were. Its quite educational accually. time progresses with each level of each campian. the 
 amount of civilizations was awesome. they included 13 civilizations from that ranged britions to 
 the vikings. each civilization also had their own special unit and technology and unique properties. 
 ex: the britons had long-bowmen. you could train infantry from the barracks, archers and hourse 
 mounted archers from an archery range, you could create knights and siege weapons never before 
 seen in an AOE game. they also included real life heros, female villagers, Kings, and some new 
 water worthy demolition ships, and they all had new formations that you cold pick from. there were 
 many types of biuldings you could biuld as well including universities and blacksmith to upgade 
 your troops weapons and armor, and your archers arrows. a mojor new one was the castle. there are 
 8 new maps including real-world maps. this game if an absolute buy. go out, buy it and enjoy it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Age of empires two is the sequel to the less than thrilling Age of empires, which was a dramatic 
 take on the golden age of Rome and other civilizations. Just like in Age of empires, you try to 
 build a civilization and as you go from campaign level to campaign level; your civilization grows, 
 along with better technology, troops, and design of your buildings that matches with the age of 
 that civilization. While its sound department leaves a bit to be desired, its colorful graphics 
 and addictive strategy makes this one of the best Real Time Strategy games around.
  
  Age of empires two set with a host of options to do. For starters, you can do the normal campaign 
 mode, which takes you through lots of different civilizations. From the French to the Romans, youll 
 see it all. The whole campaign is set through events that actually happened, so the main characters 
 that are in the story such as, Fredrick Barbarosa, who has his own campaign, can also be played 
 as on the map while playing. The story of each campaign basically brings out exactly what happened 
 from start to their tragic deaths. Its all very exciting and not only is you playing a real thinking 
 game, but youre also learning about history too.
  
  The battles you fight are also very well done. One mission has you going through the streets of 
 Paris with Joan the Arc, bringing her troops to the final stand at Chaltu. You get to live out 
 the entire battles that were fought throughout the campaign and it can be quite thrilling to be 
 able to play through these realistic battles, especially if youre a history buff. 
  
  Age of empires twos core gameplay is very addictive. Controls are spot on and are very responsive, 
 giving the player the best feels for their empire. You can have up to 32 units selected at once 
 and they move where you tell them to go very quickly without delay. Age of empires 2 has some thrilling 
 moments in its fights. Its also worth noting that you should make your army stronger by having 
 diversity. Dont just send in a bunch of horse riders or foot soldiers, instead, mix it up and 
 even throw in some archers and monks to heal your army for good measure. Doing this will make you 
 much more versatile and ready for an enemy strike, which no matter what type of game your playing 
 in Age of empires 2, I guarantee its going to be a tough haul.
  
  The difficulty mainly comes from a lot of things. For starters, you really cant see too much in 
 front of you, although each different type of soldiers has his own line of sight, a monk for instance 
 has a very long line of sight, while the champion foot soldier has a small line of sight. Its 
 a very nice touch that makes you think twice before storming out, seeing as you cant see everything. 
 The enemy is also very smart, even on the lowest difficulty level, the AI is going to give you 
 a run for the money from start to finish, mainly because of the vast amount of expertise and things 
 the enemy can do at once, making you work hard and build buildings and make units fast before the 
 enemy comes and attacks and to be ready to counter-attack. You can also have up to 8 people at 
 once, either computers or people or mixed. Seriously, you can have 8 computers going at it on the 
 hardest difficulty and actually sitting back and watching them. It can be entertaining since they 
 make buildings and units faster than any human Ive ever played. Even seven people against one 
 computer can be challenging at times. You can also play and do all of this over the internet or 
 on LAN making for some thrilling and memorable moments.
  
  Age of empires two even lets you create your own maps. Thats right; you can create pretty much 
 any map you want with the map editor placing any enemy/unit/building/terrain anywhere and fight 
 when ready, set the enemy to any difficulty and then go at it. This is in my opinion, the most 
 fun and most exciting part of the game. 
  
  The graphics in Age of empires 2 is solid. Although not remarkable and definitely not the reason 
 to play, the graphics are colorful enough and give a distinct difference to the type of buildings. 
 The Chinese for example and their Asian style has a distinct look to it, while the more Middle 
 Age British caste has its looks to that are way different than the Chinese. It all looks great, 
 although nothing is terrible detailed.
  
  As you progress through Age of empire twos campaign, you can then start going from one age to 
 the next. Although the highest age, which is the Imperial Age, isnt available at the start, by 
 the time you complete the campaign you will definitely be able to access the age. There are four 
 ages in all and every time you enter a new age, the game offers you newer units/building looks/buildings 
 to build. 
  
  The buildings you can build are substantial with everything from Archery for your archery units 
 to a blacksmith to upgrade the units arms and attack damage. As you progress through the campaigns 
 you then start unlocking newer upgrades. 
  
  Age of empires two offers over 20 different type of empires, from the British to the Japanese to 
 the Vikings, each empire offers unique type of abilities. For starters, every empire cant have 
 every upgrade and every type of unit and some civilizations, such as the Goths, cant even have 
 stone walls. Of course, every civilization can have a castle and in that castle you can build the 
 empires unique type of unit. Each one is unique, but some are way better than others. The British 
 longbow man are great for long-distance fights, while the Goths huskarls are great for melee combat 
 since their damage and armor count is huge. It really adds a lot of diversity to this unique and 
 stunning Real time strategy game. 
  
  Age of empires two also has town centers; these are basically where you can upgrade to a newer 
 age when it becomes available and also where you can build villagers. Although your units/soldiers 
 go out and fight, the villagers are way more important. Although they can hardly fight, they can 
 however build buildings and pick up resources to do this. Building buildings takes quite a while, 
 especially if its something huge like a castle or if you can achieve it, a wonder, which is also 
 unique to every empire/civilization. The resources you collect are: stone, wood, food, and gold. 
 Gold and stone are almost always in short supply, but are needed to build things, of course putting 
 the S in strategy. Wood and food are everywhere, as trees are pretty abundant, and as you go through 
 long campaign levels that can take a few hours to complete, youll find yourself trading off wood 
 for gold at the market you build. Of course, the food can be achieved in a variety of ways. You 
 can either fish it out of the water, chop up lambs/deer, farming, or just getting wild barriers 
 and such. 
  
  If fighting in the land doesnt suit you, can always fight in the water. The water is sometimes 
 the perfect way to get around certain fortresses, as you can build galleons and such to go through 
 barricades and can be great for breaching a fortress form two fronts, land and sea. Fighting in 
 the water can be dangerous, but again, each civilization as their own unique type of ships. 
  
  The sound in Age of empires two isnt very impressive. Some looping songs play as you go along, 
 but it just kind of fades into the background. Theres really no voice acting except from the soldiers 
 as you tell them where to go, theyre respond in different accents and words depending on which 
 country their from. But they always follow your command, so dont worry. The noise of swords and 
 shield clashing is again just noise, so this is the perfect game to play with the TV on or some 
 friends with you, as you dont really need it.
  
  Age of empires two isnt for everybody. It really is a tough game and by all means if you dont 
 believe me, give a try it, will even make you frustrated after a while. But those who can accomplish 
 this difficult game and learn the ropes will have a ton of fun and I guarantee, apart from Civilization 
 four this is the best Real time strategy game ever made.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaseykahnefan01
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  The is 3 key element's that keeps this game from getting old each time they release the next version..
 
  
  That is Graphics, Strategy, and timeline...
  
  Lets start out with the Graphics: When playing the First Age of Empires and then moving on to the 
 Second Age of Empires you notice that well... The graphics have gotten better.... There is a diversity 
 of Items and Playable Characters that wasnt done with the first one... as well as new Buildings 
 to construct... With the added details of graphics behind it which makes this game so much better 
 then its competition
  
  Next is Strategy: Ever play the Historical battles and/or Campaign modes?.. Ever wonder whats different 
 about it... its the fact that you arnt playing the same version of a battle as in the last game.... Its 
 always ever changing.. to keep up with the Timeline (discussed next) .... And as you scroll down the 
 lists of battles to play you notice that the strategy involed becomes more complex...
  
  Last is the Timeline: The Timeline from the first to the second... changes dramatically... In the 
 First it was more of a Roman Gladiator beginning... the Settlements were more nomadish.... In the 
 Second Version its more the the Dark Ages and Middle Ages... Which is why there is more diverse 
 Units and factions to choose from...
  
  There are not too many flaws with the game...... But like any game there can be glitches.. such as 
 skippy and uncontrollable peices of the map missing...
  
  All in all this is a game to savour to say in the least and deserves a 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowprince92
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  Although I haven't played many computer games (I'm more of a console person) Age of Empires II is 
 an amazing game. While you play it the time goes by really fast so if your bored, just play this 
 game. But enough with useless information and jargon. Here are the things you need to know:
  
  Gameplay: never gets old. After you think you're bored of it, you just come back, turn it on, 
 and get sucked in the game for a few more hours until it happens all over again.
  
  Graphics: Not as good as they could be. The game makes up with average graphics with great gameplay.
 
  
  Sound: O. K. sound. The sounds of people getting stabbed or catapults launching or swords clashing 
 is authentic.
  
  Value: Great value. Worth your money. Age of Empires III has already come out. Unless you find 
 an unusually strong attraction to this game, go buy Age of Empires III
  
  Cheat Factor: This game comes with an unbelievable amount of cheats such as getting a flying hippo 
 that showers your enemys with kisses to being able to skip a level completly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crumbly_b
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Who cannot love AOE? Seriously? This is probly the 2nd best selling RTS series. (1st is C & C) 
 but this is set in the 1800's, while C & C is set in 2100's or so. In AOE u can creat a map, and 
 then play it, online gaming and story mode. Who can resist destroying the french when you're a 
 frekin mongol with 6 war elephants and Atila the Hun? I couldnt. This is as satisfying as lying 
 on the grass, naked and its 90 degrees outside.... Except this isnt as relaxing. Non-stop action 
 this is. It is so fun and it makes you think more than C & C would. Well i should wrap this review 
 up, because i have to go take a crap on my niegbors lawn then run off laughing knowing that i am 
 so bad, then go and play this game..... muahahahah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  As a gamer who spends his time primarily with consoles I was surprised by Age of Empires II. In 
 the past my strategy gaming went only as far as Worms but in this game I discovered something that 
 it easy to pick up and play but extremely difficult to master. This makes it incredibly rewarding 
 to play.
  
  The main game is long enough on its own but with a scenario-editor and online play the depth on 
 offer is superb. It's not exactly a bad looker either considering it was released quite a few years 
 ago.
  
  All in all an impressive RTS but if you have a decent PC then Age of Empires III would make a better 
 purchase
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hobeck5
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  I like the way the team have improved gameplay from the first one which was good anyway. I would 
 have liked to see a better panarama regarding the terrain but hopefully that will happen in the 
 next version. It is so involving in that you have to balance the gathering of resources with the 
 type and number of buildings to construct. This also includes what number of Archers, cavalry or 
 foot soldiers needed to complete a level. The game could do with more options for upgrading some 
 of the units like the priests and serfs, etc. There is also the problem of setting out your defences 
 on hilly and difficult terrain. Overall I am really enjoying this game and can't wait to complete 
 each level to see what comes next! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  Age Of Empires II: The Age Of Kings is a fab game, a great stratagy game,
  theres so much to do on it, like starting of as a small broken down town, then build it up to somthing 
 bigger, then make a city then take over your enamies base to make youre empire!!!!.
  
  Theres so many different countries to choose from
  Britain, Spain, China, Japan and lots more. 
 Britain and Japan is the best.
  
  The story mode is ok, but i preffer to stay on the mode were you do what ever you wont to do!.
 
  
  Theres also something on there were you can even make your own maps, its just truly a great game!.
 
  
  I put the difficulty on 'Just Right' cos it veries depending on how well you build you're army 
 ect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:51 pm PT
Review:  This one had people going online and playing either each other or against the computer, generated 
 a lot of good buzz. Upon playing it for myself, I saw why. This game was exceptional. You can do 
 a lot of things that you only wished you could do in previous RTS games, such as those featuring 
 a medieval theme. It fixed all the bugs from the first AOE. Unit attributes are much improved. 
 Now civilizations actually matter to the strategy you'll take. Special units with their own skins 
 were nice to see. The graphics were nice and you can actually garrison troops in buildings. Who 
 doesn't want to build a castle? You can play in the steps of major playas such as William Wallace, 
 Joan of Arc, etc. The game is fun with Regicide, where you start out with a castle and try to protect 
 your king while ending others. Small things are automatically replanting farms after they're depleted 
 (or is that featured in the expansion pack?) , gates opening for your own men but not others, ability 
 to heal units in a building, town center shooting out deadly arrows, and many more new aspects 
 makes this game stand out. It is just plain fun for any fan of RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chubbslegend
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  What a Game, this game is not barry, its TG. SUPER. If the deanage likes it its good. The Armies 
 are quality, from the Byzantines to the Celts, there all good, a great improvement from the 1st 
 intsalment. The Story Mode is very good and challenging, it will have your brain at full stretch 
 working out strategy. Then a great sense of pride when you finish it. A true masterpiece. Definetley 
 worth buying, the best strategy game on the market, except for Rome Total War. I spent hours doing 
 the career mode, and i loved it, i got great worth out of it, money well spent
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimitrismarkou
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 7:24 am PT
Review:  all times best real strategy game including age of mythology and their expansions. the only game 
 that keeps you stacked in front of your pc' s screen. the game play is simply extraordinary and 
 fully realistic. despite the fact that it' is an old game that is not able to compete modern games 
 in graphics an sound, though it is graphics are quite good and satisfactory. you shall spent hours 
 of playing without being bored at all. differences between civilizations. advanced movements of 
 your troops, incredible scenarios and great battle scenes makes the game really fantastic. at the 
 end you shall feel like a real general! simply the best... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidlgs
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 24, 2005 10:14 am PT
Review:  If you like strategy games and han't played Age of Empires II then you don't know what the word 
 strategy means! Yes, I have play many strategy games: All the War Crafts, Both Star crafts, and 
 many of the Age of Empires games but know strategy game satisfies me like Age of Empires does. 
 And I have played Age of Empires III, not the best game I've played. I truly love Age of Empires 
 II the best of the best. This is the must have game of the year (not officially of course) . So 
 I'm telling you not as a writer but as a friend, GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 2:02 am PT
Review:  Well I borrowed Age Of Empires 1 from my Cousin, but then my 17 th b-day I asked my mommy to buy 
 me AOE 2. Good Choice.
  
  I loved the new castles and new units. It's a great time period they chose to set this game in. 
 I love the Knights and Archers and all that. I love the way the archer could now shoot over the 
 wall instead of having to walk around it to be able to shoot enemy units.
  
  Although the formation feature looks really cool, it could be a bit of an irritation because your 
 units all have to move as slow as the slowest unit in the battalion. That means if you have like 
 30 Cavalry units and one Catapult, everyone has to move as slow as the catapult.
  
  The other thing I do not like is the level of the AI. They would come once or twice in one Death 
 match with a horde of troopers and if you defeat them, they do not attack again. They just sit 
 around gathering recourses. This makes the game a bit on the irritating side. 
  
  Other than that, I love the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spodo_Kmodo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2005 3:13 am PT
Review:  The games, old, to be honest. So once again.. Don't go getting excited about the graphics, they're 
 alright, easy on the eyes.
  
  But the multiplayer is mint!!!! 
  
  Even better is the story mode!!!! Replay famous battles from history.
  
  Some you may not have 
 heard of but some you may have.
  
  But when you see genghis khan with his army march past you can't hep but be amazed.
  
  The 
 front man tells you to convert some people and make an army the you attack a big base and VICTORY 
 YAY!
  
  It's not all like that though, you have to transport people, bomb buildings, send a spy in.
  
 
  Just... Buy.
  
  It's too hard to cram into one review.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_fuse2k5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2005 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings should be on the top of every gamer's RTS play list. A ton 
 of play options, endless strategies to explore thanks to the huge tech tree, solid multiplayer 
 modes, and Vikings. What more could you want in a game
  
  Overall, this is a great game. It's great to look at, involving to play, and has enough variation 
 to stay fresh over several long, drawn-out campaigns... Let the sun set on the Roman Empire - it's 
 time to hail a new Age of Kings
  
  Age of Empires II proves that more is better- more civilizations, more units, more individualization 
 makes the day. All in all, Age of Empires II will entertain, excite and satiate your urge for some 
 new strategy gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeeswin24
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 12, 2005 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I recently have played this game on my Mac with some friends. It is a great game, especially if 
 you are in to games with strategy. There's not much to say about it except that the multiplayer 
 is fun if played through LAN with your friends. The campaign is also fun, challenging at times, 
 but great practice. This game is fun, and at the same time you are learning strategies and knowledge 
 that can indirectly help you in life. I recommend this game if you are look for a game like it. 
 I also have the Age of Conquerers Expansion Pack for it which is just another add-on that improves 
 the game with some more options a maps. Age of Empires II is a great choice if this is what you're 
 looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hagismunch95
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 12, 2005 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Civilization and Sim City can't hold a lighter to this game. It has very good gameplay and awesome 
 history. You can play the battles or setup your own scenario and have at it. Also one great feature 
 is the ability to create landscapes and units (aka Map Editor) . You can play online or play against 
 the computer in a death match or a quest for the ultimate economy. Although the graphics are very 
 old it makes up for that with its gameplay. You start with a town center and you build your village 
 into a city with villagers. Then you create soldiers and upgrade them to destroy your enemy. It 
 is an overall masterpeice and should be played by any PC 
  gamer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:46 am PT
Review:  This game is a classic. I've played all the games in the series and i can say that this is the 
 best one. 
  
  Is it possible that an older version of Age of empires could be even better than the new Age of 
 empires 3?
  YES!!!! And if you played the game you know why. 
  
  The game has a few campaigns that are worth playing, but from my opinion the greatest asset of 
 the game is the multi-player mode. I've spend hundreds of hours playing with friends all over the 
 world and probably play even more.
  
  The game focuses on building up your town, defenses and amassing an army. All of this is possible 
 by collecting enough resources (wood, food, gold and rock) .
  This game doesn't seem to get old even dough it has been launched 6 years ago. The graphics look 
 great and the sound is just as impressive (it almost feels like you've gone back in time) .
  All in all the game is great, and i'm sure that in 6 years time it will still be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vandooka
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 9, 2005 3:16 am PT
Review:  "OMG!!" thats what i was like when i 1st got the game!! like it was insane, like u could have these 
 funny sayings!! Like errr ummm...... empires three isn' rated as high as 2?? I'm like wdf??!! Play 
 on zones, multi is insane fun..... watch out for the "B tards" on the game tho...... They cheat.....
 
  Hey who's played F. E. A. R?? OMG that game is gory!! Scared my balls off....
  Play it!! It's INSANE!!!! 
  
  Empires 2 is better than 3.............. i'm still talking bout 
 this.................... 
  don' buy empires 3!! It's crapy, a very big rip off!! i bought it when it came out...... no way 
 near as good as empires 2, oh and the expansion sucks!!
  If u wana buy it anywayz, puchase it on ebay, u get a better deal than buy it from the shopz!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudecana
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Age Of Empires II is a great game.
  
  The multiplayer includes all of the modes that you would find in the single player, at the exception 
 of the campaign mode.
  
  The single player mode includes alot of modes like deathmatch & random map and campaign. the campaign 
 mode includes alot of historical heroes, like Joan of arc and saladin and Genghis khan.
  
  And there is a history book to read on all of the ancient civilization and civilization of today. 
 
  
  There are alot of civilizations in age of empires II, like the vikings, britons, japanese, chinese, 
 and mongolians.
  
  So if your looking to get a good real time strategy game pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkyking
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2005 1:55 pm PT
Review:  The first Age of Empires was only an ok game. It had a lot of strong points, but it was also flawed. 
 The expansion, Rise of Rome, was pretty good but was still only ok. This is why Age of Empires 
 2 blew me away when I played it, and why it still blows me away now. This game is terrific. The 
 second Age of Empires is an RTS masterpeice that betters and even equals other legendary RTSs like 
 the Warcraft and Command and Conquer series. 
  The gameplay is rock solid, and never getsa old. The game is set in the Middle Ages, and you can 
 play as any of the 13 civilizations presented. Each civilization has several ways in which it is 
 unique from the other civs. This keeps the game interesting becasue there are so many stratagies 
 that can be made for each civ. The game, like other RTSs, focuses around building a base, collecting 
 resources and building an army. This all works out smoothly, and has few flaws. Graphic wise the 
 game is stupendous, and even today they don't seem archaic or outdated. The music and sound is 
 magnificent and really sucks you into the atmosphere of the time period. 
  I love this game. I played the demo for Age of Empires 3 and it was so dissapointing. For me, and 
 many other players feel the same way, this game will never get to old to play. This is the game 
 that put Ensemble Studios on the map and showed the world that they could rival Blizzard and Westwood 
 in the RTS market. I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindaugasx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2005 5:37 am PT
Review:  Not so bad. I haven't played this game very long yet, but I can say that this time the creators 
 fixed a lot of bugs like "stuck villagers" or that you may defeat all with only one catapult and 
 a few priests (man, I miss that) making this game more difficult. The silly thing about buildings 
 is fixed too. In AOE I your enemies couldn't get through a few sticks that represents the place 
 where you new building is beeing created. You've could have inprisoned the enemy unit by only surrounding 
 it by a started wall with 1 hp and you enemies are often so stupid, that they couldn't brake it 
 (man, I miss that too) . Gameplay in AOE II campaign is also better. You're getting information 
 about your objectives. 
  
  Gameplay: better because of the tips, information about an event and because you may see unit's 
 attack, armor, range by simply scrolling your mouse on its button. Silly, that is a bit hard at 
 times, because the information about the events often covers it. 
  The gameplay is faster and the production is faster but you need much more resources for all kinds 
 of upgrades as well.
  By three words: much more realistic!
  
  Graphics: they are very similar to the AOE I but it is much inproved.
  
  Sound: no music but 
 it rare in such strategy games. Some sounds are taken from the AOE.
  
  It's a great game just for fun, so I think you should try it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenju
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:48 am PT
Review:  good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: overlord55
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:12 am PT
Review:  its a amsome game there is lots to do and with all the downloads here
  its allmost unlimited i loved it the sec i bought it i also have the expansion
  witch adds a 
 lot to it. its better than its brother age of mythology wich was good but not as good. there are 
 so meny classes of units and civilisation
  which the units difer in each one amd each civilisation has each strengths
  and weaknesse. qand 
 its a differnt battle every time wich is really good
  so there is no reapternis which is great too see in stratagey games
  because of this you can 
 play it for days on end. so all in all its a great game
  nearest to perfection you can get with the excption of age of empires 3 and 
  Black&White 2 :D: D: D: D 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaidpass
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:54 am PT
Review:  This game is fun but it will get boring soon. It is kind of repiditive and not that money stuff 
 you can create and attack the other team. I still like this game i want to play online but it didnt 
 work for some reason. This is fun in the beginning when you start playing but after a while you 
 will get bored and stop playing this game. If you want stragety games try red alert 2 it came out 
 when this came out so its pretty good. The graphics make this game cool it are nice and deatailed 
 graphics. I never noticed one glitch that is soo cool. The sounds are good but after a while the 
 get annyoying same people keep sayng that stupid dialouges over and over again they will get you 
 mad. overall if you want 20 hours of gameplay looks for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ric-meech
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  That is one of the best game I've ever played! I have to admit that the gameplay and the graphics 
 are not so bad at all for a 6 years old game (2005) . I recommand it! Its a beautiful game. The best 
 of the game is the Multiplayer part, lots of fun with friends. Hours and hours! play up to 8 persons 
 at a time (Multiplayer) would say that the Age Of Empires II is better than the 3rd one, but the 
 3rd one is still great. Age Of Empires II is just a classic of gaming.
  
  By the way if there is some spelling mistakes, I apologies, Im a french canadian Lolll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjoco
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 10:36 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 2 :
  
  When i got Age of Empires i had no idea of what i was getting my self into. this game has both 
 its good points and bad points. 
  
  A summary of this game would be ancient times your civilization against the whole world. There 
 are basicaly three main modes in this game: Campain, and multiplayer, and an other one in which 
 you get to choose who you are and who you want to fight. You get to start of by choosing out of 
 13 civilizations (my favorite personaly being byzatine) and than choose who you want to fight and 
 where. In this game you spend your time creating villages, mining for gold and silver, choping 
 trees, building buildings (churches, castles, and houses) , making villages/militia, and try to 
 find out the best way to difeat your enemy.
  
  Campain: is as boreing as hell. all you get to do is go where the computer tells you to go and 
 rescue, kill, or team up with some wack job such as william wallace. Plus you dont get to choose 
 all of the civilizations.
  
  Multiplayer: Truthfully its no different than the single player. You choose a civilization and 
 either team up with other players or take on the other players by yourself. 
  
  The other mode: What is really sad is that i cant remember what the hell this mode is called... 
 o well. This is the mode that i played most. As usual you get to choose from the usual civilizations, 
 but you also get to choose how many civilizations you want to go up against, which ones are your 
 allies, what map you want to play on, and what type of game you want to play. ex. death, goldrush, 
 etc. etc.
  
  Ok, now that i told you what the game is about now i get to give you where it was strong and where 
 it sucked. Enjoy!!
  
  Gameplay: the game went pretty smooth accept for a glith here and there. This game is one of those 
 games in which in the beginning you think its the best, but after you play it for a while you start 
 asking your self was it really worth buying. It was one of the easiest games i have ever playe 
 even on hard mode. The controls were also hard to remember. Ex hittin shift+h would build a house.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics weret to shabby want werent great either. It seemed to me (and i have 20/20 
 vision) that the game was kind of not focused. The creators of Empire spent more time on the scenary 
 and less on the effects, characters, and action. I also noticed that every once in a while the 
 screen would do a sourt of twitch (and my computer is brand new) .
  
  Sound: the sound was ok and the game could of done well with some more music. Other than that the 
 sound consisted of clanging noices, guy making wierd noices whin you clicked on them, and birds 
 singing.
  
  Gjoco's rating: 6.9
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjj014
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:13 am PT
Review:  AOE 2 is an awesome strategy game, I can se how it made game of the year once. For it's time, AOE 
 2 had great graphics sound effects for a strategy game. Since I got AOE 2 I've play games like 
 it with better graphics and sound FXs, but I still liked the pot of AOE 2 more. Many other games 
 like it are fun but they take a long time to figure out what all the controls do, which I don't 
 like at all in a strategy game. If you have never played a strategy game I would invest in AOE 
 2 and probably the conquerors expansion, there are more civilizations to be and another set of 
 missions too. This game is a good strategy game to start with, and maybe later move up to harder 
 games, like Rise of Nations and it's 2 expansions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encimedes
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 12:09 pm PT
Review:  After six years, I still find myself playing from time to time AoE 2. The reason I do that is ofcourse 
 it is perfect!
  The good:
  Memorable music, great campaigns, good visual style, easy to get in hard to get out, great civilizations 
 and combat systems, has his own charm that doesn't leave you, the best history lesson I ever got, 
 lots of intresting units and buildings.
  
  The bad:
  The music is good but need improvent on the qualty part., easy to get in hard to get out.
  
 
  The game captures you in a historical fill that will remain in your heart like no other PC game 
 did. So go with Salah-A-Din to conquer jerusalem... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:20 am PT
Review:  Great strategy game. Should not be missed by any one who likes strategy games. The game play is 
 outstanding and very fun. The graphics are great and fit this game perfectly. They are clear and 
 the physics are also very good. The sound is awesome, especially during battles. The troops and 
 other things you can make also have very good sound. The value is another high point of this game. 
 After you beat the campaign mode, which will keep you bust for a long time, you can just mess around. 
 This is a great game and should not be missed and should not be missed by any strategy lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutch50002005
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 15, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  The greastest Real Time Stratagy game to date i cant wait for the third enstallment to come out 
 beacause this game litereally, i belive, changed the way the genre is put together and should forever 
 go down as an RTS classic. The game play is so smooth, the moddels are beautful, the cheats are 
 hillarious like the blue corvette cheat... and the civillizations have there own little advatages 
 according to how u like to play... its all there now i just pray that age of empires three is just 
 as good. All in all this is one of the greatest not only rts but games for cpu ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkside5001
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 7, 2005 2:09 am PT
Review:  This is one of the better PC games I have played, it really doesnt offer as much real time stratergy 
 as you are lead to beleive but with a huge variation of things to do and things to keep an eye 
 on it really is a fair challenge. There are a fair few types of units, building structures and 
 missions which make this game an instant classic. One of my favourite modes is the create a level 
 type aspect which offered me hours of fun as I perfected my feilds and backstory. But really, the 
 most fun thing of all is playing through level after level building your army or simply travelling 
 around slashing through enemies in a strategic style until you reach your main target. Either way, 
 this game offers limitless amounts of fun and is in instant hit in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harvester_0009
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 29, 2005 7:40 am PT
Review:  This RTS is great for anyone who has lots of time. This game takes place during the middle ages. 
 The action is great. There are a few complaints I have however. When you start out, you are just 
 collecting resources and that is about all you do. Then, when you go to invade if you try to get 
 focused on the invasion when you come back about every one of your workers is idle. Then you have 
 to get set up again. Also you can't rotate the camera screen. So sometimes a long swordsman will 
 go behind a building and you can't find him. I wouln't recomend the game to a new RTS player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generaltono
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 27, 2005 4:06 pm PT
Review:  this was the second game that i loved when i was a kid but still i love playing the game and can 
 not wait to play the next one this game had good graphics for a game this old but it was a classic 
 of many player that love stradigy games and i did kick some ass at the time it was out they could 
 have made things more realistic but for a game at it time it was good i will all ways love the 
 game as long as they do not distroy it i dont know what else to say so la la la ha ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llvllaster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 27, 2005 8:16 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for many years now, along with the Expansion pack too, and i still play it everyday, 
 you can believe it or not.
  
  This is a brilliant title, everything seems to be in much better proportion than its predicesor, 
 and the addictive gameplay will have you going for months, or in my case years.
  
  The campaign mode is tricky and long also depending on the difficulty you select. This is good, 
 as there are all sorts of different levels with different objectives, for expample you could storm 
 a city or have to pretect someone in your civilisation. There are also many different settings 
 too, from deserts to icy areas.
  
  After the campaign is finished in about 20 to 40 hours, if your good, the standard game and multiplayer 
 will have yo coming back.
  
  The standard game is basically where you have different teams, and you just have wars to in the 
 game. You can select what tribe you want to be, where you want to play, your colour and all sorts 
 of stuff. These games ca go on for hours, and when im bored, i just load from where i saved and 
 play, its suprisingly stress relieving.
  
  This mode is incorporated into multiplayer, where you connect by server or LAN and face people 
 online, they are very good most of the time. 
  
  There are also other modes on the game, including Map editor, where you basically create a map, 
 a scenario and you can even start placing units into the map. The maps you create can even be played 
 online, with other people.
  
  If there was a game that would last you for ages, this would be it, and if you like RTS's, this 
 should be in your collection already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeritoOverride
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 19, 2005 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I have this game since it came out and I must say its very hard to put down. I still play it once 
 in while and each time I start its hard to let it go. I used to have the expansion pack but sadly 
 it got lost, but still this is a great game without it and if you havent played it I suggest you 
 do! If you have never heard of it you must be iving under a stone in the artantica!! =) Anyway, 
 Im going nuts here waiting for the third installment on this series to come out and I just hope 
 it come out as addicting as this one!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobby54321
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:39 am PT
Review:  I have had this game for at least two years, and I still love to play it. Though I can't say that 
 it is much of a challenge anymore, but I am always creating new scenarios to make it harder on 
 myself. I got in to the Age of Empires games with with the first one, and I have owned every one 
 since then. They just keep getting better and better. From Age of Empires and the expansion to 
 Age of Mythology to Age of Empires II they have all been amazing. I can't wait until Age of Empires 
 III, which I hope will stand up to its expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FragMaster_Flex
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2005 11:36 am PT
Review:  This game is great. Tons of fun. I though Age of Empires 1 was cool but this steps up even higher. 
 Graphics, gameplay, features, interface, multiplayer, Ai - all improved.
  
  Its everything AOE1 was except with the strawberry filling and rich icing. 
  
  AOE2 kept me 
 glued to the computer for months and months on time without really getting bored.
  
  It feels like you're actually controlling some giant army. Its amazing how real and immersive this 
 game feels for an RTS.
  
  It seems everything was balanced perfectly from units to interface.
  
  The built in map editor 
 is a blast and adds tons of replay value and makes multiplayer really fun. You can create your 
 own scripts and even make missions and scenorias.. You could make a whole campaign and then easily 
 save it and upload it to a website for others to enjoy.
  
  its modding gone easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaWzY86
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 11, 2005 9:22 am PT
Review:  I used to be a HUGE warcraft 2 fan, ever since i heared about WC3, I waited patiently, until one 
 day i went over to a friend of mine and he was playing AOE2, i was stunned, the game was really 
 charming, the game-play, the graphics and the speaches made by the characters, i got addicted since 
 the very first game, i played this game online and i still play it now and then, the conquerors 
 is far better when playing online, the Aztecs RULE
  
  When WC3 came out i was really dissapointed, it doesn't even come close to this beauty, no Real-Time 
 Strategy ever came close to it, it's like Diablo of the RTS, hope the AOE3 is even better cuz so 
 far, I doubt it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 23, 2005 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings is simply the best strategy game for PC ever. Though the Age 
 of Empires has been around for some time, this installment will not disappoint for those who are 
 seasoned veterans. Though some may think the strategy genre is getting dry, they must not have 
 played this superb game yet.
  
  The gameplay is astounding with many modes of gameplay with multiple variations and victory conditions, 
 and the game offers almost unlimited replay value. In short, this game is a must-play and anyone 
 who even remotely enjoys a solid strategy game will certainly find plenty to do in Age of Empires 
 II: The Age of Kings.
  
  For anyone who is familiar with the "age of" series will be comfortable with the control mapping 
 and how things are done. Basically, you pick a civilization to run with in the game then you must 
 build them up into a great empire with towers, walls, castles, soldiers, and with plenty of gold, 
 wood, and stone in your coffers.
  
  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings is a wonderfully built game with everything a medieval buff 
 or simple strategy genre fan will greatly enjoy. And all for the cheap price of $20, you will get 
 many bangs for your bucks. Get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andremafia
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 12, 2005 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires II is one of the best RTS ever made.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is easy and you enjoy playing the game, it has a good random map and a great 
 campaign mode.
  Graphics: This Game has 2D graphics but he still looks good
  Sound: The game sound is very good, especially the in-game music is very good.
  Value. You can 
 now get this for low prices.
  Tilt: I loved playing this game, trying to pass all missions and stuff. After a while I got bored 
 of singleplayer so I tried multiplayer and it is great, so this games gives you lots of playing 
 time.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2005 11:04 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires II is really a game that you can still play, this day today. Because I do. This 
 is not gonna be a big rewiew, because I really don't know what to say about this brilliant game! 
 
  
  Gameplay: Stragety gameplay is still one of my favorites. I and really loves this gameplay in the 
 game. You just can't get enough!
  
  Graphics: Really nice graphics, for a game that was made in 1999. Nothing to complain about.
 
  
  Sound: I just love the sound in the game. The music is also very great. You get in a good middle-age 
 mood.
  
  Value: Nothing to say, except that the game kicks ass :P
  
  AoE II is surely one of the best stragety games to date. Go buy, it's worth the price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirian808
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2005 3:30 am PT
Review:  If you have already read any of my reviews you know is still my favorite RTS. Just to let you know 
 Age of empires 2 is my second favorite strategy game!
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9/10
  Finally a medieval RTS I can play. As a giant medieval fan I thoroughly enjoyed the gameplay for 
 age of empires 2. It just makes sense that each unit has strengths and weaknesses against different 
 types of units and machines. This kind of innovative gameplay plus online multiplayer make this 
 game truly great and my second favorite RTS of all time! Unfortunately is still more fun and better 
 in all categories.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10
  The very realistic looking characters look vivid and lively. However most of the buildings and 
 destroyed buildings don't look good at all.
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  Expecting to hear voice overs as good as was a mistake. Even though this game has great medieval 
 music and sounds the voices and voice-overs are terrible! You didn't think I would write this review 
 without explosions did you? Not in this one. Age of Empires 2 doesn't need explosions (sigh) .
  
  VALUE: 9/10
  Multiplayer online is very fun especially with 8 players. Single player campaign 
 boasts 5 missions across the world. Then there's skirmish for people who like playing bots.
  
  TILT: 8/10
  I enjoyed this game very much, but like I said was better. This is definitely 
 a must buy for any RTS fan though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarknessOfFate1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 2:43 am PT
Review:  Age of Kings will forever be the best strategy game of all time. The insanely addictive gameplay, 
 wealth of tactics, the historical accuracy and the satisfaction of conquering just make it incredible. 
 Seriously this is deeper than Deepy Mcdeep and his adventures at the bottom of the ocean.
  
  AoKs graphics are better than average for strategy games. All units are instantly recognizable 
 and animate smoothly. Fighting animations look good and so do all villager animations such as chopping 
 wood or fishing. The backgrounds are drawn bitmaps so zooming in and out isnt available. It looks 
 great though with details such as patches of leaves left around cleared forests and skeletons left 
 around. Even dead units look great with the corpses hanging around and rotting slowly to show where 
 a huge battle had been fought, and by looking at the bodies you can see who would have won and 
 what units were used. This point might not sound like much but it looks much better to see the 
 enemy you have killed and gives you an idea of who is winning. This is far better than almost all 
 other strategy games where units disappears as soon as they die.
  
  Sound is great! The music is very good and there are a lot of tracks. The pieces are all relaxing 
 and peaceful fitting with quiet resource gathering and managing but not really with war. I think 
 some war like tunes a la C&C would balance it out and provide more atsmophere. Before every mission 
 there is a spoken background. The voice acting is amazing and voices used are perfect for the roles. 
 The language is authentic and all up this facet adds a huge amount to the atmosphere. During the 
 battles various people will say things, and this ranges from godd acting to hammy and unconvincing. 
 The screams of dying units and the crisp clang of fighting sound great.
  
  The gameplay is godly. AoK spans four eras of history: The Dark Age, the Feudal age, the Castle 
 age and the Imperial age. You start with a few villagers and a town center in the Dark Age. You 
 collect resources: Gold Stone Food and Wood. You build up your tiny settlement. Eventually after 
 training a few warriors and harvesting resources you advance to the feudal age. Here you research 
 technologies to improve every aspect of your civilization. Everything from chainmail armour, to 
 inventing the wheelbarrow coins, better solders such as men at arms instead of your starting militia, 
 better walls and loads of other stuff.
  
  Once you advance to the castle age you can build castles and siege weapons as well as a stack of 
 technologies
  
  When you finally reach the last age; Imperial your huge city can research ultimate troops such 
 as champion and Paladins as well as gunpowder.
  
  AoK has 12 civilizations. They share many of the same units but with seemly subtle but in realty 
 huge differences. For instance the franks have strong cavalry. The British have exceptional archers. 
 All of the civs also have a unique unit. For instance Franks have a throwing axemen and the British 
 have longbowmen.
  
  Each unit has several units that it excels against and several units that counter it. Calvary will 
 usually crush archers, but will be crushed by Pikeman. The counters are not extreme though and 
 a lot of archers will still hurt cavalry and a large amount of calvary will still destroy Pikeman, 
 as will cavalry archers. Formations will make a difference, unlike a lot of RTS games. For example 
 a staggered formation, which is a loose formation of men with space between them to help negate 
 damage from arrows and siege weapons. A box formation is a square of men with weak units such as 
 healing monks and siege weapons in the middle protected by troops.
  
  The magic of AoK is with all this depth; there is countless tactics that can be employed. You can 
 rush your enemy before they become advanced enough to fight back, create a bulletproof defense 
 and wear your enemy down ruthlessly raid the enemies economy or create your own huge economy.
 
  
  The amount of options open to you and the countless ways to do battle gives AoK an endless lifespan 
 especially with online play. The intense competition and wealth of tactics found in online gameplay 
 makes AoK forever captivating. I have been playing AoK for six years and still play online almost 
 everyday. The single player AI can be rather stupid and other just walks into your base defense 
 but at lease they are fast and usually provide a good game.
  
  AoK is the ultimate RTS. If you are a gamer that loves stratgery you need this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 8, 2005 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I have had the most fun with Age of Empires 2 over my network of computers (Usually with two or 
 three players and a computer or two, occasionally four players) . It is perfect for anyone into 
 puzzle games or real time strategy fans. (There aren't really puzzles, just strategies that you 
 can find that work better than others) I guess part of the fun we've had (We being siblings, friends, 
 cousins, etc.) is tributed to the fact that we enjoy strategy games and logic puzzlers. If you 
 do, you are in luck!
  
  The campaign mode isn't all too great, but if you don't have anyone to play with, don't sweat, 
 you can just play single player against computers although it isn't the same.
  
  There are a lot of different modes and maps to AOE 2, so you can mix it up and play in different 
 modes. Also, the map type really changes your gameplan.
  
  There isn't much to say about AOE 2 other than that it is a great, addictive strategy game that 
 you should look into if you enjoy strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaaraZanta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2005 4:02 am PT
Review:  Let me first say this, I have played AoE: AoK for more hours than any other game I have ever played, 
 which I give credit not only to the solid and fun gameplay but to one thing that almost every game 
 with out of story modes should have, random maps. But that is not the only reason why this game 
 is great but the great combination of sound, nice graphics and one of the most solid RTS game ever. 
 Now I have finally gotten around to reviewing this game after so many years here goes.
  
  The gameplay for this game is superb, with a greatly balanced system for fighting and for the economy. 
 One thing that I found very fun was the map editor which gave you many more things to do than just 
 make a new map. You could, for example, playing with the units stats which I always found fun to 
 see 20 samurai defeat hundreds for paladins. Also, though I never really did this much, you could 
 make scripts for events and other things like how the computer would act and such. One thing that 
 I thought was a nice idea to remain historically accurate was how they block certain civilizations 
 from getting or researching certain technologies, like how the Japanese cant research some gunpowder 
 tech and the like. Though the gameplay is solid and well thought out, people looking for new and 
 innovative features will not find much here. I find this is not hindrance as the gameplay is so 
 fun and addicting that I think that this has no real effect.
  
  The graphics for this game are okay but not great, seeing how they are run on a 2d engine. But 
 I usually dont care about the graphics as much as how solid and fun the game is. The units are 
 varied, you can easily tell a galleon from a fire ship in each unit type has a distinct feel to 
 it. But those people looking for a flashy game should go look somewhere else.
  
  The sound in this game fits the mood well and doesnt intrude at all. I generally like music in 
 games and this is no exception, the attacks and such have nice sounds to them and are generally 
 well done.
  
  Then comes the value which is very high. The random maps keep you coming back for more and new 
 experiences and almost make it so that you never get the same map twice, which really raises the 
 replay value. Also there are so many civilizations that its fun to see how you have to change you 
 style according to what civilization your playing, like how the Huns dont have to make houses. 
 Also some value comes from the historical aspect of the game, from which they provide a kind of 
 encyclopedia on the different civilizations and such. I have actually learned a lot from this game 
 and it probably helped me in school sometimes on things we did.
  
  Overall this is a great game that has a lot of replay value and has rock solid gameplay to pretty 
 good sound, since by now you can buy it for very cheap it is a good idea to pick this up and play 
 it, for it is a great game that every strategy fan should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2005 8:37 am PT
Review:  Like the original it is also great for its time. This one possibly the greatest on-line game ever 
 for me. I've played this game for hours and could never get bored of it. This was a great newly 
 revised game and amazingly is still being played even 5 years later! Its not revolutionary but, 
 Its great fun! Great amounts of variety is inside this game. You can choose to be around 20 civilizations 
 from the past with there own kinds of specialties. There was some great work done into this game. 
 Great sequel for my favorite series around and I still miss playing it even today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gissamuel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 5, 2005 6:56 am PT
Review:  This game has several different enhancements from the original and brings in new units never seen 
 before. The scenarios are amazing also. It is like playing with History that makes you want to 
 study more. The units are basically the same for each race which brings in the similiar feeling 
 to the Original game. You will find out over time that there is differences that make the gameplay 
 addicting. Personally I think this game should never be played without the expansion pack. This 
 game does have some bothersome qualities like having to focus on rebuilding dead farms in the middle 
 of a war. The pathing is also a lot better where fewer units get stuck. Usually I pick a point 
 on the map far away and if the villager stops there is an 80% chance it is blocked off. That is 
 a better range than the original by a long shot. The graphics are a lot better than the original 
 too. THe trees look almost like they are ream and the buildings look amazing. There is so much 
 detail that you actually see mules moving in the mills. The units are so amazing to look at that 
 you wished you could get in closer just to see the great detail. The music has a more upbeat tone 
 that is perfect for this game. You will never get tired of it. THe game by itself has problems, 
 but with the expansion pack you will want to play this game for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20439140856722804203775495833110-DW5freak
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2005 1:59 am PT
Review:  This game is awesomeness at its finess. This game is 1 of the best RTs's of its time. Good gameplay 
 is rare in a RTS game , as i was blown away by this.
  You'll spend an hour learning this game , but after that its a lot of fun. I am plzed with the 
 graphics & replay value is HUGE in this game. It took me about a week and a half to beatthis game 
 1nce.
  If u have the skills to play this game effectively it should be in your collection. This is maybe 
 the best RTS out there right now. 1 of the best titles i have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homsuplo75
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 5, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I remember one day a friend was telling me an something called a RTS game. I had never heard of 
 one, never played, never even seen one. So he told me to look into getting this game and I was 
 able to find it for a great price. When I installed this game I was blown away by the graphics, 
 the sound, the cinematics, and so much more. (I hadn't even played the game yet)
  
  The campaigns in the game bring you from being a gatherer through castle kingdoms. The AI could 
 be a little better but I don't believe there is such a thing as a perfect game. I have moved on 
 to other RTS games and have to say that it is one of my favorite genres on the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 22, 2005 3:48 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires was perhaps the greatest RTS to ever be released. It was a great interpretation 
 of massive battles, without relying on magic or fantasy elements, simply history itself. Age of 
 Empires 2 is no exception.
  
  The graphics in Age of Empires 2 are exceptional, looking very pretty and lush. Sound is still 
 somewhat lacking, however. Age of Kings fixes most problems that the original Age of Empires contained, 
 including stupid AI and bad unit navigation.
  
  New gamemodes, such as Regicide, are great and multiplayer is still exceptional. This game will 
 last you a lifetime.
  
  Get it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakeEx3
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2005 10:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. It's a real time strategy, RTS. It is set in the middle ages and you can 
 select civilizations from all over the world. You can be a Briton, Mongol, Japanese guy, Goth, 
 etc etc. I love this game. Gameplay is nice and balanced and different civilizations have different 
 models and sounds and units. Upgrades are nice too. Graphics are very good, they may have a low 
 poly count compared to some other games but the textures are very nice. There are no framerate 
 issues. Sound is great, each race actually speaks their own language. As for value, it is a very 
 fun game with value. You can play online so the fun will not stop for a long time. This is just 
 a very enjoyable game and you should pick it up now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swamprat_basic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 30, 2005 5:56 am PT
Review:  Anybody who loves RTS games will fall instantly in love with Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings.
 
  
  The only categories in which the game is lacking is that of graphics and sound. Both are good, 
 but niether is great. The graphics are pretty small. The sound can get really repetitive.
  
  The gameplay is great though. You'll have a ball playing this game. It might be a little complex 
 (at least in my opinion) , but it is nothing like some game. It is detailed just enough that it 
 doesn't lose out on the fun factor.
  
  I don't know if all of the history works out, but it certainly feels right. I'm no history buff, 
 but to my layman brain, it all works out. There are tons of different armies to use, each with 
 different technologies and the like.
  
  This is a great game. Buy it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opima
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 16, 2005 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires (AoE) 2 deals with all the mistakes and problems that were in AoE Empires. AoE 2 
 offers more technologies, more civilizations, and more strategy then the first one.
  
  The interface has improved, moving from one task to another is much easier. Organization of civilian 
 tasks and military units was much improved. The graphics are much better then the first one, with 
 much better detail. The technology tree was much more impressive then the first AoE and I was glad 
 to see different and unique civilizations also included.
  
  There are more maps involved with this game as well, ranging from swamps, to rain forests, to desert 
 and mountain. This, along with all the many civilizations made for many more hours of game plan.
 
  
  The campaigns were also a vast improvement and much more immersive then the original AoE.
  
 
  Overall, AoE 2 is a much improved sequel to AoE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkBelthasar
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 10, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  It's simple to learn the basics, but you'll spend hours developing your own strategies and learning 
 to outplay everyone else. There are so many paths that can be taken and every single game is totally 
 different. The game can be single player as well as multiplayer, both plenty of fun. 
  
  The gameplay is one of the best aspects of this game. It never gets boring or dull. Time flies 
 as you forget everything outside this game and get sucked in. There are plenty of scenarios, even 
 real-world ones and also real-world maps. Everything else is highly customizable. For a normal 
 game, you can pick the number of computer players, any of twenty or so map types, and how big the 
 map will be. Everything from who can alliance who to what civilization each player is is customizable. 
 The multiple civilizations are another great aspect of the game. Each come from a real civilization. 
 Examples are the Vikings, Byzantines, Britons, Chinese, and Goths. Each one has different specialties, 
 different bonuses, and different corresponding strategies. None of them are better than any other 
 if you learn how to master their strategy. Playing this game will make you wonder why you haven't 
 all this time. 
  
  The music is typical of this kind of game, not very exciting but also not distracting, which is 
 very important. There are sound effects for nearly everything that should keep you satisfied. Different 
 sound effects for each building being built, each person, and of course the sound of death. You'll 
 be able to know what's going on just by the warcries and swords clashing. 
  
  The graphics are great, nothing objectionable. There is no rotation of the screen but you'll find 
 that it's never required or wouldn't even be any more effective. All of the graphics run smoothly, 
 unless, of course, you have a really slow computer and the game may get bogged down a bit when 
 you're moving an fleet of 100 galleons across the screen or playing online with seven other players. 
 
  
  The replay value is high. If you find a way to play multiplayer, do it. It does have online capabilities 
 that work well. The game adds a whole new level of strategy when you are forced to either fight 
 with or against another human player and even other computer players at the same time. Even if 
 you can't play multiplayer, you'll find that the single player has an equally high value as you 
 come back to this game time and time again just to remember how fun it was. 
  
  Don't pass up this game. It's getting older but is still great by today's standards. This also 
 means the cost has gone down and it can be bought for a low price, a price that is always worth 
 it no matter what. This game is one for the history books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhatter_412
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires II: Age of Kings is, in my opinion, on of the greatest real-time strategies on the 
 market. Game play is simple and relatively easy to pick up even for those inexperienced in the 
 genre. The single player campaign mode provides fun, historically based scenarios for several hours 
 of entertainment. The single player custom mode is also very enjoyable and allows five levels of 
 difficulty. Multiplayer is where I find I enjoy the game most. You can battle head to head with 
 your friends on LAN or over the internet with people all over the world.
  
  I would say that the finest part of AoE II is that it has limitless strategic potential for very 
 diverse gaming. The 13 civilizations are similar, but each one is unique in its own right. After 
 mastering the game with one civilization, you could spend weeks or even months re-learning the 
 game with a new civ and new strategies. By limiting upgrades and unit production and also by giving 
 each civ a custom unit, AoE II opens the doors for unlimited strategic playing.
  
  Graphics and sound are a bit behind the times now, but even so they are nothing short of terrific. 
 I enjoy the graphics of the AoE II series even more than some of the more modern RTS games such 
 as Empire Earth (also a great game) . Music and sound effects add to the games ambiance and are 
 helpful to game play and micro-managing by alerting you to whats going on in the game. Some might 
 say out-dated. I say utterly classic.
  
  I've loved this game since the first time and it just keeps getting better. My recommendation would 
 be to get a group of friends who enjoy it and play together on a LAN with teams unlocked. This 
 is military, economic, social and diplomatic strategy at its finest against the greatest AI ever 
 conceived; the human mind! It's a must own for RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefting_kill
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2004 11:34 am PT
Review:  The game is amazing almost its great fun but it gets kinda boring after awhile but its great just 
 amazing i love how strategic it is, like when your in battle send different troops in at a time 
 while building other ones back at camp or just sitting around being lazy collecting all the stuff 
 you need like wood, gold, meat, and etc. It's a very large game at that to so many battles, theres 
 four colors each of them is a town thing. and they're just so much fun being or attcked or attacking 
 them. but all in all the game lacks some polish it seems and then it get boring after just a little 
 bit of alot of playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark-flames_
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2004 10:10 am PT
Review:  Absoloutley anyone who is reading this i recomend giving this game a go. One game can last for hours 
 and is simply full of fun and the controls couldnt be more simple. Age of Empires the Age of Kings 
 is very challenging and is still easy enough to defeat the enemy especially with cheats that add 
 to the fun like instant build and 1000 gold, meat, wood and so forth. 
  
  This game its about starting from the stone age and building up to golden ages stage by stage and 
 building an army of man/woman and machine like objects to crush the 4-8 opponent teams.
  
  Age of Empires the Age of Kings is so close to a perfect its not funny so if you see it you should 
 defanently think about buying it because it'll be cheap and its very entertaining for a very long 
 period of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDurendal
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2004 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is the sequel to the rather dissapointing Age of Empires (PC) . It has several single 
 player campaigns, a random map generator and a map editor. It is a historically based RTS with 
 decent graphics and overdone AI. 
  
  The gameplay is the best part of an RTS (with the possible exception of Starcraft) and this one 
 outshines them all. You start out with a town center and a few villagers, you mine and forage for 
 the 4 types of resources, stone, wood, food and gold, until you can build a barracks, some militia 
 a mill, and advance to the next age. The 4 age go as such: Dark, Feudal, Castle and Imperial. You 
 must build 2 specified buildings to advance to the next age as well as a sum of gold and food. 
 The basic military buildings are barracks, archery range and stable (and siege workshop) . However 
 there are also some other non-military buildings such as the market, this allows you to trade with 
 you allies and send tribute, and the monastery which allows you to build monks which convert enemy 
 units. The campaigns are similar to the random maps, although different victory conditions can 
 add interest. Let me just say that the AI is way too good. On easiest, more than 2 enemies will 
 take all of your forces just too hold them off, and after playing for 3 years, I have trouble beating 
 2 on normal mode. Thankfully, Regicide mode allows you to just kill the king, rather than finish 
 every single unit. The map editor is the best part of the game. You can easily customize everthing, 
 although it could have used a specialty unit cusomizer like Warcraft 3 (although it's AOE2 4 years 
 older) .
  
  Overall this game is one of the best I've ever played. The balance of campaigns, random maps, challenging 
 AI (for once in an RTS) and great map editor, makes it an RTS you can't afford to miss, and one 
 of the best in the genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: target11
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 19, 2004 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires was releasen in October 2000 and following the release of the game it became big.
 
  The 2D graphics were crisp and clear with an attractive art design that emphasizes the diversity 
 of the civilizations. 
  The gameplay was great because you are able to go through many great campaigns with great medieval 
 heroes from El Cid to Ghengis Kahn.
  The sound for this game wasnt great but it was ok, because the constant boaring music and the ever 
 lasting cheaping of birds got on your nerves after a while.
  This game is well worth buying because it is one of the best strategy games ever made.
  This 
 game also has a great multiplayer because you can team up with a group of friends to take over 
 huge maps together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_nathan19
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2004 2:34 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings was nothing short of revolutionary at the time of its release. 
 Its smooth and warm graphics, easy-to-use interface, and endless replay value made it an instant 
 top-seller, and worthy of the space it takes on a HDD.
  The integral part of making the game so fun to play was the great sense of reality the game brings 
 to the table. You can lose yourself for hours on end just being allies with the enemy because building 
 your civilization is half the fun. The use of controls is very simple, and doesnt take long to 
 get used to.
  The campaigns in the game or scrypted excellently, and give a solid 30 hours of gameplay for the 
 advanced gamer. The player gets to choose from a variety of campaigns (including a campaign as 
 Ghengis Khan, and a tutorial campaign for those who are in a learning mood.) and has an excellent 
 selection of skirmish modes that includes "Regicide" (my favorite singleplayer mode) .
  The actual combat in the game is very realistic and the amount of damage inflicted with certain 
 weapons gives an over-all sense of realism. Certain soldiers do better against other soldiers, 
 but may be prone to other ones. What I mean by this is, you wont want to attack a pikeman with 
 a cavalry unit because the pikeman will most likely succeed.
  Another great aspect of the game is that you make advancements through Ages as you steadily build 
 up your kingdom. The futher advanced you are, the more options you have when it comes to building 
 units or buildings.
  One thing i did miss while playing the game was the ability to zoom in and check out the intense 
 action. However, the other brilliant aspects of the game over-shadow this small error, and the 
 game is definately worth picking up. Cheers :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Ninja
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 25, 2004 11:38 pm PT
Review:  This was my first strategy game believe it or not this is what got me into strategy gaming period. It 
 was good for its time and I had lots of fun untill I realized that you can only hold up to 40 soldiers 
 when you put a box over them. The graphics were also good for it's time and if you hadn't already 
 played this you shouldn't waste your money on this game because they're alot more better games 
 then this. What you should've done was buy it right after it came out.
  
  The gameplay was alright also for it's time but I recommend you should'nt waste your mon ey on 
 this product. It was good for it's time and you should just try out the demo and if your really 
 amazed by it's graphics and gameplay but if you're not let me just say this I TOLD YOU SO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomic_Mutant
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2004 5:54 am PT
Review:  Ensemble's entry into the RTS genre, the game has defined the studio's unique brand of approach 
 to the genre and its renovations and innovations have served to be templates for many of the successful 
 RTS titles to follow, including its own Ages spinoff 'Age of Mythology' to Gamespot's 2003 Game 
 of the Year 'Rise of the Nations'.
  
  I would not rate the game as being a significant departure from elements such as conventional resource 
 gathering to typical formation schemes that are synonymous with the RTS genre. Some new innovative 
 elements introduced by this game that I can recall is the revamping of the economy model, which 
 introduces what I can describe is a trade function to compensate for the lack of certain resources 
 during the game. The wide variety of available 'nations' to choose from was also introduced to 
 the genre through this game, although the difference at first between them were scant, the units 
 available being similar for all nations only with different graphics and names (alleviated somewhat 
 by the inclusion of elite units particular to the nation) .
  
  The game also featured the recording option that allows one to record a match in its entirety. 
 It has since developed into an indispensible tool within the competitive online fan communities 
 of many RTS games, and allowed other players to learn possible tactics and adjust their playing 
 styles from viewing these shared pool of recorded matches. Mission editor was also shipped with 
 the game, thereby increasing the already substantial value of the game to tide over players until 
 the next batch of updates in its expansion pack was released.
  
  The graphics are rather sparse and pedestrian, but for once, Ensemble seemed to have strived to 
 get the proportion between the structures and the units in the game fairly realistic! The different 
 epochs, accompanied with a different set of options and graphics reflecting the appropriate advances, 
 added another dimension to the overall upgrade path; it was another novel touch to the competitive 
 nature of the gameplay, and ended up radiating that bit of historical relevance too, which was 
 nice. The inclusion of naval units and another level of transportation afforded by waterways were 
 refreshing, having been dismayed by other RTS that neglected it. 
  
  Multiplayer is relatively bug free and lag free, although I had to contend with a rather cumbersome 
 out of the game Microsoft Zone experience. The game is well balanced for the multiplayer gameplay, 
 and there are a variety of interesting playing modes (one of the modes could have in fact inspired 
 the hybrid gameplay between RPG and RTS that became rather popular in later games) . Skirmishes 
 with computer AI and the rather paltry single player (only truly disappointing aspect of the game) 
 round out the tutorial portion of the game to hone your skills or blow off some steam. The only 
 little nitpick I can bring up is the dearth of options that were only introduced later in the RTS 
 titles that followed, such as player match services and a practical ranking system.
  
  In the introduction video of the game, there are two competing players, full in medieval regalia, 
 duking it out against each other in what else, a chess game portrayed as intense as chess can possibly 
 get. Castles are burnt, casualties mount, but the victory, when achieved, is clear as day and absolute. 
 In Age of Empires II, units are essentially chess pieces, having its strengths and weakness, every 
 little element (even the lowly foot soldier) serving its purpose and contributing to the grand 
 strategy. Like chess, this game accomodates different strategies and encourage gamers to utilize 
 their strengths (a particular nation's attributes) to maximum. Augment that solid basis of gameplay 
 with serviceable yet attractive visuals, engaging music, nicely packaged historical theme cutting 
 across many of humanity's greatest civilizations, then you have Ages of Empires II. 
  
  And just like chess, it allows one to bow out of the game with as much elegance as toppling the 
 king piece thereby admitting final defeat. Checkmate has never been sweeter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamvego
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 8, 2004 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm not much of a fan of strategy games, but I chose to buy this game due to it's reputation. I 
 was pleasantly suprised by my ability to maintain concentration on the game for long periods of 
 time.
  
  Not having played many strategy games to compare this to, I can't say how good it is for a game 
 in it's league, but I found it fairly straight-forward and immersive enough. The sounds are simple 
 and sufficient, the graphics aren't anything revolutionary, but they're clear and not too confused.
 
  
  I don't think it's enough to get me into more strategy games though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terpsman06
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2004 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 2, Age of Kings, is what computer gaming is all about to me. An intriguing premise, 
 finely-tuned gameplay, excellent graphics, challenging (but not impossible) missions, and a cheap 
 buy (nowadays, it can be found in an AOE bundle pack on the cheap...) . 
  
  The sound throughout AOE 2, AOK is well done, adds to the feel and mood of the game, and doesn't 
 get repetitive (for this gamer) . The different campaigns of various famous folks of olden-times 
 are challenging, rewarding, and a blast to play. The depth to AOE 2, AOK is incredible, the unit 
 selections varied, and the means to win a particular mission are numerous. The storyline of all 
 the campaigns are well-thought out, pulling from actual historical events to entertain as well 
 as educate gamers. Voiceovers are fantastic, adding to the realistic feel of this superb game. 
 
  
  This game can be praised for many things, but this praise is nothing compared to playing the game 
 itself. I suggest you do that -- this gamer promises your satisfaction. In my eyes, AOE 2, AOK is 
 a perfect game, masterfully weaving all aspects of good games into one stellar package. Pick this 
 game up in a AOE bundle pack -- it'll be some of the best $20 or so you've ever spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmonkeymanx
Rating: 4.4
Date: Aug 18, 2004 4:07 pm PT
Review:  While AoE II is a quality game, it just doesn't appeal to me. The graphics are ok, and the sound 
 is decent. But its just not fun enough. Replay value is nearly nonexistant, and i know several 
 people who, like myself, tired of the game before getting even twenty five percent of the way through. 
 Multiplayer games are a bit better than the solo missions, but this is one game that takes a long 
 time to be able to even hold your own online. All in all, i say its not worth the money to buy 
 it. Try it at a friends house, or download the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtreusGS
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 14, 2004 8:01 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires II is an exciting RTS that is so good on so many levels. The graphical system is 
 beautiful, will very good attention to detail and smooth animation for all the elements, from game 
 units to the environment. This game improves on the first game because of the added realism. Whereas 
 the first game had distorted dimensions and scaling, Age of Empires II is much more realistic with 
 its building sizes.
  
  In the end the game benifits from a fun storyline, great single player campaigns and excellent 
 ambient sound effects. The only weakeness in the game is that there is no way to get around the 
 mundane tasks such as resource gathering in games like this. But this is the case with most RTS. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
