-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Age of Empires III: The Asian Dynasties
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/ageofempiresiiitheasiandynasties/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Three interesting new Asian civilizations and campaigns.
 New twists on the familiar Age of Empires gameplay.
 Wonders make a return to the series.
 Ninjas.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The campaigns feature familiar plot twists.
 Audio mostly recycles existing Age music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.9, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,186 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Big Huge Games
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Oct 23, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Asian Dynasties is a solid expansion that offers unique Asian civs and some other gameplay tweaks 
 to Age of Empires III. 

  Since Age of Empires debuted in 1997, the series has grown to become one of the pillars of real-time 
 strategy gaming. Its success is in part due to the way the series has shifted historical periods. 
 The first game covers antiquity, from the Stone Age to the Roman Empire. Meanwhile, Age of Empires 
 II focuses on the medieval era. And 2005's Age of Empires III is about the era of European exploration 
 and colonization. This brings us to Age of Empires III: The Asian Dynasties, the second expansion 
 pack and the first game in the franchise not created by Ensemble Studios. Big Huge Games, creator 
 of Rise of Nations and Rise of Legends, is responsible for The Asian Dynasties, and the company 
 ably delivers a solid expansion.  

           The Chinese discover the New World in The Asian Dynasties. Yes, you read that right.  
     

  What the expansion brings to the table are three new Asian civilizations -- Japan, China, and India -- as 
 well as three campaigns built around them. The Japanese campaign deals with the Warring States 
 period of rival Shogun; the Chinese campaign actually covers a naval expedition to the New World; 
 and the Indian campaign is about throwing off the oppressive yoke of the East India Trading Company. 
 The campaigns have their twists and turns, with a fair amount of betrayal going on, though the 
 characters are drawn in such obviously black-and-white textures that it's not too hard to see the 
 plot developments coming. For instance, most of the bad guys in the game speak with haughty, arrogant 
 voices, while the good guys tend to be humbler and wiser.  

  The heart of the expansion is the three Asian civilizations, and Big Huge has done a good job in 
 making them feel distinct from those seen in Age of Empires III. The Japanese are built around 
 extremely powerful infantry units like samurai, while the Chinese and Indians can easily bring 
 sheer mass to a battle in the form of large armies. The various economies reflect historical trends; 
 for example, the Chinese and Indians can quickly boost their populations, giving them hordes of 
 villagers to gather resources. One of the most important new features is actually the reintroduction 
 of wonders to the game. Wonders are notable structures from history, and they played a significant 
 role in the first two Age of Empires games, only to disappear in Age of Empires III. They're back 
 in The Asian Dynasties, and each Asian civ has five to choose from. The ones that you select can 
 help define your play style; we like the Chinese wonder that grants transcendence, or the ability 
 to heal all your units instantly. That's particularly useful if you like to go on the offensive. 
 Other wonders can boost resource gathering, grant free armies, and so on. Wonders are also important 
 because they're the only way the Asian civilizations can advance from one technological age to 
 another.  

  At the same time, the core game remains relatively the same. It's all about getting a large number 
 of villagers out there gathering the three primary resources (food, wood, and gold) that are needed 
 to build all your buildings, recruit your units, research your upgrades, and then advance to the 
 next technological age to repeat the process all over again. The home cities concept is still here; 
 you can request reinforcements or supplies from your civilization's capital. You do this by using 
 special cards that you unlock. There are cards that can send military units, villagers, and resources, 
 for example. You can also build custom decks that are designed for various strategies, like an 
 economic deck that gives you bonus powers that aid your economy. Another unique aspect of the Asian 
 civs is that they can use many of these cards twice, which can really help ramp up the size of 
 an army or economy quickly. Serious players will no doubt spend lots of time analyzing the possible 
 unlocks and building customized decks for different play styles, though you don't need to expend 
 that much effort if you're a casual player, as the default deck is good enough.  

  One new feature is the foreign consulate, which allows Asian civilizations to ally with a European 
 power and purchase reinforcements using tribute, which is a fourth resource that's unique to Asian 
 civs. Tribute is basically a tax on your economy, and you can increase your rate of tribute at 
 the price of a slightly slower economy, but what it does is allow you to purchase rare and powerful 
 European units. The sudden appearance of a European army or navy to the battle can turn the tide 
 of battle. Since you need to have Age of Empires III to play The Asian Dynasties, you can pit European 
 and Asian civilizations against one another in skirmish or multiplayer modes on a wide variety 
 of maps. Want to have Chinese warriors in New England? Go for it. The sides seem relatively well 
 balanced even though they differ in how they advance from age to age. The Europeans tend to have 
 a technological advantage, though the Asian civs tend to have a numerical one.  

           The home city concept gets an Asian makeover.      

  The Asian Dynasties does add 
 some visual pizzazz in the form of architecture; the majestic wonders and buildings pop out on 
 the screen. There's also plenty of variety among the units, from Indian war elephants to Chinese 
 steppe riders and Japanese samurai. The music also offers some appropriately cultural queues (though 
 it reuses much of the existing Age of Empires III score) .  

  Like The WarChiefs expansion from last year, The Asian Dynasties does a good job of introducing 
 distinct new civilizations to Age of Empires III -- only this time, instead of Native American tribes, 
 there are three iconic Asian civilizations to play with now. There's a fair amount here to dig 
 into if you're a serious Age of Empires fan or someone who likes Asian civilization.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (31 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jettpack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 1:09 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3: The Asian Dynasties, is a great expansion for an excellent and classic game. 
 The 3 new Asian races all look great, with excellent period architecture accented with beautiful 
 Japanese temples and Chinese pagodas. Though not at the cutting edge of the pixel pushers like 
 Crysis, the AOE3 graphics engine holds up well and can still impress with its excellent bloom effects, 
 vivid coloring and great physics capabilities. One must remember that this AOE3 was originally 
 released in 2005, and for a game that is 4 years old, it holds up phenomenally. _____
  The new content is interesting, entertaining, and overall provides a great change in gameplay when 
 using any of the 3 new civilizations. No matter your choice, Japanese, Chinese or Indian, the dynamics 
 of the game will feel different to you. A welcomed slice of variety and a departure from the European 
 civilizations that we have all played with countless times. Also, ES decided to bless AOE3 fans 
 with a whole new continent worth of skirmish maps, including silk road, and Honshu. _____
  The only complaint i can make against such an excellent expansion is that like The Warchiefs expansion 
 before it, none of the asian home cities have the ability to customize its appearance the same 
 way the European civilizations do. Which i find slightly sad because i personally had so much fun 
 changing the citizens of my home city, having Quasimodo, the hunchback jump around Notre Dome or 
 Jack the Ripper running around London. This however is really of no real importance at all because 
 it does not affect the game play._____ 
  Overal, AOE3: TAD is an excellent expansion with lots of new content. It looks better than ever, 
 the multiplayer is just as competitive and fun as ever. If you have AOE3, then get this expansion. 
 If you dont have the original, then get this expansion any way cause guess what! Its standalone 
 capable!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2008 11:36 pm PT
Review:  All three generations of Age of Empires focused on resource gathering, building armies and conquer 
 the enemies. All of them simulated the old time wars between nations. Each nation has some strong 
 units or some special units which others don't have or have with less powers. The target is to 
 gather each of your units based on their skills and specialties and use them to kill all of the 
 enemies on the map. 
  
  Age of Empires 3: The Asian Dynasties made some revolution to its predecessors. In this new addon, 
 there are three new nations from Asia; China, Japan and India. These three nations follow a good 
 scenario in the campaign mode. The stories seem to be true like Indians against British in East 
 Company. The difference is that the new nations do not share any units among themselves. Each nation 
 has its own unit types. The game becomes like C&C series with different factions. 
  
  Asian Dynasties also adds some fictions which is not appropriate for long generation of real strategy 
 games. For example the Indian leader has a specialty to increase their nearby units attack for 
 a short period. It sounds much like War Craft 3. These changes put this new version between real 
 and fiction games. However you can still have fun playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3: Asian Dynasties greatly improves lots of balance issues. They semi-recently had 
 a new patch out that rebalanced the game.
  
  The multi-player is excellent; honestly, the only point of buying the game is the multi-player. 
 The campaigns are horribly written and historically are kind of jokes. They all end on somewhat 
 confusing, strange, and sad notes. They just don't seem in sync with the game.
  
  The multi-player lobby has changed. It looks nicer, you just have to get used to it.
  
  They've 
 added new building and units into the game. Since the original game, and The Warchiefs expansion, 
 I would say that almost every strategy has to be revised. The game is completely different with 
 the new civilizations, but also with the new features in the game. If you were good at the original 
 game, it will take some time getting used to the new strategies.
  
  I would give this game a buy rating.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gazalem
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I was excited when I first heard of the new expansion and couldn't wait to play it. although i 
 didn 't get the opportunity to play it long after it was released (because of computer problems) 
 I have logged hundreds of hours into this game.
  I must admit there were a few problems, the new Asian civilizations are extremly overpowered. The 
 Japanese are in my oppinion the most powerful, followed by the Indians, and then Chinese. I can 
 play on much higher difficulties as the asian nations, where I cannot play that high on the European 
 civs. 
  There is at leats two glitches I found, although one i cannot tell if it is my computer. The first 
 was where the native settlements would not show on the map, the area to built your trading post 
 showed up and if selected a line would show the boundires , and show on the map but you could not 
 see the actual buildings.
  The second problem I had was about every half hour the game would close out. This may have just 
 been my computer, although It stopped about a week after it started.
  Even with the problems I had with it, this is one of my favorite games ever. The gameplay is still 
 classic, the Campaigne is excellent, and is deffinately worth the money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  It is getting really annoying how game companies try to extract lately as much money from a certain 
 franchise as they can. The result is always the same - Painkiller kicks ass, then it is well supplemented 
 by Battle Out of Hell and then we get Overdose which was exactly this - an overdose. And how about 
 F. E. A. R. - after redefining the slow motion feature in FPS, we get Extraction Point which is relatively 
 good and then Perseus Mandate which recycles even the same events from the original. Examples go 
 on with Tribes of the East, Soulstorm, etc.
  
  The situation is pretty much the same with the Asian Dynasties as well. It is one expansion too 
 many to Age of Empires 3. While it is not actually devoid of good ideas, it is just too much. For 
 example the new civilizations play differently from the old ones and they all have distinctive 
 architecture and specific units. The reintroduction of war elephants to the Age of Empires battlefields 
 is refreshing. Still, the civilizations seem unbalanced. For example Indian villagers cost wood 
 which combined with building construction makes them develop economically slower than the other 
 nations. At the same time, trying to generate enough wood would probably make you ignore food collection, 
 so when you have to raise an army you would find yourself lacking resources again.
  
  There is also a new resource for the new civilizations - tribute. It is automatically generated 
 at the cost of slower collection of other resources. You may spend this resource later to purchase 
 units and buildings from European allies who you can choose. Allies are thought in such a way that 
 you actually depend on them for victory. This is good but the problem here is that allies are unbalanced 
 and some are always much better than others.
  
  New civilizations now advance through wonders which grant special powers but the situation with 
 them is just like with allies - some are always better than others.
  
  As for the singleplayer campaigns, this time they suck big time. The charming story of the Black 
 family is now discontinued and it is replaced by short, uninteresting and inconsistent campaigns, 
 characterized with total lack of suspense and even worse voice-acting than from previous installments 
 of Age of Empires 3. Also the levels are somewhat more straightforward and easier.
  
  I guess The Asian Dynasties would be fun to die-hard fans of the franchise because of the three 
 new civilizations and the new approach to multiplayer that they bring, but for ordinary gamers 
 who would just want to play a strategy game, this expansion is really not necessary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hactorx
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  THE GAME IS VERY GOOD, BUT HAS WAY TO MANY ISSUES THAT MAKE IT EVENTUALLY ANNOYING AND IRRITABLE. 
 THERE GAME IS COMPLETELY UNBALANCED, THERE ARE 4 NATIONS THE FRENCH, RUSSIANS AND JAPANESE THAT 
 EVERYONE TENDS TO PLAY. THESE RACES HAVE THE FASTEST AND STRONGEST UNITS AND GATHER HUGE AMOUNTS 
 OF RESOURCES. THERE IS NO PATCHES OF ANY KIND BALANCING THIS OUT. THE GAME ONLINE IS PLAYED MOSTLY 
 ON JUST 3 MAPS, SINCE THEY HAVE NO WATER. IF YOU GET SHIP IN MULTY PLAYER GAMES THE LAG IS UNIMAGINABLE, 
 IN MANY CASES MAKING THE GAME COME TO A COMPLETE STOP. ONCE AGAIN NO PATCH. ITS A SHAME THAT SUCH 
 A GREAT GAME HAS TO GO TO WAIST, BUT JUST AS MANY GAMES TODAY ARE MADE IN A SHORT AMOUNT OF TIME 
 AND THE MOST IMPORTANT FEATURE OF THEM IS THE COPY RIGHT PROTECTION. MANY GAME COMPANIES NEED TO 
 LEARN FROM BLIZZARD AND CREATE PATCHES, TO KEEP THE COMMUNITY ALIVE. I KNOW MANY PEOPLE WHO BOUGHT 
 THIS GAME AND IN A FEW MONTHS SOLD IT ON EBAY, JUST AS U AM ABOUT TO DO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LisaVonRhoman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  It was good to finally play as the Asian civilizations again. China was an old friend of AOEII 
 games, and, if memory serves me right, Japan was, also. To my knowledge, this is the only RTS that 
 allows one to play as the Indian civilization, which is horribly unique and interesting. Love the 
 Wonders, missed them tremendously since AOEII. It's great how Big Huge Games gave them bonuses; 
 it just adds to the splendor of battling macaques on your Hindi Guru who rides a tame elephant. 
 Wow! That just never gets old. Who doesn't love playing in Asian maps anyway? There's something 
 about Borneo that has me coming back incessantly. On the downside... well there's that whole problem 
 with... um... well isn't that a shame; I just can't think of any flaws except the insatiability 
 of wanting more. I suppose that's more of the gamer's flaw than the game's flaw. But, yet again... 
 You can't help but wishing there was more to the campaign. (I don't think any AOE campaign is going 
 to outdo AOM) As expansions go, I'd have to say this one outperforms The War Cheifs just out of 
 sheer uniqueness. Though if you have both games then there is plenty of enjoyment out of a Chinese-Sioux 
 face-off in Sri Lanka. It deserves an 8.5 because it's great. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saila
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  The third (and for now, the last one) part of AOE 3 series brings 3 new civilizations to play. 
 If you are a fan of manga and Japan, you will be pleased with Japanese civilization. You play in 
 service of shogun that wants to unite the country. But if you like the Middle Kingdom, you can 
 play as young official in emperor's service that sails forth and back to the New World. These two 
 campaigns are set in Middle Ages but the last one goes on in the XIXth century India. The game 
 does not add any new features besides of the abilities of civilizations, and in multiplayer mode. 
 All three Asian nations need to build a Wonder to advance to the next era. And this wonder building 
 influences your game-play: it modifies economy or military. 
  In the single player campaign mode you can be a little bit disappointed or feel dissatisfied because 
 each campaign composes of 5 missions. You just started playing and you reached the end. It seems 
 like it was a kind of "sample" or "trailer" in comparison which two previous games.
  The multi player mode is well done with many options known from past parts of the series.
  The 
 expansion is still worth playing  you can play the campaign mode as a more complex tutorial and 
 then you can explore all possibilities in skirmish mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Illscrewyoubig
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  Asian Dynasties is just another addition to the series, but a bit of a departure with wonders. 
 No longer are they towering contructs that spelled certain doom for foes and could only be created 
 when victory was already ascertained.
  
  Instead, their role in Dynasties is a bit less flatering, but wholly powerful. A powerful wonder 
 can turn the tide of battle, which is a bit of a let down really. I mean, how does some temple 
 miles away suddenly call down holy vengeance and absolutely decimate foes? 
  
  However, the Asian's new way of advancing age is too unexplosive. Very predictable, and the fact 
 they can raid your base on a suicide run to raze your wonder to stop you from advancing age is 
 a bit tedious at times.
  
  Still, there are worse games, and a nice addition wih the "foreign powers", though its a bit powerful 
 and using western forces can ultimately crush the underwhelmed American Indians. Plus, the Indian 
 bonus ability of knowing the location of all trade-routes seems strange when applied to China (er, 
 how do those American Indians know the Chinese?) . Now the ld traditional western countries suddenly 
 seem weak in comparison with the mass-producing Chinese armies of doom (who all dies in like 3 
 seconds) when they can use Western Artillery! I mean, which German Ally would give their enemies 
 their guns?! Its preposterous.
  
  Next, the explorers are just becoming stronger and stronger. I mean, the monk can basically raid 
 an enemy base (if its nomad) , and half destroy the enemy before construction. Plus, the Japanese 
 guys have exploding arrows and can easily pick off enemy explorers and opposing shoguns. Then the 
 Indian explorers are so weak, its not even funny. I mean, when 2 elephants struggle with 6 disciples 
 (renowned for being the weakest military units in the game) , you know their crap (add this to the 
 fact they can't heal each other or themselves) .
  
  Overall, its a nice addition to the series, wrapping up a well-earned chapter in the Age of Empires 
 series, though I was hoping for more radical changes and insane new systems, I wasn't too depressed 
 with the result. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoospecter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  I personally think this expansion is worth it. I've been playing Age of Empires 3 since the playable 
 demo and it has the most lasting value out of any strategy game out there nowadays. This is a worthy 
 expansion. Its incredibly painful for me to sit through a campaign mode nowadays so my review has 
 nothing to do with that. This expansion adds 3 new races China, India, and Japan. China is kind 
 of like playing Russia with a twist. You build units in bulk like Russia, but instead of 5 at a 
 time of Musketeers you get say 3 Pikemen and 3 Crossbowmen. It is a little bit annoying when you 
 begin playing them but once you've got everything down pact its nice because it gives you a balanced 
 army so you won't get wiped out by 1 thing. India is the next new race. The biggest thing with 
 them, besides new units, is the groves (like a limited mill for lumber) which harvests faster then 
 trees and in a safe location, but it doesn't last forever. Also there settlers cost wood. India 
 is fun, but definitely not my favorite race due to the fact that, while you can get elephants which 
 are awesome, they cost too much population and resources to really be worth it. Next is Japan, 
 which is a great race. It is one of my favorite races as well. Samurai are kind of like Dopplesoldners 
 and provide a swift *** kicking with their AoE attacks. None of the races are weak and they add 
 more depth to the game especially with the Asian dynasties aging up using wonders and with export 
 and such. In summary, if you like AoE 3 buy the expansion and enjoy the new maps, the three great 
 races, and the new modes (maybe) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennyYoung
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III: the Asian Dynasties is the second expansion to Ensemble Studios award-winning 
 game Age of Empires III. 
  
  The Asian Dynasties brings many new things to the table, most importantly the new civilizations 
 which you can play as. The Japanese, Chinese, and Indian civilizations are all now playable. Each 
 has different units, upgrades, and bonuses that no other civ has. 
  
  There are also new ways to win like king of the hill. In this game mode you and your allies fight 
 for control of a fort in the middle of the map and if you can keep control of it for a certain 
 amount of time you win. There is also Regicide where each team has a King to protect and if he 
 gets killed you lose. Finally there is treaty mode most peoples favorites. This is a normal supremacy 
 match with a designated treaty time where no one can attack so you can build your economy if your 
 a less skilled player than whom your facing it can help a lot and make the game more fun.
  
  This game is a must buy if you already have Age of Empires III and enjoyed it and if you don't 
 have it I suggest that you get Age of Empires III because its a good game and most people like 
 it who play it. The Asian Dynasties gets a 8.0 in my book as a good expansion to an already really 
 fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazman3434
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  When I played the warcheif's demo, I was dissapointed. When I played the Asian dynasties demo, 
 I was interested. This is a nice expansion pack for anyone who loved the age of empires III game. 
 Each new civilization is completely unique with unique units and unique upgrades. Different than 
 age of empire III's same units like musketeers, each civilization has different units. The architexture 
 is kind-of cool and the new maps are great. Japan has powerful home shipments like generals (or 
 shogans) which can train troops, and add an attack bonues to nearby units. China can train groups 
 of soldeirs in a bundle and build large armies quicker. India has some interesting features, like 
 the mangrove plants that you can homeshipment for free and collect wood from. Their villagers cost 
 wood. The asian civilizations can seem like they have a definate advantage over their European 
 counterparts. I suggest you buy it to have a nice add-on to your age of empires III edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  Yet another Expansion from Microsoft that I really liked. Why can they make proper Expansions, 
 but other games (with the exception of Sims2) can't?
  
  With the expansion you get 3 new Civs to work with. China, Japan and India. With all new buildings 
 and all new units.
  
  Going up with your ages is also handled a little differently with these countries. You need to 
 build Wonders for you to be able to move to the next age. All the wonders have different powers, 
 so you nee to select them carefully.
  
  The only thing I didn't like is that most of the buildings build the same units. I like to have 
 my 3 buildings and they have very specific units. This one you can build an Archer in 3 different 
 places. The same archer!
  
  Other than that, the Campaigns are awesome, the graphics are great and it it just totally worth 
 it if you have the other expansions already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpnelson82
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 16, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  Asian Dynasties is slightly better than the War Chiefs. The Japanese unique units, Shinobi, Ninjustu 
 kutai, etc just rip through an army with no trouble then go on and smash the enemy town or use 
 stealth mode and bypass the army and destroy the town while your samurai or Yabusame riders deal 
 with the army. The Asian navies regularly smash the Europeans which is slightly annoying, especially 
 when it takes 2 Caravels and two Galleons to sink one dinky little junk or Wokou whatchamacallit 
 which isn't to say that a frigate couldn't sink them, but I'd still send a Galleon just in case. 
 Which brings me to my problems with the game. When did AoE get the cartoony look? RoR didn't look 
 so cartoon-ish neither did AoK, must have been Titans that it started with. Still, on land the 
 Europeans have a fair advantage with cannons and gun carrying cavalry, and the good old fashioned 
 infantry barrage (volley fire, present... FIRE!) . What happened to the auto-explore option? ? All 
 in all, it beats the War Chiefs which wasn't all that great. One nice thing about the Asian Dynasties 
 is how evenly matched it is, Asians and Europeans stand pretty well nose to nose. Another thing, 
 apparently we have British India (Gurkha rifles, Sepoys) and native India (elephants, camels) in 
 one, hmmm; why not just have the British be able to train Gurkhas and Sepoys as an upgrade? or 
 instead of India have Thai, Korean. Oh and how about a British special weapon "Opium cloud" knocks 
 out enemies in a medium sized area for 30 seconds, could be an explorer ability. For the Chinese, 
 Boxer rebellion- turns peasants into uncontrollable super warriors with mega hit-points. The Japanese 
 could have divine wind a special ability which summons a hurricane, or a card called Seven Samurai 
 which sends 7 elite mercenary Samurai for 500 food. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  AOE3 turned out to be a massive disappointment. The first few hours of playing the game are fine, 
 but then it's just wash-rinse-repeat formula all the way to the second expansion. The game will 
 involve gaining control of certain buildings on the map or destroying the enemy town center. After 
 the first few missions, the challenge of the entire game dies down to upgrade-build-destroy kind 
 of gameplay.
  
  The AI is at it's worst at higher difficulty levels. The only thing that differs is the frequency 
 of attacks from the enemy, otherwise their tactics and predictable nature make it all too easy 
 to squash them. 
  
  As far as upgrades go, the game offers a little bit of variety by introducing Native Tribes with 
 different units (who bring their vastly different skills to the game) .
  
  The game's graphics and everything aside, the worst part about it is that the game is LOOOONG. 
 As in even the sequels are EXACTLY the same as the base game. AOE3 might be a good game in and 
 of itself, but seeing it together with it's sequels, I have to say I was thoroughly disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrenaLANcg
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I loved Big Huge Games so far, and having them creating the expantion Age of Empire 3 was just 
 the best thing that could ever happen to the AoE series.
  
  The Asian Dynasties add a fresh flavor to a very simplistic game that has a Huge potential. The 
 re-balancing of some of the units and the Fresh feel of the overall game have just injected a re-juvenation 
 pot to AoE 3
  
  Thumbs up! five Stars, 10 out of 10 I finally get to enjoy playing this game.
  
  I believe 
 the chinese civ is a little undepowered in the late game. Indians have a lot of hps and combined 
 right with infantry and cavalry units (ehmm elephantry) they can be very powerful on the battle 
 field. 
  
  My favorite civ, the Japanese are really awesome. I still can't manage to create a sustainable 
 effective rush but after age 3, this civ is the most powerful of the whole game. Yes, tey lack 
 a strong artilery but just drop 15 samurais in the middle of your enemy's town and see what happens 
 :) (better to have 50+ but then.. if you blink you'll miss the city)
  
  I like to call them super sayajins :)
  
  
  
  Thank you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacksaibot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 11:11 am PT
Review:  Okay, 3 new civilizations. They have some similarities but overall each have their own unique characteristics 
 and features that sets them apart.
  
  I won't go in-depth considering I'd cover much of the reviews in the original game and the warchiefs 
 expansion.
  
  The singleplayer for the Japanese was most interesting. I love the Japanese culture, as I do the 
 Chinese... however the Chinese story in the campaign was a bit lame although the dialogue and plot 
 kept me going.
  The Indians... were gay, for a lack of a better term. It took me a week to finish their campaign 
 because I was so uninterested. I often found myself muting the game because their voices got so 
 bloody annoying.
  
  Although they did a good job with the new civs, the replay value was no more than about 2 months 
 for me. It didn't bring enough to keep me playing an already boring game. The only reason I keep 
 the game installed on my computer is so I can make my own mods. Now THAT makes it fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seansoutar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  
  
  
  
  Age of Empires 3 Asian Dynasties adds a whole new yet similar plot twist campaign and three new 
 Asian civilizations to the game. The graphics are good on the game not spectacular like Crysis 
 or anything but good. Japan, India and China are the new civilizations. The developers did a great 
 job of making it different from the European counterparts. Music in the expansion is exactly the 
 same but that isn't a big draw back. The campaign well, been there done that. Age of Empires Asian 
 Dynasties is the best expansion for the new game ( better I think that Warchiefs ) and is a solid 
 game. There is no major drawbacks to this game, but no groundbreaking stuff. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blade55555
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Age Of Empires 3 The Asian Dynasties is a great expansion and if you like me love the Age Of Empires 
 series then this is a definate must buy. I was not very satisfied with The Warchiefs because I 
 really hated the Indians and still do. I still loved the expansion for the new features (except 
 treaty bleck) but the Indians was lame. So when they announced 3 new Asian civs in the next xpack 
 I got very excited. I played the demo and liked japan. So I thought I might be them. Then came 
 China. China is very very fun to play. Great banner armies, although I guess Disciples are a bit 
 OP people say I dont' use them. They are very unique compared to other civs. Japan is fun to play 
 still as its fun to have shrines help with resource gathering (fast aging for me) . Really good 
 civ to play. India is a civ I don't like. They brought back the elephants... Lame... The Mahouts 
 the Indians can make are very very strong and most Indians like those because they dominate anything. 
 Now for the first 2 expansions my main civ was well France. I used France for 2 years before finding 
 another civ :) . My ranks for each game is Vanilla (first aoe3) Serg (.1 from master serg) The first 
 expansion (aka. twc) 2nd lt. And so far in this newest expansion 2nd lt. I definately recommend 
 this game to all players that like strategy games or the age of empires series. I hope this review 
 helps you to make the right choice and get This new expansion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armednlnja
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I love this expansion!!!!!! But what i really like about this expansion is the new race and gameplay 
 modes. 
  
  Visual- They are perfect. one of the best graphics on an rts game. and what i like is each race 
 gets a asian make over. The buildings look different etc..
  
  Sound- Oh My God! its alright but cant get repeative at times.... What i really wanted was that 
 each race have a typical song of its own.. 
  
  Gameplay-Its alot better now with new gameplay modes, new ways to win and new ways to play, new 
 troops, new buildings, omg i could go on.. but they are worth experiencing on your own!
  
  Overall this is a excellent expansion for any one who like Age. Great expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackTargetmark
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  This is the 3rd installment for the Age of Empires III series, and its 2nd expansion. It feels 
 that the series are becoming repetitive, it's rock-paper-scissors concept is getting more and more 
 familiar.
  The Asian Dynasties adds 3 new Asian civilizations to the game, the Indians, Japanese, and Chinese. 
 Why don't add up other nations, like, say, Koreans, or Indonesians, or Persians, or Mongols, well, 
 that might make research and development harder, but, fans will honor more.
  One most interesting feature is the export system. By building a Consulate, Asian empires can accumulate 
 export by sacrificing a percentage of their resource gathering rate. When you get an enough amount, 
 export can be traded with European units at the Consulate.
  With 3 new empires, the game gets a considerable gameplay expansion, yes, but not quite. It is 
 true that the Asians' gameplay style is a lot different, like having to build wonders to advance 
 age, the Chinese trains armies instead of individual units, the Japanese workers can't hunt animals, 
 the Indians can utilize cows to acquire extra XP, and so on. But generally in combat part the 3 
 empires aren't different too much. All of them has 3 general types of infantry in the AoE III series: 
 ranged, melee, and gunpowder. Most of their stats are not so different too. Just the name and appearance. 
 The only distinguishing difference is, that the Indians also utilize the strongest land mammal 
 on earth; the elephants. Having 8 Mahouts is more or less equal to having 4 fully-upgraded Overlords 
 in C&C: Generals. However, new game modes like regicide, king-of-the-hill etc. might put up some 
 new feels. New maps also add on more hours of gameplay.
  The campaigns are too short. It might be understandable because perhaps Ensemble wanted to match 
 the history. But fantasizing is not bad too, is it? How can each empire only get 5 campaign levels. 
 That's a bit lame. That makes the campaign be beatable in less than 10 hours. Perhaps even less 
 than 6 hours for experts? I myself finished it in approx. 8 hours. That if we have familiarized 
 ourselves with the gameplay styles of the 3 distinct civilizations.
  The graphics are still beautiful like usual, it's just the scenery of a Siege Elephant devastating 
 a structure looks a bit weird. The others, like particle effects from muskets, blown infantry because 
 of cannonballs, naval combats, and explosion effects are still good like the earlier AoE IIIs.
 
  Voice acting might be the worst from all aspects. It's mostly the same for a civilization's whole 
 unit (yeah, it might have already been so since the first AoE III) and the music, I agree with 
 GameSpot, mostly recycled from the last games.
  If you're an AoE III player, especially if you're an Asian civ freak, this is certainly a must 
 buy. But don't expect too much revolutionary system.
  Gameplay: 7 Graphics: 9 Sound: 7
  Overall: 7.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the AoE series from the beginning. Age of Kings and it's expansion was the best 
 in the series, but I love AoE III as well. The Warchiefs expansion was barely acceptable, and it 
 felt as though Ensemble tossed it out to the community not polished at all. The voice acting was 
 horrible. Big Huge Games has come up with a great expansion with the Asian Dynasties. Bringing 
 back King of the hill mode, treasures at sea, wonders, and best of all . . .war elephants. I like 
 that there are some interesting gameplay differences as well. Having to have a villager build a 
 wonder to age up is great. You can still que up villagers while aging up, and the wonder has a 
 strategic bonus as well. While it's historically inaccurate, it's still fun to play. My only gripe 
 and this goes for the Warchiefs too, is that there is no new music. There was for The Rise of Rome 
 and The Conquerer expansion packs for AoE I and II respectively. I can only gue$$ why En$emble 
 wouldn't put new mu$ic in the expan$ion$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perfectsniper15
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  Went through the game, it's like AOE 3, it's fun and adictive. Though when I first played it and 
 heard the Japanese I could not stop laughing. How hard is it to get a native speaker to say some 
 that? 
  
  I mean it actually gets to me, and I played it in front of some of my Japanese friends and we all 
 were just laughing. It's horrible, worse then my high school japanese 1st year class.
  
  I don't know about the other languages, I'll probably ask my Chinese friend about the Chinese but 
 that I found a bit disappointing.
  
  Overall game play is good, some levels are a bit fustrating, easy is easy. teching up isn't too 
 bad. I don't know, if you like AOE 3 well it's like it, but wanted to play as an Asian nation this 
 is good. Waiting for Total War exp for the Asians.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  I like the old school RTS games, their classic resource gathering, building and conquering formula 
 is in fact more appealing to me than some of the new takes at the genre, like World in Conflict's 
 more pure action based gameplay. And with this in mind I gave the Asian Dynasties expansion a go. 
 
  
  You play three different dynasties: Japanese, Chinese and Indian. All offering unique units and 
 buildings, but basically what you have seen before with new graphics. Some memorable units are 
 Ninja's and the flamethrower. Both powerful units that will shift the balance to your favor, and 
 its nothing more satisfying than seeing a crowd of enemies being torched by the flamethrower and 
 saving the day. The main characters also has some interesting abilities this time, like a powerful 
 bomb which can be thrown long distances and make the enemy fly in all directions.
  
  The various missions are quite varied, and runs pretty well. Although in a lot of cases its very 
 clear the designers meant for you to play it in only one specific way, and if you chose another 
 way, for example by building a town center ahead of time or destroying enemy bases out of order 
 from the narrators suggestions, you will be left with the feeling you played the game in the "wrong 
 way". But unfortunately, the "wrong way" is often better than the "right way", and you will be 
 left with a feeling of cheating if you ignore the narrators nagging you to do something in a specific 
 way. 
  
  There are also a lot of new cards. I was never a big fan of the cards system, maybe useful in multiplayer, 
 but during the single player campaign they do not seem to have any major impact on the gameplay. 
 In fact, I stuck with the default deck of cards most of the time, and it will get you through the 
 levels easily. So, in my mind they should have spent their time on improving the game instead.
 
  
  The game is pretty long, and seems longer than the previous expansion. And I found the story to 
 be more interesting than in the original game. Having said that, the original story was a big long 
 yawn for me, so it's still nothing special, and the voice acting is at times very poor.
  
  Graphics wise its as you would expect. Polished animations and structures, but nothing new. It's 
 the same old engine without improvements.
  
  All in all, its a decent add-on with a lot of new content, and I enjoyed playing it for the most 
 part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneindarkness
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  This game is truely the best AOE ever. I have followed the game since the 1st series! The graphics 
 are awsome, the civs are just right, anddthe gameplay is amazing! Hmmmmmm How do you beat the sioux 
 teepee spamming? Anyone who rates this game below a 10 do not deserve to play this game ever! A 9.0 
 is not worthy of this game! only a 10 is : ) . And people stop rating the game off of the campaign! You 
 know you didnt buy this game for the campaign!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! This game should be a definite buy! Some 
 times i wonder if you guys actually know how to write a review? : ) . TAUNT 21. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FRAGHI
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This game covers all sorts of fun stuff. Mansabdars are great and look cool. The export feature 
 adds a whole new dimension. For example, falconets give you a edge but are hard to get. The campaign 
 is great with each scenario taking 10-20 minutes. This is great for when you don't want to spend 
 a lot of time but want some action. The secondary objectives really contribute instead of just 
 being distractions. Micro-managing is really in depth and powerful (my little sis killed both my 
 brahmins on one treasure without killing any guardians, I came back and took it with no problems) . 
 All around great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bancos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  It's a verry good game but small. I had finished AOE III in 40 hours, AOE III
  the Warchiefs in 25, and this game in 15 hours so is verry short. But really worth the wait and 
 i'm verry happy . The problem is i can't play with Warchiefs in Asian D. so relly suks. I hope 
 it will be a new expansion this time bigger. So far the units and civilisations are good. But the 
 chinesse are rubissh and they have some weak units: the artilery is verry poor; the infantary is 
 easy to beat; but they have some good cavalery 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetbruceli
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  One thing for sure is adding this game will increase maps and some add ons. The only negative is 
 the way the explorers work. See you get 2 guys and they have a stun capabilty and with this you 
 walk up to a guardian and stun them for a few seconds. Unlike the War Chiefs which you can covert 
 them to your team or the europeans that get a one shot one kill deal.
  The Chinese makes 3 or 4 armies at a time and the Indians pay wood for settlers. Thats make moving 
 to the 2 age kinda slow.
  The Japanese are easier than 3 because they retrieve resourses through the houses they build. They 
 also get better benifits when moving through the ages.
  There is a demo out there, you should try before you buy, I love War Chiefs and the orignal but 
 I only like this one more the added maps and new enemies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hrid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  THIS IS GOOD GAME BEUSCE I LIKE all AGE OF  BLES THIS 
 GAME I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT 
 I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST 
 LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE 
 IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I 
 JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT I JUST 
 LIKE IT I JUST LIKE IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8ball88
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Asian dynasties is not all a bad expansion. The campaign isnt anything as good as the original 
 game or WarChiefs, and its a bit upsetting you cant have the asian dynasties go up against the 
 warchiefs (the expansions have to be played differently) . But there is enough good content to get 
 you into the skirmish mode and multiplayer. India is probably the most diverse civ out of all of 
 them and probably the strongest if you have a good card deck (i luv India, can u guess y=) ) . All 
 in all, Asian dynasties is more like one of the those online mods u buy for RPGs and maynot be 
 worth spending ur money on. If you borrow it or find some other means (wink wink) to play this 
 expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agente_0079
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  Certainly a good expansion, but to see details, sound, according to music I imagined that there 
 were civilizations in the game, Japanese music, Indian music, Chinese music or something like that, 
 except the menu song i like it, there the same boring music it is a recycled from the original 
 game like sounds, beautiful graphics in the wonders, good control of the game, interesting, something 
 short, no doubt the boat Treasure is impressive, I liked, that sad it can not be accessed as a 
 unit, since else is more of the same thing, and I hope Empire Earth 3 imposes interesting improvements 
 to the strategy, Sorry if i wrote something wrong, I am not very good with the English =) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
