-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Age of Mythology: The Titans
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/ageofmythologytitans/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  2, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.4, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 3,151 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Ensemble Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 30, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Titans is recommendable to any fan of Age of Mythology, particularly those who liked the idea 
 of the game but maybe had trouble getting over the learning curve. 

  The expansion pack to last year's outstanding real-time strategy game Age of Mythology includes 
 some big, new additions. Literally. Appropriately titled "The Titans," this add-on lets you summon 
 enormous monstrosities to support your armies in the latter stages of a battle. These creatures 
 are so powerful that only a large, concentrated force, or another titan, can defeat them. Furthermore, 
 The Titans lets you play as an entirely new civilization, Atlantis, in addition to the Greek, Egyptian, 
 and Norse civilizations included in the first game. Atlantis figures prominently in the expansion 
 pack's single-player campaign, and the addition of the completely new civilization fleshes out 
 this complex real-time strategy game in skirmishes both against the computer and against other 
 players.  

          Atlantis brings its enormous titan to bear against an unfortunately unprepared foe.    

  Rather than add a smattering of new units and technologies to the existing civilizations, The Titans 
 emphasizes the new fourth civilization and makes few changes to the original civs from Age of Mythology. 
 As with the other factions, you don't just play as "Atlantis" but instead can choose from its three 
 major gods -- Kronos (Zeus' father) , Oranos (Kronos' father) , and Gaia (Oranos' wife) . Nine minor 
 gods, including Helios, Atlas, and Prometheus, support the major gods, and you choose from pairs 
 of them as you climb the technology tree during a match. So, just like in Age of Mythology, your 
 choice of major god influences certain key abilities you have while commanding the Atlantean forces, 
 while your choice of minor gods during the course of a match grants you access to various myth 
 units, gives you access to particular god powers, and allows you to research unique technologies 
 exclusive to those gods.  

  The Atlantean civilization is powerful and fits in quite well with the other three. Its architecture 
 most resembles that of the Greeks, and its myth units look good and are effective. The satyr, for 
 example, hurls armfuls of spears at the enemy ranks and can damage large groups of infantry. The 
 behemoth resembles a dinosaur and can knock buildings down with just a few powerful head-butts. 
 Automatons are animated suits of armor, resistant to damage and capable of repairing each other. 
 Prometheans are living lumps of clay, which, when killed, split into two smaller prometheans that 
 continue the fight. These and the other myth units are among the most colorful of the Atlantean 
 forces (as well as the strongest) , but of course, Atlantis has a standard arsenal of swordsmen, 
 archers, cavalry, siege weapons, and ships -- much like the other civs. These have names like "katapeltes" 
 and "murmillo," but they're immediately recognizable for what they are -- especially since Age of 
 Mythology provides such thorough information about each unit in the context of the game.  

  Ironically, it's easier to play as the Atlanteans than as any of the other Age of Mythology civilizations. 
 Rather than try to appeal to experienced Age of Mythology players looking for an even greater challenge, 
 Ensemble apparently took a step back and made Atlantis a bit more accessible than some of the other 
 civs, particularly the Egyptians and the Norse. When playing as the Atlanteans, you have less resource 
 management to worry about than you do as the other civs -- a distinction that purists may not necessarily 
 appreciate, but one that seems consistent with how real-time strategy games are evolving. At any 
 rate, rather than have to mass worker units on food, wood, and gold like the other civilizations 
 invariably need to, and rather than build special structures (or in the Norse's case, ox carts) 
 as drop-off points for those resources, the Atlanteans have self-reliant, highly efficient villagers 
 at their command. These villagers gather food, wood, and gold faster than any of the other civs, 
 and they don't need to drop it off anywhere, either. To offset this tremendous advantage, Atlantean 
 villagers are significantly more costly than those of the other civs, and obviously, they make 
 very tempting targets throughout a match.  

  This new civilization has a few other distinct advantages. Atlantis is the only civilization that 
 can build expansion bases without having to advance in age first, an ability that's encouraged, 
 since the Atlanteans gain favor from the gods (the resource used for summoning myth units) at a 
 rate that increases as they build more town centers. Atlantis can also reuse some of its god powers 
 multiple times in a match, though stronger powers can be used fewer times and less often. Also, 
 the Atlanteans have the option of converting any of their human units into hero units at a moment's 
 notice, but at a fairly significant cost in resources. Fighting units that are heroes are stronger 
 than normal but are especially good for countering enemy myth units; yet even villagers can be 
 heroes, making them even more efficient than they already are. Since Atlanteans can bring hero 
 units to bear at any time, as long as they have spare resources and an army of human units available, 
 they're very effective against opponents who rely too heavily on myth units.  

          Atlantis has the easiest time of gathering resources, and is very effective against enemy 
 myth units.     

  Like other aspects of the civilization, Atlantis' structures are quite streamlined. Rather than 
 have their fighting forces split between a barracks, an archery range, a stable, and a siege workshop, 
 the primary Atlantean human units all come from the barracks, while the counter-units are trained 
 from the appropriately named counter barracks. Likewise, all the armor and weapons upgrades come 
 from the armory structure, while the trade guild is used for all resource and economic upgrades -- easy 
 enough. Atlantis' other buildings, such as the temple, the shipyard, and the guard tower, are analogous 
 to those of the other civilizations.  

  At its core, Atlantis really isn't as unusual or distinctive as the other civs in Age of Mythology, 
 particularly the Norse or the Egyptians. One of the new features in this expansion (available to 
 all the civs) is the ability to set a limitless queue. Once you've got your heroic villagers cranking 
 away and the resources are piling on, you can set your barracks and your temples to start churning 
 out units like nobody's business, and then throw all these units at your enemy and see who wins. 
 Of course, there's a lot more to Age of Mythology than that, but the Atlanteans certainly are conducive 
 to a simplistic playing style.     

  The major Atlantean gods' unique powers do help make this civilization more interesting than it 
 would have been otherwise. Kronos, god of time, can time-shift (that is, teleport) his buildings 
 across the map, to any point in his units' line of sight. This process costs a small amount of 
 resources and, presumably for balance reasons, doesn't happen instantaneously. But still, rather 
 than risk one of those supervillagers, Kronos can just send his barracks, temple, and guard towers 
 right to the outskirts of the enemy base (but only one at a time) . Kronos also has the power to 
 deconstruct an enemy building -- this power looks great in action, as all the materials that composed 
 the structure detach and fly off into the sky. Oranos has a similarly devious ability. His forces 
 may construct sky passages, which you can use to instantly ferry your armies across the map, since 
 units entering a sky passage can exit out of any other that you've built. Also, Oranos' shockwave 
 power can be used to disperse and stun a sizable group of enemy units. Finally, Gaia, also known 
 as Mother Earth, is so attuned with nature that lush flora springs up all around her structures. 
 Enemy forces cannot build in these densely vegetated areas, which heal Gaia's own structures. Gaia 
 may also summon forth magical forests that can be harvested for large quantities of wood quickly. 

          The new single-player campaign lets you learn to appreciate some of the Atlantean gods' 
 special powers.     

  It bears mentioning that none of these powers are especially original. If you've been playing other 
 real-time strategy games lately, you'll find that most of the new Atlantean abilities in Age of 
 Mythology: The Titans can be traced to other games in this genre, such as Warcraft III or Command 
 &amp; Conquer: Generals. Granted, it's an accepted convention for real-time strategy games to liberally 
 borrow concepts from each other, but given how creatively Ensemble designed the Egyptian and Norse 
 factions of Age of Mythology, and given that the fictional culture of Atlantis allows for plenty 
 of creative license, the new civilization in The Titans isn't quite as memorable as it probably 
 could have been.  

  The other major addition to the game is in the form of the titans themselves. These creatures become 
 available in the late game, basically around the same point at which you could try to build a wonder. 
 Actually, building a titan gate is kind of like building an antiwonder; rather than achieve a defensive 
 victory, you can throw all your villagers at building a titan gate, which, when completed, will 
 automatically summon forth for you a gigantic creature exclusive to your civilization. The titans 
 are essentially identical for each side, appearances notwithstanding. Slow, lumbering, and very 
 tough, these guys cause huge damage to buildings and to any adjacent units. They look appropriately 
 menacing, and they're certainly strong -- but while they're the Age of Mythology equivalent of weapons 
 of mass destruction, designed to finish off a match that's dragged on a bit too long, they don't 
 always work that way. They can be killed (especially by other titans) , and the opponent is informed 
 as soon as you've started building a titan gate, so it's by all means possible to counter a player 
 attempting to bring one of these heavy hitters to bear. Nevertheless, it's fun to see these huge 
 units in action, especially when two of them are duking it out. Clashing, one might say.  

  Age of Mythology: The Titans features a pretty good single-player campaign that continues the storyline 
 of the original and lets you play as and against all of the different civs over the course of a 
 dozen different scenarios. During this campaign, you'll learn to play as the Atlanteans and get 
 to use some of their special abilities in practical situations. The skirmish mode and the fully 
 featured online multiplayer mode add plenty of replay value, especially with the wide choice of 
 maps available. The ESO player-matching service, which allows Age of Mythology players to quickly 
 get into a match online, has been further enhanced with this release and now supports friends lists, 
 an improved chat interface, faster player matching, and more setup options for quick matches. The 
 map editor packaged with The Titans has also been enhanced since Age of Mythology, in case you 
 want to make your own scenarios.  

          Titans can shrug off small armies, though they're not immortal.     

  The Titans looks 
 as good as Age of Mythology before it, which looked superb for its time. The game still looks great 
 overall, though not quite as impressive as it used to, now that it's been a year since the game's 
 original release. The new titans are fun to watch, but you'll probably notice that the differences 
 between the titans for the various civs are only skin deep, and the animations for all the titans 
 are identical. Some of the new god powers, such as implode and Tartarian gate, look terrific, and 
 the new myth units generally look quite good. Human units look rather weak, though, and it can 
 still be difficult to quickly pick out hero units from an army -- but you can always group these 
 separately, and Age of Mythology's interface still works very well overall. The Titans doesn't 
 offer much in the way of new sound. Atlantean units have their own speech samples, but rather than 
 sound completely unique, Atlantean myth units just say the same lines in a different pitch or with 
 some other weird audio filter applied. There's little in the way of new music (fortunately, the 
 original Age of Mythology music is great) , though a special theme kicks in when titans are stomping 
 about.  

  If you look at Age of Mythology: The Titans by the numbers, you'll notice that it offers about 
 a third of the original game's content (one civilization, whereas Age of Mythology has three) for 
 a majority of the original game's price. Granted, it's not like the new content in The Titans exists 
 in a vacuum. There's plenty more depth to be found here since having a brand-new civilization with 
 three new primary gods creates many more potential matchups, which in turn sets up distinct, new 
 strategies. On the other hand, it would have been nice to see the original civilizations get fleshed 
 out some more in this expansion pack, not because there were any noticeable holes in their design, 
 but just because experienced Age of Mythology players will want more than just one big reason to 
 keep playing as their favorite factions. Nevertheless, The Titans is still a great game at its 
 core, and it's recommendable to any fan of Age of Mythology, particularly those who liked the idea 
 of the game but maybe had trouble getting over the learning curve.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (66 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mike12348
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:39 am PT
Review:  pretty old game now but very good sometimes got boring but multiplayer was extremly good and fun 
 all the "races' were very balenced campaign was exiting
  and taght me alot about gods and godesses and mytholical creatures
  titans helped finish the 
 game quicker. skirmishes are funsometime but computers seem alittle stupid-sutch as walling off 
 an arrea so theyed go any where there was an opening so you could just defend the opening the new 
 atlantian race was a good and diffent adision.-i think the games still avalible in stores
  -my favorit way of takeing out a titan is use lots of atlantian archers and make them all heros 
 very affective and cool to watch um all fire
  
  eygipt kind of had it bad beacuse everything costed more gold that every thing else
  
  norse 
 always had trouble geting favour beacuse you had to be in war so usely you wouldnt have very maney 
 mith unites
  
  atlantians villigers costed alot of reasourses but they didnt have to drop things off and they 
 could get thigs faster
  
  greeks were very balanced and realy didnt have problems
  
  Your fellow gamer Mike1238
  or lots of verious aldaris (es) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I expected better. Titans was not a letdown but really it is too short. The game adds new features 
 like new relics and a new civilization - the Atlanteans. The gods they worship are Titans - predecessors 
 of the Greek gods - Zeus, Poseidon and Hades. The three primary Titans are Oranos, Kronos and Gaia. 
 The atlanteans are quite costly to build but that is quite easily compensated by the fact that 
 all the atlantean units can be converted into heroes.
  The campaign, which is the prime attraction of the game starts where the first game AOM left. Atlantis 
 being destroyed, the atlanteans are now left with no land. They have however come to call some 
 place their new home. Meanwhile, Kronos, the Titans who was about to be freed in AOM, has sent 
 a lesser Titan (kind of like a Minion of his) to help in his escape (some AOM fans have come to call 
 him Kronny) . So Kronny goes and possesses the body of the Atlantean leader Krios, who tricks the 
 Atlantean hero Kastor (son of Arkantos - the hero of AOM. Arkantos now has become a god) into believing 
 that the Titans are their true god and has him attack the Greeks, Egyptians and Norse. However 
 he understands his mistake and finds out that a few Titans have already been released - like Cerebus (a 
 3 headed dog) in Egypt and a giant white Titan in Norse land. After defeating them, Kastor, now 
 aided by the heroes of the previous game - Amanra and Ajax, head out to find Krios who leads them 
 back to Atlantis which seems to have suddenly resurfaced out of nowhere. There Kronos is finally 
 released by Krios and so our heroes call upon a goof Titan - Gaia to defeat him. After that Kastor 
 is made the new Atlantean leader and he immediately starts rebuilding Atlantis.
  Those who played the original game, will almost immediately realize that the Titans campaign is 
 too short.
  However I can't deny the fact that I liked the Titans very much. The way they devastated cities 
 with one blow, really pleased me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matchpenalty11
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  The Titans expansion picks up right where critically acclaimed Age of Mythology left off. Arkantos 
 has ascended to Godhood and his son Kastor is now on a quest to rebuild Atlantis. This expansion 
 adds a new faction complete with its own set of gods. This newest batch of gods is not surprisingly 
 the Titans. The game is basically the same with few small additions to the gameplay. First and 
 foremost is of course the new Atlantis faction and secondly is the abilty to construct a Titan 
 Gate. Once completed this allows to release a Titan onto the battlefield and use it to destroy 
 your foes. This however is one of the faults in online matches. All matches basically become a 
 race to build the Titan Gate first and get the jump on your opponent. Overall the game stays true 
 to its roots and is still great play although doesn't get the must play status of its predecessor. 
 8.0/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Safor001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  I remember playing Age of Mythology at my friends. I savored the chance to play LAN with him. Then 
 one day he told me he had bought The Titans. All of a sudden we had monstrous beings and 3 new 
 civilizations to fight with. And what was nice was that all the civilizations had Titans, each 
 unique. When I finally bought the game, I was awestruck by how much fun it was. It was very addicting 
 and the Atlanteans were not just great for noobs, but also the experienced ones. They were more 
 expensive, but three times as efficient as the Greek villagers, which would be more like 6 or 7 
 Egyptian laborers. But still. The fact that drop sites are not necessary is nice. You can build 
 forward bases easily and you don't have to build Drop site ever time you want to mine some more 
 gold. It's better than it looks. Farms are 3 times more expensive, but you won't need of them. 
 Titans are revolutionary. They are fairly cheap, just expensive enough for you to not just click 
 them when you want one. You can only have one, but no big deal. By the time it dies, if it does, 
 your enemy will be in ruins. The accuracy when it came to Kronos was terrible. Terrible. He looked 
 like he was dipped in tar, lava, and black rocks. According to mythology, he was a more Zeus-like 
 character. But overall, when you see this game on Amazon or whatever, you might as well pop it 
 into your cart. You will love this expansion as long as you love the "Age" series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jcomputer08
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  After I spent a lot of time on Age of Mythology, I was ready for the expansion and my expectations 
 were high. For the most part The Titans delivered. The best part of the expansion was the addition 
 of the Atlantenan race. The three new gods each offered something different and the god powers 
 for the new race could be used multiple times. A big plus when you think back to the one shot powers 
 in the original. The new myth units were fun to use and added some nice change. One of my new personal 
 favorites was the Stymphalian bird available under the minor god Theia. Sending a flock of them 
 after a though to kill enemy was one of my go to strategies. Some of the additional upgrades helped 
 out also. Depending on your choices your myth and hero units could recharge, and that saved a lot 
 of time and resources. The Sky Passages and Time Shift power were also something new that added 
 to the buildings and construction aspect of the game. Another good addition was the Titan myth 
 unit. Controlling a giant that could crush buildings and wipe out a team of infantry was a great 
 new element. Ok, I've talked about all the good stuff, now I'll bring up the one problem. 
  What kept this from being a perfect expansion was the new single player campaign. It only had twelve 
 sceneries and took about four days to beat. It was way to short; especially compared to the original 
 AOM game. The Titan campaign left me wanting another expansion. I know that's not gonna happen, 
 but maybe Instead of making more expansions for "Age Of Empires III" an "Age Of Mythology 2" will 
 be coming soon. Guess I'll just have to wait and see. Thanks for reading
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordHideous
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Before I start this review, let me say one thing: I thought AOM was an amazing game with and awesome 
 campain and great gameplay. However, when I finally played Titans, I was somewhat disappointed.
 
  
  
  Sound: 6/10
  
  Altogether good soundtrack, but the campain characters don't sound at all Greek In AOM, you really 
 felt that the characters were genuine, but in Titans their voices seem very sloppily done.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Just like the first game, very nice graphics. The Titans however, could 
 have been done much better.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  
  Still the same great system that has led us to AOE III. It's very smooth, and building myth units 
 is very fun. The upgrade system also works well, with each god granting different gifts to the 
 player such as power, special units, and upgrades. Nothing to complain about here. 
  
  Campaign/Story: 4/10
  
  I'm sorry, but this is where Titans preformed horribly. The characters 
 are very predictable and wooden, such as Kastor. Arkantos has a very small disapointing part in 
 the story, and it all seems rushed. Are we supposed to believe that Theocrat would suddenly turn 
 evil and unleash an army of Automatons (Greek style 1950s evil robots) ? I admit Kronos was pretty 
 awesome, but he only lasts a few minutes before he gets beaten by some half dressed nature titan. 
 What the heck?
  
  Overall: 7.5/10
  
  To be quite honest, Titans isn't really worth your money unless you find it bundled with AOM. A 
 better alternative is to go on the AOM website and download the AOM Golden Gift campaign. It's 
 a much more fun, and better done campaign than Titans.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukiat
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  In the begin of microsoft good games we can find age of empires, age of empires 2 and the 3, but 
 the masterpiece of all this it's one serie Age Of Mithology.
  
  In the comun age of mithology we can find awesome thing, like the big masses (comun on all the 
 age of empies) and the big food: the mistyc. It's something for say "oh snap!" but really more, 
 because this give to the Aom The touch of it's on fail.
  
  Ok the gameplay its also good, because you can do everything like his predessesors, an too much 
 more, and the the speciasl powers, the titans, all this is drive for one person: YOU.
  
  The graphics are some bad, but its not for shame, because in hismoments, this game are the best 
 in that, and for me it's the best now.
  
  The sound is amazxing, because for evry stage in the game or civilization, or a epic battle, there 
 it is, yeah, the music and the voice of the villagers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: herzalot
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  gameplay {10} : gameplay is awesome just like aom. there are new units for every race that named titans. titans 
 are very powerful and hard. you can beat your weak enemt by this in no time. there is an ew race: atleantean. they 
 are oddly powerful and very expensive. leader of them is kastor the son of the arkantos the aom 
 hero. when you are playing with this race only focus on winning.
  
  
  graphics {8} : graphics didnt change very obviosly against aom. but some effects like water and light 
 are better. but it is also great.
  
  
  sounds and musics {9} : atlantsi music is good. sounds and talking of the characters are real nice. great 
 like other parts.
  
  value {9} : this is a major expansion for aom fans. if you enjoy aom dont lose this expansion. this 
 will remind you good old times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Back when it first came out, the premise and graphics of Age of Mythology (holy crap, they had 
 commercials for it in the movie theaters!) drew me in.
  
  Well, stale gameplay and a disconnect between my favorite strategy (turtling and teching) and the 
 faction that represents that strategy best (Egyptians) delayed my completion for several years.
 
  
  I approached this expansion with a "what the hell, might as well get it over with" attitude (I 
 am a completist... it's being treated) .
  
  I was pleasantly surprised to find that the game's strong points still held up strong, and the 
 new Atlantean faction and Titans added some extra fun into the mix.
  
  A good buy if you really enjoyed the original Age of Mythology, but I wouldn't recommend to anybody 
 else. There are far better RTS games and series out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cenneli
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  This is the expansion pack of Age of Mythology. Its storyline is very consistent with the original 
 game and adds a new race and its units. Both AOM and especially the Titans are very interesting, 
 I think, in re-writing the myth of Atlantis which has become an inspiration for lots of historical 
 speculations and art works from cinema to literature. One of the weakness of this expansion pack 
 is that Titans has no leader hero for themselves. Throughout the game, one can control only Greek 
 leader heroes except secondary heroes unique to Titans. This made me a bit irritated. The playing 
 experience is, however, absolutely same and very enjoyable. Besides, appearance of huge Titan gods 
 that can be controlled like any other units in the game provides probably more excitement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The expantion to Age of Mythology has added some big, new additions. Literally...... 
 Appropriately titled The Titans, this add-on lets you summon enormous monsters to support your 
 armies in the latter stages of a battle. The expansion pack will introduce 12 new god powers, 18 
 new human units and 10 formidable myth units to the game. In the single player campain part of 
 the game You play now as Kastor, son of Arkantos, the first game's hero. Arkantos has since transcended 
 his mortal state and he and the god Poseidon move away leaving the Atlanteans to fend for themselves. 
 So it has being ten years after the fall of Atlantis, the House of Arkantos is again called to 
 action. The titans knowing they are about to be abandond the Titans begin their rise to power. 
 Formerly imprisoned during the Titanomachy, they're starting to break out and the Atlanteans see 
 their salvation in an alliance with these ancient powers. Needless to say, this alliance isn't 
 something that the other civilizations are anxious to support. other then that it's pretty standard 
 where you have to rescue units, destroy bases or hold out for how ever long there time limit is. 
 Well the gameplay is pretty much the same concept with the original game with some new gameplay 
 features you can find out about when you get the game. There are also an improved multiplayer options 
 aswell.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really quite good. They are colorful and bright and well detailed. Everything 
 runs smoothy and the way the should and the destruction looks great. Even the cut sceces look really 
 good like a movie.
  
  Sound: The sound in the game is good. I just love the sound scores in the game, it really suits 
 the game well. Also the sound effects of things such as a titain hitting a building sounds the 
 way it should sound. Also the voice acting is really quite well done.
  
  Value: All in all this game really give you your money's worth. It has great replay value and you 
 will have loads of fun with the new addition with the titans and the usuall godly powers to play 
 around with. I give this game 8.7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravage19
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Titans the expansion of age of mythology is a very good game like age of mythology the only bad 
 in this game is the .... titans because of there great power and because the greek titan is the 
 stronger. If you are playing with the greeks you can kill the enemy titan with your titan and some 
 army and then nothing can stand on you. If you playing a map with islands now, you cant transfer 
 your titan with ships so when you attack your enemies you must kill with your army their titan 
 and then you can kill them and this is something that if you want to do it you must spent money 
 and money and money. Ok now lets go away from the titans gameplay, graphics (same graphic engine) 
 are the same with age of mythology and the sound (there are some new trucks) . The story continues 
 from the first game. There is a new fuction with its major and minor gods Atlantis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llarrev
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Titans is the expansion plack to the much acclaimed Age of Mythology and really is hardly any different 
 to the original game in terms of gameplay. The threee civilizations from the last game have returned 
 and are joined by new civilization Atlantis, which the story campaign revolves around.
  
  Like in the previous game, you must choose a major titan deity and then this determines the minor 
 deities you may later choose at the turn of ages throughout the game. These decisions one again 
 dictate which myth units you can and cannot train and manipulate. Atlanteasn gain favour by building 
 a town centre, the more town centres the player has, the faster they gain favour. in order to produce 
 these units by Architectually, the Atlanteans build like the greeks and their units share similar 
 sounding names. This leads to the question being raised on how different the civilizations truly 
 are, but despite the lacking faction selection it is still damn fun to play, whatever civilization 
 is chosen.
  
  Unlike the stereotypical expansion, Titans is designed to be easier, this means that the Atlanteans 
 are an excellent choice for a beginner player. This is reflected in a numbe rof ways. Firstly, 
 the resource management is far easier with the Atlanteans, the cost in resources of their buildings 
 are diminished, etc. Secondly, the villagers bear a heightened effectiveness, though they are more 
 costly to produce. The Atlantean civilization also has more unique God powers than the other civilizations, 
 such as the ever-useful Sky Passage of Oranos for teleporting vast armies, or Gaia's woods for 
 easy lumber.
  
  The major new feature is that of the Titan Gate. This time consuming building allows a player to 
 summon an almighty Titan unit to clobber their opponents, each civilization having their own unique 
 Titan unit. Only problem is that they're not quite almighty, although very powerful they can be 
 beaten and also differing Titans aren't that unique, except in appearence. It is a good new feature 
 for ending a long battle, but against the computer on harder diffiiculties, or against another 
 player of reasonable skill, they're very hard to defend, as if a gate is destroyed then the Titan 
 cannot be produced.
  
  The story campaign is quite interesting, and tells the story of the son of the hero from the previous 
 game and of the greatly weakened civilization of Atlantis. It is nowhere near as lengthy and captivating 
 as the previous installment's though. Many, more hardcore players, will be left disappointed by 
 this and the simplified gameplay and, as a stand alone title, find it extremely lacking.
  
  Visually and aurally it is no differeny to the previous game in terms of quality, which though 
 is still quite high, is disappointing as it was released a year later.
  
  All in all a great game, especially for the select few who may have found the original a little 
 tricky to master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I know the game is old and there are a lot newer RTS games, but this one is a classic for me. Its 
 like Age of Empires. The story is fun and interesting and Skirmish is great, but the multiplayer 
 can be annoying because I get stuck in a lot of games with cheaters. Like they have every power 
 in the game and use it on you all at once. The armies are really cool, my favorites the egyptians 
 or the greeks. The myth units are sweet too. I love to just sit back and play this classic than 
 play some game that is new but isnt as fun. I wont give this game up because it taught me a lot 
 about RTS games and I can't say no to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chinafun
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 19, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  the gameplay is pretty but the graphic are not that good nor the value of the game needs to increase 
 difficulty on the campaign the game needs to create better god powers and increase on the usage 
 of the god powers the sound keeps on repeating itself the game needs more different sounds the 
 game should be worth more create different titans than just one particular titan for each kind 
 of race the game needs more buildings following more upgrades and more kinds of people that attack 
 the game needs a lot more to improve the game quality its pretty fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcoregamer77
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This is the expansion for Age Of Mythology. Age Of Mythology Titans is a great game it adds to 
 the gameplay with a new race, new maps, and a new part to the single player. The first game was 
 easy in my opinion even on the titan difficulty but this game is to easy. AOM Titans is really 
 easy even on the titan mode. The single player is really short. This is worth buying if you are 
 a fan of AOM or if you just want the new race and maps. The new race is really good but the maps 
 are just ok. The are pretty much the same as the other old maps. Like the first it is online and 
 is really fun too.
  
  Reviewed by:
  hardcoregamer77 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holland01
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Finally the Expension is there, The Titans is a game that is played a few years of AOM, Atlantis 
 is destroyed and the survivors are headed to the north try o survive and that works. The Titans 
 are about to get free and destroy the Human kind who are stand against them, however there are 
 also good Titans so the you understand there are new godpowers and new units there are a complete 
 new race the atlantians and the norseman and the egyptians and also the Greece. The Graphics are 
 Superb and the sound is also great everything about this game is Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxmax1234
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  The original look't a little bad for his time. But the sounds where really good, thats why it became 
 a big hit.
  now this one is in everything improved. Exspacely the graphics are way better that the where before. 
 And thats something really importaant, because you must go one whit your time and I really believe 
 that they thit that very good.
  but next time they relly need to come up whit new gods and more powers. and then need to get more 
 missions, you can play this in 6 hours and then youre done, and thats really bad, couse it rouns 
 your playing fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  The basic gameplay in AoM: TT is the same as in AoM. However, the new civilization has it? s own 
 unique play style, just as the previous three do. When choosing Atlanteans, you start out with 
 one villager, and three oracle units. Atlantean villagers gather resources three times faster than 
 those of the other civilizations and they act as a mobile resource drop point so there is no need 
 to build a granary or any other resource drop point. However, because of this they are also three 
 times costlier than a regular villager. Oracles are the Atlanteans scouting unit. They have a small 
 line of sight until they stand still; then their range expands to almost a full screen. Atlanteans 
 also have the ability to build towncenters one age early. This is a good thing since their favor 
 accumulates by the amount of towncenters you have. Of course, why should the Atlanteans get all 
 the good stuff? All the civilizations now have a unique Titan unit. Now you don? t get this unit 
 free by any means. There is now a 5th age that you can research after the Mythic age called the 
 Titan age. After researching this you get access to the Titan Gate god power. Now once you get 
 this, you place it on the ground and your workers have to construct it before the Titan can be 
 unleashed. It is a long process but it? s worth it once you get control of the powerful Titan unit 
 that can crush anything in one on one combat except another Titan. Now of course, when you add 
 three new major gods and nine new minor gods you have to have some cool God Powers to go with them. 
 The Atlantean civilization does offer some nice ones, but even more than that, they offer the ability 
 to use them multiple times. Because of this fact all the Atlantean GP that you can reuse may seem 
 a bit weaker than the other God Powers other civilizations gods offer in that age, but they can 
 still be quite useful when executed effectively. There are however cool down periods between uses 
 so you can? t fire off two or three of the same one all at once. The Atlantean reuse of a GP is 
 different for each one depending on its strength and effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuteShadow
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 16, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  This version and continuation from Age of Mythology not only excels in graphics, detail and plotline, 
 it is perhaps a leading competitor to games of its same genre. In this version, we are now able 
 to select an entire new civilization group other then the Egyptians, Greeks and Norse. The creators 
 of the game now have a selectable group known as the 'Atlanteans'. Everyone knows of the mythic 
 civilization of Atlantas and it appears the fabled civilization has appeared in 'Age of Mythology: 
 The Titans'. The Atlanteans are a powerful group that are a mixture of Greek/Roman. The minor gods 
 of the three selectables, Kronos, Oranos and Gaia, are superbly done and the heroes are as valiant 
 and powerful as the other heroes in the different civilizations. Yet, there are some faults. It 
 seems the game creators have not truly changed/upgraded the Greeks, Egyptians and Norse tribes. 
 While there have been some added items/selectables, they are very similar to the previous in the 
 original game causing a tad bit of boredom. Other then that, the sound, detail and gameplay are 
 wonderful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 13, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  the title says it all i bought the titans before before ever buying or playing age of mith. that 
 was 2 years ago when on vaction in the states. anyways next two days i found out i needed mith 
 so i bought that too on holidays. anyways age of titans is not worth playing its just like mith 
 just with very few levels and missions its better not to buy it all just keep with mith it has 
 more levels gameplay to it. overall i give this game a weak score 3 out of 10 as in never should 
 been made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fart_poo_cheese
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 5, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  Game Play:
  The controls for this game are so simple it astounds me. It makes managing a civilization as simple 
 as clicking a few buttons. I also like troop management as well very organized. I just love Titan 
 fights!
  
  Graphics:
  The Graphics for this game are dated, but I still enjoy the game regardless. I can still recognize 
 the difference between a Minotaur and a Cyclops so I have no complaints with the look of the game.
 
  
  Sound:
  Here is where I'm a little iffy. Most of the units when clicked say some weird gibberish, and the 
 music gets rather old fast. This is my only real complaint with the entire game.
  
  Value:
  I just personally enjoy this game (save the music and gibberish) I would suggest you 
 just give it a shot. Who knows you may come to enjoy it as much as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 071989
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 14, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  This expansion set includes the Atlantean culture and Titans for all. I do wish though that for 
 the same price as AoM, you could get more. (like maybe another two cultures and an extra 20-30 
 maps on the Titans campaign) but overall, this game was a pretty good expansion on the already 
 good AoM. 
  Seeing as it's been a few years, I doubt they will come out with a sequal, or another expansion. 
 I had almost given up hope until I found the editor. Tha function of the game is probably the only 
 thing keeping my hope for an eventual Expansion pack with more culture likr the Atlanteans and 
 new units alive.
  P. S. the closest thing to an extra campaign i could find was the downloadable Gladiator Campaign. 
 I highly recommend downloading it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UchihaKakashi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  The games graphics is nice and also the Campaign Story contines off from the previous one Aom plain 
 the Atlanteans settle in the Norse lands but no all is well also theres a few new units in this 
 game and the main ones are Titans Kronos Gaia Promotheus Atlantean civlizton units and Arkantos 
 god kastor adult and now in multiplayer u can even host games from the campgaing but its very weird 
 cause thetes still one bad guy but there can be 8 good guys which is very fun like 8vs 1 but in 
 those games the computer is MEGA strong 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krizan99
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 4, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  I'm maybe a little bit late to write a review of this game, but so be it. First of all I must say 
 I have never play singelpleyer missions except skirmish. Al i have ever played was multiplayer 
 and a alot of it. It offers so much. Just look how many civilisations are there, all equal, but 
 very different - you can never have enaugh of it - all you wanna be is better and better and win 
 all your friends. But there are no perfect tactis so every time the gamestyle is different. I would 
 recommend Zeus and his myrmidons - the little motherf*ckers:)
  
  Warmly recommend this game
  
  See you latter
  Gawri||o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikachu_is_god
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 20, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Extreamly addictive once you get good. You play as four civilizations (Greeks, Norse, Egyption, 
 and Atlantean) divided among 3 major gods. This gives a possibility of 12 different choices. You 
 further diversify it by picking a selected minor gods. Unlike most RTS choices your units are very 
 unique from your opponent. You will always have units that are different from your opponent. 
 
  
  Tactics are one of the most advance upon RTS games from 3 minute rushes to 2 hour long games. Each 
 civilization and gods have their own special bonus. For one civiliation their soilders create buildings! 
 Each civilization have their own type of villages.
  
  The music and interface is very unique from many other games.
  
  With online adding hours of 
 reply time, if you don't get this game you don't know what you are missing,=.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  The Titans is a followup hit to the Age of Mythology blockbuster. While The Titans offers some 
 new gameplay features, it seems to fall short in just a few areas.
  
  If you are not familiar with the game, you create a civilizations and appeal to a single god. There 
 are other civs on the map and it is your job to grow, survive, and take over. With the power of 
 your god, you can accomplish feats that the other civs cannot. The nice things about this expansion 
 is that it lets the player who did not catch up to the learning curve finally catch up.
  
  What the game did lack was the depth you expect out of an expansion that costs almost as much as 
 the original. It adds one new civ and goes into depth with it with 3 new gods, but it lacks any 
 other additional civs and does not update much on the three existing ones. That is a major flaw.
 
  
  Regardless, it is a solid expansion and gamers of the series will enjoy it a great deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 7, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  While many still are playing strategy greats like starcraft and warcraft (not WoW) , this underapreciated 
 game waits on the shelf of office max (it did, at 1 time) with other fun little games. In Age of Mythology: The 
 Titans, you can control one of 4 (formerly 3) races and not only build up a small army to crush 
 your opposition, but also a bunch of mythilogical monsters from your civilization's mythology, as 
 well as fun spells and stuff like that. The game also brings the new "titan" units that are nearly 
 indestructable and can bring down a small city in minutes. Nice. I don't bother to get that far in 
 the campaign modes, which i did, before my computer's data died, but they are fun as well. You can 
 control the "atlanteans" from atlantis who uses the greek titans as their gods in a campaign mode, as 
 well as greece.
  
  Overall, this is a great game that should never be overlooked.
  
  Skalokos
  _-_-_- _-_-_- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celentanoad
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 5, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Players are faced with a couple different options from the start. The campains 
 are challenging but not impossible. Many of them definetly force you to think through different 
 strategies. Tons of maps that are completely different from each other as well as the map editor 
 make the gameplay unlimited. You can compete with up to 12 others as well as make teams. Different 
 gods give you different powers that can be used in war and economy. You can also make gameplay 
 level easy or hard. Awesome game a must buy now!!!!!!!!!! sdkjfatjlgjlasjeti jdlfjaiserjl gjsdfoajjls 
 aljdfjsjdfio ashl kdsjf jaiosef jsadljf ljsdlf lsdj ljsdajfljas dofjoiaer tkldsafioawt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugi_nayar
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  After the huge success of Age of Mythology, expectations from The Titans expansion were very high. 
 The game does deliver in most departments but one does feel that it falls a bit short with respect 
 to the base game. Nevertheless, the additions of the game will keep fans quite happy and immersed 
 in for quite a long while. Also, as the name suggests the expansion introduces you to humongous 
 units called the Titans which can be a real handful. Lets delve into it further.
  
  Age of Mythology was very different from the earlier games developed by Ensemble. What made it 
 great was that instead of having many civilizations with similar units, it only had 3 civilisations, 
 but all of them were different from one another. To that, the expansion adds another unique civilization 
  the Atlanteans, and it is basically around them that the expansion is centered. 
  
  Although the basic architecture of Atlantean buildings does resemble that of the Greeks, their 
 units are totally different. And as a result youll have to devise a new strategy for the Atlanteans, 
 as was the case with the other three civilizations. For example, the Atlantean citizens cost thrice 
 as much to produce as ordinary villagers of the other civilizations and also take up more population 
 slots. But they are much more useful as they do not require special buildings for resource deposition 
 and all resources gathered by them are instantly added to your stock-pile. Also, favor generation 
 is done by building more town centers.
  
  A great factor of the Atlanteans is the elimination of a lot of micro-management. This applies 
 to both economic and military departments. All economic upgrades are researched now at one building, 
 the Economic Guild. This saves the trouble of having to keep track of developments at a variety 
 of buildings and allows you to spend more time on battle-strategies. Also, all the main battle 
 units are now produced at the barracks and counter units from the counter-barracks. So playing 
 the Atlanteans is easier than other civilizations.
  
  One does feel that Atlanteans have been given an advantage over other civilizations. They have 
 the exclusive feature of reusable God powers. Though the number of reuses is limited and there 
 is a time limit for recharging of a power, this feature can turn out to be a major advantage if 
 used wisely. The Atlanteans can also convert all their units to hero status, even citizens. It 
 does however take more resources and extra population slots. They can also build town centers earlier 
 than other civilizations and also do not require advancement in age for the purpose. 
  
  The introduction of Titans, after the Atlanteans, is the biggest addition that the expansion provides. 
 The Titans can be produced in the late phase of your game, that is, the last age around the time 
 when you can build a wonder. You will need to build a Titan Gate to summon a Titan. And like a 
 wonder, your enemies are informed when you start building a Titan Gate, so do not be surprise if 
 your opponent tries to demolish it as soon as you begin construction. So it is best that you should 
 get all your available builders on the construction and have some defense arrangements ready to 
 prevent harm to it. When the construction is completed, a Titan, exclusive of your civilization, 
 is instantly summoned. These creatures are the biggest mythical units of them all and deal huge 
 damage to building and can wipe out small armies without encountering much damage. They are however, 
 not immortal and can be killed, though it may take considerable time. As diamond cuts diamond, 
 so the best unit against a Titan is another Titan. 
  
  The single-player campaign follows the story of Kastor, the son of Arkantos, who tries finding 
 a new God the now displaced Atlanteans to worship. He finds the new pantheon hes looking for in 
 the old and forgotten Gods, the Titans. The Titans were the offspring of the Oranos, the sky and 
 Gaia, the earth. Kronos, the youngest of these, dethrones his father as leader of Gods. Oranos 
 curses him that he would meet the same end, and the curse comes true in the form of the Olympian 
 Gods who, headed by Zeus, eventually become his downfall and enslave the Titans in the depths of 
 the netherworld. There is of course a lot more lore regarding this, but mentioning it is beyond 
 the scope and purpose of this review. So through the campaign missions we follow Kastor who releases 
 the Titans only to realize later the grave mistake he committed. He then joins forces with some 
 of the heroes of the earlier AoM campaign to try and push back the Titans back where they came 
 from. Though the campaign is quite interesting, one does feel that there are too few missions.
 
  
  Random map games have been considerably improved. The classification of computer AI opponents into 
 personalities like the Builder, Conqueror, Attacker and others is a great new feature. It allows 
 you to adjust you technique in accordance with your opponent. For example while the Builder will 
 concentrate more on economy in earlier stages, the Attacker will charge head-on without caring 
 for it economy. So you have the chance of practicing different strategies against a variety of 
 opponents. You can use this as good practice for the Multiplayer which remains as good as in AoM, 
 though the addition of the Titans can be quite challenging. 
  
  The detailed maps are as good as in AoM and really look terrific. The visuals are also exceptional. 
 The new mythical units have been brilliantly made. There does however remain the little problem 
 of human units appearing a bit small and weak. Also, on close inspection it can be seen that the 
 Titans are different only from their exterior, and their action animations are similar to one another. 
 
  
  The sound is quite similar to that of AoM and like AoM; Atlanteans have also been given their unique 
 dialog styles. This feature was much appreciated for the base game and Im glad that it has been 
 retained for the expansion as well. There is very little in the area of new background music, and 
 it more or less resembles that of AoM. 
  
  As a concluding note I would like to mention that even though the expansion did provide us a whole 
 new civilization, it hardly made any major improvements to the earlier civilizations. Besides the 
 Titans and one or two minor changes, the original civilizations remain unchanged. But, all in all 
 The Titans is a great RTS and will provide you hours of immersive strategic gaming.
  
  Go Play!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragota
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 21, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: OMFG!!! SUPER GREAT.. all those god powers and special techs!! and kronos and there timeshift 
 trick and oranos and there sky passage!! bad points: They removed stone : ( BUT ADDED favor important 
 for making myth units and some techs and building good that each civ. must get favor on a diffrent 
 way (i like the greek the easiest way of getting favor) and making own scenarios is great and easy 
 (sometimes boring)
  Grapics: Very good i like the implode explosion. but i hate it when i zoom to much in the units 
 THEY GET UGLY... : ( but good point you can reconize heroes fast because of there goldy aura:) 
 
  Sound: also pretty good but those death sounds ugh... and explosions are pretty good sounds :)
 
  value: umm i dont know what this is its a 10
  reviewer tilt: also dont know that.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecubedave000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 21, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  Yeah well i finnaly got the expansion for this game and i am satisfied because there are 3 new 
 civilizations and there are now things called titans which are basicly big huge creatures that 
 are practicly indestructable unless you got a huge army to kill it.... well the gameplay hasnt changed 
 much and the graphics stayed the same but its still highly addictive as ever! The online play has 
 changed drasticly because many people play and there are lots of games going on to normal games 
 to customized games that peopel make which are rather odd...... well for 19.99 definatly get this! 
 seriusly dont be left out.... if you still got the first one and everyone else is playing titans 
 and your not!? get this now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshua-X
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 3, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  This expansion is worth the money! I guarantee that you wont regret it! It includes a new civilization 
 to play as, or to fight against! It includes a new campaign mode for you to try! And the editor 
 mode is enhanced from the last game, allowing you to give the units A. I's. That is the extra stuff. 
 The original things from the last game are still in. The graphics are still pretty okay, the game 
 play is great, the sound is really nice, and the game length is pretty long! Overall, a great game! 
 If you have the original age of mythology, then you MUST get this game! It officially completes 
 the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TangerineWorld
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Dear Gamespot. com readers,
  
  "What does '17' mean?" I hear you ask. Well it obviously means the game is very, very sexy in a 
 way that makes all other games cry about not getting a date - because Age of Mythology: The Titans 
 is doing them [all the female games] .
  
  No other game [worth mentioning] has big sexy exGod men-beasts known as 'Titans,' and for that 
 very reason this game should be bought twice; one copy for playing, and one copy for mounting on 
 your wall in place of your prize fish, animal head (s) , or your silly celebrity posters.
  
  Throw things at me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuberGM
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  Grab some popcorn, because this isn't a short review.
  
  I'm a big fan of playing the opening video when I boot up a new game. From the Ensemble Studios 
 video to the main title screen, it shows you that this game has a lot of action. And they weren't 
 kidding. This strategy game isn't dull at all. 
  
  If you've played the other Age of Empire games before this, you won't be disappointed here. In 
 fact, you'll be quite impressed with the whole myth unit/god power addition - once you get the 
 hang of it. 
  
  When you start up the campaign, it draws you in with the spoken audio that teaches you how to move 
 around and attack. It does the job very well of explaining everything thoroughly. The animations 
 of the fighting and movement are pretty realistic (as realistic as you can get in a game called 
 Age of Mythology) . The campaign is around 25-30 missions, and they all touch on each of the tribes/gods 
 of the game equally as well. There is also a short tutorial video that briefly describes the main 
 differences between the different "styles" of how they play. I find myself playing the videos every 
 so often, because they are just so cool to watch sometimes. 
  
  The interface is very good. It does its purpose of listing all the options you need, but doesn't 
 take up the whole screen to hinder your game play. There are keyboard shortcuts to all the options 
 listed on-screen, which I prefer over clicking the buttons simply because it's faster.
  
  The music is very entertaining. If you're playing in the middle of a long game, the music that 
 plays in the background just kinda makes you focus and zone right into your strategic little fantasy 
 world. The beat and drama picks up when you start a battle, and the sound effects are well done. 
 The axe clanking, myth unit growling, titan pounding, and siege slamming are all implemented well 
 into the game at the appropriate times. Also, each god gets their own cool intro song when you 
 start your game up. Shibby!
  
  The resources are the same as previous AOE games, but with the inclusion of "favor". Favor is exactly 
 what it sounds like. You gain this unit of blessing from your god to create myth units and other 
 valuable units/upgrades. The way to get favor differs for each god. The Norse infantry can build 
 anywhere on the map (but not attack at the same time, obviously) and they gain favor by fighting. 
 As the video says, "They simply fight to please their gods." I thought that was cool. The Egyptians 
 have a pharaoh that can empower the build speed, unit production, and even favor generation. They 
 gain favor by setting up monuments. And then there's the Greek - they just pray at their temples 
 (meaning that instead of building or collecting resources, you could usea butt load of villagers 
 on gaining favor for myth units.) And for those that have the Titans, the Atlanteans gain favor 
 by building town centers onto settlements. Pretty corny if you ask me. 
  
  There are 4 game modes to play: supremacy, conquest, lightning, and my personal favorite, DEATHMATCH. 
 The campaign is designed to help you develop your supremacy skills, so that you understand how 
 to build, how to collect resources, how to create units, which upgrades are worth the resources, 
 and how to work efficiently with a smaller army early on in the game. With Deathmatch, you start 
 off with 15,000 of each resource (and max favor) . This may sound kind of noobish, but the Deathmatch 
 world is pretty competitive, er used to be before AoE3 came out. You'd be surprised by how soon 
 you need to collect resources to keep a good DM game going for longer than, say, 12 minutes. Nowadays, 
 AOM mainly consists of players creating their own maps/scenarios in the game editor (which, I might 
 add, is very elaborate.) I've created one myself and it isn't too difficult to layout the land 
 and units - but it's more complicated if you want to set up triggers. The other game modes that 
 are common are supremacy, and TW (which stands for Total War) . It's just like it sounds, it's nothing 
 but war. No need to collect resources, because you have an unlimited amount, literally. Honestly, 
 it's a great way to practice with countering units and just basically test everything out in the 
 game in combat. 
  
  ESO, Ensemble Studios Online, has been pretty consistent with keeping their server up. There hasn't 
 been an upgraded version in a long time, however. There was a fad a few months ago where pretty 
 much everyone was hacking in the game, and that wasn't too fun for people that were actually good 
 players and were trying to get their ratings up. That's all stopped now, but Deathmatch competition 
 is limited. Most people play supremacy, anyhow, so if you want to jump into the online game of 
 AOM, it's still happenin', you just may be waiting a little bit for a game. 
  
  Playing versus a computer is still good practice before you enter the demonic world of online play. 
 It's got pretty good AI. It knows to build a market all the way in the corner to get the most out 
 of its gold trade, which is more than I can say about some morons. But after you figure out how 
 to beat the computer on hard... maybe even on Titan difficulty, playing other humans certainly 
 brings on a whole new challenge. I was actually amazed by how different each god's style was for 
 1. Resource gathering 2. Favor gaining 3. Combat style 4. Different buildings 5. Units; and yet 
 Ensemble was able to balance out the game sooo well. The biggest differences between Age of Empires 
 2 and AOM are the god powers, myth units, and advancing-to-next-age options. 
  
  The cool thing I liked about the myth units is that there is a really nice circle of countering 
 for the game. Heroes can counter myth units, myth units counter military units, and military units 
 counter heroes. Simple as that. It lets Ensemble go crazy with wild units that can't normally be 
 just thrown in to a believable and realistic RTS. Mummies that can convert units to minions, Cyclops 
 that can throw enemy elephants into the enemy's crowd, Heka Gigantes that can slam the ground and 
 throw back a whole army, or Fire Giants that can throw flaming balls (no pun intended) . 
  
  The god powers are fricken' sweet! You can have a meteor, earthquake, locust swarm, lightning storm, 
 shifting sands, and all kinds of zany yet useful god powers. You can only get the god powers by 
 advancing to the next age though, and in Deathmatch (since you get to level up so quickly) they 
 have a timer countdown that will tell you when that god power will be available for use.
  
  And finally, what I thought was biggest difference between AOE2 and AOM was the option to choose 
 which minor god you would like to use for the next age. You get a choice of one out of two for 
 each age. It's nice because if your enemy chooses one god (for example, which can produce Colossi) , 
 then YOU can choose the god that can give you Medusas or Mummies. It's all up to you though, and 
 what strategy works for you. That's what I love about this game. There are so many ways to win 
 a game by using 100's of different strategies, and being flexible and spontaneous is what makes 
 this a true "real-time" strategy game. When you put two humans together to try to clash your different 
 strategies against each other, "There could be a lot of s#@$ flying around." There are so many 
 variables in this game that makes it have such a high replay value. Never the same game will occur 
 twice. God powers could be used at different times when unexpected, myth units running around the 
 map raiding poor lil villies, and the option to pick which minor god you feel would work best that 
 particular game, is a great formula for a long lasting RTS. 
  
  So far, I've listed all the great things about the game. There are only a couple of things that 
 I found threw the balance off just a little:
  
  First off, there are some overpowering units in the game that can really put the favor of a win 
 in someone that overuses these particular units.
  
  1. (Hades) Gastraphetes. "Archers that are also good vs. buildings." That's exactly what it says 
 in the unit description. Let me say that again: "Archers that are also good vs. buildings!" Ok, 
 let's go into a little more detail about these units. Gastraphetes have a range of 24. Town centers 
 and towers have a range of 20. The units that can counter them (slingers, peltasts, turmas) have 
 a range of about 16; not even close to their range. So right off the bat, a decent group of archers 
 can take out a town center or tower without them ever being hit. Then, as if that wasn't enough, 
 they make their range longer than the units that are supposed to counter them. WTF!? By the time 
 you have enough slingers ready to counter them, the gastras have already taken them out due to 
 their 2 mile radius of range. So basically, gastraphetes are good at killing just about anything 
 in the game - seriously. If you had nothing but gastras as your entire army, you could take out 
 just about any other army they plan to send your way. Other than Petsuchos Ras.
  
  2. (Ra and Isis) Petsuchos Ras. "Crocodiles that have an attack of 55 and a range of 26." I don't 
 think I have to say much. Now, these bad ass myth units are a great inclusion to any group of soldiers. 
 They can stay way clear of the opposing army and zap the crap out of them, as you have spearmen 
 or whatever right in front of them to protect them. They are very powerful and the range can help 
 with taking out those pesky gastraphetes. In huge groups, these things kick ass (and sadly can 
 be overpowering)
  
  3. (Egyptian) Mercenaries. "Backup units that can be instantly created from a town center, and 
 does not take up population." Basically, once you already have your 160 max pop of army and villies 
 on the map, and you have extra gold, pop these black dudes out (with very high hack armor and pierce 
 armor) and it's like adding an extra 30% instant army to your crew to help push them back even 
 harder, so they have an insanely difficult time trying to fight off all those units at once. They 
 last a limited amount of time, but if you're Ra or Isis, they can last up to 2 minutes (enough 
 time for them to run up to help out your army over by your enemy's base.) One thing that really 
 helps is that if someone does an unexpected siege slam on one of your town centers to try and take 
 it out - "poof" instant defense against them. Yeah... overpowering as well. Ya gotta love the Egyptians. 
 
  
  Secondly, if you have the Titans expansion, you may notice that atlanteans are very good at the 
 start of supremacy matches and that they lack in a long term game in deathmatches. And oh ya... 
 the whole concept of that massive titan to crush your opponent may seem cool on paper, but I really 
 think they gave him too many health points and it is really lame that you get to make a titan for 
 free in deathmatch. You'll see what I mean when you play it. 
  
  Other than that, this game will give you 100's of hours of game play if you give it the chance 
 to grow on you. Honestly, after I played AOM, I went back to AOE2 to play, because it didn't seem 
 to do anything for me since I was still addicted to AOE2. I guess because most of the crowd had 
 shifted over to AOM, that I joined the bandwagon. I'm glad I gave it another shot, because I've 
 played it almost non-stop for the past 3 years. Let me put it this way... each time that I thought 
 I was sick of the game, and was going to stop to play another game (or walk outside to see the 
 sun) , I'd always come crawling back a couple days later, petting the CD saying, "I'm sorry I ever 
 left you. Did you miss me?" Yes, I'm a dork.
  
  I gave this game a perfect 10.0 because there is really no possible way to balance anything in 
 the game any more. There is no overpowering god, overall. It's as good as it's going to get. It's 
 tweaked very well, and it shows. And when you can't get it any better, I think that deserves a 
 perfect score. 
  
  Ok, I'm done with this review now. It's true I dropped out of college, but hopefully this review 
 was put together well enough that you can't tell I'm non-edumicated. :D
  
  -G
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarwarsCJ
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I've beaten this game and I'll tell ya' what, it's pretty short but has THE BEST story line ever!! 
 If you like Mythology, you'll love this game. There's about 9 levels. Be careful on the choices 
 you make though... It might cost you the level! Level 4 is pretty hard. Use god powers for it. 
 
  
  The graphics are pretty good, and sound effects, awesome. The graphic details you can select, so 
 even with a slow computer, you can still play it! High detail shows things like when you click 
 to train someone, it shows them training! That's just some of the good graphics. I don't want to 
 give away the whole game, so if you haven't, I'd buy it, and try to beat it. The ending is really 
 interesting. You get a powerful Titan named Gaia, (the Atlantean goddess.) The game doesn't take 
 very long to get used to. About one round on easy mode, you'll probably get the hang of it. 
  
  This game is online enabled, which I've never tried, (so don't ask me,) but most people I know 
 that play it, say it's fun. You can play up to about 14 people. But be careful, it makes the computer 
 sorta glitchy unless you have it on low detail and a pretty fast computer. So have fun playing 
 it!
  
  ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ujustgotSARGED
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  The recent expansion to Ensembles Age of Mythology, takes a turn from more common mythology, like 
 that of the Greeks or Egyptians, to look at the fabled history of Atlantis, and the Titans that 
 became the founders of a lost civilization. 
  
  The campaign starts off years after the fall of Atlantis, when the Atlanteans had nowhere to live 
 and were becoming a dying race. The leader was attacked, and a demon took his form in order to 
 lead the struggling Atlanteans to somewhere that they can start a new life. This is the plan of 
 Kronos, who wishes to use the people of Atlantis to escape from Tartarus.
  
  Anyway, enough history. The game itself was a stunning addition to the random map game type and 
 added a few much needed updates and new treats. More maps, new AI personalities, and obviously, 
 a new race. The title screen looks amazing, and to get the full pleasure out of it, I recommend 
 the high graphics level. The graphics are beautiful, but you do need a graphics card at most 6 
 years old. Sound is amazing and really leads you to believe that the people may have spoken something 
 like that. 
  
  Game play has definitely improved since AoM. The new que (cant spell things) makes things easier 
 for one low on immediate resources, as you can select a single unit and tell the building to continuously 
 make the unit as long as your resources hold out. This way you can have multiple troops or others 
 building while selecting another and make your multi-tasking much easier. 
  
  God powers in general, not simply Atlantean ones, have been beefed up as well. Things like eclipse 
 and rain now have more power, but dont get the same benefit that the Atlantean ones do, in that 
 you can use the Atlantean GPs usually more than one time. However, they are only able to used 
 multiple GPs of the lesser ones, like Gaias Forest or Shockwave. Stronger powers like Implode 
 can only be used once, but are as effective as a Mythic Age Greek GP.
  
  The SPC is even more inclusive, if somewhat odd. You can play as all four races, but mostly Atlantean, 
 obviously. The levels are quite fun, but are much more difficult to complete the harder you set 
 the difficulty. I know most of you are saying, wowthat was obvious, but as I have learned from 
 countless lost games, the difficulty scale has been revamped. My friend and I have had many problems 
 while playing 2v2 with the comp. The moderate is too easy, but the hard is usually over our heads. 
 We only have 1 strategy that is 100% effective, but its confidential, you understand
  
  Overall, the game itself is fun and can be played multiple times and still have a god time (hehe 
 god hehe)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: solo_beast
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 5, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  This expansion is amazing... I was so pleased to see a new civilization and the addition of the 
 titans which are massive creatures built to destroy enemy armies and settlements. They are not 
 unbeatable but are very strong. I think the greatest part is how the emphasized more on online 
 play rather then campaign mode. 
  
  The new civilization, the Atlanteans, is the most playable and the funnest civilization and is 
 very good at getting resources fast because each citizen has their own donkey with a pack on it's 
 back to hold all the resources you get so you don't have to always walk back to the town centre. 
 The three new majors gods are good because all their powers are very effective in different ways.
 
  
  I think the addition of the titans was good because it makes you more confident when you have one 
 and your confidence helps you feel good about your army and gives you the push you need to go all 
 the way. The titans are very specific to each of the civilizations history. Like the Greek's titan 
 is the big three-headed dog thing, the Egyptians is actually their major god Ra etc.
  
  The online play is very addictive because you have so much fun building your army and settlement 
 and then you set off to war and have a great time. It makes it even more fun if you are playing 
 against people you know and you already know their weaknesses in the game. 
  
  All around I think this game is spectacular and I was really pleased. I definitely recommend it 
 if you liked Age of Mythology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincrazydj
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:00 am PT
Review:  I have got the latest videocard but that still didn't solve the terrible graphics on here. The 
 graphics are an insult to the Age of Empires series. The city builder is horrible. No control, 
 bad graphics and you can't build walls. The plot is rubbish but the concept of the game was a good 
 idea but a first attempt. Write a sequel with good graphics, and a good plot. Bring back the disgraced 
 glory to the age of empires series. This definetely needs an available graphics download. The rest 
 of this game is fine except for graphics and plot. Better to buy age of empires instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jims-Kid
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  Ok, AOM 1 was great, but this game is even better. IT is the same as part one, almost, but it adds 
 a new race (atlanteans) , and you can use TITANS!!!!! The titans are bad @$$. It only sux when you 
 have to fight against one, cause they are pretty hard to kill, unless u have some heroes. Plus 
 anyone can destroy the titan gate and you are lucked out. But this game is better. The atlantean 
 race can promote their units to HEROES! They have many units, and now you canm use your god powers 
 more than once!. I reccomend this game as well as AOM 1. The best expansion so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This is kinda like Empire at War except with better heroes. This was one of the best stategy games 
 i have ever played. The graphics, charcters, and levels. Online play is also very enjoyable. But 
 it should be easier to play titan campaign before online expierence. There are nearly 2000 people 
 playing that game online. It might be an old game but still very fun and very cool. The titans 
 aroiee friggen huge and powerful. The characters in the game are also good use at times. I think 
 this is better than the original age of mythology. At its cheap price this is no game to turn down. 
 This is by far one of the best games for the PC game i have ever played so i would recommend it 
 to any gamer that loves strategy games like Empire at War or World of Warcraft. This game deserves 
 a better rating than 8.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miketheroman142
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Age of Mythology: the Titans is truly a good game. I have always enjoyed playing it and will always 
 love it. It has the excellence of any RTS game combined with the 4 wonderful civilizations that 
 are so radically different it is a lot of fun. The four civilizations are all fun to play ( they 
 include the Atlantians, the Greeks, the Egyptians, and the Norse) . There is one major difference 
 in the game versus other RTS games: it includes "favor". Each civilization gets it favor from the 
 many different gods in many ways. Now you can sayjust like in Age of Kings, there'll be one 
 stupid special unit and thats it for each civilization"! WRONG!!!!!!!! There are special myth units 
 ( such as the minotaur and centaur) and each civilization has its own units, villagers, and different 
 other stuff. There is aIso a very entertaining story mode, focusing on the Atlantian culture. I 
 HIGHLY recommend this to any RTS or really anyone who likes computer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kooleman8
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This is the same Age of Mythology but with one nwe Race. This is The Atlants, They are the similar 
 of the greeks but they are the Romans and" created an empire in an island named Atlantic ( ya 
 know) .
  
  With new Gods and Powers makes this game 9.9 to 10 perfect because is the same game but with new 
 things. The ability of pray for you gods to have bless... oh darn i don't know what i say.
  
  The orcles are guys with the ability to explore extenses areas, the villagers of the Atlantics 
 haves a donkey to keep your resources safe and don't need to build a some house to place them, 
 all soldiers and villagers (no Mytology creatures) can be heroes and somes of powers... mmmmmm.... 
 Destructive Ball, Retry time (destroy building) , make trees, and rogue critters and mythology creatures.
 
  
  THE SAME GAME WITH NEW THINGS REMEMBER!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S_A_D_U_1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  The Titans expansion was one of the best games i've ever played. The new single player campain 
 was way better with the inclusion of the atlantians. the new civilization brought a in a new perspective 
 into the game. along with all new units and god powers. the sounds are still amazing. the addition 
 of the titan units has to be the coolest thing ever. and how each civilization have their own unique 
 one. they devistated everything in thier path. the new buildings such as the counter barracks was 
 a good addition and it brought along new units with it as well. this is a must buy for everyone 
 who likes reall time strategy games. i loved it and I knoe you will too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 24, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  Chances are you're pretty familiar with the original Age of Mythology if you're looking into the 
 Titans expansion. Unfortunately, not much changes for the original three races - same units, same 
 gods, etc. But the new race, the Atlanteans, is unique enough from the others to warrant a look. 
 They stress using god powers and using counter-infantry units so they're easily the toughest race 
 to successfully attack. The single-player is short, since it only covers the Atlanteans, and there 
 isn't as much mission variety compared to the original. About a third of it is tutorial for using 
 the Atlanteans and another third is the ol' strategy cliche "survive for thirty minutes while waves 
 of monsters or Titans attack your base." The multiplayer does a little better since ESO has a new 
 look that helps players choose games. You see pings, numbers of players, game types all on the 
 same screen. There seems to be less online lag than the original, too. Same game modes from AoM. 
 Titans are added to each race but they kill gampelay as they're too powerful and make games one-sided. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Mol
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 17, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Everyone had mixed expectations about this one. For everyone had mixed reactions about Age of Mythology.
 
  Single player bores after some time ( said this sooo much ) but as always there is plenty of oppertunity 
 in the Multiplayer section.
  
  The graphics of this game are good. The gameplay is good.
  But what about the AoE lover that didn't like AoM?
  
  Bad Luck.
  
  If you liked AoM though, 
 you will find this is simply a good expansion.
  More units, maps, new campaign, Titans, new faction..
  
  You must see this game as a pizza.
 
  It sounds odd, but just listen:
  First you eat it a lot, and you love it!
  After some time it gets less and less....
  Some time later (when you haven't eaten it for a while) 
 it's back to the love you had for it earlier.. on and on....
  
  So if you want a game to play when you're in the mood... THIS ONE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gty_gty
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 5, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Amazing X-pack. This is worth it if you want to expand your AOM experience. You can be Titans! 
 thats freaking amazing!
  
  The graphics are top notch for the age series thus far, ot including AOE3.
  
  Sound is amazing. 
 Nothing is better then hearing a Man o War zap our war ships or hearing a Titan roar as he is unleashed 
 on your foes.
  
  And its not like the who ever had a titan automatically won. Theyre easy to kill with hereos and 
 every civ. can stir up an army of heroes in no time.
  
  It has an amzing replay value and has many mods and level beingh created by editors.
  
  And 
 for those people who are editors and like to make their own maps, this has so many features and 
 all you have to know is triggers, easy to understand, and not C like some other level editors in 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimitrismarkou
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  the right expansion in age of mythology game. the addition of a titan was what the game really 
 needed. controlling a titan of your own makes you feel like a god... a titan is a unit extremely 
 difficult to defeat, so the key to the game is preventing your opponents to release a titan from 
 it's gate. after achieving the above mentioned goal, you will be able to build your own titan gate 
 and release the frightening creature. your titan will be very helpful in vanquishing your enemies, 
 especially if you play a game with more than one opponents. once again gameplay is fantastic and 
 graphics are great. in fact this game is extremely addictive and it gives you the chance to escape 
 for a lot of hours from the real world.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duxy33
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  The success of AOM has released an expansion pack that offers more levels, units, buildings, god 
 powers, introduction of the titan, and a new god: The Atlanteans. Some would say this God has 
 an advantage over all, and it does. But when you think about it its just another God with its 
 individual strengths. The game is good because you can now advance yourself with new powers & upgrades 
 etc.
  
  One feature I like about this game is having your own mythological beast called the Titan (each 
 god has their own) . This is a great addition because as you can just demolish your enemy by towering 
 over them stamping on infantry and smashing buildings over. This would be the most climax part 
 of the game.
  
  There is not much more to it than the Titans, apart from new campaign which is engaging to complete, 
 and when playing multiplayer you are given a new experience of playing against 3 different gods, 
 not 2. 
  
  I would have to say the entire AOM sequence was a success, as it introduced us to a new type of 
 strategic experience of Age of Empires. Very addictive game to play
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: erny_200001
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 8:18 am PT
Review:  this is a great game its tons of fun there graphics are also out standing i would sugest this game 
 to anyone who is looking for a new fun RTS to add to there games ,it needs some help in making 
 the races differnt , it kinda has a twist to it before you start the game you do nat pick your 
 race but you do pick your god each god has his own god powers like erathqake or, lighting storm 
 . there is a lot water units that add a lot of funthis game could have been better if they added 
 air untis ina this a game thats a differt xp then other RTS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nazi100
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Two words-EVEN BETTERER. This game turned a great game into a greater game. This game is even better 
 than the original, it has Titans, new race, new myth units, new god powers, new maps, new upgrades, 
 and better graphics. It also has another campaign. This game is clearly one of the best. If you 
 liked the first you should like this better. The new atlantean race is a very good add on. They 
 can turn any unit into a hero. More hit points, armor, and a bigger unit. They also have really 
 good god powers. Kronos, Oranos, and Gaia are the new major gods. The Titans are great but they 
 aren't amazing. They have a good and a bad side to them. They are strong against buildings, units 
 and everything else. That's the problem! Too easy for someone that has one and too hard for someone 
 defending against it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20939572522766106736609805272248-Anailator707
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  The first Age of Mythology was a Masterpiece, but this makes it 
  so much better. In this game there's a new race called the Alanteans..
  There not really on anyone 
 side, but they are a really neat race...
  They have specail talents that no other race can dream of. Now
  the titles 'The Titans' obviously 
 the game has kick a$$ Titans..
  and it does!!! The Titans are totally Rad! Ofcourse its not easy to get them.
  You have to get 
 dozens of workers to undig them from their chamber.
  Each race has a specail Titan... Greeks:3-headed Dog, Norse: Huge Troll,
  Egyptions: The great god 
 Ra!, and Alanteans is this Crystal Gaint.. All of these
  unique Titans has Special Abilities and you msut use them wisely. The
  1 player mode is expanded 
 a bit and is still fun! So this is a game worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aletof2000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 22, 2005 9:00 am PT
Review:  This Age of Mythology expansion ads some things to the game such as a new civilization, three new 
 gods and a lot of new God powers and mythical creatures. Unfortunately the expansion makes the 
 game even more easy, because the new civilization can repeat their God powers, all of its units 
 can become heroes, there are larger houses and the citizens can collect food, timber or gold without 
 taking it to a city or a depot. The most interesting and radical addition is obviously the possibility 
 to have a Titan, which is a very powerful creature that can eliminate your enemy with a foot (literally) . 
 The possibility of having a Titan makes the game even easier, as you can now eliminate the enemy 
 faster and easier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2005 9:39 am PT
Review:  This expansion has a lot to offer but as far as i'm concerned i'ts not as satisfying as the original. 
 Resource management is a breeze, the graphics are the same as the 
 
  
  Age of Mythology: The Titans has a pretty good single-player campaign that continues the storyline 
 of the original. During this campaign you'll play as the Atlanteans and get to use some of their 
 special abilities in practical situations. 
  The skirmish mode and the online multiplayer mode add plenty of replay value, especially with the 
 wide choice of maps available. The map editor packaged with The Titans has also been enhanced since 
 Age of Mythology, in case you want to make your own scenarios (i played with the map editor a lot 
 and found it extremely satisfying)
  
  All in all The Titans is a great expansion to a great game and is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Like father, like son.
  First a lesson in mythology. Get out your pens and paper.
  
  Ten years ago, Arkantos left Atlantis and led his armies across the known world on a mission of 
 utmost importance: to keep the gates of Tartarus closed and prevent the escape of the Titans. His 
 reward earned, Arkantos ascended to the heavens to join the gods and left the mortal world behind. 
 Thousands died to keep the Titans imprisoned, but was it a worthy cause? Who exactly are the Titans?
 
  
  Well, in the beginning there was only the heavens, Ouranos (aka Uranus) , and the earth, Gaia. When 
 they mated, they produced some fearful offspring: the horrid Cyclopes, the three monstrous Hecatonchires, 
 and the twelve Titans. Ouranos hated his ugly children and hid them deep in the underworld Tartarus. 
 This pained Gaia, so she plotted with her youngest son, the Titan Kronos, and gave him a very sharp 
 sickle. That night when Ouranos came to lay with Gaia, Kronos leapt out and cut off his father's 
 genitals. Ouch.
  
  Unmanned and powerless, Ouranos tells Kronos that just as he has deposed his own father, so too 
 will one of Kronos' children depose him. Kronos takes his father's ahemsevered 
 member and throws it in the ocean, and the goddess Aphrodite is born from the sea "foam." I am 
 not making this up.
  
  Kronos is now the king of the gods, but he remembers his father's final words. When he marries 
 his sister, the Titan Rhea, he is frightened of what their children might do. So he eats them as 
 soon as they are born.
  
  Rhea would really rather her children were not eaten, so when her sixth child is born, she fools 
 Kronos by substituting a large stone which Kronos quickly swallows. The real child, Zeus, is raised 
 in secret on the island of Crete by the magic goat Amaltheia. I am really not making this up.
 
  
  When Zeus grows up, he hides out in his father's favorite hunting ground. Kronos arrives to hunt 
 and Zeus ambushes him, leaping out and kicking his dad so hard in the stomach, he barfs up Zeus' 
 five older brothers and sisters: Demeter, Hades, Hestia, Hera and Poseidon. They are, for some 
 reason, just fine.
  
  And so it was that Zeus married his sister became king of the gods and confined all the Titans 
 back under the earth in Tartarus.
  
  Now, considering all the violent baby eating and castration and whatnot that the Titans were so 
 fond of, it's no wonder Arkantos wanted to keep them away from the mortal world. However, in a 
 supreme act of teenage rebellion, Kastor, the son of Arkantos, decides to flush all his father's 
 hard work down the Atlantean toilet and make a deal with the Titans to free them from their prison. 
 Hey, at least he didn't cut off his dad's johnson.
  
  Well, that was a longer lesson in Greek Mythology than I intended (did you take good notes? There 
 will be a short quiz after the review.) but it's a perfect introduction to Age of Mythology: The 
 Titans, the first expansion to Microsoft's excellent Age of Mythology.
  
  The Titans is exactly what you would expect from a well-made expansion. It includes a new playable 
 side: the Atlanteans, a new single player campaign in the adventures of the ungrateful son Kastor, 
 and some new really, really big units: the Titans. Add in a few well thought out game tweaks and 
 you have a title that AoM fans should definitely pick up.
  
  The Atlanteans are a surprising new side in that they are actually the simplest to play. Perhaps 
 in response to the arcane methods of resource gathering and building of the Vikings and the Egyptians, 
 the Atlanteans are straightforward. Their resource-gatherers are faster and more powerful than 
 any other race, and they don't even need to drop their resources off. Individual units tend to 
 be more powerful than those of the other races, structures are more basic and upgrades are more 
 centralized.
  
  The price for all this simplicity and power is, well, price. Everything in Atlantis is more expensive, 
 from the lowly peon to the mightiest warrior; it's just like living in Manhattan. One of the biggest 
 dangers of playing as the profligate Atlanteans is simply running out of resources.
  
  Of course, you don't just choose a side in AoM, and there is a new selection of gods to worship 
 as well. Progenitors like Ouranos and Gaia are ready to serve with their godly powers, as well 
 as Titans like Kronos and Oceanus. Prometheus, one of my favorites, is actually the son of a Titan. 
 Atlanteans can use their gods' powers a bit more lavishly, because unlike the other races, they 
 often get more than one shot.
  
  The army of Atlantis boasts all the regular grunts, swordsmen and archers and the like, as well 
 as some fanciful new mythological units. Satyrs can throw handfuls of spears at a time, Prometheans 
 split into more Prometheans when they're killed, and Automatons are clockwork suits of armor that 
 can repair each other.
  
  But the big new units are the Titans and every side gets one. These massive brutes are game-enders, 
 sort of the violent version of building a Wonder, because it takes a huge opposing force (or another 
 Titan) to stop one, so when a player starts constructing the "gate" necessary to summon a Titan, 
 all other players are alerted.
  
  While each side gets a different Titan like the huge Viking troll or the Egyptian incarnation of 
 Horus, they're all identical under the skin: devastating, nearly unstoppable behemoths.
  
  Kastor's Ungrateful Adventure is well done, but a bit short. The missions often have multiple ingenious 
 solutions, not just "destroy the enemy base," which is great. The in-game cut-scenes are equally 
 good and flesh out the plot. But the 12 mission campaign probably won't take you more than about 
 12 hours, so get ready for some multiplayer skirmishes.
  
  Everything else about The Titans - graphics, sound, interface, etc. - is exactly the same as the 
 original, which is how expansions usually work. There are a few useful gameplay tweaks, however. 
 Some AI's have been improved (and some still feel too stupid) , you can set your buildings to auto-produce 
 units infinitely, leaving you free to do other things, and the racial balance has been improved 
 with a number of small changes in unit power.
  
  While not innovative in any way, AOM: The Titans is everything you should expect from a quality 
 expansion. Plenty of new stuff, but also gameplay refinements and the attention to detail that 
 shows the developers cared about their product. Mythology fans planning to cripple their fathers 
 should postpone and pick up The Titans instead. At least for a while
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luism777
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 18, 2005 11:40 am PT
Review:  Probably one of the best strategy games i have ever played, if not the best it is better than any 
 age of empires, aoe, aoe2, aoe3 and has looads and loads of features. 
  
  The expansion pack is real good as it adds a new race, the atlanteans from atlantis, and the most 
 important thing.... TITANS, that can destroy a building in seconds!
  
  The online side of the game is really good as you can play against other players, or team up and 
 take out the computer.
  
  you can also download new maps and campaigns on websites like aom. heavengames. com and loads of 
 others
  
  I deffinetly reccomend the game as you will spend hours upon hours of playing the campaigns and 
 you will spend your life playing it online TRUST ME!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fougera
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is so sweet, first things first. With the ability to create a titan, wreak havoc with 
 him, then claim victory, this was a neccesary expansion. Along with the titan stuff, there were 
 some tweaks made, a new civilization introduced, and some new units along with that civ. The gameplay 
 was nice, do not think thay could have done much better with the game with the technology they 
 had to make it with, so everything in it is top of the line for its time. Also in this game, there 
 were some more flying units introduced, along with some new technologies that were very crucial 
 to a new, better strategy. On a lesser note, there was no ability to heal the titan whatsoever, 
 which annoyed me a bit but I kept playing never the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrenton
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 30, 2005 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I though the first age of mythology was a great game, completely underrated. Thats why i was semi-dissapointed 
 when i really got into aom the titans. What I am saying is that most things added since the orginal 
 suck. The only exception is the new race, The Atlantiens. The atlantiens take the greeks strong 
 units to the next level, They have an uber good counter for nearly every unit. The downside to 
 this expansion is................ The Titans. They are super strong super myth units. No single 
 unit can stand up to it, besides another titan. This is not really a problem considering the titan 
 costs alot to make, but once a titan is dead it is dead. That makes researching titans farily stupid 
 unless you are backed up by a team of 3 players. All your enimes have to do is deystroy the Titan 
 gate, and your titan dreams are over.
  Another beef i got is that titans cannot cross water. If you build a titan on a small island, its 
 there forever. Why cant a 40 meter tall giant walk through water? Poor level design thats why! 
 
  If you have Aom buy this for it, but dont go buy Aom for this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolksWagen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2005 11:46 am PT
Review:  Age of Mythology was one of the best real-time strategy games I've ever played. With its assortment 
 of new features, excellent graphics, absorbing campaign, and 3 varying factions, it re-defined 
 the genre. The Titans manages to improve on the original, with a new civilization and campaign. 
 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 
  
  Since you obviously own the original Age of Mythology if you own (or are considering owning) The 
 Titans, I won't go into the basic gameplay. If you really want to know, check out my review for 
 AoM. The main feature of TT is the new campaign, although short, it stills provides an excellent 
 tutorial for the new civilization: the Atlanteans. Their deities are the older Greek gods; Kronos, 
 Oranos, Gaia, and their offspring, also known as the Titans. With all new Myth Units, Techs, and 
 God Powers, you'll undoubtedly have fun exploring all the new possibilities for crushing your enemies 
 The Titans offers. The other main addition to the game are the Titans themselves. By researching 
 an expensive improvement in the final age, Secrets of the Titans, you gain a special God Power 
 that places a Titan gate exclusive to your civilization. If your villagers manage to fully dig 
 the gate out, you'll summon a nigh-unstoppable Titan, a towering engine of destruction that can 
 single-handedly crush all your enemies on its own. The only real way to stop a Titan is to have 
 one of your own; they provide a cool alternative to Wonders. One final addition to hinder defensive 
 players like myself is that in TT you can only have 20 Towers at a time instead of 30, but this 
 likely won't come up often. 
  
  Graphics: 10/10 
  
  Age of Mythology incorporates ultramodern 3-D graphics, and The Titans is just as good. The units 
 are extremely detailed, and the game evens shows off its capacity for graphics by letting you rotate 
 the map as you like. In cutscenes, units are incredibly expressive, using hundreds of animations 
 to express the game's storyline. The amazing graphics of The Titans help make the new God Powers 
 and Myth Units all the more amazing. 
  
  Sound: 8/10 
  
  The music in TT isn't exactly top-notch, but every side still gets its own theme music. There is 
 also music that starts during heated battles. The music isn't especially repetitive, and relatively 
 unobtrusive. The units all have different speech, in made-up Atlantean. In conclusion, TT has pretty 
 good sound. 
  
  Story: 10/10 
  
  I might be giving this a high rating because I'm interested in Greek Mythology, but TT really does 
 have an interesting story. Like Age of Mythology's story, it's an offshoot of real Mythology. The 
 story starts as the Titans trick Kastor, the son of the previous game's Hero-turned-demigod. Without 
 knowing what he is doing, he sets out to release the Titans. Can the now-older Heroes of Age of 
 Mythology stop him from plunging the world into evil? 
  
  Replay: 9/10 
  
  Like all strategy games, TT has superb replay value. You can spend weeks delving into the various 
 minor gods and strategies. You shouldn't have to worry about getting bored with the game for quite 
 some time, especially if you go online. 
  
  Buy or Rent: Buy 
  
  Because Age of Mythology is a long-lasting and great game, and because you can't even rent computer 
 games, I'd highly recommend buying The Titans, especially if you're a strategy fan. 
  
  Final Score: 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zilor
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 17, 2005 5:21 am PT
Review:  I don't get what the point of this expansion was, they added super units which devolved the gameplay 
 into a race for them, and they took the novel concept of historic races in a fantasy setting and 
 added Atlanteans with a ton of crap in them.
  
  It added nothing that you would feel the need to have in order to fully enjoy the game, Atlanteans 
 are boring and mediocre, I absolutely found them a waste of time, a lesser known real civ with 
 all their myths would have been a lot more entertaining. One of the southern American civs would 
 have been an awesome addition, or at the very least something more original and unique than Atlanteans.
 
  
  Actually, maybe it isn't Atlanteans that bother me but how generic they feel, and absolutely useless 
 to the game. They have nothing compelling to them at all and the game without them is no worse 
 off.
  
  The Titans are like nukes, but mobile, and more destructive. It's a race to them, getem first and 
 you win basically, and I hate them for devolving the game in such a way. I played this game like 
 crazy, but this lackluster expansion just tanked my desire to play because it was just... Blech.
 
  
  At this point it's probablly super cheap, so I guess it's not as big a deal. However back when 
 I bought it I felt absolutely jipped as it was absolutely and totaly worthless, added nothing cool, 
 and the Atlanteans could not compare in uniqueness and/or coolness to the other civs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasse397
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 16, 2005 2:53 am PT
Review:  
  Having played Age of Mythology for quite some time, mostly online in multiplayer skirmishes, I 
 became quite skilled at the game and well versed in its many strategies for the different civilizations/gods. 
 I was obviously quite excited to get my hands on Age of Mythology a couple years ago when it came 
 out.
  
  Don't get me wrong, it is still extremly fun to play, but for me, there was, and still is, one 
 glaring issue which pretty much removed all the intense strategic necessities of the game; the 
 Titans.
  
  When playing the Titans expansion online, the game is no longer about strategy and planning; it 
 simply becomes a race to the mythic age in order to obtain one's titan. Quite simply, the person 
 to get their titan first, wins. Hands down. It is the "I win" button of this game.
  
  I just found this aspect of the game unappealing... titans are extremely overpowered, as the only 
 units that can take them out effectively are other titans. And if two titans of equal health get 
 in a fight, there is no strategy to it; the Titan that lands the first blow wins.
  
  If you are an AoM fan I would get this expansion for sure... it is just annoying to play multiplayer 
 and have the game always be a race to get the first titan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithlord
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 17, 2005 3:13 am PT
Review:  I love RTS games. I think they are extremely fun and replayable. This game was a blast to play 
 through the first time, and the missions were fun, but the pathfinding of the A. I was so bad, I 
 would try to flank someone and my guys would just run straight towards them instead...
  
  Weird.
  
  After the campaign, I did not find myself playing skirmish mode, only because the 
 maps were pretty much all the same, over and over. I don't really play online, mainly because I 
 can't win against some people that seem to have to cheat all the time. Of course one of my OTHER 
 main reasons, is I get spanked alot... hehe... it's humiliating.
  
  Now as far as the 'expansion" pack goes, it is kinda weak. You can play as Titans, but they are 
 kind of overpowered IMO, and hard to kill if one is loose. Not only that but only one race added? 
 You add the atlantians, but what about 2-4 new races? So, you give us a few more missions, one 
 new race, add some overpowered brutes, and call this an expansion?
  
  Either way, great times can be had with this expansion, but don't expect any other additions to 
 enhance the replay value. Go out and get Age of Empires II and it's expansion, I think you will 
 be more pleased with that instead.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 2, 2004 3:26 pm PT
Review:  The original Age of Mythology was, and still is an awesome game. It's very fun and very addictive. 
 This expansion keeps the same fun and addictiveness and raises it up a notch by adding a number 
 of new things.
  
  This expansion lets you play an entirely new race, the Atlantians, which come with all new gods 
 and god powers. Like the other races in Age of Mythology, the Atlantians have buildings and units 
 which look totally different to those of other races and have different uses. The new units are 
 great, and the inclusion of the 'Counter Barrecks' lets you have even more different units in your 
 army. 
  
  The sounds in the game are still top notch with music fitting the role perfectly. The unit sounds 
 don't seem to get annoying like in other games and the roars troops make when getting physced up 
 and charging into battle never gets old.
  
  The new single player campaign is a lot of fun, although far to short with only 12 missions all 
 up. This is very dissapointing considering the original had a massive campaign. The quality is 
 still there with great cutscenes, varies mission objectives and great maps. If only it went for 
 a bit longer. The expansion looks more to be towards those that play online.
  
  As the name suggests, this expansion focus's on Titans, which you can build! These huge creatures 
 stand tall over the battlefield and it'll be quite a scary thing to see an enemy Titan heading 
 your way.. however if it's your Titan heading into the enemy base, you'll be laughing all the way 
 as these massive creatures are pretty hard to stop. Although it isn't impossible so it doesn't 
 mean game over as soon as someone makes one.
  
  Age of Mythology: The Titans is defiantly a worthy expansion, although i would have liked to see 
 a larger campaign and some new skirmish maps added. There are new skirmish maps, i would have just 
 liked to see even more than what was added. If you own Age of Mythology this is a must have for 
 all fans, especially those that play online. For those only looking for single player might feel 
 a bit cheated, but you can play skirmish with a few new maps and if you can get online, then get 
 some of the maps and scenarios the community has made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBaderXIII
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 25, 2004 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Age of mythology: The Titans is a tremendous game. The game sound matches it extremely well. For 
 instance battle would start and youd here a semi-dark sound and then some cool music. Also the 
 sound effects matched it pretty well in the sense that the sound fitted the mood. The graphics 
 were pretty good considering that my computer is a little old. It was a pretty smooth and-on and 
 not in any way deducting from the game The game play got a little boring at times but was easily 
 made up for by the sound, graphics, and my leaning towards games like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshiorio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2003 6:20 am PT
Review:  I basically agree with the gamespot review for this one... except with their assessment of the 
 blandness of the atlanteans. i found that the atlanteans were indeed a unique civilization that 
 took an entirely different kind of playing style ot master. Lets face it... all of the civilizations 
 are basically the same once you get to the third age. All of the civ-specific advantages really 
 only come into play in the first two ages. The initial resource gathering for the atlanteans is 
 quite different than that of the other civs in the game. gamespot professes that this is "easier" 
 and "less complicated" than with other civilizations. I don't agree, but would say that it's different, 
 just as all the other civs are different. The norse aren't more difficult to play with, they're 
 just different from the greeks (the most standard civ for vet RTSers) . I think that this series 
 was done a great job with making the civs play completely differently... not necessarily easier 
 or harder than another... but differently. The addition of the atlanteans is no exception. In fact, 
 the different major gods in the atlantean pantheon are more various than in the other civs. Oranos 
 is very different to play than gaia or cronos. much more so than set and ra. I really liked the 
 setup of the atlanteans, and not because they're "easier" but because they play significantly different 
 than the other civs, which is one of the big developments between aoe and aom.
  
  my complaint... the single player campaign is only 12 missions long and took just a week to complete 
 on the hard difficulty level. I was hoping for a bit more lengthy single player campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoeKillah
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 8, 2003 4:25 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun. All factions gets a playable titan that owns. You have a great clan interface 
 that lets you see stats on the spot. Lets talk more about the game. When you have upgraded to level 
 3 you can build a titans nest. You send your workers to build it up and when its ready watch out. If 
 your opponent builds a Titans nest at the same time the titans will fight eachother till one is 
 dead. If your titan is not ready and you opponents is it is very difficult to destory the titan.
 
  
  The function to move buildings from one place to another adds a very nice touch to the game. I give 
 Age Of Mythology a high rating because it makes the game 10 times better then it was befor.
  
  -MoeKillah 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
