-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Age of Empires III
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/ageofempiresiii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tried-and-true formula still makes for a complex and interesting strategy game.
 Innovative &quot;home city&quot; system creates long-term depth and strategy.
 Plenty of content and modes of play.
 Spectacular visuals, if you have a fast system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some aspects of combat don't look and feel quite right.
 Frame rate can bog down at the wrong moments.
 Falls into some of the same traps as many older real-time strategy games .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 14, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.2, 58 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 13,691 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Ensemble Studios
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Oct 18, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Those looking for a complex and interesting real-time strategy game with fantastic good looks and 
 some historical flavor will find just what they want in Age of Empires III. 

  Six years have flown by since Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings became one of the definitive 
 real-time strategy games on the market. Age of Kings typified this style of gaming in many respects, 
 but it innovated and improved the style in many others, establishing the template for untold numbers 
 of historic real-time strategy games to come. Coming off the successful spin-off that was Age of 
 Mythology, Ensemble Studios is back with another installment in the series that put the developer's 
 name on the map. Age of Empires III advances the series hundreds of years into the future, trading 
 swordsmen and catapults for musketeers and cannons, while keeping the series' signature formula 
 basically intact. What's more, the game features some gorgeous visuals and an interesting, inventive 
 twist in its persistent "home city" system. So it's unfortunate that the actual meat-and-potatoes 
 combat of Age of Empires III didn't turn out better, since what ought to be the most fun and exciting 
 part of the game is actually the part that feels like it's seen the fewest improvements.  

          You'll need a lot more than three musketeers to win a typical skirmish in the New World 
 in Age of Empires III.     

  Make no mistake, Age of Empires III is still an impressive game overall. But fans with fond memories 
 of the previous installment will be left feeling nostalgic for that game. Part of the reason may 
 be purely subjective. The colonial setting of Age of Empires III, which focuses on hypothetical 
 conflicts between European powers vying for control over the New World (that is, an unfettered 
 North and South America) , presents a subtler culture clash than, say, samurai fighting Persian 
 war elephants. And the transition through five different ages that's presented in the game, culminating 
 in the industrial age (when locomotives and mass production became a reality) , aren't drastically 
 different in gameplay terms, since the magic of gunpowder is available from the get-go. Nevertheless, 
 one look at either Age III's majestic galleons firing all broadsides or horse-drawn cannons readying 
 a deadly payload ought to be all the convincing you need that this is a welcomed direction for 
 the series to take.  

  Eight different European civilizations are at the forefront of Age of Empires III, though mercenaries 
 from other foreign nations sort of make cameo appearances, and various Native American tribes are 
 also included. The usual suspects are here, like the British, the French, the Spanish, and the 
 Dutch. The Russians, the Portuguese, the Germans, and the Ottomans are also available, and each 
 has certain key differences in its economy and military leanings. These differences are significant 
 in practice, such as how the British automatically gain additional workers when they build new 
 houses, or how the Russians may quickly train up large numbers of light infantry. But the eight 
 cultures' personalities don't necessarily come across in combat, because most of the units and 
 structures unique to each side aren't so unique as to be highly distinguishable, and many units 
 and structures are shared in common across most sides. There are certainly exceptions -- the Ottomans, 
 with their heavy emphasis on gunpowder, bring to bear some of the biggest and baddest guns in the 
 game, for instance. And, oddly enough, British longbows seem just as surprisingly deadly here as 
 they did in Age II. It's probably just a necessary consequence of the setting, but don't expect 
 for Age III's factions to blow your mind by how different or unusual they are. Fortunately, each 
 one is complex enough and seems viable enough to where it's easy to find an early favorite and 
 want to stick with it.  

  Age of Empires III is every bit the fully featured game you'd expect it to be, featuring a lengthy 
 single-player campaign in three interconnected acts, each one a generation apart. There's a fully 
 customizable skirmish mode with five difficulty settings for the computer opponent; there's the 
 ability to play over a network; and, of course, there's the ESOnline player-matching service, where 
 you can compete in ranked matches over the Internet, chat with other players, and more. There's 
 also a scenario editor, in case you wish to create your own maps or campaigns, plus some encyclopedic 
 information about all the game's units, structures, cultures, circumstances, and more. A tutorial 
 is there to teach you the basics, and you can also play a practice match in which a fairly helpful 
 narrator will gently remind you of the stuff you're basically forgetting to do.  

          The game looks dramatically different on the surface, but much of the Age of Empires formula 
 remains fully intact.     

  When you get right down to it, Age of Empires III plays a lot like Age II. It's been simplified 
 in a number of ways that fans of the past game will quickly notice and mostly appreciate, but the 
 overall flow of gameplay remains very similar. You're put in charge of a fledgling colony in the 
 New World, and you must deploy workers from your town center, who may build new structures and 
 harvest the game's three resources: food, wood, and coin. Stone, which was a fourth resource in 
 Age II, is no longer a factor, and you don't have to worry about creating resource drop-off sites 
 this time around (settlers sent to chop wood, for instance, will just chop away without ever heading 
 back to a town center or lumberyard) . A marketplace structure centralizes economic upgrades, and 
 mills and plantations can be built to produce an infinite supply of food and coin, respectively. 
 So later on in a match, you can safely stop worrying about micromanaging your resource gathering -- at 
 least until your foes swoop in and damage your economic foundation.  

  Meanwhile, additional houses must be built to support a growing population, and walls and defensive 
 structures may be used to repel guerilla tactics. Military forces mainly consist of infantry, cavalry, 
 and artillery, and they're trained from separate structures. Most military units can be queued 
 up five at a time, so rather than produce musketeers one by one, you can build a group -- provided 
 you have the resources. Presumably this is so you can quickly marshal some defenses if caught off 
 guard, but it's strange that the same amount of time is needed to train one soldier as is needed 
 to train five. You can effectively get an interest-free loan by training your first troop, then 
 waiting until he's almost ready before quickly queuing up four more.     

  So in an average match, you'll spend a considerable amount of time building up your base and your 
 economy, eventually marshaling a mixed group of forces with which you'll try to overwhelm your 
 enemy. Dancing between your economy and your military, as you micromanage each in turn, is the 
 key to victory. While the game's interface makes it fairly easy to keep track of what's happening 
 on these fronts, your manual dexterity is still key to success, both when preparing for combat 
 and when engaged in it. A lot of buildup can end very quickly if opponents aren't evenly matched, 
 while equally skilled opponents may be at each other's throats for longer than an hour in a typical 
 Age of Empires III match.  

          Combat between large forces gets chaotic, and the frame rate can bog down too. Micromanage 
 your way to victory!     

  The game offers plenty of interface features for letting you keep tabs on everything, but when 
 you get down to the combat, things are more chaotic and less true-to-life than you'd probably expect. 
 Groups of units automatically form columns, just as you'd assume (infantry in front, artillery 
 in back) , and they move at the rate of the slowest unit. Unfortunately, when ordered to attack, 
 they still move at that same slowest rate. So to make your cavalry effectively charge into battle, 
 you must order them separately from your crossbowmen, and so on.  

  The neatly arranged ranks immediately break apart when the battle begins, with riflemen fanning 
 out to attack and horse riders clumping around their targets and swinging away, rather than charging 
 through the ranks. Units can all turn on a dime, so cannons have no trouble hitting moving targets, 
 and the game's stately ships display some shockingly absurd behavior when in close quarters or 
 near shore. Most units appear small onscreen, so it can be difficult to keep track of individual 
 combatants in a hectic battle, especially since the game's frame rate will noticeably bog down -- even 
 on fast machines -- when the bullets start flying. So not only does the game favor whoever brings 
 to bear the biggest force in the first place, but also it favors whoever's got the fastest trigger 
 finger in the West, not to mention the best frame rate, since you'll need to finesse some of your 
 units around the battlefield to make the most of them. Granted, this is nothing out of the ordinary 
 for a real-time strategy game, but that's just the problem: You might reasonably expect the long-awaited 
 sequel to one of the best real-time strategy games of all time to have provided a good solution 
 for what many players have identified as one of the genre's setbacks.  

  The imperialistic premise of Age of Empires III sets up the game's most unique feature: the concept 
 of you having a home city looking out for your fledgling colony. At any time during play, you may 
 instantly cut to your home city, which will occasionally send you aid in the form of resource surpluses, 
 economic and military upgrades, and reinforcements. You can gain access to these shipments by earning 
 experience points, which happens automatically as you build up your base and -- better yet -- kill 
 foes and blow up their buildings. Different shipments are available in different ages (at first 
 you can get just modest economic boosts, while later you can get cannons and cavalry) , and most 
 may only be used once. So you constantly have to weigh strategic options, like whether it's best 
 to request reinforcements to mount an offensive or best to keep the option around should your enemy 
 mount an ambush. The shipments system is both easy to use and interesting, and it also thankfully 
 promotes somewhat of a more aggressive, more forgiving style of play than Age of Empires II.  

 
          The home city concept is a novel addition to Age of Empires, and it helps instill a sense 
 of permanence to every victory -- and to every defeat, since losers still gain experience.     

 
  What's more, your home city is permanent in that the experience you earn from one match to the 
 next all adds up, gradually giving you access to more and more shipment options. You unlock these 
 as "cards" every time your home city gains an experience level. More-powerful cards are available 
 only when your city reaches level 10 (which you can reach after about that number of matches) , 
 and stronger ones are available at level 25. Certain cards have prerequisites, too, so the system 
 is similar to a skill tree in a role-playing game.  

  In fact, Age III likens the home city concept to creating a character in an RPG, although the game's 
 thin attempts to let you personalize your home city won't do much to make you grow attached to 
 the place. But unlocking new cards can be pretty rewarding. You're limited to no more than 20 cards 
 in a given match, but since it's possible to unlock many more than that, the game also invites 
 you to build different decks to suit different situations. For example, shipments of free caravels 
 and galleons won't be of much use to you in the Great Plains, but they'd certainly help when battling 
 in the Caribbean. All eight cultures have different cards available to them (though many cards 
 are shared in common) , and ultimately you can use this system to add some panache to your playing 
 style. One possible side effect of this system, though, is that it encourages you to pick a side 
 and stick with it. When playing online, you can't just pick a random civ like you could in previous 
 Age games, and you might not even want to anymore since it's tempting to want all your experience 
 points going in to one bucket.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (729 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: blacksaibot
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 8:19 am PT
Review:  Game play:
  As mentioned, the developers have made things a lot more convenient for players when handling upgrades, 
 villagers, training units. Villagers are very independent now, not needing any kind of storage 
 house (which was similar to the Atlantean civilization in its predecessor, Age of Mythology) . The 
 villager AI, like in AOM, is much better at gathering resources and path finding than in AOE2. 
 However, they are still too "stupid" to avoid known enemy territory when sent to a place on the 
 map. So it is up to you to direct them around it.
  
  The unit training queue allows you to train up to 5 units at a time, which is a lot more helpful 
 when under attack and desperately trying to create some sort of a last minute army to defend yourself. 
 This is a lot better than wasting resources and building 5 different barracks. This has to be one 
 of the better improvements in AOE3.
  
  To keep things historically "accurate" with the times of the colonies, you can establish trade 
 routes and have ally Native American units (though the amount of units is limited to sometimes 
 15 or less) . The trade routes initially allow you to only gather experience points for your Home 
 City, but through upgrades you can choose to gather gold, wood, or food. There is no more need 
 for stone in this game either. Gathering experience points allows you to receive special upgrades, 
 unique units, or regular military units from your "home land." Each civilization obviously has 
 their own unique home city shipments available.
  
  The scenario editor has many, many improvements and makes it a lot easier to create custom campaigns. 
 The downside is that it's not as easy to make multiplayer maps. I haven't messed around with the 
 editor too much to explain in further detail. Other great things about the game are the skirmishes 
 (some games call them quick matches) and the entertaining campaign with decent cut scenes. The 
 story is interesting and keeps true to history (and legend) .
  
  As always, the AI in the game is not balanced. Easy is just way too easy. This setting I would 
 recommend to a person who has never touched a real time strategy (RTS) game in their life or is 
 COMPLETELY new to the Age of Empires series. Normal is still too easy for anyone who has ever played 
 a RTS game or AOE. So if you've played RTS before and have touched the AOE series, stick to Moderate, 
 Hard, or Very hard. Even moderate is a bit too easy. You get attacked every now and then but if 
 you send a large enough army, you can wipe out two enemies within 10 minutes. In my experience, 
 Hard and Very hard are just plain unfair. The AI can control multiple units simultaneously and 
 build up their army before you even have a barracks built. You have to be a hardcore gamer to play 
 Hard or Very Hard.
  The way I keep the game balanced as far as difficulty, is I set it on moderate but I have 3-5 enemies 
 all against me. That is hard and very hard to me, but with the AI paced at a human's ability.
 
  
  One big problem is the population limit is still 200. This sucks considering some units count as 
 2, 3, 4, and even 5. But I know how to edit the game to change ALL units to 1 population (even 
 artillery) . This made the game more fun and I had massive battles.
  
  Music/Sound/Graphics:
  The sound effects are the best yet in the series, and each civilization 
 has actual dialogue true to its language. The music is, as always, fantastic. The graphical effects 
 are beautiful (if you can handle requirements) . I must complain though, that if zoomed in close 
 enough you can see the "box" units. I understand this is to keep the polygon count to reduce lag, 
 but the unit models for the main characters used in cut scenes are much higher quality and it looks 
 bad when they are mixed in with the low-poly "regular" units. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaXiMuS3
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This game surprised me. Yes, I was looking at the previews and everything and drooling over the 
 graphics, just like everything else... but I was also an avid player of the first and second Age 
 of Empires games, so I wasn't really sure if they could pull it off.
  
  Boy was I worrying about nothing. First day I got it, I couldn't stop playing for hours because 
 of it's addictiveness. It does a stupendous job of combining amazing graphics with great game play. 
 All of the units and races are well thought out and well balanced between each other.
  
  I even thought it was worth the fifty or sixty (or whatever it was) bucks to buy it when it first 
 came out. I think that this would be a great game for fans of the series, and would even recommend 
 it to RTS players new to the series. It stands quite well on it's own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gll25
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2009 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Age Of Empires I was a good start for a great strategy series. Age Of Empires II was one of the 
 best strategy games of all time, bigger, funnier and much better than it's predecessor. Age Of 
 Empires III is, somewhat, more of the same. Altough the game has some slight innovations, such 
 as the Home City, that are just awesome and add a great colonial feeling to the game, there are 
 some innovations, such as the Mercenaries, that are just too crazy for a colonial wars game. Okay, 
 hire pirates is a cool thing, but Mamluks? with Samurais? and Ninjas? No, there's something wrong 
 in this. If it was only those bad ideas, but there are parts of the game that need a complete overhaul: 
 For 1999 ( AoE II launch year) , that simple, no-strategy, combat was good, but after the Total 
 War series warfare, that simple way of warfare is just obsolete in 2005! While Rome Total War brings 
 you encirclement, ambush, charge bonus... a truly warlike combat, Age Of Empires III remains with 
 the series old, static and boring battles, and this is maybe the worst mistake of this game. But 
 there are other mistakes:
  
  1) The same population limit, 200. While AoE II had just 4 times more pop. limit than AoE I, theres 
 no change in Age Of Empires III. With this limit, the battles become even more ridiculous, with 
 50 soldiers and 2 cannons taking a village of 100 people, something that gives the feeling of microcolonies, 
 and, well microeverything!
  
  2) Altough the naval unit sizes are much better, its still make you say: That's just wrong... , 
 when you see 75 soldiers entering a frigate that, in real life, would barely manage to carry 25 
 soldiers together with its extremely low tripulation and its extremely low weapons number... A 
 frigate with 12 canons... A caravel with 4... And a galleon that train units!!! Yes, a ship training 
 soldiers!!!
  
  3) Follow the story of the Black Family from Malta to South America is a creative idea for a campaign, 
 but the way it's done it's just completely crazy!! Ottomans... America... Knights Of Malta... A Family... 
 Crazy World Super Organization... Powerfull Sacred Aztec-Inca Water... USA... Simon Bolvar... Russian 
 Invasion... This is worst than 007 movies stories!
  
  Overral, Age Of Empires III is almost the same game than Age Of Empires II, in a different timeline 
 and a different place, with better graphics.
  
  The graphics... the best of Age Of Empires III... They're simply amazing, simply great. The soldiers 
 flying away when a cannonball hits they and roll trough a cliff... When the soldiers trow they 
 torches in the town center... When the buildings are hit by a cannonball and her pieces fly meters 
 away. The animations, the lights... Never a strategy game was so beautiful.
  
  Age Of Empires 3 have a great multiplayer game too. Fighting your friends in lots of different 
 battle types, with up to 8 players, with account level (private, sergeant...) is much harder and 
 funnier than playing against the game not very smart AI.
  
  Because of it's simple, but fun formula, more or less the same since the first game of the series, 
 it's superb graphics and diverting multiplayer Age Of Empires III is still a good game, but much 
 worst than Age Of Empires II 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 3:27 am PT
Review:  Positives
  + Great colourful animated graphics
  + Classic Age of empires 
  
  Negatives
  - Complicated and dull campaign/story mode
  - Brings nothing new to the gameplay
 
  - A one view camera angle
  
  Welcome to my review for age of empires 3 on the PC, as I player whose played the previous game 
 I looked for more in age of empires 3 but was let down.
  
  First of all graphics are great, you can still only look from from one angle but everything is 
 colourful and detailed.
  I particuarly liked the battleship and water detail and thought soldiers were also well done.
 
  Every map has detail such as mines, forests, creatures and rivers, you can also edit maps using 
 the slightly complicated map editor.
  It's a pleasure to look at in the end, I could just watch the sea enviroment for hours watching 
 whales, dolphins and even sharks.
  
  Music is alright, personally I don't enjoy it that much, depending on what race your playing as 
 you get different music, for example when you play as spanish you get some tango like dance music 
 which , as I said personally I don't like the whole world genre of music but it does suit the game 
 in the end and thats all that matters
  For sound effects and audio it's a bit different, some voice overs are alright, only a few cringey 
 lines which can always be turned off, it's a shame everytime you do a command someone says 1 of 
 3 things everytime which is rather annoying, for example you'll move a villager to cut some wood 
 and they'll go 'yes' 'yaarp' or 'sure' depending on what race you are, if your french they say 
 something like 'qui' 'bon' or 'mesh' and it's the same 2 or 3 words for every command!
  It's almost the same with soldiers which can put you down when your on the attack.
  
  Gameplay 
 is classic aoe style as mentioned above, you can choose to start in the ancient age where you have 
 just you and enough supplies to make a town square.
  After you've formed the town square you can create villagers, build houses, then upgrade to the 
 next age when you've collected enough supplies.
  You can get villagers to cut wood, fish, build, gather food or collect treasure.
  Everytime you 
 advance in an age you unlock options for villagers to build more buildings, these include markets, 
 docks, churches, mills and stables.
  You also get more upgrade options for certain things, for example an option will come up when you 
 click on your blacksmith to upgrade your soldiers armour to make them stronger in certain ways.
 
  Militairy includes stables, siege weapons, melee soldiers and ranged soldiers, depending on what 
 civilisation you are your soldiers look different- this also applies to buildings.
  To be blunt gameplay is almost identical to as it was in aoe2, it just looks better and at times 
 feels better.
  
  Overall I highly reccomend it to anybody new to the aoe series but if you played the 2nd one a 
 lot and come expecting something fresh and revolutionairy then forget it as all their is really 
 is a campaign which involves moving soldiers to certain places and doing what your told bassically.
 
  
  Thanks for reading, I hope this review helped.
  ~Gormo
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wescash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is a beautiful, accessible, and immersive experience that you will enjoy if you 
 like real time strategy games. 
  The graphics are fantastic and the game always runs fast - if you have a good computer with a top 
 of the line graphics card and processor. The water and environment looks great and units are highly 
 detailed. The physics engine makes units, buildings, and ships break and are sent flying when assaulted.
 
  The music is nothing amazing, but it is enjoyable enough and changes frequently such as when battles 
 occur. Units speak in their native tongues when selected and cannonfire is loud and booming.
  The cutscenes are very well done, and if you have played previous AoE games you will be happy to 
 know that the voice acting is still atrocious.
  As far as gameplay goes, there is the campaign, regular skirmish, and multiplayer. With a scenario 
 editor and tons of options, the game will keep you busy forever.
  The new home city feature is a great addition that adds a new layer of strategy to the game. Native 
 American tribes are also a new concept and it is a nice touch. 
  In AoE2 , you could easily reach the final age and research all technologies. In AoE3, technologies 
 are far more numerous and expensive, so choosing the ones that will benefit you most is key.
  Controls are simple and the game as a whole is easily accessible, but even on moderate difficulties, 
 the computers can be deadly. 
  The only problem with AoE3 is that it is really just an updated version of AoE2. The only major 
 differences are the home city, native americans, and the gorgeous visuals. The game is still worth 
 buying whether you are a AoE veteran or a newcomer, but I can't give this game a higher score simply 
 because it feels like it has been done before, and it has been.
  If you have never played AoE2, I recommend it over this game, but Age of Empires 3 will definitely 
 provide lots of hours of solid fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soitrang
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 8:19 am PT
Review:  Well, I used to play Age of Empires II when I was a child and found it not much exciting. But Age 
 of Empires III is really better than its predecessor thanks to interesting campaign mode, brand 
 new gameplay and truly graphic. 
  
  Firstly, the campaign mode is long and very enjoyable though it's based on fictional stories about 
 Black family. There are three "Acts" and each act has about seven or eight battles which are different 
 form each other and have a variety of objectives. However, the campaign mod is rather easy and 
 it might take you about three hours to complete one act.
  
  The gameplay has some new features and contents. Now you can get reinforcement and shipments by 
 home cities. You can also train 5 units in each queue ( funnily, you can only train one settler 
 in each one ) . There are eight civilizations and each one has unique units and cards. As for the 
 economy, you can gather much food and gold easily and very fast whereas wood still runs out quickly. 
 Someone may consider those new contents are just minor changes but to me, they make the game more 
 enjoyable. Firstly, unique armies and home cities diverse the strategies. Secondly, you don't have 
 to spend too much time on economy, so you can concentrate on fighting. As for the bad, I find cannons 
 are too strong and outports are weaker than those in Age of Empires II. Finally, it's illogical 
 when an archer has a wider attack range than a musketeer.
  
  In my opinion, the best thing of Age of Empires III is the graphic. Well, it's colorful, beautiful 
 and very true. When a cannon fires into a building, it turns into pieces and collapse! The water 
 is very dramatic. The game sounds are great too though they are not different from those of its 
 predecessor. 
  
  Age of Empires III is a worth playing game. The gameplay may not be an innovation, but the graphic 
 would enhance you. 
  
  I'm not an English so I'm sorry for any mistakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RmStriker17
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 9:54 am PT
Review:  I am having an awesome time playing this game. I recently beat the campaign and am now getting 
 into the multiplayer which is even more enjoyable. AOE 2 was my favorite game ever and this doesn't 
 quite live up to the hype. However, it's still an SICK game!
  
  Some minor issues with game-
  Towers are too weak, 
  can't build walls across trade routes 
 ( I really like how they incorporated the native americans and the trade routes as well in this 
 game. They're helpful but not over-bearingly influential. ) ,
  I miss the castles of aoe2 (can't assign settlers to build fort; only outposts) ,
  The campaign 
 is not based on actual history
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  They really seemed to even it out compared to previous aoe. No more building 100 scorpions. You 
 need a little variety to be really successful. The settlers are stronger which makes rushing more 
 difficult, and the minutemen creation can be called upon quickly if needed. However, it does encourage 
 attacking play. Battles are back and forth and there are a wide range of strategies militarily 
 and economically. 
  
  Sound: 9 
  I personally really like the soundtrack as well as the military screams, gunpowder, etc.
  
 
  Graphics: 8
  Decent graphics considering its now 2009 and It released in 2005. The graphics actually remind 
 me more of Empire Earth than AOE. 
  
  Replay: 9
  You might get bored of doing the campaign but this is one you can play online OVER and OVER again. 
 Although there aren't a ton of games to join online, I rarely have experienced lag so the games 
 are going great.
  
  Overall, I love this game. it's a must have for RTS fans but will still be enjoyed for the casual 
 gamer.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2sasuke18
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great change to it than its predecessors with its musketeers, cannons, ships, and 
 amazing graphics. It also keeps its famous style of constant strategy to stay ahead of rival nations. The 
 new feature of the home city is great for when your in time of need. Personally I play it at lease 
 every week just for the fun. If you get your friends to join you online you can work on strategies 
 and level up you home city for matches when you work together. The new story and destructible trees 
 and buildings that explode into pieces is great. Once you start playing you'll be able to play for 
 hours. Although some scenarios can be a little difficult, the game over all is great. Also I recommend 
 the age of the empires III expansions war chiefs and asian dynasties. I highly recommend Age of 
 the empires III to any person looking for a great computer game. I hope this review helped you make 
 up your mind about age of the empires III. Hope you in joy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Empire_Gamer
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Ah good old Age of Empires, I love this series, Age of Empires 2 was just a phenomenal game, but 
 alas Age of Empires 3 just fails to live up to 2's excellence.
  
  Age of Empires 3 really tries to live up to the legacy of the other games in its series and you 
 can tell Ensemble Studios put a good amount of effort into this game. However a lot of their efforts 
 have gone into making big changes in the gameplay of the Age of Empires series (Not that big changes 
 are bad) , these changes have made a greater focus on the multiplayer side of the game leaving the 
 single player experience a little wanting. Also the style of Age of Empires has gone from being 
 a slightly defensive one to a more aggressive rushing type, which I hate because I hate the rushing 
 strategy. I also found that I could dominate the A. I. most of the time in single player being defensive, 
 but the average multiplayer game I played the major strategy used was rushing (except for the no 
 rush X amount of minutes games people like me had set up) . 
  
  The game's main campaign is also kind of mediocre, it has a very predictable overused "secret society 
 is trying to take over the world" plot line which is a far cry from the old historical campaigns 
 of the previous two games (which granted aren't very original either, but I liked them a lot better 
 then this) . The campaign's one bright spot is the voice acting and sound track, both are pretty 
 good and suit the game and its characters well. Overall though I was very disappointed in the main 
 campaign (s) which are usually one of the high points in an Age of Empires game.
  
  The new changes and features are not all bad however. The game's eight civilizations are all very 
 unique and make up a diversity of different playing styles. The new Home City feature which allows 
 you to receive "free" shipments of aid to colony after earning experience is nice and the amount 
 of customization in is good. The addition of natives and trade routes are a good new part of the 
 game as well.
  
  Summary:
  
  The Good: excellent graphics, good music, good multiplayer experience, great new features such 
 as home cities, natives, and trade posts.
  
  The Bad: mediocre campaign, departs from the feel and style of its predecessors, and rushing is 
 way too easy to do.
  
  Bottom Line: Age of Empires 3 with all it's let downs is still a very good game, it might disappoint 
 fans of Age of Empires 2 but its definitely worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Lucius
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  No matter how hard you might try, there is no possable way to top Age Of Empires III. This is a 
 true masterpiece of RTS gameing. Just as AOE placed from the stone to the Iron ages, and AOE II 
 covered the middle ages, AOE III continues in The age of discovery and the founding of America. 
 In Campain, you play through three generations of the Black Family as the discover the New World 
 and stop The Circle Of Ossus for stealing the fountain of youth. In single player skirmish, you 
 take up one of eight countries, (English, Spanish, French, Dutch, German, Russian, Portuguese, 
 and Ottoman) and take your skills to conquer The Americas. You can even go online and test your 
 skills against others and see if you truely are worthy of AOE. 
  
  AOE III introduces a new gameplay feature apart from the older AOE series. The Homecity. Each country 
 has a home city or Capitol. (ie. English, London) By completeing tasks during gameplay you earn 
 EXP. When enough EXP. is earned you can go to your homecity and ship supplies, villigers, upgrades 
 and troops straight to your town. You can also buy "Homecity Cards" that increse the amount of 
 shipments you can send.
  
  With Stunning Graphics, immersive gameplay and its ability to WOW! you, i give it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EddieTheGreat
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  This is very addictive! I have been playing this game on and off for at least 2 years now, You 
 can play your own way, have your own unique style and it works brilliantly. The online multiplayer 
 is superb, Great fun! Real-time strategy is where its at, and this truely is one of the greats 
 of RTS. The single player will keep you playing for hours, with a very nice stroyline and then 
 the option of skirmish mode, letting you customise the game, with a wide selection of maps and 
 civilisations, Age of Empires game is brilliant. It may be old, but the graphics are still beautiful.
 
  
  ojhs
  dagiuhsa
  dgilbjasdglkjbhasd
  flvgkjbds
  fvhbwe
  roiutyo4
  nq3io5n7hhn9
  281bt7wa
  4nfykbrajhg
  bmdfjbh
  cfgnlas
  kufbvjgragyoe4
  av7tsduajvt4o
 
  v7ir tvqnhcksvjybrat6
  uyfnjhxnzfhor6
  oihr5go9vnh3q
  8oiwvltinyvlngkyise
  jaghdvfoinu7nat6b
  louinyasvrpo8u 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aresdistroyer
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Maybe no rts will be ever as good as AOE 2. I Expexted this would be more focased on empire building 
 then just attcking. It is ok to attack in the campigns but in the game or randum it gets boaring. Overall 
 the gameplay is not bad but this was still a disapointment. A ideal expansion for AOE 2 would be 
 like Empires dawn of the modern world which was a mixture of truly good stuff. But AOE 3 does not 
 even put the campaigns right and interesting or even the gameplay. Still even today afer 8 years 
 i love to play AOE 2 but this is just so short lived game that by the next generation people would 
 forget it and play new games just as they did with the Empire Earth series. Moreover this game didi 
 not look like a true AOE game and had a feeling that the expansion would put it right. But if you 
 are a true AOE fan you might still like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dimanchee
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I started playing off playing Age of Empires 2, and I thought that game was amazing. I clocked 
 several hours creating my own maps with hundreds of units, and managed to crash my computer once. 
 Wasn't pretty.
  
  Anyways, Age of Empires 3 is an amazing game. The variety of units is amazing, and I still love 
 the factions. The visual effects are really cool, especially the naval battles, although it bugs 
 me that the ships manage to crash into each other. I love playing as the Russians, even though 
 the main infantry unit isn't very strong. The inclusion of the card system is also really surprising, 
 as it works perfectly, and the home cities and just pure eye-candy. The cheats for Age of Empires 
 have always been hilarious, and I love going around with a good ol' L@z3rB3@r and a Monster Truck 
 and killing everything. Tons of fun. The campaign was a bit difficult at first, but after getting 
 use to it I managed to beat it.
  
  Overall, Age of Empires 3 is an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurd
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  AOE has always been about defence and offense. As a 'defensive player' in RTS games I used to love 
 sticking aoe2 on hard and fighting 3 npc at once building huge forts on cliff tops to repel them. 
 You can't do that anymore because walls and towers are too weak.
  I have tons of rushing/offensive RTS games like C&C, dawn of war and supreme commander and they 
 do it so much better.
  The computer players seem weird too. Sometimes they fight like **** and give in within 10 minutes 
 other times they amass a huge army before you've even mustered 6 villagers together.
  There are some great touches like home cities and heroes but I cant help thinking they're there 
 just for the online aspect.
  
  It seems strange that they chose to change a winning formula with AOE3 and lovers of the old AOE 
 will probably be slightly disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthLinux
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This is the first 3D Age of Empires but not the best, sure it beats the originals silly graphically 
 but I still prefer to play Age of Mythology. 
  Ensemble Studios is trying to produce a new game in the series and reap the rewards, but without 
 really catering to the gamers needs. There are some cool new graphical effects that involve physics 
 e. g. cannon ball, building destruction and it is quite enjoyable watching your cannons knock people 
 off their trusty steeds.
  
  The extremely annoying thing about this game is its bugs, just little things but a lot of little 
 things e. g. boat moving is clunky and looks terrible, artillery type weapons such as cannons have 
 very fast animation movement and then really slow movement and quite a few more.
  
  This is still a game worth playing but I don't think it is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 for me was a bit of a letdown. After playing AOE2 I didn't quite expect that this 
 game would be so uninteresting in the gameplay.
  
  When AOE2 came it brought with it a new gameplay, new features and new styles and techniques that 
 were advancements over the previous game AOE. But AOE3 doesn't even try to bring in a new touch 
 to anything.
  
  One significant problem was that while the previous AOE game didn't require too much graphics, 
 yet it provided one of the vest RTS environments. AOE3 however increases the graphics requirement 
 thus making the game slow on a low end PC. It however improves the graphics quality to only a slight 
 effect, but disturbing the effect. Like in the previous game (AOE2) an attacked building always 
 used to catch fire, but here the building actually responds differently to different attacks. It 
 may be flamed down by infantry or may be blown of by a cannon. However they removed various effects 
 like that of the tiles in the barracks and others. As a result the graphics as such improved but 
 the effect and impact of the graphics was not up to the mark.
  
  Also, the Campaigns of AOE3 are good, but the random gameplay fell abysmally flat when compared 
 to AOE2.
  
  In spite of this AOE3 is recommended as a good RTS game but definitely not the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  AoE3 is the third installment of the Age of Empires series. This one has not that good storyline, 
 however, it combines powerful armies and mighty heroes once more in order to defeat evil enemies.
 
  
  The script this time is not part of real-history at all, as AoE2 was, but it is still a good campaign 
 to play.
  
  The graphics of the game are also very good, but they need a very good graphics card to run properly.
 
  
  A very good and innovative thing AoE3 features, is the Home City. The Home City is the place from 
 where your ships to the New World have sailed. The Home City can supply you with many things, such 
 as armies, crates of resources and bulding wagons.
  
  The game bears great resemblance to the previous Ensemble Studios release, Age of Mythology. Features 
 like the Editor or the advance through the ages is just the same.
  
  In fact, Age of Empires III is an exciting game to play but this excitement won't last for very 
 long, since you have played four or five times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecoldfighter
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  Age Of Empires III covers the time area of the colonization age. In this age, Europe started to 
 explore the final undiscovered frontiers of the world. AoE Village gives you the chance to learn 
 about what happened in the world around that time. 
  
  Well, if you ask me I like Age of Empires II more than this one. It has something special that 
 Age of Empires III doesn't have. For me it was just plain fun.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  Nice graphics, nothing great.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Good sound but here as well nothing special.
 
  
  Storyline: 9/10
  
  Great storyline. It could have been better though.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  Like many other RTS's you control your people with the mouse.
  
  Impression: 
 8/10
  
  Well, at least for me, the game was just for plain fun. Nothing that would make me wasting my nights 
 on it. Hmmm... mabye because the vikings disappeard.
  
  Type: RTS ; Producer: Microsoft Games ; ON-Line: http://www. ageofempires3. com 
  
  System Requirements: 
 
  * Microsoft Windows XP
  * PC with 1.4 Ghz equivalent or higher processor that supports SSE
  * 256 MB of system RAM
 
  * 2.0 GB available hard disk space
  * 32x speed or faster CD-ROM drive
  * 64 MB video card with HT&L
  * Sound card with speakers or headphones
  * Microsoft Mouse or 
 compatible pointing device
  * 56.6 Kbps or better modem for online play
  * DirectX 9.0c or above
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Free-Man
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  the game is nothing like AOE 2 which you can play over and over again. instead you find yourself 
 on very small maps which always have flaws and have to little resources to even support a large 
 city/army. the expansions add few inprovements and some nations which are the same as usual but 
 just look different. the battles are boring for soldiers shoot, reload for a minute along with 
 other soldiers creating dead silence and then shoot again. 
  
  there are very annoying sounds that the units make like, ya or oih, which they repeat every time 
 you give them an order. the worst part is that you can shoot through walls which makes them useless. 
 all the units are the same except for the very small hp ot attack differences.
  
  the ship batles are simple just like land battles, shoot and reload..... shoot and reload. the AI 
 is also retarded. it has very few defences and just builds soldiers and sends them at you. if you 
 build an army, sneak around the enemy areies "usual route" then you can attack there base. but 
 of course you will have to get through the mass amounts of villigerse stealing the maps few resourses 
 in minutes.
  
  AOE 2 has memorable units and campains along with endless possibilities in the many kinds of skermish 
 or online play. there is soo much strategy in AOE 2 but in this game you just attack and defend 
 in repetative combat.
  
  the only hope i see is if they make a AOE 3 in modern day with superwepeons and guns unlike the 
 unfinished game which i have disgraced myself by playing the game and reviewing it, total wate 
 of money!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mickeyminime
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  I enjoy making country sized cities on age of empires 2 and huge armies that clash, but this one 
 does not allow you to do that. you have limit amount of buildings to build unlike the last one 
 where you coult build billions of castles and farms. The home city that enables upgrades etc is 
 not bad, it does make a different but not the best. Im not really a person that can get in to an 
 army of 100 people shooting each other, im more upclose sword to sword like Rome Total war where 
 you have 10000 men or more. The story is a bit odd, its not as good as the one they had in Age 
 of Mythology were Arkantos travels to Egypt, Greece and Nores. It was not as promising as i had 
 hoped but its not a let down like some games like this. The graphics are good, but do need improvment, 
 i did change the graphics card twice but it still didnt show much improvment apart from the sea. 
 If they make another Age of Empires, they should not havea limit amount of buildings to build, 
 or have a horse thats has 3 population on it because it makes your army smaller, not large. Still 
 lets hope they try to wake up and do better instead of worst. Age of Empires 3 somwhat reminds 
 me of the first Age of Empires with the 50 population limit. but just has better graphics then 
 the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: William6058
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  I think AoE 3 is a nice game overall, but the main reason I gave it a 7 is because of the major 
 instability. The game couldn't even run without the first patch, and even if it did, the graphics 
 would be sloppy. But anyway, after the patch, I went playing the training missions. It seemed good.
 
  
  So I went to play a real game. It was fun the first 20 minutes or so, but after you built a navy, 
 and went to fight another navy, well, FPS is totally 0.5. I could only here sudden bursts of sounds, 
 and I feared it also would've crashed! After the battle (which I couldn't see clearly) , I either 
 came out the victor or the loser. But still, it's a bit not cool to see those navy battles.
  
  Also, when it is like a few hours into this game, the resources run out pretty fast (like Warcraft 
 III) compared to other games. And even so if you build a plantation and those kind of stuff, it's 
 a pain to just focus on the market to get wood and those stuff.
  
  But it's an overall good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATREAZURE
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  I first played this game at my cousins house, if it was not for that I would have never got a chance 
 to experience it. I got so into in that I had to purchase my own! The graphics might not be top 
 notch, but what game play is this awesome graphics, sound, and all that other review stuff just 
 goes out the window! The campaign is cool with a solid storyline, the you can just play single 
 player, and the more you play the more points you score for customizing your own city and card 
 deck. Then you also have the option to play online with other users and that is always cool. So 
 I would definitely give this game a THUMBS UP and recommend it to my friends and who ever else 
 inquires. It is a definite buy and keeper. I have played it more than once and keep coming back 
 for more, there is not too many games you can do that with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creed38
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I was a longtime player of AoE2 and it's expansion: The Conquerors, matter of the fact it was the 
 first game i ever played Online with other people, and although it was great for the current time, 
 the whole Medieval theme began to get veeeery boring and drawn out. So when AoE3 came out i was 
 happy because it had a colonial/revolutionary war era theme to it and i was anxious to see how 
 Age of Empires could fit into a different era, and it turned out to be greater than i expected.
 
  
  The game itself employs features many of the same futures as previous AoE games but also a large 
 amount of new things as well. 
  -With the exception of some of the military units, the game's graphics are simply stunning, the 
 look of buildings and trees have alot more natural look. Just a giant step up from AoE2.
  
  In my opinion, the campaign is very interesting and fun to play through, although it is slightly 
 boring in the beginning because u basically play through the ages, starting out in a kind of crusader 
 era, so u dont get all the sweet things youd expect like cannons and other gunpower units, but 
 as u play it gets better and alot funner. After the first run-through of the campaign, youll be 
 ready to explore the other styles of gameplay.
  
  The Home City feature is a great addition and it allows you to play your civilization in your own 
 unique way, while still letting u gain the benefits of that one civilization and the longer you 
 play and the more time you put into it, the more cool things you discover, many things that arent 
 explained within the campaign.
  
  The multiplayer is easy and fast to use, although it is sometimes hard to get into a game if your 
 connection is bad. Like any multiplayer, you can make a game with your friends or just join any 
 game as it comes up in the lobby. My friend and I usually just make our own game and play against 
 computer characters in sort of a co-op skirmish game. We change the difficulty and the number of 
 players around depending on what kind of game we want to play and its always fun.
  
  I don't know why other people are saying this is a bad game... maybe im just stupid or have bad 
 taste, but i think that anyone who enjoyed AoE2 will probably enjoy AoE3 just as much, if not more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsox07
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  personally find this game very interesting..
  To tell the truths, I havn't even touched the game campaign because I think it's too boring..
 
  
  But I have played this game multiplayer and skirmish since 2005.. I play often on expert or hardened 
 level and find it suit me. Moderate is the best but expert is a challenges..
  
  Pros: Decent graphic, very instence battles (Fight it on death match 4v4 not supermacy dude) , some 
 interesting setting which many others strategy game don't have. Home city setting and shipment.
 
  
  Cons: Feel a bit old-dated for grahpic, sounds are a bit stupid... especially taht "alert" sound 
 when your troops are in engagment, jesus man.. I have been engaging in entire game...
  
  To tell the truths.. strengths and numbers are forever best friend of stragegy.. I havn't still figure 
 out how to defeat 7 experts (They just pour in and finish) ... the closest win was only 3v5 experts..
 
  
  The differences between several powers aren't that great.. actually a bit the same too..
  
  Presentatation:9/10
  Graphic: 8/10 (2005 option)
  Gameplay:8.5/10
  Sound:8/10
  Value:8/10
 
  Overrall 8.5/10
  
  Anyway it's still worth a 8.5/10..;) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fife88
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  After playing many games just like this, I would have to say that this is one of my favorites, 
 so far. Originally, I bought this game because it was a prerequisite for the Expansion pack Asian 
 Dynasties. I have been playing this game on and off for about a week now.
  
  At first, I wasn't sure that the time periods within the game would hold my interest, but in fact, 
 they do. It is an interesting concept for this game to span across a few different time periods 
 within the single player game play.
  
  As I continue on my journey thru this game, I have come across many features that I wasn't aware 
 of when I first began playing. So, I intend to finish the single player game -and then go back 
 and start all over again. At some point I will try to dive into the multi-player games. 
  
  If you are into civilization games with emphasis on war and battles, this is the game for you!
 
  
  I highly recommend this game as a precursor to any of the Age of Empires III expansion packs (Asian 
 Dynasties, War Chiefs etc)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_ROMAN_VI_X
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  If I can say so myself, which I will, I am a hardcore Real Time Strategy fan. I played AOEII for 
 about 9 years because you can keep coming back to it for more random fun!
  That changed when I got Age of Empires III.. Sure, some of the graphics are better, ship battles 
 look more realistic, but Microsoft honestly f*cked the gameplay up. Especially the campaign. Magic 
 water? Secret society of fanatical warriors? Christ, this is worse than the Da Vinci Code!
  
  Not to mention that reasource gathering is sucky, speech is redundant and annoying (how many 
 times can they say condoment in a row?!?!) Also, the limited range of maps and units, and nations 
 to play as is a major blow to the game..
  
  In conclusion, Age of Empires III is a pretty bad game that will offer you about 20 hours of gameplay 
 before you take the disk and throw it at your neighbor.
  
  If you have money to buy a game with, check ebay or Amazon for a copy of Age Of Empires II. It's 
 a classic, and worth far more than it costs nowadays (like $5) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet_sora
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  AIM OF THE GAME: To complete the campaign or to defeat opponents and level up your home city.
 
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  Feels just like the other AOE games///Shipment cards make life so much easier///Leveling up is 
 really easy///Heaps of different cards and upgrades to choose from///Plays really well on LAN or 
 online///Awesome graphics and animation///Great sounds and voices///Maps change slightly each time 
 they are played.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  If your PC is slow, you may need to reduce the graphics///You can only hold 20 cards in a deck///Buildings 
 go down too easily.
  
  
  MY SCORES:
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  The gameplay in AOE3 is spectacular and just what you want for a real time strategy game. It isn't 
 very laggy in online play either. Controls are simple and fighting is really easy.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  
  The graphics are great and the animations of breaking or burning buildings 
 are awesome. Zooming in and watching fights can make the graphics rough.
  
  Sound: 9
  
  Great voice work (can get annoying when you right click over and over)
  and excellent catchy 
 music. 
  
  Value: 10
  
  If you're a fan of the AOE series or even the Command and Conquer games then you will love AOE3. 
 It is a Real Time Strategy game that is very worth it and you can play with or against friends.
 
  
  Overall/Average: 9.5
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bangell99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  AOE is one of the oldest and most popular RTS series. It's fun and accesible, with 3 installments 
 bearing numerous expansions. However, what was groundbreaking back then will fail to excite a modern 
 RTS audience, though that's not to say it's a bad game.
  AOE has stuck to the classic formula of worker-based resource gathering, base building and small-scale 
 battles with a rock-paper-scissors style. This installment is no exception. Your villagers collect 
 wood, gold and food, which you use to build bases and troops. Generally, resources can be collected 
 in two ways - venturing out to gather from the wild, or collecting from mills and plantations in 
 the safety of your base. Both have their advantages. Additionally, crates of resources are supplied 
 at the beginning of the game to get you started. Trade routes can also be built and upgraded to 
 provide resources without using gatherers, although the trading posts will need protection. 
  After you've got some resources, base building can commence! This process is easy. A stable will 
 build and upgrade cavalry, a barracks will build and upgrade infantry, ect. Your villagers construct 
 all of your structures, and there is no limit as to where they can be placed.
  When building your army, you can recruit units in groups of 5, but each soldier is an individual 
 rather than part of a squad. You can build houses to increase your population capacity, but it's 
 always capped at 200. As a result, battles aren't very large, especially since most units take 
 up more than 1 population space, and you'll have a bunch of villagers taking up room aswell. Rebuilding 
 your army doesn't usually take very long, however, and a strategy of attrition will usually work, 
 especially with villagers moving up to build defenses and structures closer to an enemy. Unlike 
 the previous games, however, relying on a ton of towers and other defensive structures will not 
 work.
  AOE follows a rock-paper-scissors system; cavalry beat archers and artillery, archers beat slow 
 infantry, spearmen beat cavalry, ect. Formations are not as important as they should be in the 
 era, but keeping artillery behind a rigid line of musketeers can have its benefits. 
  The campaign follows the Black family, as they travel to the new world and set up a railroad company, 
 encountering plenty of enemies along the way. The story is told through short cutscenes, and it's 
 not a particularly bad story, for an RTS, mixing history and legend with some fairly strong characters. 
 
  An interesting new aspect in the game is the Home City. Building units and structures and killing 
 enemy units and structures earns you XP points, which you can use to buy something from your home 
 city, including research, covered wagons and troops. What you can call in is customisable, but 
 you'll have to unlock Home City Cards before you can add them to your deck and use them. You won't 
 really change the course of battle with these shipments, but they're a nice addition.
  Naval combat has been improved. Ships will move alongside each other before opening fire, as they 
 would in real life. Fleets can contain a variety of ships, from caravels to galleons to monitors. 
 There is little management required in these ship battles, and they're nothing to get excited about.
 
  The graphics are a mixed bag. The environments and landscapes, especially water effects, look 
 simply beautiful. The units, however, look poor, especially up-close. You can't zoom very far in 
 anyway. The destruction of ships and building looks great; they'll catch fire and bits will break 
 off appropriate to where you hit them.
  The sound is good. The music is appropriate, with march tunes as well as Mesoamerican style music. 
 The voice-acting is done well, but there's hardly any real talent screaming out at you. The muskets 
 and cannon sound right, as do all the sound effects.
  Overall, it's not a bad game, but it does feel a bit dated in terms of gameplay. That said, it's 
 fun and accessible, and new RTS gamers might want to try this, but veterans who are looking for 
 innovation should go elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  I personally find this game very interesting..
  To tell the truths, I havn't even touched the game campaign because I think it's too boring..
 
  
  But I have played this game multiplayer and skirmish since 2005.. I play often on expert or hardened 
 level and find it suit me. Moderate is the best but expert is a challenges..
  
  Pros: Decent graphic, very instence battles (Fight it on death match 4v4 not supermacy dude) , some 
 interesting setting which many others strategy game don't have. Home city setting and shipment.
 
  
  Cons: Feel a bit old-dated for grahpic, sounds are a bit stupid... especially taht "alert" sound 
 when your troops are in engagment, jesus man.. I have been engaging in entire game...
  
  To tell the truths.. strengths and numbers are forever best friend of stragegy.. I havn't still figure 
 out how to defeat 7 experts (They just pour in and finish) ... the closest win was only 3v5 experts..
 
  
  The differences between several powers aren't that great.. actually a bit the same too..
  
  Presentatation:9/10
  Graphic: 8/10 (2005 option)
  Gameplay:8.5/10
  Sound:8/10
  Value:8/10
 
  Overrall 8.5/10
  
  Anyway it's still worth a 8.5/10..;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Kantor
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I loved Age of Empires II. I thought, still think, it's one of the greatest strategy games ever 
 made. 
  I liked it because it was a good difficulty level, not too easy or hard. I liked it because the 
 campaign was interesting. I liked it because I could actually fight enemy civilizations at home.
 
  
  Age of Empires III has none of these things. A skirmish, even on easy, is nearly impossible to 
 win. The fictional campaign is bland and inconsequential. Remember the Age of Kings and Conqueror 
 campaigns? Real history. Made you feel like you were actually achieving something, acting out history 
 and destroying your enemies.
  
  In AoE3, you are fighting tiny colonies of enemy civilizations. So really, what will happen if 
 you kill them? They still have that massive home city left. 
  
  Ah, the Home City. Finally, a good thing about this game, that redeems it from being a total flop. 
 Every so often, you get a chance to send a shipment of soldiers/villagers/resources from your Home 
 City back in Europe to your colony in the "New World". This is a good touch to the series.
  
  Another thing I have to praise- the graphics. They are excellent. You can see every feature 
 in your home city buildings, holes appearing in ships as they break apart and eventually sink, 
 damaged buildings collapsing, all seamless. 
  
  Overall, AoE3 is still a decent game, but nowhere near what it could, and should, have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beanmachine12
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Well, what can i say really?
  
  This game is one of the BEST Historic RTS games you can buy as it is very addictive, it never gets 
 old, the campaign is imersive and will leave you wanting more, the single player skirmish maps 
 are brilliantly designed, the graphics are brilliant, and the game-play is just amazing. Microsoft 
 and Ensemble Studios have made a hit that will continue to live on well into the future and also 
 inspire many more to become fans after trying it as a demo and it will surely inspire many others 
 to get into the franchise.
  
  this is a highly recommendable game that will suit the likings of people aged 9 - 30. But to get 
 a true feel for this game players should first play the original and number 2.
  
  So all in all an extremely good game that will have players wanting more and more (of which they 
 will get with The Warchiefs and Asian Dynasties Expansions) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  The Age of Empires series is one the most well known RTS series in gaming. The original Age of 
 Empires established a distinct formula, one that was perfected in the second installment. AoE II 
 is widely considered as one of the greatest strategy games ever made, so it goes without saying 
 that Age of Empires III had some big shoes to fill. And even if this third installment is nowhere 
 near as revolutionary as the first two were, it's still a fantastic game, one that combines the 
 proven AoE formula with some amazing visuals, visuals that truly elevate the game to a whole new 
 level.
  
  If you've played any game in the AoE series you know what to expect. For the most part, AoE III 
 plays nearly identical to its predecessors. The game puts you in control of a civilization and 
 it's up to you to develop a successful colony. You do this by collecting resources, establishing 
 settlements, train armies, research technology, match wits with other civilizations, etc, etc, 
 etc. By now, this formula has become pretty standard in the RTS genre, so don't expect AoE III 
 to change anyone's views on the genre. But while the lack of innovation is noticeable, the game 
 manages to nail down the feel of the original games that made them so enjoyable in the first place.
 
  
  In AoE IIIs' campaign mode you will take control of the Black family and make your way across three 
 generations. The story centers mostly on the discovery (and eventual destruction) of the fountain 
 of youth. All three acts introduce a new member of the Black family, along with several other supporting 
 characters. While the story itself nor the characters are particularly memorable, together they 
 lend a very nice touch to the campaign mode, one that gives it a unique personality. As for the 
 missions you'll embark on, they're the standard mission type for most RTS games. You'll defend 
 colonies until reinforcements arrive, take down enemy forts, escort units to varied locations, 
 etc. Though the campaign itself is very standard, it's still a thrill to play. Some missions can 
 be a real challenge too, especially at the higher difficulty levels.
  
  The biggest variant to all the RTS goodness is the addition of the Home City element. The idea 
 of this feature is that since your colonies are embarking of the exploration of the new world, 
 your mother country is ready to help you at all times, provided you're doing a good job with your 
 colony. This means you'll constantly earn experience as your progress in the game, enabling you 
 to unlock special cards that can be delivered as shipments to your colony. This shipments consist 
 of supplies, extra settlers, military units, unique buildings, enhancements for your units, etc. 
 While it doesn't alter the gameplay radically, it's an excellent new feature that really comes 
 to life in competitive games where the right card can give you the edge you need to pull out an 
 unlikely victory.
  
  I mentioned earlier that AoE III features some gorgeous graphics and trying to describe them is 
 quite frankly an impossible task. They're just the most astonishing visuals ever seen in a strategy 
 game; both from a technical and artistic point of view, the graphics in AoE III ooze life and elevate 
 the experience to another level. The way buildings crumble into pieces, with debris falling all 
 over the place, is breathtaking. The same goes for the gunpowder effects, where you can see cannoballs 
 make direct impact with their target. Watching a musketeer get thrown off a cliff is pure joy. 
 And naval battles are simply awe inspring. While I'm a supporter of the theory that great graphics 
 don't make a great game, they can certainly enhance the experience so much that they end up picking 
 up the slack for whatever gameplay faults there may be.
  
  My biggest issue with AoE III however is the size of the maps; they're simply way too small. I 
 understand this is a result of the graphical goodness going on, and larger maps may indeed result 
 in major slowdowns, but it's still jarring to assemble all your troops, prepare to embark on a 
 long crusade towards the enemy fortress and find out that it's only two steps away from your own 
 fortress. While custom larger maps are available for skirmish play, they're not for the campaign, 
 which is a real shame.
  
  But all in all, AoE III is a spectacular game. Even if it hardly innovates, the game manages to 
 deliver in all the areas that matter. It has great (albeit familiar) gameplay with a few nice twists, 
 it features a lengthy and entertaining campaign, it has the amazing replay value you'd expect from 
 an AoE game, and it sports visuals to die for. Even if it may not be as revolutionary as its predecessor, 
 Age of Empires III is a worthy installment in this great series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothminister12
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  I think the Gameplay is really weak altough i liked the storyline.
  I don't really see what has changed exept the graphics and some new options like shipment's from 
 your homeland.
  
  although i only spend like 40 hours on it i played out whole the campaign and did a few skirmish 
 games but i got bored .
  Sometimes i only like to play multiplayer online.
  
  The cpu is to predictable and really stupid if you watch him sometimes.
  but if you play it at 
 hard it can be a challange but you will get tired of it because its almost not to be done.
  
  I recommend everybody play please the old ones.
  maybe not the best graphics but it has the 
 best gameplay!!
  this is not worth to buy !!
  
  Rent it first is a good hint .
  Actualy dont bother to rent it :)
  
  I think if u played the demo u would say no nothing for 
 me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eufnoc
Rating: 7
Date: May 27, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  The game continues in the ages where Age of Empires II left off just like Age of Emperies II left 
 where Age of Emperies I finished. the game is as to be expected incorporating all the normal Age 
 of Empires unit's ages, tech tree's, game types ( e. g. regicide, king of the hill, death match, 
 conquest etc etc ) however the main difference is the exp and home city.
  The game lets you have a home city to receive shipments from such as food, weapons, villages etc, 
 to get these you need xp and you get xp by killing or by trading, you the more xp you get the more 
 cards you get to trade with your home city to give you stuff in the game and you can also add stuff 
 to your home city (which although has no affect on the game makes it more eye pleasing ( e. g. having 
 a Beef Eater on the Tower of London, no use just looks good to see him there) .
  The one major thing that lets the game down is the Trading post's, if you have a trading post in 
 your city you can with stand siege after siege, the enemy can not starve you into defeat because 
 all you do is set the trading post to xp and keep getting shipments in, I mean if they are standing 
 outside your base killing any and all villagers who venture out for the stone needed to rebuild 
 the walls, surely they are going to stop the train that keeps bringing it in for them?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  Sequel of the best strategy game Age of Empire II : Age of the kings. still very imprisoned with 
 complex strategy game and historic story. a few innovation such as home city which allow u to choose 
 card (like tarot card) . 
  
  =game play=
  
  as the same as AOE II, we build the colony with the Town Center. u can built barracks, stable, 
 market, artilerry foundry, etc. in barracks u can traine ur army with each improvement. in single 
 player campaign u have a hero with special ability, the hero can build trading post to make aliians 
 with native people which given u his army to trained. the innovation will see in home city, we 
 can improve and develop our homecity itself. with choose a few card to unlocked. the card u has 
 choose will arrive middle in battle, such as supply, army, even sheep. it can help u to defense 
 or defeat the enemy. there are also skirmish which can played by a few players. but i'm not interesting 
 about this. i more interset to play campaign mode which have a historic story.
  
  =graphics=
  
  after six years AOE II flow to market, AOE advances to a new era with the new 
 3D graphics with the historic movie. characters drawing impressive with a good visual effects of 
 explosion, ship battle, or building razed. and a cutscene before the game started in campaign mode 
 . but if u want play with a great visual effects, u must run this game in computer with mainstream 
 specification. in lower specification ur game run in lower frame rate with a few bugs. and will 
 run slowly and alowly again, if u have a budget, buy a mainstream vga card with at least 1 gb ram 
 (xp) /2 gb ram (vista) and dual core processors. u can play it and enjoy its performance.
  
  =all performance=
  
  AOE III, will complete ur collection and will spent ur time to play it 
 every week end, at least. don't forget tom complete with the expansion (warchief & asian kingdoms) . 
 so lets play and fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freak__
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  All of the Age of Empires games were amazingly good and this one is even better! From the begining 
 to the end this game is non-stop fun. I love the series and their semi-new addition.
  
  All of the Age of Empires games were amazingly good and this one is even better! From the begining 
 to the end this game is non-stop fun. I love the series and their semi-new addition.
  
  All of the Age of Empires games were amazingly good and this one is even better! From the begining 
 to the end this game is non-stop fun. I love the series and their semi-new addition.
  
  All of the Age of Empires games were amazingly good and this one is even better! From the begining 
 to the end this game is non-stop fun. I love the series and their semi-new addition
  
  All of the Age of Empires games were amazingly good and this one is even better! From the begining 
 to the end this game is non-stop fun. I love the series and their semi-new addition 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pletsky
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  After 2 games and some expansion packs Age of Empires is still doing great. With this new one, 
 Age of Empires 3, the serie is going on in time. It's now Napoleon, Queen Isabella,...
  
  the game has a better economic system: settles (villagers) don't need to build stock houses anymore 
 to stock their supplies, all the improvements are at the market, but there are no trade routes 
 anymore (camels, donkeys,..) like there were in the last Age of Empires games, When you play with 
 the dutch you have got the possibility to build banks who give you a constant rate of money. 
 
  
  Also the battle system has improved: you have now the possibility to train your soldiers in groups 
 of five (it very useful when you are under attack, at previous games you could only train one at 
 a time) , all the guard towers have now guns (in their final fase cannons!) , the graphics of an 
 incoming cannonball are much better than in te 2nd AoE.
  
  You can also chose an politician for each age (like a minor god in Age of Mythology) who will give 
 you supplies, soldiers or improvements.
  
  The Home City system: when you play single-player you will have a home-city for each civilisation. 
 It will allow you to continue the game even if you are not playing the campaign mode. The better 
 you Home City is the better the support you will get from it (soldiers, improvements, Pirates, 
 Boats, villages, supplies,...) . It is also possible to use your Home City in a multi-player LAN 
 battle.
  
  At AoE3 you can also use you ESO (Ensemble Studios Online) account.
  
  It is a great game with better gameplay, beautiful graphics and great music!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Bezerker
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 5, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  When new versions of classic games are made, theres always a number of "traps" they could fall 
 in to, for example:
  
  1. Spending too much time on graphics and forgetting about gameplay
  2. Incorporating silly new 
 features that just dont make it better (such as war in black and white 2)
  3. Being too complicated 
  4. Being too simple
  5. Having too many bugs that dont get fixed
 
  
  And so on...
  
  Age Of Empires 3 is strange, because it has lost the old "age of empires charm" but is still an 
 OK game. 
  
  They have moved the game on into the colonial-renaissance ages, this means that guns have to be 
 properly incorperated into the old age of empire game, which is a problem right from the start, 
 because it means turning age of empires into something very similar to Cossacks, which was a game 
 i loved very much.
  
  I must admit that the explosions and the destruction of buildings are awesome in AOE 3, but the 
 graphics can never really compete with medieval: total war, and with empire: total war coming along 
 later this year this game is gonna completly smash any prospect of anyone ever playing AOE 3 again.
 
  
  The main new addition to this game is the idea of a "home city" which can be customised and built 
 up. The idea of the home city is that it sends aid to the new world (North America) , which is where 
 the game is mostly set. The idea's good but i dont think theres much point in it.
  
  On the plus side AOE 3 hasnt fallen into any of the traps at the top. However there is something 
 quite unsatisfying about this game. I do like it, its just that i cant imagine myself playing it 
 after 5 years, like i did with AOE 1.
  
  Hope this review was helpful to you
  
  The Bezerker! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantomi_08
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  Nagyon jo ez a jatek. Sokmindent kitalaltak bele, nagyon otletes, es sok mindent konnyebbe tettek 
 a jatekban, peldaul a nyersanyag gyujteset, nem kell neki kulon epuletet epiteni hanem helyben 
 gyul a nyersanyag. Meg az orzott kincsek is sokat ernek. Meg az is nagyon tetszett a jatekban hogy 
 fel van osztva harom generaciora. Az is nagyon otletes hogy segitseget lehet kerni a szulovarostol, 
 meg lehet fejleszteni a szulovarosodat is, szerintem ez egy nagyon jo dolog, persze ha kodokat 
 hasznalunk akkor lenullazodik az egesz fejesztes amit addig fejlesztettunk a varosban, ez sajat 
 tapasztalat. Aki ki akar kapcsolodni azoknak ezt a jatekot ajanlom, nagyon bele lehet merulni a 
 jatekba, de ez ertheto is, mert varod hogy hogyan folytatodik a tortenet. Nekem az az egy nem tetszett 
 a jatekban hogy a harmadik korban egy lanyal kell jatszani! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoseWeed619
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  About a year ago Microsoft finally released the long awaited Age of Empires III. Years ago I fell 
 in love with a game called Age of Empires. I played it over and over again until finally a new 
 game came out: Age of Empires II: Age of Kings. This release was a big improvement on the original 
 game and also had me hooked; I still play it to this day. Last year, Age of Empires fans from across 
 the world celebration in the highly anticipated release of the third Age of Empires. Unfortunately 
 Age of Empires III does not live up to its predecessors. 
  
  Graphics 7/10 
  The graphics in Age of Empires III, from a purely unbiased sense are better than the graphics in 
 the previous two versions. When using your navy, you can see in great detail the smoke from your 
 ships and the damage to enemy vessels. I think most Age of Empires fans, however, might not like 
 the improvement in the graphics very much. I personally feel it is the same change that occurred 
 between Final Fantasy VII and Final Fantasy VIII. The graphics are better but the game loses some 
 of its originality that it was known for. The graphics are much like those of Empire Earth. They 
 make the game look better but, in fact, they make the feel of the game worse. 
  
  Learning Curve 6/10 
  The learning curve for all the Age of Empires (AOE) games has been quite 
 high. For experienced AOE players, the game isn't very hard to learn. There are many new additions 
 to the game that one must become acquainted with; however, after a few good hours of playing an 
 old AOE fanatic will have quite the handle on it. 
  
  For new players to the award winning series, AOE3 will take some getting used to. Basically the 
 idea of the game is that you are the leader (or God in a sense,) of a civilization. Your goal is 
 to make the civilization prosper economically, militarily and diplomatically. You achieve these 
 by creating villagers, collecting resources, contrasting buildings, and building an army. The instruction 
 manual is a great help in getting new players acquainted with the game. Overall I'd say that after 
 a good week or two of playing a new player to AOE should have the overall hang of the game. 
  
  Additions to Age of Empires III 5/10 
  Your Home City 
  Unlike its two predecessors, in 
 AOE3 the player has a home city (depending on their civilization,) where than can receive shipments 
 of goods, soldiers or resources from. What you get from your home city depends on the amount of 
 time that you have spent playing with a certain civilization and how successful you have been with 
 it. To give an example: When you first start playing AOE3 you might have the option to receive 
 2 villagers from your home city when you've acquired a certain amount of respect points. As you 
 play with that civilization for a longer period of time (we're talking multiple games here,) you 
 option might go up from 2 villagers to 5 villagers. 
  
  I personally don't like the home city feature of AOE3. I think it takes away from aspects of the 
 game that used to make it great, such as having to rely on your environment for your resources, 
 etc. I also think it hurts the game because it discourages players from playing with different 
 civilizations. This is because for a player to build a strong home city they must play with the 
 same civilization over and over again. I'm not a fan of the new home city feature. 
  
  New Units 
  AOE3 features a barrage of new units for the player to choose from. Most of the reason 
 behind this is because AOE3 takes place in a different time in history than the other two games. 
 You can now control a multitude of units that fire weapons, instead of just melee units. The addition 
 of new units was necessary for AOE3 because of the time period change, however the game doesn't 
 seem to run as smoothly as it did before when most of the units were melee units and firing units 
 were just a bonus for certain civilizations. AOE 3 also adds many other new unit options that were 
 not offered in the previous AOE games but for the most part they don't change the actual play of 
 the game too much. 
  
  Economic Changes 
  The economy in AOE3 is very different than that of the other AOE games. First off the home city 
 feature that I previously mentioned makes it much easier to receive certain resources and units 
 with basically no cost at all (they just go against your population limit.) Also trading in the 
 game has changed because you can now trade with native villages to the region. This feature makes 
 it possible to trade even if you're just participating in a 1 on 1 game. Another economic change 
 that was implemented is the availability of buildings such as plantations that will continuously 
 produce coin or stone. This makes it possible for players to receive an endless amount of resources 
 throughout the game. I am not a fan of this feature at all because one of my personal strategies 
 of AOE used to be to continuously hit an opposing players economy, colonize near their own city 
 and steal their resources so by the end of the game I would still have a good deal of gold and 
 stone left while my opponent was desperately searching for any resources he could find. I think 
 the economic changes to AOE3 make the game much longer and much less important in the early stages 
 of the game. Microsoft tried to hard in the area and it shows in the final product. 
  
  Multiplayer 3/10 
  AOE fanatics every where waited and waited for AOE3 to come out so we could 
 begin to create our own scenarios in the game and take them online like we did with AOE2. Unfortunately 
 this is the area of the game where Microsoft messed up the most. Previously players were able to 
 go onto the MSN Gaming Zone and challenge their friends in combat. Thousands of players logged 
 on everyday to wage hours of warfare with each other. Disappointingly enough the multiplayer options 
 that Microsoft provided us with in AOE3 are an unbelievable step down from those in AOE2. There 
 is only game play option, which is equivalent to the random map feature in AOE2. This type of game 
 is your basic, build up your economy and military and destroy your opponents. There are no custom 
 scenario options for multiplayer. The amounts of maps available are basically nothing compared 
 to those available in previous versions of the game. Even when you do decide to go online and play 
 there is practically nobody else to play with. The AOE2 servers are much more active than those 
 of the AOE3 servers, sadly enough. 
  
  A Little Bit of Microsoft Revenge? 
  A while ago I wrote a review on the game Empire Earth, in which I released my thoughts on how it 
 was a glorified Age of Empires. Interestingly enough, AOE3 features many aspects that come even 
 closer to those of Empire Earth. The units that were added to AOE3 are very similar to the units 
 available in Empire Earth. The addition of a hero unit is almost exactly the same as the hero feature 
 in Empire Earth. The addition of plantations to continuously produce resources without having to 
 mine them, is almost exactly the same as the resource features in Empire Earth. Empire Earth was 
 a fun game to play but its replay value was nothing compared to that of AOE2. Unfortunately it 
 seems that Microsoft decided to shadow Empire Earth with many of its new features and it ended 
 up creating a final product that is similar to Empire Earth instead of an improvement of AOE2. 
 
  
  Overall 6/10 
  Overall I was very disappointed in AOE3. I was expecting an upgrade from older versions of the 
 game and instead I received a downgrade. If you're a big AOE fan then I guess you should buy this 
 and try it out for yourself if you haven't already. If you're new to the AOE community I definitely 
 recommend buying AOE2 and the AOE2: Conquerors Expansion instead of this newer version. I feel 
 that this game is nothing compared to AOE2 and unfortunately I don't think Microsoft, or any company 
 for that matter, will ever top AOE2. 
  
  
  
  Recommended:
  No 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saila
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  It's a very good strategy game that is highly addictive. It's a totally new brand in comparison 
 with its predecessors. AOE 3 does not focus only on RTS concept but also on heroes. These are units 
 with some extinguishable feats and/or abilities. And they do not die - you do not have to wait 
 to revive them. Heroes' health points regenerate slowly in time, but once the hero is fallen its 
 energy must reach some point and it must be in your control zone to stand up and continue. Though 
 AOE 3 uses the same mission types as other games of the same genre, it does not get boring (as 
 for example Rise of Legend) . When played on easy level it can become a little bit too easy, and 
 as a result, seems too short. In some missions you won't even use major part of possibilities the 
 play offers to you. And you cannot loose - it's nearly impossible. So the normal level is recommended. 
 The plot-line is interesting - we get familiar with the history of the Black family through the 
 ages. The number of episodes per chapter is balanced - if it was less, the game would seem too 
 short and if it was greater, the game would seem a little bit jading. The story is based loosely 
 on the real historical events that make the canvas of the game plot. On the other hand, the game-play 
 becomes a little bit predictable - we can predict the next events or which persons will turn bad. 
 But besides, I like it very much and I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PwnMaster94
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is my favorite strategy game that I've ever played. I think the whole game is 
 amazing, especially the time setting. For example, the game was set in one of the most historical 
 places in time, the colonization of the Americas. Age of Empires III has really been well thought 
 out with trade routes which will provide you with resources and native settlements which give you 
 warriors. It's amazing. Also, you can make your own scenario (level) and choose what you'd like 
 to add into it. It's great. On the down side, I think there are too many cheats which make the 
 game dull and boring since it's very easy to win. The campaign is also not that great and I believe 
 the storyline could have been enhanced more so. Therefore I gave Age of Empires III a fairly high 
 score but I didn't give it a perfect. But, anyone who likes history or strategy games should definitely 
 consider buying Age of Empires III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grim_Wolf88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  While the game is enjoyable, it still falls short at having an engaging single player or an optimistic 
 multiplayer aspect. The campaign is fictional in this installment to the series and came across 
 as somewhat as a disappointment. The story told was not compelling and just felt as if it was there 
 for the sake of being there. The skirmish mode wasn't great either. The AI couldn't keep up a fight 
 with you at all until you cranked it up to the highest difficulty setting. Even then the only differance 
 was that it had about 40-60% resource gathering bonus.
  
  The multiplayer isn't much better save the fact that you hopefully have a competent opponet. Most 
 time will actually be spent trying to find a fair game to play as most people would rather play 
 a game in which their side greatly overpowers yours in terms of skill. Once you get into playing 
 a game though you have to deal with a new set of problems. Players may often pull the plug if cornered 
 and win the game despite the fact they lost. Or they hide one villager on the farthest end of the 
 map and you have to go through great strains to finish the fight. In the end I find myself waiting 
 about twenty minutes or more in the lobby for a match that last about ten minutes if you play rush 
 and are any good at it.
  
  One of the biggest things introduced with this game is the home city. It allows you to bring in 
 resources, units, or stat boosts and alter the way you play. In fact you can't really play at all 
 without it as you'll get left behind very fast by your opponets. Overall it was well utilized and 
 adds a twist to the classic mold that this game has followed in it's previous installments. Even 
 so it can't seem to come out as anything but a gimmick.
  
  Things on the side that are note worthy were the graphics, sound, and physics. They work together 
 to make a somewhat enjoyable experience as you bombard an enemy town with cannon fire. The walls 
 will crumble and wood will splinter while units go flying. During all this is an agreeable sound 
 track playing in the background. 
  
  If your a casual player of RTS than this game is highly recommendable. If not it's passes as a 
 rather mediocre game that could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldvander
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Most people will have played age of empires before. Its a strategy game series where you train 
 warriors, use towns people to build forts, and explore the countryside while you're at it.
  
  The game sticks to the series roots, which is a good thing. I am a huge fan of "base building" 
 strategy games, and i'm glad to see that they are still going strong. 
  
  The graphics may be a bit basic, but the amount of units you can use is great. Age of empires 3 
 is the most streamlined Aoe game yet. When you collect wood for instance, your villagers no longer 
 have to go to and from the trees to the mill. Its automatically added to your resources. You can 
 also create "buccaneers" from ships, and add reinforcements during gameplay.
  
  The story mode is entertaining and keeps you interested. It gives the game a solid single player 
 experience, as well as very decent multiplayer options.
  
  The audio is what you'd expect from an age of empires game. The music is suitable (the usual epic 
 sounding orchestrated tracks) alongside many battle sound effects. Also, now that there is a story 
 mode, the main characters all have spoken dialogue. 
  
  Its an overall decent game that should last you for quite a while, and it is easy to pick up and 
 play. I highly reccomend playing through AOE 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lfclee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  when i played this game at first i was predicting it as being exactly the same as the others but 
 o no it is very different than its brothers this games storyline follows a family and their story 
 in the great quest for america. a new concept of the home city is a good add on to the game as 
 it gives you a reason to play after the story, unfortunatly the story mode is quite short which 
 is disapointing but that doesn't mean that you stop playing. another new feature is the weaponry 
 instead of just swords and axes you now have muskets and can tame animals for on your team.
  when i played this it seemed to slow down whenever i fought at sea this was a big let down for 
 me as in other age of empires games it was a key feature to fight at sea but i was steered not 
 to in fear of the game slowing down i am not sure if this happens in all versions of the game but 
 be prepared if it does.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: felix19194
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Age 3 is a very good game, the grapihcs are decent, it is a game that always has captivated the 
 fans, but I dont know about you but im tired of the same thing over and over, different civs that's 
 all. The Age of Empires and Age of Mythology sequel is very repetitive speaking in the sense that 
 although the grapichs are better than previous games, its the same. 
  
  Take a look at Age of Empires 1, a very good game, innovative in it's moment, and then take a look 
 at Age of Empires 1, the same gameplay , better graphics, that's all. I've always thought this 
 way about the Age of Empires sequel. 
  
  Although I think this game is very repetitive, I recommend it, it worth the time, although the 
 skirmish mode is the same as in age 2 or age 1, the campaign has a lot of interesting missions, 
 and its what saves Age of empires from getting a bad rating.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: one5841
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  I an honestly your Age of empires 3 fan! I have all of the games (even the ds version and about 
 to get the Asian Dynasties. Age of empires three is what you expect out of the age of empires series. 
 It's what you wish one and two had. Age of empires 3 (AOE3) ' campaigns go along with history and 
 get into the action with real video like cut scenes and awesome three d graphics. The game play 
 has much been improved form the other two versions. Now you can get home cities for your civilization 
 meaning by with enough EXP you can get resources, villager, and even military shipments only costing 
 population. The zoom feature lets you get as far in as you want in battle. The adjustable graphics 
 detail is perfect for slower computers. Even the low quality graphics are awesome but high graphics 
 are sometimes too stunning. You can also do multiplayer in two ways. One: by a LAN connection, 
 and two by the online Ensemble studios online (ESO) . ESO is where you can chat, clan and battle 
 other players via AOE3. War chiefs and Asian dynasties players are also welcome. A down side to 
 ESO is that if you don't have let's say war chiefs and your friend does, you CAN'T meet with him/her. 
 But ESO AOE3 online to put in a simple form.
  
  Pros:
  stunning game play
  stunning (adjustable) graphics
  Awesome sound and music
  free online multiplayer
  awesome 
 value of $29.00
  
  Cons:
  Custom scenarios cannot be used in ESO
  Different versions cannot connect unless the other person has it too
  ESO status inaccurate
 
  
  As you can see the only cons I'm making is on ESO. I think that they could improve ESO enough to 
 make this game a 10. I would recommend this game to anyone who likes single player fighting, online 
 brawling, historical campaigns, and strategy games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TKT100
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I've reviewed 4 games here at gamespot and several others on various sites. I'm going review one 
 of my favorite RTS games now. Age of Empires is a game based on the colonial times. It has three 
 campaigns to play through but the main part of the game is the skirmish mode. The mode is the same 
 as in the all-time classic Age of Empires and Age of Empires II: Age of Kings. It does add a few 
 features that changes the gameplay to even better. The addition of Home Cities lets you bring in 
 troops and other upgrades for experience points. It helps to have those extra troops. The multiplayer 
 is a really good component to the game. The ability to import your maps to play with the people 
 online is fun. The game does experience a lot of lag at the start of online matches but usually 
 levels out. The game is super except for that the lag is often terrible to play with and that some 
 of the civilizations are somewhat unbalanced. Other than that the game is worth your money and 
 mine. The final review score is a 9... out of 10. Until my next review of maybe hmm... Warhawk, 
 goodnight and good day.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsredus
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  this new installment to the A O E series has similar game features, and no new exiting ideas. the 
 home city feature was a good input. the game too is a little slow. game play is the game like all 
 other R T S, but unlike its predecessors, this one is graphically improved. i had more fun with 
 skirmish than playing the campaign mode. when something gets too similar in every aspect, it gets 
 boring. but with a little upgrade on your pc , you can get the best visual that A O E offers.. 
 rise of nation: rise of legends was like a totally different game when compared to its earlier 
 part.. the game had lots of improvements.. which a o e 3 did not have .. the story line in campaign 
 mode was good, and long.. this was an anticipated game, i got disappointed though. .. others might 
 differ..
  the sound was amazing, the visuals were good, an average game altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguinboy95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  i have always been a fan of age of empires and this game is the best of all of them. now when i 
 got this game i was expecting this to be like the other ones except it being in the new world and 
 having more gun related combat and i was right. but what i wasn't expecting is home cities. the 
 home cities allow you to get multiple things like units, mercenaries, research items, and resources. 
 the graphics look great and they're so good when you fire a canon at a town center, pieces where 
 it hit come flying off like birds in hunting season. this game isn't one you can finish in a few 
 hours because it takes a long time to get a level 30 home city in every civilization. the combat 
 takes most of the game level to get a good enough army to defeat the other towns and all their 
 structures. its only problem is its almost impossible to lose, I've never lost a single scenario. 
 this game is one to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Todd_Lang
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  Age Of Empires 3 is truly a great RTS game. The stunning graphics, and the gameplay are just amazing. 
 Taking contol of one of 8 european civilisations can be really amazing. Strategy is a big part 
 of this game, because you need to know what units are best suited on fighting others, and when 
 to fall back, or push forward. Multiplayer (Still in 2008) has around 4000 players on the weekends. 
 You can find matches really easy, and play rush, or treaty (in expansions, or NO RUSH in vanilla) . 
 When you enter multiplayer, you can choose to get into a game, or join a clan, or even chat in 
 the massive chat browser. There is a massive 50 levels of ranking, from Conscript, through to Field 
 Marshal. Only 2 players have ever reached level 50, so this ain't an easy game to master, or not 
 for a while. Faster systems can be important on fighting, and seige in this game, so it's always 
 a good thing to have a high speed nVidia graphics card inserted into your system.
  
  The game offers so much great content, and is very worthy of getting, and taking a look. I have 
 spent over 100 hours on this game now, and have had it for around 3 years!
  
  All in all, this game is a masterpiece, and any fan of RTS will get into it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snax13
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Ensemble Studios has done it again with they're newest installment of Age of Empires. 
  
  Graphics//
  The graphics in AOE III are a huge step-up from the previous game. It's nice to see 
 when your destroying a buildings as it falls apart in pieces. The water looks amazing and reflects 
 very well. The shadows are nicely done too. Though, not the greatest graphics, AOE III has improvement 
 from previous games.
  
  Sound//
  AOE III does a nice job with sound. If your far away from a major battle you can still the cannons 
 blowing through the walls of buildings and clashing of swords. Nature in AOE III is amazing, you 
 can hear just about everything that is around you. The voice acting is alright, nothing to special.
 
  
  Gameplay//
  Gameplay is just about the same in AOE III. Nothing has really changed that I've noticed. The only 
 major thing is you can build a query and train five soldiers at a time. All in all, gameplay is 
 just about the same. You can pick up on the controls pretty easy. Nothing to hard about the controls.
 
  
  Overall//
  Overall, AOE III is awesome. Just like the games before it, it's still AOE. Nothing has really 
 changed. Improvement on graphics. Your army seems more lively this time. It's to watch the battles 
 between two different armies because at the end of the battle the winning team cheers and that's 
 always fun to see your side cheer! I would recommend this game to anybody. Gotta love the RTS! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScreamingViking
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  currently this is my most favorite of games to play at the moment. Its great mission mode is so 
 much harder and longer. I hear that on-line is sick nasty. I love the whole hometown thing its 
 very nice. I still think some of the past ones were a little better like the second one and age 
 of mythology. Its still fun and its kind of hard to advance it any farther or think of any new 
 ideas. I still hope they keep coming out with more ill keep buying them and its a great series 
 that i reccomend getting into they deffinitly have the greatest series of stradegy games so far 
 really they do its that good buy it the war cheifs version was also great if you have some extra 
 money its proboblly worth getting that allong with it in my oppinion no one ive talked to so far 
 said its bad everyone so far said its been great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  AOE3 turned out to be a massive disappointment. The first few hours of playing the game are fine, 
 but then it's just wash-rinse-repeat formula all the way to the second expansion. The game will 
 involve gaining control of certain buildings on the map or destroying the enemy town center. After 
 the first few missions, the challenge of the entire game dies down to upgrade-build-destroy kind 
 of gameplay.
  
  The AI is at it's worst at higher difficulty levels. The only thing that differs is the frequency 
 of attacks from the enemy, otherwise their tactics and predictable nature make it all too easy 
 to squash them. 
  
  As far as upgrades go, the game offers a little bit of variety by introducing Native Tribes with 
 different units (who bring their vastly different skills to the game) .
  
  The game's graphics and everything aside, the worst part about it is that the game is LOOOONG. 
 As in even the sequels are EXACTLY the same as the base game. AOE3 might be a good game in and 
 of itself, but seeing it together with it's sequels, I have to say I was thoroughly disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happytandon94
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Tthis game is the seventh installment in the great age of empires franchise. as expected the ensemble 
 studios have created yet another masterpiece. was a bit confusing in the beginning but after playing 
 for 1-2 weeks it becomes top fun. the skirmish mode is fun and has many unlockables as compared 
 to it's predessors. there is only 1 campaign but it's a very lenghty one and it's also well explained 
 with beautiful movies after and before each scenario the graphics are amazing sound is also good. 
 one thing i really liked was the home city system which allows the players to get reinforcements 
 from the home city right from the beginning age. there are 5 ages as compared to AOE 1& 2'S 4. 
 and also while als upgrading the ages you also are given some units or resources which is very 
 good . no wonders no relics well this was the only disappointment but overall the game is very 
 good and is highly recommended for ay RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordx67
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  When I saw this game, to say that I went insane is under exaggerating. I was about to mug somebody 
 to get enough money. I decided against it and purchased the game the next day. Here's where my 
 review begins:
  The Good:
  The graphics are the best there are- Gameplay is addicting- Tough AI is available- Different style 
 of building for each civ
  The Bad:
  Everything besides the good
  
  To say AOE2 is yet another RTS is like saying Caesar 4 is as good as Sim City. A lie. Yet here 
 is AOE 3. Another RTS. Like I said, all flash no substance. There are dazzling visuals, a surprisingly 
 good soundtrack, lots of breadth. But where is depth? There are only three resources, half of the 
 resources in EE2. And, if there is a dude chopping wood he dosen't need a drop-off. He'll stay there 
 until theres no more wood to chop. Yes, it is good for lazy easy-going gamers but what about us 
 hardcore strategy gamers? It is just too easy and non-realistic. The home city system is pretty 
 good actually. The proverbial diamond in the rough. It is realistic and good for easy-going gamers.
 
  The campaign is pretty good but it is neither historically accurate nor is it too difficult. The 
 cutscenes are awkward and ( this is a bit funny) the first guy in the Black family sounds quite 
 a bit like Arnold Schwarznegger. ( sorry if I spelled it wrong)
  Random maps are a lot of fun and they are the reasons I haven't given up the game. The AI can be 
 an easy-going idiot or a terminator of death bent on erasing your name from history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deshdeshdeshpoo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III was a good attempt at the new world game, but they just couldn't get it to be 
 what many gamers would want.
  
  The frame rate can be very slow every few minutes, which just frustrates the heck out of many people. 
 The graphics could have been better. The natives don't really help at all, just more money for 
 nothing.
  
  Many people would expect AOE 3 to feed off of AOE 2's sucess but they didn't do to well on this 
 try. The campaign is pretty pointless.
  
  The home city was an improvement, as you can get resources or soldiers if you are in dire need 
 of them.
  
  Overall, AOE 3's bad features outweigh the good ones. They changed the concept completely but they 
 didn't have as good characters as AOE 2, such as the elephants which were always fun to use. The 
 game wasn't completely bad, but if in truth, it's basically the same as its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is an RTS for the PC. You should know, I have hated past Age of Empire games. 
 I thought they were flat, boring, and just plain bad. AOE3 fixes all the problems from previous 
 games which makes for an excellent gaming experience. Previous AOE games were set in the ancient 
 and medieval worlds. This one is set around the exploration of the new world. You can pick from 
 eight different countries. The top dogs are here like Britain or France. Like I said earlier, AOE3 
 fixed major problems from earlier games. First of all, they eliminated stone as a resource. Now 
 it's just food, wood and gold. Also, you no longer have to worry about building town centers or 
 drop off points near resource sites. They just keep gathering or chopping or mining until there 
 isn't anymore. They fixed combat too. Your soldiers don't act like their brains are having mental 
 difficulties anymore. There isn't so much micromanagement anymore. All of these changes are better 
 for casual gamers. There are a couple of things completely new to the series, one of which is called 
 your home city. Think of an RPG, only your character doesn't level up, your home city does. During 
 a game you can receive shipments of troops, resources, etc. Another thing that is new is your explorer. 
 When you begin a game you get an explorer. He is your scout because he is worthless in combat. 
 But, he can collect treasures and build trading posts. Trading posts can be build on trade routes 
 to collect extra resources or build on a Native American village so you can train Indian warriors. 
 The graphics are very nice, everything is lush and pretty. Sound is great, muskets and cannons 
 sound nice. This is the best RTS I have played in a while, and I strongly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing Age Of Empires 3, I must admit that I was not really all that impressed. 
 The Buildins were huge and the thing just looked wrong.
  
  Then after playing it for the third time, I reallized that there is reason for it all. And now, 
 I am a big fan.
  
  The new Graphics and Physics engine on this game is amazing. I love the way buildings and boats 
 shatter when they get hit by anything. The water effects are fantastic, and the way people get 
 hurled accross the screen when a cannon ball hits them is just awesome.
  
  The Campaign is also really well done. No 2 stages are exactly the same and the missions are completely 
 different from each other. The story of the campaign is actaully very interesting and getting through 
 it is a mission at times. But you just can't stop until you finish!
  
  Great Strategy game! I think it's the best in the series so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Many fans of AOE3 will argue with me on this review but okay. The game is fun for about only a 
 month. Once a month is over the game begins to lose it's fun. The campaigns are pretty neat and 
 the empires are pretty different from each other. However, they add this new "home city" feature 
 which is totally pointless. It lets you get reinforcements from your capitol but I makes a huge 
 lag. Also the game has a lot of bugs in it. But, now there patches so you don't gotta worry about 
 them so much if you download the patches. The game is fun but it gets boring after a month of play. 
 I would say this game get this game to people who don't play much strategy games. But, to hardcore 
 strategy players, you might wanna stick to Age of Empires II.
  
  -Helloiseeu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swissusadude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  The first thing that amazed me with this game was the graphics, although you will need a good system 
 to experience this, so I would have given it a 9 while gamespot gave it an 8. The best part about 
 these graphics is watching buildings collapse after they are destroyed, which really looks good. 
 The best battles scenes are between ships, as this looks really realistic. 
  
  The gameplay is similar to the previous Age of Empires 2, although some aspect of the resource 
 gathering have been simplified (no lumber or mining camps, for example) which makes it easier to 
 gather resources. The only problem I had with the gameplay is that you are restricted to controlling 
 50 units at a time, which can be kind of annoying if you want to coordinate an attack with a large 
 army; in addition to this, there is no "follow" command that Age of Empires 2 had. Also, the fighting 
 could look a little more realistic (for example infantry vs. cavalry should have the horses moving 
 constantly not just standing there while the soldier ontop fights) . However, some aspects have 
 been greatly improved; for example you can choose to have all your queues displayed continuously 
 which helps a lot.
  
  The sound is good, with nice effects especially during combat. The music also varies depending 
 on what is happening.
  
  What this game is missing from AoE 2 is the feeling of expansion. Your colonies aren't exactly 
 "empires". You are limited in many types of buildings. You can usually only build one fort (like 
 a castle from AoE 2) , no more than three for some. Your buildings are destroyed much faster than 
 in AoE 2, so you can lose much easier. The game maps are also much smaller. Teams only exist as 
 1 and 2, not also 3 and 4, meaning you can only have a team vs team, instead of team vs team vs 
 team vs team, which could have made it more exciting.
  
  Overall, great game but it lacks aspects that made AoE 2 so excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: char1968
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  an amazing game starts off with morgan black then takes you through his family life. its great 
 you create bulidings each level create units such as pike men cross bow men and later in the game 
 you get musketers and a whole bunch of different units! the graphics are mixed and blocky.
  its very short about 3-4 hours but once your done story mode you can create your own maps online 
 play and more. i would suggest buying the expansion pack with it for more fun!
  i would suggest buying it as well as an expansion pack because it will last you a good...4-6 hours. 
 but try the demo first at ageofempires. com because some people love these kind of games and others 
 don't. and if you like this game i suggest buying "Lord Of The Rings Battle For Middle Earth 2" 
 or "Star Wars Empire at War" any ways bottom line is this a great game and will stay around for 
 a while... hope fully... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hengif
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is what i like in RTS games because i always prefer game set in earlier time that really 
 give a real exciting kind of play when you combine mondern thinking with older tools of war. Also 
 i hate it when other RTS games tend to make just one or two items needed for unit creation this 
 has the almost the whole nine yards that includes food, gold ,wood, silver and others. Also with 
 good visual quality you have no trouble spotting , well troubleand the whole aspect of the warfare 
 is also stunning as whena buildongs falls it doesn't just disapear or explode you can actually 
 see it collaspe in on itself. Also the econmy basics may be simple but a adventures of gameplay 
 though the campiagn is to put it blankly is pointless and you'll have much more fun with custom 
 or online games that ahev no needed statis quo to uphold
  
  From A fellow gamer
  Hengif / Hengf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduum
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  i thnik this game is great.
  campain is good
  and its really fun
  its the best age of empires yet
  definetly worth the cost,
  many hours of fun from this game!
 
  an amazing game, and i really enjoyed the campain. online multiplayer is good too
  the campain is quiet short thought but this game is defiently worth it
  good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good
  100 words now!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lyten
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  I am one of those fans who played age of empire 2 days of yore, and to be very honest, I am very 
 bitter about this game. CONS:
  
  1. What happend to the original languages? Who thought it was brilliant ideal to have all of them 
 speak english? What made me enjoy the AOE 2 was the vast amount of clip of the other languages 
 spoken to response to attacks. The whole voice over was that made the AOE so special., and when 
 they took away from 3, I began to think LAZY directors.
  
  2. 8 civils that weren't diverse enough. I think the creators really needed Rick Goodman in this 
 project, considering his Empires: DOMW has so much difference in unit, it made a interesting game 
 play. Why couldn't they incorperate such ideal in AOE 3?
  
  3. Music was very uninspirering, everything sounded very emotionsless sound tracks, and character 
 voice over were very stero typed. AOE was known for historic accuratecy.
  
  PROS:
  
  1. I really like the new graphics engine, and the water effect was great.
  
  2. I personally 
 enjoyed a fictional character development, but just cleated away from stero typing other nations.
 
  
  3. like the ideal of progressive civ building. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lopur94
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  The game is one fun-packed RTS. Set in during the colonization of America, this games shows you 
 what it was like and let's you have a fun time too. You don't want to be in the middle of the battlefield 
 with muskeeteers firing and canons firing, the battlefield is the part of the game that leads to 
 hours of fun.
  The graphics is well done for the PC that the ships look huge and they sway in th wind. Don't let 
 me get started with the water, you can see the reflection of the ships and the splashes when a 
 canon ball falls in, which leads me to naval combat in AoE III. 
  When fighting with the beutiful, huge powerful ships, the graphics is amazing and if your ship 
 is badly damage, it will look like it is badly damage.
  Overall this game is a great game to play, with good graphics and good gameplay, though you do 
 need a good graphics card and a lot of RAM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrabbit99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  The game isn't that bad but gets repetitive. AOE3 doesn't have the great game modes of AOE2 like 
 score and the others. Also, training 5 units at a time is bad. Especially if you don't have the 
 best comp. The graphics are good but could be better. 
  The whole home city thing is nice though, except it gives an unfair advantage to people who have 
 been playing the game for a long time.
  After buying it, i was upset that the story wasn't historical, especially after the previouse AOE 
 games. Bottom line, save your money, but Halo Wars instead. 
  If you can get it cheaply it's worth it to see the nice new gameplay additions, but not worth full 
 price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuitChicken
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  this is a very good game. it is definitely the best age of something game there is. it has by far 
 the best graphics out of all the age of something game there is. just watching buildings and ships 
 crumbling by cannon fire is fun in itself. sometimes i like to sit back and see my enemy's buildings 
 get blown apart. also it is very fun to see little tiny units get blown away by cannons. 
  
  the bad thing is that i get really pissed when the enemy sends its calvary past my defenses 
 and kills my settlers. it takes forever to build your economy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastermatta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the most played game by me. I have played it at least 250 hours +. The gameplay 
 is not to complicated but not to simple at the same time. The graphics and physics when this game 
 first came out were amazing. I think it was the first RTS game to use a physics engine. The campaign 
 is not the strong point, however it is a decent length and fun. It would have been nice if it had 
 been historically accurate like previous AOEs.
  
  The strong point of the game however is the multi-player. I think it is the 3rd most played RTS 
 online. ES online has a great interface with built in clan support and player matching. The whole 
 online experience is great. The game is also very well balanced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  AOE 3 is fun to play, has very nice visuals and everything but is more of the same. The game play 
 did not change at all from all the previous games. Right!, now you can open stuff that will be 
 send from the country your colony is from but that's it.
  
  I enjoyed it at first and played the campaign and everything but I ran tired of it. If this is 
 your first AOE that you play it may be a lot more interesting for you. It is not a bad game at 
 all. Its just that since I have play AOE3 and AOM I felt that I bought the same game all over again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avthegreat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  AoE3 is a great game all around. The graphics are great better than last games. It has the new 
 homecity feature which makes it more interesting and fun. But it is still the same as the other 
 games in many ways. It really has no new ideas to it except the new CIVS and homecity. Age of mythology 
 though had many new ideas to it. AIttough is still a addictive and enjoying game though ill have 
 to say.
  
  PROS: great graphics, Home city Feature, Fun units to use, Good details like the when biuldings 
 get demolished by cannons.
  
  CONS: same ideas to the game, too low pop. cap cant biuld big armys like the old games 
  
  
 last thoughts: great game still people should buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennyYoung
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is the third installment of Ensemble Studios award winning series. AoE 3 is a 
 Real-Time Strategy (RTS) based in the colonial Americas in the age of European exploration. 
  
  In Age of Empires 3 you can choose from one of eight European civilizations: the Spanish, British, 
 French, Portuguese, Dutch, Russian, German, and the Ottomans. Each civilization with its own sets 
 of unique units, enhancements, and bonuses. 
  
  As in the other installments of the Age of Empires games you start off on a randomly or manually 
 selected map on a variable difficulty setting (very easy, easy, moderate, hard and very hard) with 
 a few villagers, some starting resources, and a town center where you can make more villagers. 
 Your villagers can gather 1 of 3 resources food, coin, and wood which are used to create units, 
 build buildings, and research improvements. Wood is gathered like you'd expect from trees, where 
 coin can be gathered from gold mines, plantations, and whales (the Dutch can create banks which 
 produce a constant supply of coin) . Where food can be gathered from farms, wild animals, and fish. 
 
  
  You win games buy destroying every enemy unit or building on one team which is actually unlikely 
 to happen because usually players resign when most of their units and buildings are destroyed. 
 Real life players are likely to play until their last villager is dead while computer players resign 
 usually much sooner. 
  
  The new features of Age of Empires 3 are the addition of the explorer and the Home City, and the 
 decreased difficulty in collecting resources. In previous games you would have to build mining 
 camps, mills, or lumber camps near resources and your villagers would gather and then carry it 
 off to the nearest Town Center or resource storing point. Instead villagers gather and the resources 
 go automatically into your wood, food, or gold stockpile. Much more faster and easier in my opinion. 
 
  
  The explorer is the leader of your colony. He is a good fighter who cannot die. He can only be 
 knocked unconscious and can be revived when a friendly unit moves into the area. He can build town 
 centers and trading post at trading cites. He is an ordinary fighter but has special attacks that 
 can do loads of damage. 
  
  The coolest and most important new feature is the addition of the "Home City." As you play your 
 home city's level increases so you can earn access to more powerful improvements, more resources, 
 and larger unit shipments. Each civilizations Home City is different and has access to different 
 shipments. The way your shipments are used can decide the outcome of the game and are very strategic 
 to building your colony.
  
  The graphics in the game are much better than in AoE 2. The battle scenes are fantastic. Bullets 
 whizzing buy, cannon fire denting the ground and snapping trees clean in half, and spectacular 
 looking naval battles. You can actually see parts buildings chipping off as cannons and mortars 
 bombard it. 
  
  All in all, Age of Empires 3 is great looking visually and the game-play is fun and addicting. 
 Its game-play is similar to its predecessors so familiar players know what their doing and newcomers 
 can get the hang of it easily. Age of Empires is a fun, addicting game that stays with its roots 
 yet offers new features to give it a slightly new feel. Age of Empires 3 is a great addition to 
 the Age of Empires series and continues as one of the best real time strategies ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giyanks22
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 2 defined what an RTS should be like. Games tried to model their RTS games like 
 Age 2. Now Age of Empires 3 comes out. Let me just tell you now. You will not be disappointed with 
 Age of Empires 3. 
  
  Age 3 has some very beautiful cut scenes to open up the game. These provide an excellent peek into 
 the game. The menu is much nicer than Age 2's menu. The campaign is two year old easy, if you play 
 it on easy, so put it on medium, for your first time. The campaign has a great story, that consist 
 of 3 Acts. In Act 1 you are Morgan Black, a knight that is following the Ottomans to the New World. 
 Act 2 you play as Morgan's grandson John Black, and in Act 3 you play as John Black's Gran daughter, 
 Amelia Black (Morgan's Great-Great granddaughter) 
  
  The graphics in Age 3 are much improved compared to Age 2s. They also allow you to zoom in more, 
 in Age 2 I sometimes had a squint, because the map couldn't zoom in. The sound effects are one 
 of the highlights of Age 3. The gun sounds are extremely realistic. All the other sounds are great 
 too. The voice acting doesn't leave a lasting impression. Some of the talking sequences don't make 
 sense, because some of the actors didn't talk according to the words. For instance Morgan's text 
 might say "We need to follow the Ottomans into the caves." Yet you'll only hear Morgan say "To 
 Follow the Ottomans into the caves." This happens a lot, and some of the actors start to sound 
 like Yoda.
  
  The combat is excellent, and there are tons battles you can get involved in. The hero's normal 
 attacks aren't much stronger than a foot soldiers, but each hero has a special ability, and those 
 cause a ton of damage. The combat also has naval battles, which aren't the best part of the game, 
 but they are fun to play in. Naval battles aren't all that they could of been, but Navy is only 
 a small part of the game.
  
  My biggest problem with Age 3 was that when you had a group of units selected you couldn't select 
 one group of units out of the big group to do a separate task. Instead you had to physically drag 
 a box around the units you want to select. This is particularly annoying if you want artillery 
 to fire at a wall from a distance, but you can't select just the artillery, so some of your infantry 
 is killed, because you accidentally assigned the infantry to the task.
  
  When all is said and done Age of Empires 3 is one of the best RTS games ever. It is an enjoyable 
 experience, that you'll want to play over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FRAGHI
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  The Home Cities are great. The leveling adds to the experience and makes you want to run your level 
 way up. The customizations look really nice and you find your self flipping to your HC just to 
 look at it, and this is on really low graphics. Gameplay is smooth and the difficulty levels really 
 are differrent. Playing lots of enemies on isolated maps (Amazonia, etc.) is really fun and helps 
 tune your rush. On normal land maps game play is slow to start but then gets fast. Rushing works 
 very well and harassing villagers (at 100 food each) works well. Strategies are diverse and really 
 vary from map to map. Multiple HC decks really shine with versatile players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opsAllen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires is truly an amazing game. Grab a powerful computer, put the CD, and immerse yourself 
 in the best and most realistic strategy game to date. Play with different civilizations, all trying 
 to conquer the not-so-long-ago discovered Americas, with imposing navy, charging cavalry, and diverse 
 infantry. Unlike the previous versions, everyone has the gun powder technology from the start, 
 and 3 different types of cannons are also available. There is the newly added feature Home City 
 , which allows your Home City to send provisions, men, or improvements to your ever growing civilization. 
 Also, villagers don't need to go back to Mill or Hometown when gathering ressources.
  A must-have for all strategy game lovers, again, the BEST strategy game on pc to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delro333
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Age of empires 3, wow new ideas introduced into an rts. Age of empires drops you into the age of 
 discovering the new world, which is very well done. You'll find yourself battleing all over the 
 americas in lush detailed maps where physics come into play. For example smack a cannonball into 
 a tree and yes the tree will fall crashing down. Buildings come apart complete with flying chucks 
 and the always exciting fire. COMBAT is extremly fun for those faithful to the rts genre. Your 
 units have multiple stances and manuevers where tactics and strategy really come into play. Also 
 another great thing is resource gathering is way easier and more fun, theres no gather point like 
 a lumber mill from aoe:2. instead just throw some villagers out in the woods and they will cut 
 until theres no trees left. The graphics in this game are nice nothing all that special except 
 the water effects and ships are breathtaking at first. The only bad thing is the single player 
 campaign is a little boring. But all that changes when you are launched into multiplayer. Exciting 
 and rated, so many different games and chat rooms online. Where you have rank, and a win % all 
 neatly kept and assecible to all people who want to view it. Overall this game has excellant ADDICTIVE 
 gameplay, decent graphics, and some great music twisted into.
  
  so sit back and get ready to be launched back into the age of cannons and musketmen all bouncing 
 around, blowing each other up because AGE OF EMPIRES 3 IS HERE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hollow_ichigo7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is a real-time strategy game based on historical events, with a bit of fiction 
 thrown in. I'll get straight to the point: Age of Empires 3 is a visual masterpiece, or at least, 
 it's better than some games, the graphics are alright. As for gameplay, I can't say much. It's 
 very much like other RTSs, left click is select, right click is to do a selected action. The storyline, 
 I will admit, is quite nice, and though it is far-fetched, it is quite realistic. It also describes 
 the story of the Black family, and what sets this apart from AOE 2 is that it has some RPG aspects, 
 for example, when you kill things you get EXP, and there are heroes with skills and stuff like 
 that, which makes the game more fun. However, it has less stances than AOE2, so it gets harder 
 to protect a certain unit. This is the only part where AOE 2 beats AOE 3. I also enjoyed this game 
 because it wasn't too long, nor was it too short. A great game, it runs on Windows XP, so most 
 people can play it. So go! Go and buy it! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawq902
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  The new AOE games take a more futuristic look (futuristic form the last game) they come out of 
 the dark ages and jump into the American Revolution. The campaign for this game is a lot easier 
 than that of the earlier games, but still provides a solid storyline and a good plot. Although 
 it only takes you a few hours to beat it, it's still a good campaign. The graphics for this game 
 are much better than the last series. They have more of a 3D look to them this time around. Online 
 play is awesome with a lot of game types to choose form. Get this game and you will enjoy hours 
 of entertainment, it takes a little bit of getting use to but it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chinese_J3ST3R
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  This gets a 9.0 for me. Its a great game with lots of options i think the home city idea was great, 
 it really depicted the whole building an overseas empire but i thought they could've done better 
 with it though. The graphics were... well they were just speechless i mean the game's graphics 
 was such a major improvement from its predecessors especially the water reflections and how realistic 
 the water was. Ensemble kept talking about how the water would be the thing that they would work 
 hard on and that it will be the best part of the graphics, i have to say good job ensemble studios. 
 Ive been an AOE fan since the first AOE and i say keep creating those great RTS's because although 
 base building has gotten old Age of Empires 3 makes it fun again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revols
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 bellow Age of Empires 2 lacks realism and has a very poor story line to tell. The 
 graphics are alright ,but the campaigns are no match for the historical campaigns from the Age 
 of Empires 2. I noticed unit bugs from the very beginning of the first campaign when I encountered 
 cowboy outlaws units in an european map (stupid) . That made me to stop playing so much this game 
 and made me think more of playing Fate of the Dragon rts. Also I noticed the battles even if they 
 are in 3d don't seem to be more or nearly equal spectacular to those 2d battles from Age of Empires 
 2. In the end this game is for under 7 bored&amp; fat american kids. For those who have a little brain 
 know that this game is overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellysontheroad
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  In the days of Dune and the early C &amp; C games, all sorts of strategies could be used, hiding, 
 fortifying, sneaking and attacking from behind, stealing opponents units. There is none of this 
 in AOE, using an unbalanced research path never works, strategic attacks melt into nothing, even 
 when set to 'defensive' your units wander around and don't do what they're told. The only thing 
 that works is to mindlessly do a little of everything, and do it more quickly than the opponent. 
 This is the most mindless boring RTS I've played in years.
  
  This game does not deserve 100 words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliwood82
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I say this game was a very good game and i spent hours playing it it is pwnage but i couldnt play 
 online because my bro had a account and you could only have one per game and i love it. i used alot 
 of cheats though i played it without cheats too though i didnt really like the story line though 
 i preferred the custom thing i needa play it again i havent played it for awhile. sigh stupid at 
 least 100 words. i was pretty good myself but my bro had a freind who was AWSOME at the game he 
 could beat 5 computers at once he was so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  The original Age of Empires packed a stunning visual punch and backed it up with solid gameplay. 
 Back at a time where most strategy games were chunky and 2D, the first Age game pulled aside the 
 curtain to reveal a world that was sunny, animated, colorful and lifelike. Strategy games were 
 never the same. Age of Empires III presents a similar leap forward for real-time strategy fans. 
 As Half-Life 2 did for first-person shooters, AoE III shows just how inspiring these games can 
 be when lovingly crafted with outstanding artistry and solid gameplay fundamentals.
  
  Age of Empires III doesn't redefine real-time strategy gameplay. You're still scurrying to collect 
 more resources than your opponents and rushing to field a giant army, and the game still rewards 
 frantic clicking and unit management. But the presentation is unmatched, and even though the game 
 is rooted in RTS conventions, there are enough new elements and strategic variations here to addict 
 even grizzled veterans. If you're a fan of the genre, you owe it to yourself to check this game 
 out. And if you've never played a real-time game before, this is the place to start.
  
  Welcome to the New World!
  Age III's graphics are unmatched in the strategy genre.
  
  The 
 Majesty of the Frontier
  
  Graphically, the engine that powers Age of Empires III has a laundry list of the latest graphics 
 technology: real-time shadows, high dynamic range lighting, you name it. There's even bump-mapping 
 on the barrels of the cannons. But the real impressive thing about the technology isn't that it's 
 there, it's that you don't notice it. From the moment your Home City first appears on the menu 
 screen, or a new map loads up to reveal pale grey waters lapping quietly against rocky New England 
 shores, you become lost in the game world. The latest in technology is coupled with truly beautiful 
 art.
  
  Age III pulls out all the stops to depict the sweeping majesty of the old west or the unspoiled 
 beauty of the colonial-era Americas. One of the single-player campaign cutscenes, done in the game 
 engine, pans across rolling hills of golden grass while huge herds of buffalo amble along like 
 waves of water. Another level depicts a small Caribbean port picking up the pieces after a devastating 
 hurricane, with citizens milling about amidst wrecked ships and broken docks. Yet another level 
 has you picking your way through a dense swamp looking for the ruins of Spanish treasure ships 
 half-buried in the mud and dripping with gold doubloons. You're never lacking for eye candy.
  
  The music is equally impressive. Done in full orchestra, it moves effortlessly from majestic 
 scores highlighting the beauty of the landscape to pounding battle drums accenting the fury of 
 battle.
  
  Of course, the combat is equally spectacular. The goal of the game is to devastate your opponents, 
 and said devastation is accompanied by deeply satisfying images of destruction. A large part of 
 this has to do with the real physics incorporated onto the game engine. You can feel the impact 
 when a cannonball shatters into a wooden frontier building, breaking it into pieces that fly off 
 in macabre arcs. Smoke billows from muskets, cannons leap back as they expel their fury, building 
 spires burst into flame and collapse into themselves, and the masts of ships crash to the deck 
 as the vessel shudders with the impact of enemy fire. Every game of Age of Empires III drips with 
 spectacle.
  But if graphics and sound are the icing, what about the cake? Age of Empires III is still rooted 
 in classic real-time strategy gameplay (if you hate RTS games, it may not make you change your 
 mind) , but there are some new twists that are well-executed into the game design.
  
  First, Age III simulates colonization, meaning that the town you build in the game can request 
 shipments from your Home City. You gain new shipments by earning experience (you get experience 
 from building stuff, collecting resources, or killing bad guys) , and you have a set list of things 
 that you can send over. This has a profound impact on your strategy. Do you send over economic 
 resources early, to give your town a leg up on the competition? Or do you send over tons of military 
 units, so that you can field an advanced army while your neighbors are still building up? Shipments 
 add a lot to the game by giving you more strategic possibilities, and by giving you incentive to 
 rapidly earn experience. They really reward players for going out and making things happen around 
 the map.
  
  Ensemble's online service, built entirely into the game, is fantastic.
  
  Every map is also dotted with Native American villages or trade routes (located along central roads) 
 that can be built up by your colony. Controlling a trading post gives you free experience or resources 
 whenever a trade cart comes by, whereas Native American villages can provide you with inexpensive 
 military units or technology upgrades. Controlling these points on the map gives you a major edge 
 over the long term. As a result, it's a rush to be the first to locate these points, and they are 
 always hotly contested. Battles usually play out as a series of skirmishes across the map before 
 big conflicts rage at the town centers.
  
  Finally, Age of Empires III adds the Home City concept. Outside of the real-time portion of the 
 game, you can create a Home City representing the world power that's supplying your colonies. Your 
 Home City has a level -- like an RPG character -- representing how experienced it is. As you earn 
 experience playing the game your city will Level up and you can choose new abilities for it, in 
 effect deciding what kinds of shipments you'd like to send to your colonies. The decision about 
 what kinds of upgrades to make to your city is agonizing and has a tangible impact on the main 
 game. It's also fun just to level up, develop, and customize your own personal city. One nice side 
 effect here is that, even if you get totally ass-whupped in a multiplayer game, you probably still 
 earned a lot of experience to use to develop your city. This concept works great all around and 
 really contributes to the game.
  
  How the West Got Ownt
  
  The single-player campaign is divided into three acts representing three generations of the same 
 family. Picking up where Age of Kings left off, the lead character in the first campaign is a Knight 
 adventuring in the New World in search of a lost treasure. Said treasure impacts his whole family 
 line, as depicted in Act II, a rip-roaring Davy-Crockett style adventure starring his Grandson. 
 Act III picks up two generations later, featuring a wild west romp involving railroads, the Mexican 
 war, and a quest into the Amazon jungles before the family finally finds closure. As with the other 
 production values of the game, the writing is solid and the voice acting is great.
  
  There's a good variety of missions in the single-player campaign, from protecting a stronghold 
 until help arrives to building a railroad line to battling pirates along a series of islands. None 
 of the individual scenarios have you doing things that hadn't been done in other RTS games, but 
 the real magic is in the gameplay, which allows you to develop a different Home City for each act 
 and tackle each scenario differently.
  
  Each of the three acts will take around eight hours to mow through, leading to an enjoyable couple 
 of weekends just on the single player alone. The difficulty is a little inconsistent, with some 
 missions being a breeze while occasionally one would seem crazy difficult. Fortunately, you have 
 the option of switching the difficulty level for each mission.
  
  One nice thing about the single-player game is that your hero characters can't die. Oh, they can 
 get worked over -- writhing on the ground in pain, calling for help -- but you can always bring 
 them back. This eliminates the frustration of having a scenario end just because a main character 
 dies and also creates the possibility of impromptu 'rescue missions' where you create a small force 
 with the intent of bringing one of your heroes back to your base alive.
  
  Online multiplayer is accomplished through a built-in service called Ensemble Studios Online. This 
 full-featured gameplay service is a model for other games to follow. You can do everything from 
 in the game: create a new account, choose a portrait, develop your multiplayer Home Cities, chat 
 with other players, add buddies to your friends list, send instant messages to one another, form 
 a clan, join a clan, browse for games, see ladders and rankings... all within a beautiful interface.
 
  
  A series of random map templates are available for multiplayer, most with some interesting twists 
 on gameplay and their own set of native villages. For instance, the Yukon maps group all of the 
 players close together on the bottom of a frigid snow-covered map, along one side of a trade road. 
 Across the road is a river, and on the other side of the river is a resource-rich area loaded with 
 gold and silver mines. These maps leave you fighting tooth and nail, shoulder-to-shoulder against 
 your foe while everyone tries to establish rich colonies across the river. Fun stuff.
  
  Win or lose online, you'll probably earn enough experience to customize and upgrade your Home City.
 
  
  Getting a good multiplayer game going isn't always easy. Now that the service is live, we haven't 
 encountered any of the difficulties discussed in our first impressions piece. However, because 
 Age of Empires III is a peer-to-peer experience, if anyone tries to join your game with a bad ping 
 it can cause a lot of lag. We experienced more than a few disconnects from people with poor Internet 
 connections, which causes a screen to come up asking players to wait or to disconnect. Often people 
 bailed out on the whole game when this happened. Hopefully the Ensemble team can smooth out this 
 process in the coming weeks. In the meantime, we had trouble arranging large games because any 
 given 3-vs.-3 has at least one player causing problems.
  
  Once you do get a good multiplayer game started, you're in for a treat. A variety of strategic 
 options are available. Thanks to the strength of artillery and the speed in which Home City shipments 
 can build up a fighting force, we found that the game tends to be very offensive; few players online 
 bother to build up significant defenses. The real question is, when do you attack? Do you rush 
 the opposing player in the third age, or do you ramp up your economy and focus on building powerful 
 units in the fourth age? For games that are stalemated, there's even a fifth age that you can develop 
 your culture toward, with significant costs, allowing you to build immensely powerful units. In 
 practice we found few games where people took this option.
  
  So far, based on our online testing, no particular strategy seems to win out. This results in some 
 very fun games. There's a contingent of players choosing the Russian civilization, which allows 
 them to build enormous armies of relatively weak Strelets units (in one multiplayer game we witnessed 
 someone building over 1000 of these guys) , but good artillery can combat the Russian Rush. Every 
 culture has its own gimmicks. My best city is German, which means I get bonus cavalry with every 
 shipment I send over. It's pretty easy to build up a significant cavalry force by the third age, 
 which gives me an opportunity to rush an enemy city to try to thin their civilian population. It's 
 risky, but it slows people down. Best of all is when my opponent plays as the English and tries 
 to rush me with longbows; my cavalry mows them down like a weed-infested lawn.
  
  Regardless of whether you win or lose online, your Home City will gain valuable experience, which 
 rewards you for playing no matter what the outcome.
  
  The Final Word
  
  Truly hardcore strategy gamers might find lots of nitpicks in Age of Empires III. It's difficult 
 to unload transport ships, healers have to be micro-managed or they'll charge into combat, and 
 there aren't a lot of options for customizing your hotkeys. Artillery units on occasion can't decide 
 to fire or pack up to move. But the important thing is that none of these little problems really 
 impacts the core game.
  
  Age of Empires III is an absolutely fantastic title with superb graphics and tight gameplay. Single-player 
 or multiplayer, no matter what your skill, you'll get hours of joy out of this sucker online or 
 off. Age of Empires III may not redefine real-time strategy gaming, but it sets the bar so high 
 that we'll be comparing games to this for years. Shoulder your musket and pony up: this one's a 
 real trip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kionox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  I was really very happy to hear the announcement in 2005 that they were making another game in 
 the series. Although I didn't think it would live up to it's revolutionary predecessors. When I 
 finally got the game in 2006, I was amazed at how right I was. The game definitely gets a 9 for 
 graphics, but we all saw that coming when Age of Mythology came out. Now, to the point at hand; 
 the game is great is its own respect, but I'm only giving it an 8.5 because I think it takes out 
 some of the classic fun, meaning that guns and railroads weren't really part of empires. Ultimately, 
 the game is pretty good for those who love the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  The first rts game that I got was War Craft 3. I never was good at rts games back then so I really 
 did not enjoy. Two years later when I got a better computer, I got Age of Empires 3. I loved it. 
 Not only was it fun and addictive but it was also had a good story flowing through it. Age of Empires 
 3 has this long story mode that lasted about 15- 20 hours. Most of the levels are fun but a few 
 are short and easy, and some of them are a bit boring. The graphics in Age of Empires 3 look good 
 but there are a few flaws. Some of the character models look kind of bad, and some of the landscape 
 looks really bad, if you do not have antialising on. The sound sounds great and some of the effects 
 are awesome. The voice acting is also preety good. If you like rts games than you will enjoy Age 
 of Empires 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob9999999999
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is a fun game that follows in the footsteps of it's older cousins. The Home 
 City idea was brilliant, and the graphics (especially the water) are fantastic. However, there 
 is nothing especially revolutionary about the game, and shortly after i bought it i kindof stopped 
 playing it. There is nothing wrong with the game. It is a standard RTS, but the excitement i had 
 for Age II is missing. I played Age II for years (it was about the only game i played for 2 years) 
 and i wish that i could feel the same enthusiasm for Age III. I also realize that stiffer competition 
 is one reason for my lukewarm response to the game. It is probably worth buying if you can get 
 it for $25-$30... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyap7
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I've played every AOE game and this one has got to be the best one by far. The graphics are amazing, 
 the scenery, the people, everything is highly defined and well done. The game play is just as perfect 
 as the graphics. As in every AOE game, you control your town with all your citizens and soldier 
 and eventually attack your enemy with your army. The cannons and guns makes the game much more 
 exciting and the soldiers a bit more advanced. The addition of a hometown is great. The idea of 
 having things shipped to you by your hometown makes the game more difficult and a lot more entertaining 
 since you need to manage the things you would like to be shipped to you outside of the actual game. 
 The battles are expertly done. The firing of the cannons, the shots from the guns, and the slash 
 of swords have a very good sound and motion with them. Overall the game is perfect and is well 
 worth my $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobo290
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  AOE 3 is a really good game. playin as European nations, you get to explore the New World. If u 
 have a fast Computer this game has freakin awesome graphics if u don't it's ok graphics. You could 
 make large amries. each cizilization, which there's 8, has its own abilities and disablilties which 
 you could use to their advantage. Online play is really good too, its gonna keep you busy for awhile. 
 The sound of cannons and gunshots and arrows fliyin through the air is also a good sound to hear.
 
  1 1 11 1 11 1 11 1 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unrealdj813
Rating: 3.4
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Who cares about adding graphical improvments, add content to what exists already, instead they 
 release expansion packs that add more plain civilizations and the same content...... add more to 
 what is there already!!! Do your expansions correctly, there's no infinite cue, theres nothing 
 exciting about the units fighting except for when cannons hit or units fall in the water, Theres 
 no super powered units or powers that really matter, the city shipments are hardly fun to use....... 
 Its pretty outside but dumb on the inside, this game is like a pretty blond cheerleader, all looks, 
 no fun to be with. I stayed with Age of Mythology until Rise of Legends was discovered by me a 
 few months after its release, Rise of Legends is much like AOM but way better. AOE3 is like..... 
 Not going to that again.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxx12381
Rating: 5.4
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Not the best online stratagy game. Age of Empire III is to close to the book.
  Your ship can only attack when it is compleatly alligned with its target. That
  means that if 
 you want t attack a moving ship / target, good luck. Ships can only attack buildings that are on 
 the shore line. The units move very slow. Canons need to be proteced at all times witch means less 
 units on the front lines. I cant say much about the graphics. They have their ups and downs. I 
 extreemly suggest laying the game at someones house before buying the game. If you are going to 
 buy it, go to Target. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandyqbg
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 7, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Age Of Empires is one of those games that sometimes make me feel nostalgic. In fact AOE was the 
 first full version I played. Now after a long gap of 6 years Ensemble Studios has rolled out its 
 newest game in the series. (Not including expansions of AOE3) . The game is based in the colonization 
 ages and the New World comes to the limelight here.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Graphics has come a long way in the past 6 years and it clearly reflects in this third installment 
 of the series. The graphics are pretty awesome. AOE2 also had some neat graphics but this is simply 
 great. It's got that reality feel to it, though it sometimes appears to be kinda dreamy.
  
  SOUND:
  
  As always the sound has been done well here. Both the background music and in-game 
 sounds are good. They may not be all that awesome and stuff, but they are way more than just adequate.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  This is where I felt that AOE3 was lacking. It has retained the same old succesful formula as its 
 base and has upgraded on top of that. The Home City concept is very innovative. In this game, the 
 drop sites for resources like the lumbermill and mine have been eliminated. So once you have given 
 your villager the job of resource collection he will stay at the place where it is available and 
 tap it until it's exhausted. In the higher ages you can also build special buildings that allow 
 you to accumulate resources infinitely, leaving you to concentrate solely on war efforts. There 
 are 8 civilizations to choose with each having its own unique units, advantages and AI character. 
 This is better than in its predecesors. You cannot play the native Americans, but can set up trade 
 posts in their villages.
  However, this simplification of gameplay by eliminating the resource drop sites has rendered it 
 somewhat bland. The warfare is based on the same old AOE formula. Improvements could have been 
 made here. It lacks the sophistication of the warfare of the Colony ages. The storyline for the 
 campaign is also a bit of a letdown. The AOE series campaigns are known for the re-enactment of 
 real historical events, at its core at least. In AOE3, it seems to be more of a fairytale. The 
 game interface has become more complex.
  
  FINAL VERDICT:
  
  The AOE3 has still earned its place among the elite of the RTS games. The formula it has used is 
 maybe what has defined the AOE series, but still is too old and not just AOE but a lot of games 
 have employed the same formula. Play it but don't expect it to be something revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  Gameplay::: Quite a good amount of units and is fairly simple to get into. Nice UI but you can't 
 set which way they are facing (which is annoying) and camera rotation can't be used on mouse (annoying) 
 Home cities is a good new feature but when I say good I mean useful. Home cities is a small thing 
 and doesn't make you want to play the game just because of this feature. Battles are exciting and 
 fun especially sea battles. Effects are the best I have seen as buildings crumble with debris flying 
 everywhere. Sea battles are the highlights of this game. Ships can loose sails, chunks of deck 
 and can come back with missing parts. They should have concentrated gameplay more on sea than land 
 cause land battles are pretty ordinary (assaulting buildings is an excepting) but sea battles are 
 memoriable stuff, especially a broadside.
  
  Graphics::: Water effects are amazing but units don't look as good as they could be. Sound::: The 
 sound track is amazing and so are the effects
  
  Value::: Map editor, skirmish, multi
  
  Tilt::: Sea battles were spectacular, too bad land battles aren't
  
  Other::: Performance 
 can get really bad when ships sink. Physics are amazing. Campagne doesn't make sense cause I'm 
 fighting people with muskets and I have crossbow men. I'm pretty sure we are on the same age cause 
 my villagers have muskets (well guns whatever) . Hmm... villagers armed with gunpower military armed 
 with bows and swords. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atmiller33
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  As i saw that they were making another one of these games, i was very happy because im an Age Of 
 Mythology fan and ive liked the past AOE's.
  
  Gameplay- This game is a whole new game compared to the other AOE's but still has the same elements 
 to it. This game is mostly based in the industrial era of civilization. Good gameplay elements 
 here.
  
  Graphics- These graphics are very good but you better have a good cpu or graphics card or else 
 your pretty much doomed for this title. My graphics card is alright but not enough for the maximum 
 capabilities for this game.
  
  Sound- The sound is excellent especially the cannon shots/ guns and things. Plenty of explosions 
 to go along with that.
  
  Value- For the money you get good online play and such to keep you going far beyond the single 
 player.
  
  Reviewers Tilt- Overall this game is a good title to pick up if you like RTS action and things 
 like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DodgeDuty
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  The game is best played online, even though single player does develop skills and strategies. With 
 a fast computer the visuals are amazing, and the destruction is better than Age of Empires 2. Home 
 cities are a good use. Online I thought it was easy to set up games and host them, even though 
 veterans can easily pown noobs as they can join a level 0-5 home city game, even though they may 
 have another home city that is a 50 or so. Multiple home cities can be created, so people can get 
 taken advantage of. I also don't like that experience points are taken away, or points aren't gained 
 when a teammatte resigne and you have to fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is the sequel to the award winning Age of Empires II, which is also for the 
 PC. In fact, Age of Empires III is not unlike Age of Empires II in any aspect, really, only with 
 a modernized look and feel.
  
  Gameplay: Age of Empires III is an RTS, which for those unfamiliar with the genre means that you 
 will be put in control of a civilization, in which you'll build from the ground up between buildings, 
 military units, and gathering of resources. While the genre is very common on the PC, Age of Empires 
 III is one of those few RTS titles that really stands out among the bunch.
  Sure, Age of Empires III doesn't really venture into unknown territory like your solo adventuring 
 explorer will do, but it builds heavily upon what has already proven to be successful in the franchise. 
 Perhaps what is so great about its gameplay is the it is so accessible, and very easy to learn. 
 There is deep, rewarding gameplay, but yet a relatively simple interface and learning curve.
  Age of Empires III features three main modes: Campaign, Skirmish, and online multiplayer. Campaign, 
 as you can imagine, follows a story revolving around a family that lived (or supposedly, anyway, 
 I have no idea if the family actually existed) over 400 years ago, and has you put with a mission 
 of obtaining certain objectives through the campaign. In all honesty, this is probably the least 
 entertaining aspect of the game. The missions are, frankly, rather dull, and the story isn't immersive 
 enough to really make you want to continue through the campaign. Skirmish, on the other hand, is 
 a more accessible take to the game. Skirmish allows you to setup your own match up, lets you pick 
 your own civilization (with a wide selection, ranging from the British, to the Spanish and French, 
 etc.) , gives you an option of the number of players you want in your game, and has a long list 
 of different maps to choose from. Skirmish allows your imagination to go wild, and will provide 
 some of the most epic battles you can possibly imagine. The online play, on the other hand, allows 
 for a more hardcore experience in the game. It is pretty extensive in its layout, and you'd have 
 a hard time not being challenged in the online matches. This mode really lets your own strategies 
 and preferences shine, and makes customization all the more important with cards that you earn 
 for your home city. Yes, both offline and online you will choose your own home city based upon 
 your civilization of choice. As you battle, you gain experience points, and as you gain experience 
 points you gain levels, which in return allows you to pick from a long list of new cards to put 
 into a deck of cards. The deck of cards will be accesible during battle, and as you pick a card 
 your home city will then send you a shipment of whatever the card described. This is one of the 
 few innovative things you'll find in this game that makes it truly stand out. Overall, Age of Empires 
 III really doesn't bring much new to the table in terms of the RTS genre itself, but instead offers 
 an experience well polished and displays a contemporary feel. Basically, this game is a RTS that 
 does justice to the RTS genre in general.
  
  Graphics: Age of Empires III can be summed up as a great looking game visually, but it also has 
 its share of flaws. The good aspects of the graphics would be that not only does the water look 
 absolutely amazing, but the environments are all well detailed for the most part and the special 
 effects are jaw droppingly good for an RTS game. Watching buildings slowly fall to bits, and watching 
 warships battle it out is more entertaining than you would think because of this. On the downside, 
 however, some of the units look like they could have used a little more detail to them, and a lot 
 of them have a bit more of a pixelated look to them. That's not to say that all of them look this 
 way, but villagers, as an example, often look pixelated to the point where this easily could pass 
 as a game that is older than it actually is. In that sense, Age of Empires III looks a little dated. 
 However, its great special effects, decent textures, and detailed environments (although some maps 
 do admittedly look blander than others) help make up a game that is very pleasing to the eye.
 
  
  Sound: Here is where the game really kind of strikes out. Here's the thing: The music that is here 
 is phenomenal, but to me it seems completely unbalanced and out of place. I've found that some 
 of the most epic music in the game will be played, at completely random parts of a match. You'll 
 find yourself sitting there staring at your screen while your villagers gather resources, and then 
 all of a sudden this loud, epic sounding music will pop out of nowhere... as if something major 
 is happening in the battle at the time, when there is clearly not. An odd complaint, obviously, 
 but very notable. Also, a lot of the music is reused in map after map, which also is a bit of a 
 let down. Otherwise, as I said before, the music that is here is great.
  
  Value: For those looking for a multiplayer experience, this game should definitely last you quite 
 awhile. For those looking for a single player experience, look elsewhere. The skirmishes are a 
 lot of fun, but ultimately get tiresome after you realize that you've spent hours playing a match 
 that was only against the computer, and ultimately served no purpose. Regardless, Age of Empires 
 should last you for a pretty long time, even if it has its downfalls in both single player and 
 multiplayer experience (I've sometimes found lag online unbearable, which I think is worth mentioning) . 
 In conclusion, if you're looking for a great new RTS for your PC, this game is definitely the game 
 to get. If you're interested in a game that offers both a solid single player and multiplayer experience, 
 I would recommend looking elsewhere before purchasing Age of Empires III. Either way, this game 
 is a worthy successor to Age of Empires II, and shouldn't be missed by fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: groowe
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I m a big fan of AOE series, I must say. I was waiting a long time for the release of the third 
 part, but was very dissapointed!
  AOE 2 is one of the greatest strategy games ever, it's still fun playing it, but this one, pffff, 
 personally im a great fan of strategy games, but at AOE 3, I got bored after 2 days of playing... that's 
 it...
  No feeling of beeing very powerful after all has been researched and maximized, and very little 
 strategizing. I mean, a good stratege must be able to defeat the much larger enemy with few but 
 better equipped and commanded soldiers. No such thing here! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whgresiak
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  Well this has to be one of the best games ever released by Ensemble, period. The game is fun, has 
 a great campaign, highly supported multi-player, it has it all.
  
  The graphics are a little lacking, even with everything set as high as it goes with Full Anti-Aliasing, 
 but it's a real time strategy game and graphics don't matter too much. The terrain is beautiful 
 however and certainly adds to the experience. The sounds are terrific, all the weapons have their 
 own unique sound and the ambient noise is incredible. The voice acting for the campaign is really 
 good, as well as for all the characters when playing a skirmish.
  
  The gameplay is of course, the best part of the game. I find however that it's a little too macro, 
 but that's just my taste, that doesn't make it more or less of a good game. There's no real strategy 
 involved for military, you just build as many different kinds of units you can afford to counter 
 what you think the enemy will have and basically just hope you have more. The resource gathering 
 isn't a huge part of the game, for the most part you can just leave some villagers on a mine or 
 forest and not worry about them for a while until it runs out.
  
  All and all a great game, certainly worth an strategy or PC gamer's attention.
  
  Review Lowdown:
 
  Teh Good:
  Terrain
  Ambient Noises
  
  Teh Bad:
  No real military strategy involved
  
  Teh Ugly:
  Too macro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makhdoom82
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  If you guys have played age of empires 2 then you would definately like this one ... it has all 
 the old gameplay elements but the sound and graphics have been improved quite a bit ....... it 
 has the same historical RTS track .... but this time its not that old .... single player story 
 includes history of USA and fights between red-indians and settlers etc .... provided good LAN 
 gaming fun for hours ..... units and storyline are based on true events almost .... a nice addition 
 to your already Age of empires series !!! single player was long enough to satisfy ... and multiplayer 
 was quite as fun !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grueol123
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 11, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is a sequel, and nothing else. The gameplay is exactly the same as AOE 2, just with different 
 units. The graphics and the audio are the only great part about this game. As artillery blows up 
 a building, it fragments. As shells tear apart enemy lines, bodies fly. As a ship dies, it comes 
 apart. This game has the best graphics I had ever seen at the time of its release. Also, the sound 
 is great. The booms from artillery and cracks from musket shots are all that you would expect.
 
  
  On to the not great stuff. The storyline is not that original. The single player has all the typical 
 missions, from defend the fortress to kill the convoy.
  Each side has a few special units, but not enough for a style of gameplay change. The buildings 
 somewhat look different, but not drastically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrumpyMcNasty
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 11, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Ok, I'm going to start by saying that I'm a firm believer that you shouldn't buy a game unless 
 your system meets, at the very least, the recommended specs on the box. Not the minimum specs. 
 Anyone who a) plays and game and then b) reviews a game based on an experience with the minimum 
 spec should be publicly flogged. This reviews is coming from the perspective of someone whose machine 
 wipes the floor with the recommended specs so there is nothing to decide on other than if the game 
 is any good or not.
  
  Ok, rant over. On to the game. As a veteran of every other game in the 'Age of ... series (even 
 the Star Wars ports) I had been looking forward to this game for quite some time. Obviously since 
 Age of Empires II there have been some fairly large leaps forward in the genre and AOEIII had quite 
 a bit to live up to. From Age of Mythology to Rise of Nations and Warcraft III some nifty new concepts 
 had been dug up. Would AOEIII take the best of these, ignore them and stick to a trusted style 
 or innovate themselves? Well, the answer is a bit of everything but in a mix that's just about 
 right.
  
  From Warcraft and AOM we have heroes. In the new game you have reached the age of world seafaring 
 and the New World is only a boat journey away. Playing as various heroes who had a hand in making 
 America the country it is today you work your way through some of the defining journeys and legends 
 of the time. The graphics are awesome, just be careful you don't lose the game gaping at some of 
 the effects, they really do look that good. The balance between the various factions is pretty 
 good although there isn't a huge amount of variety between units. In fact many of the factions 
 use exactly the same units so it becomes a straight toe-to-toe battle at times.
  
  The biggest difference between AOE II and III is the introduction of a somewhat-linear story in 
 the single player mode as in AOM - and it's a good one. Anyone with an interest in the history 
 of the area will enjoy recognising characters they know even though certain liberties have been 
 taken with actual history! The introduction of 'Home cities' is an interesting touch although it 
 did strike me as a bit gimmicky without any real worth that couldn't have been added in a more 
 connected way. Leaving the middle of a massive battle to run off to another screen and grab a box 
 of grub did take a little away from the immersiveness of the whole experience.
  
  The control system as always is intuitive and the AI is fairly good although not quite up to Company 
 of Heroes standard. This is a game for those who enjoy a good story, beautiful graphics, nice set 
 pieces and solid multiplayer. It's hard to find holes in this so I'm not going to bother. It's 
 not earth-shattering, it's not going to win any prizes but it's fun, fairly long, nice looking 
 and well worth your hard earned few quid. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJMarra
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 10, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires III was one of the most hyped up RTS games of all time, alongside Starcraft II. 
 The screenshots provided before the game was released showed us vast plains filled with wildlife 
 and beautiful oceans ready to be explored. And when the game finally came, Ensemble delivered. 
 The game is rich in beauty of all sorts, and the gameplay is addictive, but it lasts for only so 
 long. If you have an outstanding graphics card, you will see this game as monumental RTS game, 
 but if your card is only average, then this will appear as just another RTS game.
  
  Age of Empires III really shined on it Gameplay. The main premise of the game is simple, is like 
 most other RTS games. Build a base, build an army, destroy the enemy. In AoE III, to help you achieve 
 this goal, you are granted Home City Shipments. Seeing as how AoE III takes place in the New World, 
 you start with only an Explorer and a Settlement Wagon. Once the settlement is up, you must begin 
 harvesting resources to improve the quality of your base. Unlike other RTS games, like Empire Earth 
 for example, gathering resources actually makes sense. You start off with the basic supplies from 
 your Home City, but for your base to thrive, you need to hunt animals and pick berries for food, 
 cut down trees for timber to build buildings, and you need Gold to produce gold coins used as currency. 
 Another neat thing about AoE III's base system is the use of houses. Citizens and soldiers obviously 
 need a place to live at, and each house you build can house 5 people of your civilization. If you 
 don't have enough houses to provide a home for your population, you can not create any more people 
 until the demand is made. This feature sometimes poses as a problem however, because if during 
 an attack and your population limit is reached, the enemy will target your houses and destroy, 
 thus forcing you incapable of creating any more warriors to fight the battle. Speaking of battle, 
 AoE III provides new additions to the RTS franchise overall. Ensemble has implemented a rag doll 
 feature into the game, so when a cannonball hits a trooper, the tend to go flying backwards, but 
 not horribly unrealistically as some expected. To even further this feature, when warriors attack 
 buildings, instead of attacking foolishly with their swords, guns, etc. like portrayed in other 
 RTS games, soldiers will switch to using flaming branches and Molotov cocktails which archers will 
 use fire arrows. Unlike other RTS games, where the building may suddenly appear diminished when 
 under attack or simply burst into flames, the buildings realistically tumble apart, often exposing 
 the interior of the buildings. After an attack is complete, you can really see the damage taken 
 in detail, as raging fires spread around your camp and pieces of your buildings scatter the ground.
 
  
  The next thing I would like to talk about are the graphics. Age of Empires III is probably the 
 prettiest RTS game ever made, which isn't a surprise to me seeing as how all of the Age of Empire 
 games have had stunning visuals, and the people who made AoE III are the same people working on 
 Halo Wars. The environments are lush with detail, with high mountains and sandy bluffs in more 
 desert orientated environments and high grass and gigantic trees in more plains orientated environments. 
 To add in with the realism, Ensemble hired a programmer to work solely on the water alone, and 
 in my opinion, the water effects is the prettiest thing about the game. Ships glide easily across 
 them with ease, thrusting the water out of its way, with the reflection of the ship emblazoned 
 on its surface. The water's tides crash along the shores, making the beaches wet and change a different 
 hue. Sea battles come to life as chunks of ships go flying, crashing into the water below. The 
 graphical effects in AoE III are superb to any RTS game, which is still a fact, even after being 
 released officially two years ago.
  
  Next on my list of discussion is the sound. The sound is extremely well done, with muskets blasting 
 off at their own select time, and not with just one sound file like other games do. Soldiers will 
 charge into battle, bayonets and swords drawn, screaming as they go. After the battle is won, the 
 soldiers will shout in victory and wave their weapons at the sky. All of these little things really 
 make the game come to life.
  
  The appeal of Age of Empires III can go on for a long while. The game not only provides intense 
 gameplay and beautiful graphics, but also many other features. The main premise of AoE III is to 
 build a colony in the New World. For every colony created and for every colony defeated, your Home 
 City prospers. You can change things about your city, like people who roam the streets, or how 
 different buildings look. You can also, using a unique card system, change what shipments you have 
 to send to your troops over in the New World. Online gameplay is equally as invigorating, matching 
 your massive colonies with others and battling it out to see who is the true victor.
  
  Age of Empires III is a game I will treasure for a long time to come. It's outstanding graphics, 
 addicting gameplay, and the breathtaking sound are going to remembered for it's innovative presentation 
 for many more years to come. If Halo Wars will be as remarkable as Age of Empires III, we all having 
 something to look forward to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: libbi68
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 4, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Age III takes the great essence that is Age II and makes it look pretty with some nice additions 
 to the formula. The game looks amazing if you got the beefy specs to back it up. Ships and buildings 
 getting blown apart piece by piece is something beautiful to look at during battle. The basic gameplay 
 from the previous age games is back so you know what to expect from that department. The addition 
 of the Home City is nice as you can purchase groups of units or certain special abilities that 
 give you the edge over your opponent. It was a little disappointing that there werent nearly as 
 many countries in Age III as in Age II but they improve by each country units looking different 
 and most of them are unique. The voice acting is good once again but not great and the music and 
 sound takes a big step forward which is nice for the series. Overall if you have a beefy system 
 to make this game look good, its a definite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irunongames
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  This is really a great game. You got great graphics great sound. I can almost feel myself in battle. 
 If every game was like this all the games in the world would be great. It takes a while to unserstand 
 how to play at first then it becomes nice and easy to control. It is a great stragtey game for 
 every one. Also If you get the expansion packs you will have a great time and you could let your 
 eyes leave the screen. the problem is the price. But when you buy it you lear it was worth it. 
 The bottem line is that if you don't have this game you better get it now or else it's going to 
 be sold out at the store and you will be mad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr3429
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Ok, well this game looks ok and has some good sound effects. I'm not too sure about how historically 
 accurate this game is, especially as you can play as the Russians?! The gun sounds are good but 
 canons which swing and swivel about like an office chair are hardly realistic.. also on that thought 
 the various classes of canon are almost indistinguishable, and if you play the game on a hard difficulty 
 setting all the enemy does is produce cannon! It does have a Napoleonic war/ colonial settlement 
 feel and there are added teams of native americans which all look good.
  
  However, to be honest this game isn't much more than the second edition, true there are several 
 new developments, but overall if you've played AoE before you'll already know what to expect. The 
 buildings still have that odd dis-jointed look, bits sticking out everywhere but still keeping 
 within their neat 'designated' squares. Anyway, the campaign is quite long and you do get bored, 
 the single games are also the usual build army kick ass philosphy... though you have to do all 
 that mining and farming first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabterminator
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I would live on this game if my mother didn't kick me off it from time to time and then hide it. 
 Being a fan of the Age of Empires series it was obvious that i had to buy this game. This game 
 is a summer saver and basically stole my whole summer. If you start playing this game online be 
 prepared to lose a couple of friends and some of your familiy. Although this is easy to play at 
 first there's always room to improve and learn more. If you haven't played this game i suggest 
 you give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WingcommanderIV
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Have you ever watched the movie Jurassic Park? I hope, for your sake, the answer is yes. WHat about 
 The Lost World? Both of those movies were good, no lie. Now what about Jurassic Park III. So good, 
 it didn't even have a sub-title. So good, that for the entire movie, all I could think about was 
 how all of this had been done before, and so much better, even if the visuals this time around 
 were a notch up.
  
  Well it's the exact same feeling as what Age of Empires 3 game me. Sure the graphics looks better, 
 and it has a honest to god physics engine (Gasp, eghads!!! Zoink) , but neither of those things 
 impact the gameplay... at all. It's still a real time strategy game, and there's nothing new about 
 it that makes it worth your time. No unique story to tell, no interesting gameplay aspect that 
 needs to be explored. The physics really do nothing for the game, nor do the Home Cities feel anything 
 more than a tacked on Gimmik. Your money would be better spent on the Total War series for it's 
 epic and strategic gameplay, or the Warcraft series for it's epic story and fantasy setting. Or 
 Command and Conquer for, again, it's epic story and modernish futuristicish setting... ish. I'm 
 glad that made sense. ANyway, throw your money anywhere else but here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geekman1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is the beat of all the empires ever I just love it I play it all the time the 
 story line is really good and I love playing with the PC it really brings out the fights for real. 
 I just love how the game really is it's indept fights along with all the cool thing you can get 
 that's not just bows and arrows. I would tell all my friends about it if I could! it's the game 
 of the time of life if u don't have it then it's a MUST have. I could just go on and on about this 
 game all day but you have to play it just to get the real deal of it I just LOVE it. the game is 
 best with cheats and with out them to but you just have to find the best main city to fight with. 
 I like the Ottamans there the best in all with their very heavy cannans and their heavy troops 
 but you just have to find your right guy so go out there and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McAleece
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  This Game Is Very Smoth, Regardless Of The Unit Count On Screen. Microsoft, It Seems, Went For 
 The Average PC Rather Then The HighEnd.
  The Single Player Compaign Is Interesting But EXTREMLY Easy. I Believe
  That The Game Potential 
 Is Much More On The MultiPlayer Side. The Game Supports A Dedicated Server But Requires A Seperate 
 Copy Of AOE III. You Have The Choice When Playing, To Use Different Countries For Your Side. You 
 Can Also Cary The Single Player 'force' You Used To Play/Beat The Single Player Compaign, Forward, 
 To Test Your Abilitys &amp; Upgrades On Your Buddies. Every Time A Multiplayer Battle Is Finished, 
 You Recieve Points Towards Upgrades On Your 'force'. For Example, You Can Have An Upgrade To Call 
 In 2 Or 3 Adittional Workers @ The Beginning Of The Game Or Call In 2 Free Catapults Neer The End 
 Of The Battle For That Extra Little Edge. Their Is A Good Feeling When You Win the Battle &amp; 
 Earn Lota Points While Your Buddies Are Complaining 2 Feet Away &amp; Half To Play Just One More 
 Battle To Get The Same Upgrade. (no offence buddies who are reading this...)
  
  My Only Problem With This Game Is That If Their Was A Cannon Shooting @ An Infantry, The Cannon 
 Ball Would Pass Through 2 Buildings, Your Own Troops And Hit The Infantry Guy, Right In The MIddle 
 Of A Battle. Same With Arrows. This Really Removes The Player From The Game &amp; Takes 2 Points 
 Off Of My Score Out Of 10. Innitial Setup Of Battles, Single Or Multi Is EXTREMLY Limited, So Teaming 
 Up Against 6 Computers Is Out Of The Question. Even Steven Only. BOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!
  
  All In All, Its A Nice Game That Does Not Need A Lot Of System Requirements. A Place For A Dedicated 
 Server Is Great, Some Companies Are Not Doing This. Saveing A Multiplayer Upgradeable Profile Is 
 A Beautiful Feature, &amp; Adds Points Back On My Rateing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asilaydying4
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  This game is a classic RTS. It doesn't move away from the basic get resources, build troops, assault 
 enemy. Though they dont really need to. The game is great. It is a lot of fun to move in with cannons 
 and blow apart your enemies buildings. The graphics are good, could be better but they are good 
 enough. Every game is different, making the learning curve higher. Because you never know what 
 the enemy is doing, plus there is several different stratagies for you to take. The sounds are 
 pretty realistic. There is a pathfinding problem though, just like all other RTS games, it is not 
 that much of a problem though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravage19
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  Ok this is a very good real time strategy game. Good graphics classic gameplay and sound and it 
 is not so dificult to play it. First of all the graphics of the game are good bad the classic and 
 very good gameplay mekes you to paly and play and play again. The battles are veri beautifull and 
 if you want to win them you will need a lot of soldiers like (horses and footmen) . You can t win 
 a battle with only one kind of soldier. Like the other series this game is classic and i think 
 that microsoft game studios and ensemble studios did a very good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legendary_Guard
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 14, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  AOE: III could not come close to its predecessor, AOE: II. Though the graphics of this game was 
 far better than the AOE: II, its gameplay doesn't quite pan out. The campaign however, was genuinely 
 more fun. The spectacular-ness of this game comes only with its naval battles. They are indescribable 
 to say the least. Skirmish mode provided a unique experience to the Age of Empires world. The addition 
 to Home City Shipments, in the form of cards, gave skirmish mode a campaign of its own. At the 
 beginning of skirmish mode, the player had to choose their civ to raise, and were given a preset 
 'deck'. The initial deck was weak, however by playing a lot of skirmish games, new cards could 
 be won to create more powerful decks. By level 40 - 45, the optimal deck could be built, strengthening 
 your army.
  
  This game is not one of those games to die for, and AOE fans like me found themselves sticking 
 with Age of Kings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adolfobaja
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 7, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  The original Age of Empires packed a stunning visual punch and backed it up with solid gameplay. 
 Back at a time where most strategy games were chunky and 2D, the first Age game pulled aside the 
 curtain to reveal a world that was sunny, animated, colorful and lifelike. Strategy games were 
 never the same. Age of Empires III presents a similar leap forward for real-time strategy fans. 
 As Half-Life 2 did for first-person shooters, AoE III shows just how inspiring these games can 
 be when lovingly crafted with outstanding artistry and solid gameplay fundamentals. Graphically, 
 the engine that powers Age of Empires III has a laundry list of the latest graphics technology: 
 real-time shadows, high dynamic range lighting, you name it. There's even bump-mapping on the barrels 
 of the cannons. But the real impressive thing about the technology isn't that it's there, it's 
 that you don't notice it. From the moment your Home City first appears on the menu screen, or a 
 new map loads up to reveal pale grey waters lapping quietly against rocky New England shores, you 
 become lost in the game world. The latest in technology is coupled with truly beautiful art.
  Age of Empires III is an absolutely fantastic title with superb graphics and tight gameplay. Single-player 
 or multiplayer, no matter what your skill, you'll get hours of joy out of this sucker online or 
 off. Age of Empires III may not redefine real-time strategy gaming, but it sets the bar so high 
 that we'll be comparing games to this for years. Shoulder your musket and pony up: this one's a 
 real trip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emp-Naval
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  good game basicly with afew misses but still good no ... even great
  will u see we got to compare it with the other previuos games of the same company and then we can 
 realy rate it..
  age of empires 1 : sucks 4 sure..
  age of empires 2 (age of kings) and (the conquerrors) : really good for that jurassic era i really 
 liked itwhen it 1st come-out..
  now 4 the newest... tra ra ra..
  age of empires 3: really good comparing isnt it butwhen we see the other games on the field like 
 (command and conquer 3) and (world of war craft)
  wesee the deffernce but still good du to the game play features it allows
  (4 example :shipments 
 and natives and trade routes...)
  any-way i hated world building so much its sooo boooooring and complicated but opn the other hand 
 multiplayer mode is fine with me have any thing else let me know who knows maybe im wrong after 
 all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboys3
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 30, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  i honestly really hate this game.. i am a big warcraft 3 fan and ive recently lost my warcraft 
 disc, but rather than replacing that disc i thought, why not try something new. What i found out 
 was Age of Empires 3 is probably one of the worst games ive ever played. Compared to alot of other 
 games out there this games graphics are horrible. I cant believe i just wasted 50 dollars on this 
 stupid game. Warcraft 3 came out 2 years earlier and it looks so much better. This game is so slow 
 paced i want to fall asleep, and its got a horrible frame rate. I guess you have to be a fan of 
 the series to appreciate this game, because i never played age of empires 1 or 2 and it just makes 
 no sense to me. I would do anything to go back in time and not spend that money on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mullen15
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Ok honestly before AOE3 I hated strategy games. I never under stood and never had the time to figure 
 the game out fully. But when I first played AOE3 I fell in love from the beginning. Mostly for 
 me is just all the content it offers for only $50. The great colony real life battle situations 
 really caught my attenion. Even though you can only be up 8 civilizations still offers individual 
 and unique options. Learning each civlilzation and the strong and weak points was really fun to 
 me. I think AOE3 is the best looking RTS out there. With beautiful textures and excellent looking 
 water makes this one of best graphics I have ever seen in any game. Most of all the sound is amazing. 
 The sound of cannons going off men charging and fireing muskets. AOE3 really raised the bar how 
 RTS games should be made and Iam looking foward to AOE4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 24, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  At first I was so excited, a new Age of Empires game!
  I spent 50 USA $ on this thing, opened it, finished the campaign in 3 days.
  Now, I finished 
 the campaign and nothing to do.
  Maybe the graphics look nice, but the gameplay is not that fun.
  After I beat the campaign this 
 game seemed so boring. I asked all my freinds who have it, How fast did you beat the campaign and 
 after the campaign is it fun ?
  Guess what one said..... Too easy and boring after you beat the campaign.
  Second guy said..... 
 Campaign is way too tough I need cheats to beat this thing. Two different opinions here.
  This game makes you excited at first and like wow what a sweet game! After a short while it isnt 
 that fun.
  But again this is my opinion, some people think it is fun.
  Also another HUGE problem.... this game takes up a TON of space in my PC. So I un-installed it. 
 This thing is like the size of LOTR BFME II.
  My PC started working so smoothly once I un-installed this game.
  Plus the sound is..... annoying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llarrev
Rating: 8
Date: May 20, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Ensemble Studios released the latest game in the Age of Empires series after a long wait for the 
 numerous fans of the series. This game series has been one of the definitive Real Time Strategy 
 games of all time, and Age of Empires 3 continues that proud tradition, albeit not as well as its 
 predecessor Age of Empires II.
  
  The Gameplay remains practically the same as the tried and tested formula of the previous installments. 
 The major differences lie in the fact that the game is set a few hundred years later, and details 
 the colonization of the New World. The combat system remains largely the same, though we trade 
 catapults for cannons, and melee fighters for musketeers. Unfortunately, the combat does not look 
 quite right and the game is so large that, unless your system is very fast and powerful, you may 
 find that the frame rate is slow and stuttering. There are eight different civilizations to play 
 as; the British, the Spanish, the French, the Germans, the Portuguese, the Dutch and the Ottoman 
 Empire makes an appearance too. The civilizations have their differences, ie their economy and 
 military, and each have a few individual units, but overall they suffer from being not at all dissimilar. 
 Though the good point of this is the ease with which one can choose a civilization and stick with 
 it. The best addition to the gameplay is the new and inventive home city system, which allows 
 you to cut away from your fledgling colony and go to your home city. From there, you can; receive 
 occasional aid in the form of, resources, economic and military improvements. You may also ship 
 units to your colony, which is an interesting system allowing for a more aggressive style of play 
 than in previous installments of the game. Another bonus to this system is that the experience 
 earned in one match is carried through to the next, allowing you access to more powerful cards 
 as you level up which can in handy when your in a pinch. The story moded, single player campaign 
 is meaty, with three different acts comprising it, each about a generation apart and the player 
 vs player, ESOnline matches are ranked online. Another great feature is the scenario editor in 
 which you can create your own maps and campaigns and an encyclopedia filled with knowledge about 
 the buildings and units of the imperialist age.
  
  The graphics are outstanding, and the site of majestic galleons gliding across the ocean is awe-inspiring. 
 The only fault is that, once again, unless you have a top of the line, graphics and video card, 
 they can be stuttering and this can put a hamper on the impressive video scenes the game contains. 
 The same with the sound, but this, outside of the video sequences, is once again top notch. The 
 soundtrack, which comes with the collector's edition (which naturally I own) is fantastic, with 
 its diverse musical scores from the different cultures within the game. The sound of cannon fire 
 is delightfully over the top, and there is nothing more enjoyable than firing a cannonball ant 
 point blank range against a single enemy infantryman. Overall this game is an immersive and has 
 a great deal of long-lasting appeal. On the other hand the last game was so good that this new 
 title seems a little overshadowed and some fans of the last game may go away disappointed, but 
 those simply looking for a good RTS and a little historical background should look no further than 
 Age of Empires 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VictorMazzi
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 10, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  age of empires 3 its very nice because you can play with 8 civilization like britain, france... 
 the campaign its very nice you have the heroes have special power .the graphic of the game its 
 really good. you can play in diferent places like california, texas and many orders, the gameplay 
 its VERY NICE! you can use soldiers with weapons, shields and sword. i recomend you to have this 
 game and for me its the best game of real time strategy! when you play with france: napoleao its 
 your general its very good! im going to tell you aall the things that contains in this game because 
 you have to play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flareon_eliza
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  The graphics are breathtaking. The music is awesome. The concept is very well conceived. Hell, 
 this game is a modern masterpiece of art!
  
  Ya, it requires faster cards, faster processors, bigger RAM, and so forth. Ya, it has quite a number 
 of bugs. But it's the best historical stragegy game that's ever made! It's the easiest way to learn 
 history and physics. Plus, it improves logic and manipulative skills.
  
  Age of Empires III is second best to its predecessor, Age of Empires II. But still it is worth 
 the time kill. It's worth the sweat and the sleepless nights. Ya, it's worth your money. It's worth 
 a place in your collection.
  
  Age of Empires III is simply a legend for the genuine gamers.
  
  I love this game. FOR. EVER. 
 AND. EVER. Amen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirrelik
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain amazing and i can't seem to get enough of it simply because its so fun 
 to play. For a start the story missions are all great for the scenarios work well and make it addictive 
 to play because there is such a wide variety of missions. Its a shame they took away the ability 
 to make your own levels but the game makes up for it with incredible graphics and amazing free 
 play with so many different levels itll blow your mind. Also new features like trading posts allow 
 you to team up with native americans and make your own train stations. Plus the new weaponry is 
 the best thing about the game for its thrilling to use. Get this game NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leon_17
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 2, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  Molesta un poco es la falta del gran San Martin quien fue el q mas represento las campa&ntilde; as 
 libertadoras. Bolivar no merecia estar en esa campa&ntilde; a!! por lo visto el Age of Empires IV 
 va a ser sobre la segunda guerra mundial en adelante. si este juego tiene buenos graficos, no me 
 imagino el IV y el V!!!
  
  Le doy de puntaje 9.4 Superb, solo por lo q comente arriba.
  
  alguna persona q este interesada en juegos y q sea de habla hispana, puede contactarme por 
 msn a stirling_1985@hotmail. com
  
  En resumen el juego esta muy bueno, a la falta de personajes claves en las campa&ntilde; as, pierde 
 un poco el interes, lo mismo pasa con the warchiefs.
  en el modo Revolucion no aparecen las principales patrias, como argentina, colombia, uruguay. eso 
 es lo unico malo pero en si es bueno el juego. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rt_eon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 29, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I have never been a big fan of the RTS genre. Probably because I'm a lousy player, which is due 
 to not playing any RTS games intensively I'm sure.
  Nonetheless, I have played all Age of Empires before, because it is just so easy to kill some time 
 [I wouldn't dare to call it wasting time] while doing some world conquering.
  For some reason I felt the urge of buying this installment and so I did. And I am happy that I 
 did, because this game is nothing less but pure fun.
  I would't say it is a revolutionairy game, but it's innovative and expansive.
  
  To base the 
 game in de Americas is a good choice, but to include the European home cities in the fashion that 
 they did is just fantastic. It's so fun to built up your home city so that you can supply you colonists 
 with better militants and other resources.
  The game is extremely easy to learn, but is has plenty to offer to settled AoE fans. The graphics 
 are beautiful, sound is great, and most importantly, the gameplay is fantastic.
  As reluctant as I was when I bought the game, as impatient I am now waiting for the next installment 
 of this great series! [00ps.. I said it.. I gotta admit, this game is good!] . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pro_gamer12345
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 12, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I would love to give this game a very good rating but then I didn't really like it. it was like 
 playing through a really poor RTS game. Okay so at first I was flipping through my EGM magazine 
 then I saw this game. It looked promising. So I read some reviews So I decided I go to the store 
 and pick it up. So I pick it up and install it. At first I thought it was a OKAY GAME.... then 
 after a month I thought it was poorly made. Graphics: I sorta liked the graphics like when a cannon 
 goes through a manor house it was good. SO the graphics were alright...
  
  Sound: I don't think the sound was that good. There was no good music to it also the sound effects 
 during a battle is really bad.
  
  Gameplay: I didn't really like the gameplay. When my base was under attack and i was sending in 
 my musketeers to help them out they were going REAL SLOW. So when my men got there my base was 
 half destroyed. I actually like the campaign the most though. It had a really good story line.
 
  
  Replay Value: Any RTS got good replay value. So overall this game was pretty bad. I didn't really 
 like it. maybe cause I never played the AOE series. But I recommend it to anyone who likes the 
 series or likes these types of games. But think before you buy it if you never played the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rai8ers4lyfe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  I love this game it is an extremely better version of the last age of empires and much, much more 
 fun and addicting. The only bad thing about this game is that you only have a few civilizations 
 to choose from, but if you get the expansion pack to this game that will change mightily. There 
 are also a lot of maps to choose from in this game and they are all lots of fun, obviously the 
 expansion pack adds even more choices for playing a skirmish on. The graphics on this game have 
 improved largely and this game might even obtain the best graphics for any pc. Also the gameplay 
 for this game is different than the last game, but just as fun. If you count the music in this 
 game, it is much also. This game is awesome and ever pc owner should have this game in their collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game is Balanced and has so many units that you can create and economical choices. 
 The online is REALLY fun when just playin with friends and clan members. 10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are superb! If you can get the settings all on high it looks REALLY good. 
 10
  
  sound: The music is spectacular! the score is very well done. 10
  
  Value: Great Replay! I have played this game for 2 years now and still do sometimes!
  
  Tilt: 
 Thinking of buying it? Like RTS's? Get it! its a great game!
  
  (dont mind the tilt score just ajusting the score ^.^) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertn_69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  In one instance it most certainly does, and that is as you can guess, the graphical part. It's 
 unlike any I have seen so far in any RTS game. The world, the landscape, the people, the whole 
 AOE III Age of Discovery worlds takes your breath away. It truly deserves the high score of 10 
 for graphics it recieved. Having said that, you of course cannot expect to run it on full graphical 
 settings unless you have top of the line components in your current PC, as to fully experiece the 
 game's capabilities you need a top processor and advanced video card. Luckily, you can lower the 
 settings down, which is what most PC owners will do. What is the point then of all its glorious 
 graphics? We should ask those lucky few that have top of the line PCs. So expect to enjoy the Age 
 of Discovery era life recreated directly on to your PC, in all its richness, unlike ever seen before, 
 either in little lower or little higher settings
  
  So what about the rest of AOE III? Well it is good. Campaign are devided into scenarios that are 
 interesting and fun to beat. You will mostly have various missions and sub missions within each 
 scenario. As an added touch you will have all sorts of treasures spread across the map, which you 
 can recover if needed. They will be guarded always with pirates, soldiers or wild animals. I should 
 mention here that I found it a real shame that wild animals are just for show, because they never 
 killed any of my men. If they did, it would feel a lot more realistic and engaging. Also, the online 
 multiplayer lobby is one of the most shocking ever done by Microsoft with a large percentage of 
 games not working and a poor design.
  
  And what about the general engagement in AOE III? Well AOE III A. I. is just overly easy to beat. 
 It shows very little signs of tactics and any sort of planning. It is not disastrous but some issues 
 must be fixed. To give you an example, when enemy peasants deplete all natural resources that they 
 have close by, they will just move on to next ones, even if in middle of your base. The result 
 is a senseless slaughter that just eats game experience away. Furthermore they will just keep on 
 coming. But the A. I. will at least try to attack you, sometimes, from different sides. Just dont 
 expect any serious challenge from him. I would sacrifice all its fancy graphics just for a better 
 and challenging A. I.. I am starting to wonder if ever well see any good A. I..
  
  In AOE III you will be building your bases, collecting resources either on land or on the sea, 
 and increasing your forces to complete the task assigned in the scenario. Like in previous installments 
 of Age of Empires games, here we also have 3 resources to collect and fight over: Coins, Wood and 
 Food. Your entire campaign will have to be carried by having enough of each. You will be able to 
 advance through ages and then improve various technologies that will speed up your resource collecting 
 and all sorts of other things, from plain agricultural to raw militaristic upgrades. With each 
 age you advance to you will gain new further technological upgrades.
  
  There is one extra aspect in AOE III that previous AOEs didnt have, the home City. Home City 
 acts as the base of your colony and it will supply you with shipments of any needed materials or 
 men when you request of it. It will be taking care of you as a reward for successful progress through 
 scenarios. It works through experience points. As many enemies you kill, as many trading routs 
 you establish, you will receive experience points which you can then turn into vital supplies. 
 Home City has been implemented just right. It isnt complicated to use at all and makes the whole 
 thing little extra fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ty20447
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Its back the 1 and only age of empires , as in the first and second u have the same old same old 
 crap ,gathering wood ,coin, food ,with new improved mills and workers u spend way less time trying 
 to get past the awsome graphics from the others .but now Microsoft got smart improved online play 
 ,new civilizations ,pirates ,and even Indians .through u can not play as the Indians you can train 
 certain units at trading post the units range from creek bow man to Lakota spears ,or even the 
 disappearing Aztecs. In single player you still have 100 pop cap, boats dont take up population 
 except fishing boats, which gather coin from whales or food from fish. Putting all the gathering 
 behind the battles are realistic cannons guns roaring in the wind .as before your units talk in 
 its native village which unless youre a torrid (British punk) you cant under stand so feel free 
 to laugh at your enemy when he starts talking in gibberish while kicking your ass out l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fompty
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  This game is soooooo cooooooool!!! There is plenty of factions and the graphics are great. The 
 gameplay is the best, you can order a huge group of soldiers to fire a volley of bullets and your 
 enemy and ventilate them. British, German, Dutch, French, Russians, Spanish, Ottomen. Those are all 
 the countries you can choose to be in this game. You can build trading post in indian camps and 
 train many diffrent types of indians. Multiplayer is the best part of this game. Go against all 
 your friends with a massive army and obliberate them. This is an A+++++++++++++++++++ game. It 
 is so funn, especially for strategic gamers, and history buffs. This is my all time favorite game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffinballow
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III. First is description. Cheats, stradegy, and hints at the bottome. Read it, 
 it's worth it.
  
  Jump to: navigation, search
  Age of Empires III Developer (s) Ensemble Studios Publisher (s) Microsoft Game Studios (PC) , MacSoft 
 (Mac) Designer (s) Bruce Shelley Series Age of Empires Engine Havok physics Latest version 1.11 [1] 
 Release date (s) October 18, 2005 (NA) November 4, 2005 (EU) Genre (s) Real-time strategy Mode (s) 
 Single player, MP over IPX, TCP/IP, Modem or Ensemble Studios Online 2 (ESO2) . Rating (s) BBFC: 
 Universal (U)
  ESRB: Teen (T)
  PEGI: 12+ Platform (s) Microsoft Windows XP (workaround available for Windows 2000) , Mac OS X Media 
 CD (3) , DVD (1) System requirements Windows XP, 1.4 GHz Processor that supports Streaming SIMD 
 Extensions, 256 MB RAM, 64 MB video card capable of Hardware TnL (PC) [2] Input Keyboard, mouse 
 Age of Empires III (also called AoE III) is a real-time strategy game developed by Ensemble Studios, 
 and published by Microsoft; it was released on October 18, 2005 in North America, and on November 
 4 of the same year in Europe. It is the third title of the Age of Empires series, and the sequel 
 to Age of Empires II: The Conquerors. The game covers the European colonization of the Americas, 
 in a time frame approximately between AD 1500 and 1850.
  
  The game has made a number of innovations, both in the series and the genre, such as the addition 
 of the Home City concept, which combines Real-time strategy (RTS) and Role-playing game (RPG) features; 
 and an advanced physics engine to animate it, making battles more realistic. An expansion pack, 
 named Age of Empires III: The Warchiefs, was also released, introducing new features, units, and 
 civilizations.
  
  Contents [hide]
  1 Synopsis 1.1 Multiplayer 1.2 Setting 2 Gameplay 2.1 Ages 2.2 Civilizations 2.3 Home cities 2.4 
 Units 2.5 Buildings 2.6 Campaign 2.6.1 Act I: Blood 2.6.2 Act II: Ice 2.6.3 Act III: Steel 3 Development 
 3.1 Technical features 3.2 Release history 4 Reception 5 See also 6 Notes 7 References 8 External 
 links 8.1 Official 8.2 Previews and reviews [edit] Synopsis
  Age of Empires III, in the style of previous titles of the series and the genre, requires the player 
 to develop a nation from a basic settlement to a mighty empire, progressing through Ages ,stages 
 of technology representing time periodsand destroying the enemy base (s) . There are two main branches 
 to game play, the nation's military and economy; winning a match depends on the mastery of both.
 
  
  A match consists of a conflict between two teams, which race to develop a powerful nation by creating 
 and upgrading units and buildings, with one eventually defeating the other in combat. Along with 
 these typical RTS features, a new feature for this game is that the player may also ship troops, 
 buildings, improvements, or resources from their Home City for their settlement in the New World 
 .
  
  There are three modes of game play: three story-based campaigns, single player skirmishes, and 
 online multiplayer skirmishes. [3]
  
  Skirmishes take place between human players and computer personalities, conforming to rules that 
 are set up before the game. The map, difficulty of the AI, and each player's resource gather rate 
 may be modified.
  
  [edit] Multiplayer
  Bundled with the game is a free subscription to the game's multiplayer gaming service, hosted by 
 Ensemble Studios. Similar in function to Blizzard Entertainment's Battle. net, Ensemble Studios 
 Online (ESO) allows players to play matches, as well as to chat with other players outside of gaming. 
 One ESO account is supported by each copy of Age of Empires III
  
  On ESO, the player may establish several Home Cities, as in single player, and is given a default 
 military rank which is replaced by better ones as the player plays the game better; this ranking 
 system is based on a win to lose ratio and, most recently, on a power rating system that determines 
 rank based on the difficulty of matches and activity in the game.
  
  Alternatively, multiplayer matches may also be played over a LAN network.
  
  [edit] Setting
 
  The game is mainly set in the New World during colonial times, between approximately AD 1500 and 
 1850.
  
  Matches are fought on real world maps, which are based on existing locations, and can be selected 
 from a list of seeded or predefined maps. Players also have the option of using the unknown map, 
 which is a map that is never the same. Customisable variables mean that each seeded map is different, 
 creating a unique gameplay experience with each new game.
  
  Each map has features which are always present (such as trade routes or a particular number of 
 islands) and characteristics such as a paucity of trees. Treasures are scattered about the map 
 and can be claimed for various prizes: a certain amount of resources, a bonus to explorer hitpoints, 
 units, or an XP reward. The resources available include trees which grant Wood, silver and gold 
 mines which grant Coin, and blueberries and herds of animals which can be hunted and used for Food. 
 Grazing animals (such as cows, llamas and sheep) fatten up over time, and can also be tamed or 
 slaughtered for food. The oceans contain patches of fish which fishing boats can collect for Food, 
 and occasionally whales, which can be harpooned for an inexhaustible amount of Coin.
  
  Custom-made maps are also playable. Ensemble has released holiday-related maps during their respective 
 seasons, [4] whilst fan websites offer free player-made custom scenarios.
  
  [edit] Gameplay
  
  [edit] Ages
  As in most RTS games, the player can advance through technological 
 phases, which provide access to greater improvements, units, or buildings. In Age of Empires III, 
 these phases are called Ages , and represent historical time periods. They are: the Discovery Age, 
 which represents the discovery and exploration of the Americas by Europeans, allows the player 
 to explore and develop their economy; the Colonial Age, which represents the European Expansion 
 into the New World , unlocks early military units; the Fortress Age, which represents the fortification 
 of the European colonies, unlocks forts, and allows the player to have a more complete military; 
 the Industrial Age, which triggers a strong economy, due in part to factories, advanced buildings 
 that produce recources or artilleryand unlocks all units and cards; and the Imperial Age, which 
 unlocks all buildings and upgrades.
  
  Similar to the Age of Mythology minor gods system, [5] Age of Empires III utilizes a Politician 
 System as a method of granting bonuses upon a successful advancement to another age, since they 
 offer a certain shipment to recover the price used to age up. Initially, all civilizations have 
 two politicians as their choice while advancing; more are unlocked at the rate of 1 every 10 levels 
 of the Home City. The unlocking of politicians follows a pre-set order; they are not unlocked according 
 to Age.
  
  [edit] Civilizations
  Age of Empires III allows the player to play as 8 different civilizations: [6] Spanish, British, 
 French, Portugese, Dutch, Russian, German, and Ottoman in increasing order of difficulty. Each 
 of the eight civilizations has its own unique strengths and weaknesses and several unique units 
 available only to that civilization. Specific units for each civilization are designated Royal 
 Guard units, receiving greater bonuses on the Guard upgrade in the Industrial Age, but at an increased 
 price. The player can change the name of their Home City, the Explorer name, and is given a prenamed 
 leader from part of the period (for example Napoleon Bonaparte for the French and Suleiman the 
 Magnificent for the Ottoman Empire) . Each civilization also has unique shipments to aid its economy 
 and military (e. g. Germans have the only mercenary card available in the Colonial Age, and can 
 receive free Uhlans with most shipments) .
  
  Flag Civilization Main Bonus Spanish Faster Shipments. British Can build Manor Houses, which spawn 
 free villagers when built. French Coureur de Bois, more expensive villagers which have increased 
 attack and gathering rate, replace settlers, the standard villagers. Portuguese Free Covered Wagon, 
 which can become a Town Center, upon Age advance. Dutch Can build Banks, which generate revenue, 
 settlers cost coin, not food. Russians Train units in groups. Units trained in batches are cheaper, 
 weaker and train faster. Build blockhouses, a combination of Outposts and Barracks. Germans Free 
 Uhlans, stable cavalry, with most shipments. Ottomans Villagers are spawned at no cost and automatically 
 from the Town Center. Each new villager is created periodically, but the time peroid can be reduced 
 through research. These civilizations are sorted into different architectural styles which define 
 their in-game appearance based on their country or region of origin.
  
  Note that these are just some of the greater changes between the different civilizations. There 
 are other Civilizations playable via the campaign, which include: The Knights of St. John's, John 
 Black's Mercenaries, and the Falcon Railroad Company (United States) which are played as the Spanish, 
 German and British civilizations, respectively, with slight modifications. Non-playable campaign 
 civilizations include the Pirates, The Circle of Ossus, the Falcons, and the Native Americans.
 
  
  Twelve different tribes of Native Americans are in the game as well; these are not playable factions, 
 but players can gain access to trade and unique units by forming an alliance with the tribes (building 
 a trading post at their camps) . However, three of these tribes are now playable in the expansion 
 pack Age of Empires III: The War Chiefs: the Iroquois, the Sioux and the Aztecs.
  
  [edit] Home cities Screenshot of the Ottoman Home City, showing the advanced 3D graphics employed 
 in the gameAge of Empires III is the first game in the series to introduce the Home City Concept.
 
  
  The Home City functions as a second city, a powerhouse that is separated from the active game. 
 It cannot be attacked or destroyed, although an Imperial Age upgrade called Blockade stops the 
 player's opponents from receiving Home City shipments. Similar to a Role-Playing Game character, 
 the Home City is persistent between games, meaning that upgrades gained through many games can 
 be applied and stay applied for as long as that particular city exists (cities only cease to exist 
 when they are deleted by the player from the game menu) . Multiple Home Cities can be created and 
 maintained, although each Home City supports only one civilization.
  
  The Home City is made up of five main buildings from which the player chooses their new shipment 
 cards and customizations: The New World Trading Company, the Military Academy, the Cathedral, the 
 Manufacturing Plant and the Harbour.
  
  Players can also access the Home City within a match by clicking on the Home City button represented 
 on the HUD as the nation's flag. The Home City functions differently inside a game. Instead of 
 customizing a Home City or choosing cards, a player can ship cards chosen before the game (and 
 added to a deck) .
  
  During the course of a game, players gain experience by completing actions such as constructing 
 buildings, training units, killing enemies, and collecting treasures. Whenever a certain amount 
 of experience points are gained, the player can make use of a shipment from their respective Home 
 City; shipments slow down as the game goes on, since more XP is required with every consecutive 
 shipment.
  
  Players may gear their cards into three different combinations: Boom (economic combinations) , Rush (military 
 combinations) , or Turtle (defensive combinations) .
  
  Cards may increase the player&acute; s odds of winning, whilst customizations to the Home City change 
 the visual aspects of the city, but do not affect gameplay.
  
  In customizing the Home City, players can add unique non-playable characters to the city (for example, 
 a fruit vendor or a musician) , change and upgrade the colour schemes of buildings, or place objects 
 and decorations throughout the city. A player gains a customization whenever the city gains a level.
 
  
  When a new card is chosen, it is automatically added to the player's portfolio, where it may be 
 copied onto a deck for use in a game. Most cards are available to all civilizations, though some 
 only to one.
  
  If the Home City being played has more than one deck, the player must select which to use when 
 the first shipment is sent. During a game, players keep the deck chosen at the beginning; this 
 feature encourages players to build decks that are customized for the map being played on, or one 
 that counters other civilizations. Decks may support up to 20 cards each.
  
  [edit] Units Clockwise from top Right: Warship, infantry in defensive formation, explorer and agricultural 
 buildings. The units of Age of Empires III are based, as in previous iterations of the game, around 
 military classes of the historic time period. The player controls a variety of civilian and military 
 units, and uses them to expand and develop his civilization.
  
  The base unit of a game is the Settler (villager) . These civilian units are responsible for gathering 
 resources (through hunting, foraging, woodcutting and mining) and constructing buildings, in order 
 to improve the economy of the civilization.
  
  A new unit introduced in Age of Empires III is the Explorer, which is chiefly responsible for scouting 
 and trade; it is also capable of building basic structures such as Trading Posts and Town Centers 
 and uses a special attack. This unit cannot be killed, but can end up rendered unconscious until 
 friendly units come to its aid or until the player pays the ransom. Some shipment cards may increase 
 the explorer&acute; s effectiveness in game play; for instance, a specific card gives him the ability 
 to deploy hot air balloons, so that scouting can be done faster
  
  Military units are used for combat with the player's opponents. The majority are land-based infantry 
 units using gunpowder weapons; particularly the Musketeer role that was common during the time 
 period. The heavier artillery classes also make use of ranged weapons, such as cannon and mortars.
 
  
  There are also ships, the military classes of which also make use of cannon. Some seagoing units 
 also have the capacity to collect resources, specifically coin and food, and transport units.
 
  
  European mercenaries, elite troops, may aid the player in their campaigns in the new world, but 
 in exchange for high amounts of coin, so that only economically powerfull players can employ them; 
 the Germans have facilities with the use of mercenaries. Continual use of mercenaries may cause 
 long-term decay on the player&acute; s military, since they will employ more coin on shipping them 
 than on training and upgrading standard military units; so, as a result, coin and experience for 
 employing on mercenaries will eventually run out and the player will be left with an undeveloped 
 standard military.
  
  In some cases, a selection of Native American tribes populate game maps, and support their own 
 brand of military units that can be trained once an alliance has been formed; most native American 
 military units use m&ecirc; l&eacute; e weapons but some of them adopt ranged European gunpowder 
 weapons; the french are known for having certain facilities with their relation with the natives, 
 so alliances with these are more effective.
  
  For the first time in the Age of Empires series, players can deploy an airborne unit, similar to 
 the Pegasus in Age of Mythology. The hot air balloon, which is used for scouting, can be sent by 
 the Home City and created for a limited time by the explorer.
  
  The number of units a player can control in a scenario is limited by a common RTS game mechanic 
 called the population limit. Each unit that is produced increases the population to a maximum of 
 200. Basic units like settlers and infantry count as 1, but advanced units like cavalry and settler 
 wagons count as 2. Some powerful units, like artillery, can count for a population as high as 7. 
 Native warriors, explorers, tamed and grazing animals, hot air balloons and warships do not count 
 towards the population maximum.
  
  [edit] Buildings
  Buildings play a major role in gameplay, since they can be used for training units, researching 
 improvements, supporting population, defense or as resource providers.
  
  The buildings portrayed in Age of Empires III resemble the architectural design of that era. All 
 of the games in the series share a number of buildings, including the Town Center and Docks. The 
 appearance and attributes of a building change as the player advances through the Ages, and some 
 civilizations have their own unique buildings. The appearance of these buildings are different 
 per civilization, since, for instance, the Russian buildings look different from the French buildings; 
 even though the appearance of a type of building may vary, its purpose does not.
  
  There are certain architectural styles present in the game; architectural styles determine the 
 appearance of in-game buildings. Each civilization is automatically assigned its architectural 
 style; these three styles are the following:
  
  Western European: Buildings have a classical appearance and seem to be made of wood; the British, 
 the French and the Dutch share this style. Eastern European: Buildings seem quite precarious and 
 usually have straw roofs; the Germans and the Russians share this style. Mediterranean: Buildings 
 seem to be made of cement and/or dry brick; the Spanish, the Portuguese and the Ottomans share 
 this style. Some civilizations have unique bonuses or facilities which are related to buildings, 
 especially those with unique structures.
  
  [edit] Campaign
  Main article: Age of Empires III campaign storyline
  The story-based campaign mode consists of 
 related scenarios with preset objectives, such as destroying a given building. In Age of Empires 
 III, the campaign follows the Black family in a series of three Acts , which divide the story arc 
 into three generations.
  
  [edit] Act I: Blood
  Set in around 1650, the first act of the single-player campaign begins with the player in the role 
 of Morgan Black of the Knights of Saint John, defending the last stronghold on Malta from Sahin 
 The Falcon of the Ottoman Empire (in an extremely contrived telling of the Great Siege of Malta) . 
 The player must light a signal fire to call in supporting cavalry led by Morgan's superior, Alain 
 Magnan, who fend off the Turks. Morgan and Alain drive the Ottomans from Malta, and when they detonate 
 Ottoman weapon caches in the nearby caves, they discover a hidden stone library telling the story 
 of the Lake of the Moon and the secret society called the Circle of Ossus who seek it out.
  
  During Act I, instead of playing as one of the civilizations normally available, the player 
 plays as the Knights of Saint John. The civilization is modeled after the Spanish civilization, 
 except without being able to train skirmishers, musketeers, or any artillery except mortars and 
 their unique unit: Hoop Thrower, which are available in the fortress age. The Knights of Saint 
 John can never advance to the Industrial Age, and have the same architecture as the Portuguese, 
 Spanish, and Ottomans. Their home city is Valetta, the capital of both ancient and modern Malta. 
 Their flag is a simple white cross on a blue background.
  
  [edit] Act II: Ice
  It is 1757, and Morgan's grandson, John Black, and his Native friend Kanyenke are on their way 
 to Black's uncle's town, as he has called for help. After exchanging attacks with Cherokee raiders 
 and war camps, they attempt to arrange a peace settlement. When they reach the village, they are 
 attacked by British who also take the town. While planning a counter attack, they discover that 
 John's uncle Stuart has been kidnapped; John concludes that the Circle of Ossus has returned. Kanyenke 
 realizes that his sister, Nonahkee is in danger, too; but he is stunned to discover, after saving 
 the Iroquois village in New England that she called home, that she and John were secretly in love.
 
  
  During Act II a player plays as John Black's Mercenaries, which is modeled strongly after the German 
 Civilization with German units and mercenaries. However its architecture is the same as the British, 
 Dutch and French except for houses which are modeled on German and Russian architecture. John Black's 
 Mercenaries' home city is Boston.
  
  [edit] Act III: Steel
  It is now roughly 1819, and the narrative shifts to Amelia Black -- granddaughter of John Black, 
 and heiress owner of The Falcon Company, a railroad company (possibly so named in honour of the 
 Turk, Sahin) , whose sights are set on expanding new railroad operations in the United States. Unfortunately, 
 the fortune given by the British and Americans from John Black's sacrifice has dried up; so Amelia 
 must first construct trading posts and destroy those belonging others to control the limited available 
 resources. Along the way a French prospector named Pierre Beaumont lures her to a Northern mine, 
 where a surprise visit from Kanyenke reveals Beaumont as the leader of Circle of Ossus.
  
  During Act III, the player plays as the U. S. civilization, which strongly resembles the British 
 civilization. Its musketeers are even upgraded to redcoats in the royal guard upgrade, just like 
 the British. Also, congreve rockets can be built from Artillery Foundries, which is unique to them, 
 although normal heavy cannons are created out of factories. Their architecture is the same as the 
 British. The Home City is St. Louis.
  
  [edit] Development
  
  [edit] Technical features One of the most notable innovations of the game was the addition of the 
 real physics engine, which animate battles as shown. Age of Empires III builds upon and introduces 
 new features to the Age of Mythology engine. One new feature is the inclusion of the Havok physics 
 simulation middleware engine [7] (used in other recent popular games, including Half-Life 2 [8] ) 
 on the PC version and the similar PhysX engine on Mac OS X. This means that many events such as 
 building destruction and tree falls will not be pre-created animations, but rather will be calculated 
 according to the physics engine, in an innovation for RTSs [citation needed] and for the series. 
 Other graphical features of the game include bloom lighting and support for pixel shader 3.0. [9]
 
  
  [edit] Release history
  Following the announcement [10] of the game on January 4, 2005, a demo version was released on September 
 7, 2005. This contained a cut-down version of the game, introducing new features, such as two campaign 
 scenarios, a two random map scenarios (New England and Texas) and access to two civilizations (British 
 and Spanish) , and a variety of modifications have been created [11] An updated demo version was 
 made available with the game's release on September 22, 2005.
  
  The release of the game on September 22, 2005 saw two separate editions being made available. The 
 standard edition includes the game and manual, whilst a collector's edition version in a presentation 
 box also provides the official soundtrack, extra documentation, a hardback book entitled Art of 
 Empires that contains concept art and 3D renders from the game and a DVD entitled The Making of 
 Age of Empires III.
  
  The release of the game has been followed by a series of patches that have fixed minor bugs in 
 the software or added new features.
  
  Ensemble Studios has released [12] an expansion for the game named Age of Empires III: The War Chiefs 
 which was released on October 17, 2006. It contains 3 new native civilizations that can be completely 
 controlled: The Iroquois Confederation, the Great Sioux Nation, and the Aztecs. New content for 
 existing European civilizations, as well as new maps and gameplay additions (such as the new revolution 
 feature, in which players can revolt from their mother country and start an active military coup 
 in the game) was also added.
  
  A Mac OS X port of the game was released on 13 November 2006 by MacSoft. [13]
  
  [edit] Reception
 
  General reception was good, though not as positive as its predecessor, Age of Kings. The game 
 received a 91% score from the American version of PC Gamer. [14]
  
  The game was presented with two awards by GameSpy in 2005: 'Real-time strategy game of the year' [15] 
 and 'Best Graphics.' [16] It was also given an 'honourable mention' in the 'Best Music' category. [17] 
 GameSpy was highly praising of the game overall, giving it 5 stars in its review, [18] which was 
 particularly positive about the graphics and multiplayer experience.
  
  Other awards, [19] including an 'Outstanding' from GameZone, [20] reflect the positive critical reception 
 of the game.
  
  Yahoo!'s report [21] also has many positive features. They praise the effort put into the graphics 
 and physics but maintain that these are essentially eye-candy. They are disappointed by the traditional 
 economics-based strategy of the game and believe that this, coupled with the lack of useful formation 
 and tactics mean that the game does not stand up to other modern real-time strategy games.
  
  In December 2006, the Governor of Texas chose Age of Empires III as his featured game of the 
 month. [22]
  
  [edit] See also
  Age of Empires Series Age of Empires III campaign Age of Empires III: The Warchiefs [edit] Notes
 
  ^ Patch 1.11 ^ System requirements from Microsoft games website. Accessed November 26, 2006. ^ 
 Age of Empires III Manual, pp. 31-32 - 'Ways to Play Age of Empires III' ^ Festive maps on the 
 'Age Community' Website Accessed January 22, 2007 ^ Minor Gods in Age of Mythology. Microsoft. 
 Retrieved on 2007-02-05. ^ Official website page on civilizations. Accessed November 26, 2006. 
 ^ Havok's press release regarding Age of Empires III. Accessed November 26, 2006. ^ Havok's list 
 of games that use its technology. Accessed November 26, 2006. ^ Press release from the official 
 website regarding technology in the game. Accessed November 26, 2006. ^ Announcement of the game 
 on the Microsoft website. Accessed November 26, 2006. ^ Examples of modifications can be found 
 here. Accessed November 26, 2006. ^ Age of Empires III Expansion Pack to Storm Windows PCs in 
 2006. Accessed November 26, 2006. ^ Mac release announcement on MacSoft website. Accessed November 
 26, 2006. ^ PC Gamer 2005 Holiday Edition review, p.52 ^ GameSpy RTS game of the year award. Accessed 
 November 26, 2006. ^ GameSpy Best Graphics award. Accessed November 26, 2006. ^ GameSpy honourable 
 mention for 'Best Music.' Accessed November 26, 2006. ^ GameSpy review of Age of Empires III. Accessed 
 November 26, 2006. ^ Other awards listed on the agecommunity. com website. Accessed November 26, 
 2006. ^ GameZone review and 'Outstanding' award. Accessed November 26, 2006. ^ Yahoo!'s review 
 on Age of Empires III. Accessed November 26, 2006. ^ Governor of Texas featured game. Accessed 
 January 22, 2007 [edit] References
  Age of Empires III Manual Age of Empires III Quick Reference Card Age of Empires III Collector's 
 Edition Player's Guide Age of Empires III Collector's Edition Quick Reference Card Age of Empires 
 III: The War Chiefs Wikipedia article. Age of Mythology Wikipedia article. Age of Empires III Developers' 
 Blog Age of Empires III Community Website [edit] External links
  
  [edit] Official
  Age of Empires III Official Website Age of Empires III Demo on Microsoft website Age of Empires 
 III Community site Ensemble Studios website [edit] Previews and reviews
  Age Of Empires III review at BytePress. com Age of Empires III preview at Game Within Age of Empires 
 III at GameFAQs Age of Empires III at MobyGames v  d  eAge of Empires computer games Age of Empires 
  Rise of Rome
  Age of Empires II  The Conquerors
  Age of Empires III  The War Chiefs
  Age of Mythology  The Titans Cheat mode:
  Press [Enter] to display the chat window and type 
 one of following codes to enable that particular cheat code. What code does Code Fatten animals 
 on map A recent study indicated that 100% of herdables are obese 10,000 coin Give me liberty or 
 give me coin 10,000 food Medium Rare Please 10,000 wood 10,000 experience points Nova &amp; Orion 
 Disable fog of war X marks the spot Win single player mission this is too hard Musketeer'ed! when 
 killed by Musketeers Sooo Good 100x gather/build rates speed always wins Spawns Mediocre Bombard 
 at Home City gather point Ya gotta make do with what ya got Spawn big red monster truck tuck tuck 
 tuck Easy Leveling in Single Player:
  Open the sp_yourcityname_homecity. xml file in the My Documents\My Games\Age of Empires 3\Savegame 
 (dont forget to make a back up first) folder, search for [level] .
  You will see something like this [level] xx [/level] , put in 99 for the xx, save the file, go into 
 the game and play a skirmish. Now you are level 99 !
  
  Unlimited Resources:
  Utilize your text editor to edit the proto. xml file in the data directory in the game folder. REMEMBER: 
 You may first need to uncheck the Read Only attribute of that file's properties in Windows Explorer. 
 Search for the text CrateOf . You will find CrateofFood, CrateofCoin, CrateofWood, CrateofFoodLarge, 
 CrafteofCoinLarge, and CrateofWoodLarge. For all these entries, find the tag InitialResourceCount 
 and change the count to whatever desired. For example, the normal crates each have 100.000 of the 
 resources. You can change the 100 to 99999.000 , etc.
  
  Unlimited Unlock Points in Single player:
  Open the sp_yourcityname_homecity. xml file located 
 in \My Documents\My Games\Age of Empires 3\Savegame (dont forget to make a backup of this file) 
 find this line [skillpoints] .
  The line should look like this [skillpoints] xx [/skillpoints] , where x is the number of skillpoints 
 you currently have. Change the xx to a high number such as 999, save the file and start Age of 
 Empires 3. Go into a skirmish game, go to manage your city and you will now have 999 unlock points 
 to unlock various things for your city. Edit resources:
  REMEMBER: This procedure involves editing a game file; create a backup copy of the file before 
 proceeding. Use a text editor to edit the proto. xml file in the data directory in the game folder. 
 REMEMBER: You may first need to uncheck the Read Only attribute of that file's properties in Windows 
 Explorer. Search for the text CrateOf . You will find CrateofFood, CrateofCoin, CrateofWood, CrateofFoodLarge, 
 CrafteofCoinLarge, and CrateofWoodLarge. For all these entries, find the tag InitialResourceCount 
 and change the count to whatever desired. For example, the normal crates each have 100.000 of the 
 resources. You can change the 100 to 99999.000 , etc. Make sure you do this for all the crates; 
 sometimes a map will give you a large crate of something, and smaller ones of something else, etc. 
 This works best because every map you play in campaign or skirmish starts you with some crates 
 of resources, which your settlers will gather out. This will edit the crates to have huge amounts 
 of resources in them. However, it still takes a long time to get the resources out of the crate 
 for the settlers, because there are so many. If you are impatient, search for Settler in the proto. xml 
 file and find the tag for GatherCrate. Change the value to whatever desired, preferably something 
 very high (for example, 99999 ) . They will pull the resources out of the crate instantly. God-like 
 heroes:
  This is similar to the Edit resources trick, except only your side benefits not the CPU as well. 
 This trick will enable your hero character to move very fast on the map; have lots of hit points; 
 destroy any enemy unit/building in one click; etc. REMEMBER: This procedure involves editing a 
 game file; create a backup copy of the file before proceeding. Use a text editor to edit the proto. xml 
 file in the data directory in the game folder. Search for your hero's first name plus SPC . For 
 example, for Amelia , it is SPCAmelia . You should find something that looks like the following: 
 The XML tags of interests are as follows: 5.0000 7.0000 18.0000 850.0000 850.0000 24.0000 BuildingAttack 
 14.000000 Siege 3.000000 DoubleBarrelAttack 750.000000 Ranged 16.000000 3.000000 1.000000 GAIAEnemy 
 HandAttack 14.000000 Hand 1.500000 MusketAttack 16.000000 Ranged 16.000000 3.000000 Change the 
 above values to create a super hero, as follows. 50.0000 70.0000 68.0000 99999.0000 99999.0000 
 99.0000 BuildingAttack 9999.000000 Siege 1.000000 DoubleBarrelAttack 9999.000000 Ranged 50.000000 
 1.000000 1.000000 GAIAEnemy HandAttack 9999.000000 Hand 1.500000 MusketAttack 9999.000000 Ranged 
 50.000000 1.000000 REMEMBER: Do not set the any of the , , or values too high. This will cause 
 your character to jump instantly from one spot to the next because their movement speed is so fast. 
 This makes it difficult to move/track your character around the map. The or rate of fire should 
 be set to a low value. This acts as a delay. The lower the value, the lesser the delay. REMEMBER: 
 You can test your changes while the game is running. Just save the current game. Switch over to 
 your text editor. Make changes to proto. xml. Save proto. xml. Switch back to the game, then reload 
 saved game. Invincible units:
  REMEMBER: This procedure involves editing a game file; create a backup copy of the file before 
 proceeding. Utilize your text editor to edit the proto. xml file in the data directory in the game 
 folder. Find a the heading for a unit in the file (for example, Explorer ) . Locate the area below 
 the heading that starts with the tags. Add a new line under that area with: Invulnerable
  DoNotDieAtZeroHitpoints Easy experience points:
  To get easy experience for your home town, start 
 a skirmish. Choose the sandbox difficulty setting and the smallest map. Win the game the fastest 
 way possible. You will receive the usual experience, but can do this as many times as desired, 
 resulting in lots of experience in a short amount of time. If desired, you also use the cheats 
 to win the game easier. Revealing the entire map:
  Save your game and resign. The map will be shown to you as if you had lost. Then, just load the 
 game and keep playing. Note that the map will be shown only between clicking to resign and choosing 
 to quit. It will not continue like this when you start the loaded game.
  
  Look at the following key and formations. This could work in age of empires 1 or 2 as well. With 
 different troops.
  
  KEY= the following.
  
  _= 50 musketeers or gunmen. += 1 dragoon or any cavalry.
  /= cannon, any kind.
  &gt;= explorer. 
 _&lt; _ / / / / / / / / _ ++ ++ ++ Directions......... Have your explorer, natives, and foot gunmen 
 on the front line. They will be constantly engaged in battle. Have your cannons fireing behind 
 them for support. Use your dragoons to either flank, or distract the enemy cannons or pikemen. 
 You could also charge with native americans.
  
  Well, that concludes it. Hope you learned somthi'n. Post on my blog your opinnion or email me. 
 Thank's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulbreakerx
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is just great but I wish that it have more mission to be played like Age of Empires 2. 
 Everything is was fine, about the graphic and the sound is quite nice. I like the new home town 
 feature so it would not make you feel boring looking at the same starting menu all over again.
 
  
  It just that I wish this game have more mission to be played. It ended so fast that I could say 
 I'm able to finish the game in one day and finish the hard mode on the next day. After that, I 
 keep playing the skirmish game until I get bored of the game. The story was nice but too short. 
 This game couldn't challenge the piles of missions available like Age of Empires 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpowerfull
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  AOE3 doesn't have the greatest story, I've never actually liked RTS stories anyways because you 
 never get to experience the full power of your team until most of the way through, or alot of the 
 time, at the end. The online makes up for the campaign by far and makes the game good by itself. 
 The campaign is the tutorial for me and nothing more. The online however pits yourself against 
 skilled people and friends. This game is fun to plan with friends for after school or on weekends 
 and duke it out online or have mini-tournaments. I've gotten into pretty heated battles (verbal 
 and in the game) with friends from school over the game, allthough they were in fun, we still got 
 quite mad. This game has a good supply of units, the civilizations are unique, there are a good 
 amount of upgrades, allthough I would have liked to see more of them, and the online has a good 
 ranking system as well as the best reward system I've ever experienced. Whenever you're home city 
 gains a level, you are allowed to choose 1 card which you can use towards upgrades for your economy, 
 military, or maybe just get more units. This is a nice change from Age of Mythology series, which 
 is another one of my favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yhgt
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Age Of Empires 3 is an amazing RTS! It has a great campaign, great skirmish, and a good but complicated 
 scenario builder. I've never played the multi player but I'm sure it's good. You can play for eight 
 different civilizations in skirmish plus the extra civilizations in the campaign. I have to agree 
 that eight civilizations is not a very large number. Empire Earth 2 for example has more civilizations 
 than that. But lets compare how well made these civilizations are:
  Age Of Empires 3:
  1 or more unique units.
  A whole bunch of different units.
  Different building looks and some 
 different buildings. Different Home City Shipments
  Empire Earth 2: 1 or more unique units
  The only difference in units are the unique units - other than that every unit's the same.
  I 
 have to say that the Age Of Empires civilizations are much better than the Empire Earth civilizations. 
 The campaign has a better plot line than Empire Earth 2. The maps are also a lot more interesting 
 and there's a lot of them. You can ally with natives. It lags a lot less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Illscrewyoubig
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 6, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  The world certainly does not revolve around this game. Sure, it handles pretty well and has a great 
 story-line which centralises around 3 (yes, I did not type it wrong) stories in 3 different eras.
 
  
  However, upon first running the game, it became apparant that loading screens are a drag, which 
 is intensified by the fact half the whole game is loading. Different civilizations having different 
 profiles makes it interesting for hard-core gamers, but for a VERY casual player, it just makes 
 everything confusing, and there's always the slow-loading of changing between civilisations which 
 makes it a hastle.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Well, this Review couldn't have been possible if not for Non_Existence and his crew who have really 
 helped me get on my feet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atilaoe23
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires is a great series and it is hard not to like the games. The main difference between 
 AOE 3 and the others is the graphics. The scenery looks great and you can finally see the units 
 faces. Another major difference is the ability to have a home city which you can upgrade with different 
 colors, people, things and even change the weather. During the game you can access your home city 
 and send your settlement supplies, buildings, units or upgrades. The best thing about this game 
 is the campaign mode which can keep you occupied for hours. The campaign consists of a family and 
 its never ending fight against an evil circle. The heroes have special abilities and can collect 
 treasures plus they can't stay dead and can be revived if allied units are close. All and all this 
 is a good game but it could have been better and left me waiting for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Age Of Empires III ruined the series.....
  Age Of Empires II was the greatest game ever!!
  
  I admtie this game is uber fun and tons of cool battles... but It just is nothing like Age 
 Of Empires 2.... I wish they whould of remade Age Of Empires 2 with the same gameplay but better 
 graphics and some new things.. But this game ruines the series...
  
  ----------------------
  Graphics
  ----------------------
  Yes the graphics definetly inproved 
 in this game from the last and are excelent compared to some other PC games.. but thats the only 
 great thing.
  
  ----------------------
  Sound
  ----------------------
  Meh the same as the last. You don't really notice the music and the game isn't really about the 
 music at all... but its okay..
  
  ----------------------
  Fun
  ----------------------
  Hard to describe but its a fun game to build ur base and defend and conquer.. 
 but It just lost its magic touch like in the first game where everything was just perfect and 2D 
 but this 3D game just had lots of glitches and ruined the AOE franchise.
  
  Buy Age Of Empires II
  
  age of empires 2 &gt; age of empires 3
  
  but that doesn't make 
 this game horrible AT ALL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doug_Rock
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is the best strategy game of the present.
  If you have played AoE II, you'll see many differences such as the use of metropolies that gives 
 you benefits such as units, goods and advanced technology that improes your army and your economy.
 
  Although this revolution inserts more action in the game, at first sight it seems to be confusing 
 and don't impress many players.
  If you started playing it now and you don't like it, i suggest you to give it some more time because 
 you may not be adapted to the news.
  The graphics are good but could have been better.
  The sound is ok, not more than that.
  
  I recommend this game but i'm sure that there we'll 
 be many people that will still prefer the past AoE.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curt_leon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Age of empires III is one of my favorite RTS games I have, it has great physics, authentic colonial/industrial 
 age units and buildings, the graphics are incredible, everything is how a good RTS should be. Despite 
 some minor boredom at times it is a really fun game to play, also you get to use a huge cannon 
 at the end of act I! The story is very small and you don't really have a lot to go on at the beginning 
 but you soon make new friends and make new enemies, and the main part of the story, the fountain 
 of youth, is revealed to you, I guess I shouldn't spoil too much of the story but this game is 
 worth getting just for the story alone. The sound is great! The cannon fire and the swords, bows, 
 and guns all sound realistic, even the world around you sounds awesome. It includes a scenario 
 editor for those I'm bored of great plains map over and over again moments, also theres a kind 
 of encyclopedia/History book that you can learn what the units do and the history of them, including 
 important historical events of the games time period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACESandElGHTS
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  All-around great game. Definitely favors the quick-fingered real-time strategy player. You must 
 put some thought into your strategy, but the faster you can marshall your units while in battle, 
 the better chance you have of defending, counterattacking, avoiding huge losses, overwhelming your 
 enemy.
  
  When this game runs smoothly (meaning graphics options are turned _low_) on a high-powered PC, 
 it's pretty amazing. Litereally hundreds of individual men, horses, dogs, pumas, bears, artillery 
 and ships can clash all at once. In its most grand form (a huge assault force meeting a huge defense 
 force, or a large force with artillery attacking a fortified town) , the battles are completely 
 chaotic, with armies charging to fight hand-to-hand, riflemen firing from the distance, cavalry 
 cutting down musketeers, artillery firing individually-drawn volleys into crowds of soldiers or 
 vulnerable town buildings.
  
  My only complaint about the game is the relative lack of autonomy among the units. They will move 
 only when you direct them, attack only if attacked, or told to, and always fight to the death, 
 with no retreats, flanks, etc., unless told to do otherwise. So, most games consist of: scout, 
 use workers to improve production, harass enemy workers with cavalry, destroy crucial parts of 
 enemy town, send 1st large force to conquer enemy, and repeat last step as necessary.
  
  This is not to say the routine isn't fun. It's different every time. If you're not short on time, 
 and you want some sort of historical war game to kill anywhere from 2-6 hours per day, this game 
 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord_2002
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 1, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is one of the most visually appealing games I've ever seen. The game includes 
 stunning visuals that, when on the highest settings, make you feel like you are right in the middle 
 of the epic battles seen in this game. The sound is also nothing short of spectacular. The *BOOM* 
 of cannon fire is so powerful, that you'd swear the cannon ball came right out of your speakers 
 and hit you right in the chest. The gameplay is really great as well. The units feel really balanced, 
 as do all the different empires you can play as. The only downsides that I've been able to find 
 in this epic game are that it is a system hog. You need a real gaming PC in order to get things 
 running nicely on high settings, but with the powerful graphics this game boasts, even medium is 
 pretty awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0xXGAMERXx0
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is a great RTS that has both a great multiplayer, and a story mode.
  
  Age of Empires III fairly good graphics, but I was expecting them to be a little better.
  
 
  Age of Empires III offers you to play with eight civilizations, each civilization has its strengthes 
 and weaknesses.
  
  Age of Empires III has a interesting story mode. In story mode you go through families line, that 
 has connections with the fountian of youth and there enimes are trying to find the location. Interesting 
 but not the best story line I have seen.
  
  Online multiplayer is very fun. You can build your level and home cites. People that play online 
 for the most part a friendly, and you can join clans.
  
  Age of Empires III is a great RTS game, and the best game in the three part seires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jules1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 27, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Well, where should i start. Good Graphics, Good Game play, Challenging Story, Good Sound. Basically 
 good everything, but especially the graphics. This game is good for anyone who wants a decent strategy 
 game that you dont need to take seriously to have fun, well i cant because its so fun. Its worth 
 the money, even though its a bargain. You can trust me this is a good game, because if you have 
 played age of empires 2, this is 100% better
  
  I would reccomend this game to anyone whos looking for a fun game and doesnt want to spend much 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioMainic
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Age of empires three this time it has more things to do within the game . You now have our own 
 porsonal home that you can control eight mighty civilizations the Ottamen , Portuguese , Ducth 
 , Spainish , Russian , British , French and last German . During once you're playing the game the 
 opponet talks to you it does get a bit annying. This time you can make an alliance with native 
 amarian cilization there are the Lakota , Tupi , Aztec , Nooka , Maya, Cree , Inca, Comanche , 
 Cherokee , Seminole , Iroqois , Craib . You have a deck of cards the can give you soldiers , Improments 
 to your cilization and it has real time play . You can play online as well .
  
  It is best in series i say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andresruiz91
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  this game is kinda getting old, its the exact same gameplay. you click what soldier you want to 
 build and he only comes out one at a time. i much rather prefer the click and a squad comes out. 
 about 5 or something like that. its basically doing the same thing except for the graphics, on 
 a high quality pc this game is stunning. i recommend it if ur still hooked on the old style game 
 play or if you occansionally miss the old games. its a pritty good game but its getting old. some 
 of the new things though are pritty good, like the allying with the natives sets a new kind of 
 strategy to the game. the canons and boats are the best. i recommend trying something new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavediss
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 21, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I was never I fan of Age of Empires series and I have only played the first and second editions 
 of this history in the company of friends. Now I was gifted with AOE 3 which Ive been playing 
 for about two month now. What a difference from the previous versions. Now you are taken to the 
 America discovery period, something between 1500 and 1850, continuing the medieval era from AOE 
 2 and the first steps from the stone age of the first release. You will find the same way of playing 
 when you have to explore the map, find resources, build facilities and train units. But you now 
 have new ways to get resources (any kind) that may come from the home land to your colony and also 
 from Indian present in the maps. The more experience your colony gets the more you receive from 
 the main centre. You can play as one of eight civs, chosen among British, Spanish, Dutch, Portuguese 
 and others. Of course, each civ has its own way to develop and strengths. You now have a much better 
 balanced game with many different strategies and options available.
  The audio is good and the graphics are really amazing and we can notice how much improved they 
 are. We have to say that is recommended a good graphic card to take advantage of that and have 
 a pleasant game playing. There is some new stuff in this version like the possibility to make alliance 
 with local Indians and to choose a correct place to build an improvement. Depending of the local 
 the improvement it will perform different regarding to resources and people reaction. There is 
 also the presence of a Hero that never dies that has some special abilities and is good for exploring. 
 A hero can also kill a enemy with a single shot (special ability) and once used it takes a time 
 to regain this ability.
  There is no much difference regarding the rest of the units but now you can train groups of units. 
 Soldiers also can make special formations like during an attack to be more tactical. For those 
 who like multiplayer the game is great with all functions to make a good experience playing against 
 other players and not the computer.
  The bottom line is that the game is very well balanced in all features and can make the fans pleased 
 and also make new fans for those that never played any of AOE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  AOE 2 showed how good an RTS can be for the PC. I found AOE 3 to be rather disipointing. The graphics 
 are nice and the sound immerses you in the battlefield but the small problems like framerate and 
 online instability really make this game a let down. The variety of units and the difference of 
 each faction is nice but mostly all you do is mass rescources and do hardly any fighting. The campaign 
 has a nice length but offers NO replayability at all. once you beat the campaign the only other 
 option is online but online is laggy and dificult. If AOE 3 didn't have these problems it could 
 be a great game but these nagging problems really make this game a let down compared to the other 
 AOE games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkManiaN_1979
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  [About AOE III]
  
  AOE III is a time piece and is set in a few much older ages. So you wont exactly be in charge of 
 tanks or heavily armed swat teams, but you will be able to command as many troops as you can afford 
 to make or have sent to you. There are different types of troops also, and im sure that anyone 
 who has played a Civilization or indeed a previous AOE type game will understand this. Your army 
 potential consists of foot solgiers with spear like weapons all the way to canons capable of taking 
 down large fortified walls and buildings. {Storyline and Gameplay]
  
  The storyline is simple, and your put in charge of a Maltese knight and his troops who are on a 
 quest for treasure in the form of a vital secret of the ancients basically.
  
  Gameplay consists of traveling the environment which is life like in that you'll be seeing hills 
 and crests as well as water features and other elements that are naturally occurring. Trees of 
 course and ocean, as well as other earthy minerals like silver and such., Once you have found your 
 place of choice; one that you believe will sustain your camp for however long you think may be 
 the duration of your stay on the given map, you'll have to make a town center building which is 
 already available to you upon arrival. Plotting out other resources like food and wood, or even 
 possibly mining the location for silver become more immediate after you've settled your new colony. 
 Making troops of all factions is also a pressing option, as you probably send what few men you 
 have to explore the map in search of the mission objectives or just more resources, or perhaps 
 even opposing factions as a scouting party.
  
  The game is slightly micro management but its not as intense as other ie; you wont have to tell 
 your troops when to use the toilet) . Your troops are almost automated in the sense that if you 
 tell them to stay in one location as a guard like figure, when someone from an opposing faction 
 they will fire at will and even in some annoying cases chase after the threat (leaving their post) . 
 After a full 1-2 hr session you will have the basic gameplay down, and realize all that you need 
 to sustain your colony on the given map. Its a bit more imersive than I have explained here and 
 there are other facilities at your disposal that make the game more interesting. For instance, 
 large sailing ships with tremendous cannons can be built and deployed to search the oceans and 
 take on enemy vessels. All during your search for this ancient and holy secret place that your 
 enemies are after. Boats also come in the form of small fishing vessels so you have a lot of potential 
 as a colony right from the start. Later in the game you'll see that larger military vessels can 
 also help to train/make new solgiers and even horse back troops that are much stronger. Ultimately 
 this will enable you to multi-task your offence, and have a mobile growing army machine that also 
 has the cover of the great ships cannons. [Grahical Specs]
  
  The Graphics are not spectacularly mind bogling, but they are smooth and the pov in which the game 
 is played is much like Civilization. I ran this game successfully on a 32mb integrated graphics 
 card at one stage on medium settings. The out to sea ship battles were too laggy though so its 
 not advised to run this without atleast a 128mb card. This was probably due to the life like smoke 
 trails the ships cannons display after firing off a round and brilliant fire ball.
  
  [Sound Quality]
  
  The audio to this game is quite realistic in some areas, like during ship 
 battles. You'll be able to hear the attacked ships wood splinter before it hits the water. Rock 
 walls and fortified walls in general explode with a loud thud also adding to the emersive environment. 
 Large army battles mostly consist of swords clanging and rounds being fired off from riflemen and 
 cannons. If you destroy something in the midst of the action you'll hear it collapse. [Overall]
 
  
  This game does the whole micro management type thing well, where your basically telling solgiers 
 and common workers alike what to do and when to do it. The AI is not bad and even the AI opponents 
 can get the better of you in some cases. Definitely for people who enjoy army commandeering type 
 games, or are after a different experience thats not hard to pick up. This game isnt a must have 
 but if you have the few dollars it costs to own it, its worth while.
  
  [Replayability]
  
  Im not so sure this game has a great deal of it, but it does have an online options also that 
 I never tested. Quite simply because the game is slightly repeditive and you'll find that shortly 
 after you get your colony working well and moving along steadily.. its time to move on after the 
 objectives have been acheived and you'll have tro start all over again on a different map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herodite777
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jan 18, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  I had really high hopes for this game. I really wanted to like it. I didn't. I cried. I cried really 
 hard.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Completely boring. I was bored playing the game (and considering that right after this 
 game, I played Age of Empires II and loved it even more) , and it deserves no more than 2.
  
  GRAPHICS: The best part of the game, the graphics are superb. But if the game sucks, who cares?
 
  
  SOUND: The other only good part, the music was awesome and the sound was great. Was only the sound 
 and graphics department payed?
  
  VALUE: Other than the sound and graphics? Nope. None at all. No value at all in my book.
  
 
  Only get this game if... you... are... really bored. Or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhaskarchatta
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  It's a great game to play. No problem to play... Resolution Display is great and beautifull. It's 
 just adicts... Can spent hours infront of the PC while playing the game... Some more war chiefs 
 are required... It's a real strategic game.... POWER COMBAT STRATEGY THOUGHTS all in one game is 
 in the Age Of Empires Three. I got the Age of Empires War Chief expension Demo Pack and must have 
 to buy the full of the same... It's worth full to Play for hours .
  
  It's a great game to play. No problem to play... Resolution Display is great and beautifull. It's 
 just adicts... Can spent hours infront of the PC while playing the game... Some more war chiefs 
 are required... It's a real strategic game.... POWER COMBAT STRATEGY THOUGHTS all in one game is 
 in the Age Of Empires Three. I got the Age of Empires War Chief expension Demo Pack and must have 
 to buy the full of the same... It's worth full to Play for hours . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatje
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  i think they did a pretty good job i mean i never get bored how often i play this its just keeps 
 getting better and better its just the perfect game for me thanks microsoft. i love playing the 
 skirmish and fun of that is that u have a whole bunch of maps and every one of them u can try 1000 
 strategies and tactics move on it never bores you thats why i think it is the best the sound is 
 also amazingly good you can hear even the people screaming and moaning thats really good its amazing 
 what people would do to make an awesome game thumbs up!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdazednconfused
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Yea hey hey hey hey hey g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g g gg g bjxcpb dfi doif 
 dof gpod odf sodf fg g g g g g gg g g g g g g g fg f f d d d ds s l lskn x; lkzn xkc kx; mc m m 
 m m mm m m m m m m m m mm m m m m m m m m m m m mmmmm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m mm m m m m m m m m m m mm m m m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m mm m m m m 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgnurules
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 11, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Upon firing up a Game I had waited for for a few years now, the game just doesn't feel the same, 
 and that's not to say it's good. Age of Empires 3 is just not the same. It features mostly recycled 
 gameplay from Aoe2, except for a few new changes like the homecity system, which i just don't really 
 find it compelling and it doesn't really want to make me play multiplayer. Aside from the home 
 city, the game i have featured quite a bit of issues. i know my computer is 5 years old, but can't 
 a 2.2 ghz intel with a 128 Mb Geforce cut it? at First the game looks great, but any size battle 
 will just kill the frame rate, and some instances the game will just crash. After i lowered the 
 settings to almost the lowest, there is still an fairly bad frame rate which just ruined the experience 
 for me. The campaign is less than compelling, and this fictional story about a fountain of life 
 just seems stupid. sure, some historical battles might not have been exciting, but couldn't Ensemble 
 Studios have kept it like it has been for the past previous two games? going the oldschool route 
 just sounds better too me. The campaign is also short, and you will not really want to play it 
 again. Aside from that the multiplayer and random map seems to be crappier than ever. i don't remember 
 a king of the hill or a regicide mode where you kill a unit to win, so it won't be very enticing 
 to play for long at all. Age of Empires 3, to sum it up, has been a disapointment to a devout fan 
 who has bought every game in the series except for the expansion pack, and judging how this game 
 has felt like, i won't buy it for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesis2403
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is an okay game borderlining good. But there are some issues that prevent it from 
 being better.
  
  One of the biggest mistakes purposley yet unwittingly implemented into the game is the population 
 limit. Alright, so this encourages users to be more tactical but it simply doe not and can not 
 work with some of the civilisations available to play. For example, the Russians are infamous for 
 massing cities of recruits in exchange for quality. However because of the population limit civilisations 
 such as Dutch can build to the same number and have the quality to wipe out the reds! The concept 
 is taken away! Also the Ottomans have the special 'ability' to pump out unstoppable hordes of free 
 villagers. Where this is useful in building a strong economy, the poplation limit makes building 
 a strong army too much an effort to class itself as entertaining. People don't want to spend time 
 'deleteing' villagers! Because of this factor, a game that could be limited only by the power of 
 ones computer is limited by an overwhelmingly small population limit making a game that could be 
 epic seem minute. This is by far the most disapointing aspect.
  
  I also think that another problem is the limitation of units available to make. Each civilisation 
 with some small exceptions has individual units available to make. The problem: theres not enough. 
 My estimate is that there is roughly 10 land units and 5 or 6 boats per civilisation. Taking into 
 account that some units are shared this is a pathetic number. However, given such a small population 
 limit someone less concerned with quality and quantity this might be reasonable.
  
  The game does have good features the gameplay is good and you can witness good battles. The economic 
 side means users need to concentrate both on the home front and the vanguard adding a nice twist. 
 the graphics are acceptable although they do look dated at times. There are some respectable sounds 
 to the game as well although some sounds are recycles for use with other units.
  
  This is an okay game. Some aspects are a step back while others are a step forward. Where there 
 are promising aspects to the game, it will quickly be added to your 'been there, done that' library. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodlez_87
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  What ever happened to that warm feeling of satisfaction you get after a skirmish that made aoe2 
 so enjoyable? I think it must have jumped ship and gone to company of heroes becuase it certainly 
 isnt in this game.
  
  Yes aoe3 does have that same simple gameplay and yes it does have pretty graphics but its strang 
 eit just doesn't feel that enjoyable to play, it gets boring because its hard to get hooked like 
 you did on its older brother.
  
  Now this may be due to how the game has been moved forward in time. Even when i saw the new world 
 i thought oh boy they better do this right. The gameplay isn't made to suit the era of time, i 
 mean watching your men in aoe2 clash in close combat was friggin' awsome to watch but in this just 
 looking of a few guys in hats blow eachother apart at point blank range is so.... DULL. They just 
 end up like dronesshooting until the last guy drops, yeh there re horses and pikemen but the variety 
 of units have been cut down so much that you can expect what your enemy will do. Nations have lost 
 their individuallity, they are all alike now except for different colour coats and special units 
 just sren't that special, they have no affect on the battlefield like they did before. My good 
 God i want that spark that made this series so much fun but im left feeling empty at the fact that 
 the gamplay doesnt suit the time period. If your going to move this game forward in time then just 
 lookn on how coh did it. Yeah i understand that sctual battles in that time was pretty much people 
 blowing eachother up at close range but that doenst mean you should make this exactly the same 
 for the sake of enjoyment.
  
  If there is a aoe4 then maybe its time to bring back those smashing teutonic knights 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fiery_Fury
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  To start out, Age of Empires 3 starts off where Age of Empires 2 left. The end of Age of Empires 
 2 left in the Rennaisance age, Age of Empires 3 is the Discovery/Colonial age - when America was 
 found, and the European nations flocked to it for expansion and power.
  
  Let's start with the good news - At first when I heard Age of Empires 3 taking place in the Colonial 
 Age I was very skeptical. That age was perhaps the most boring of history in my opinion, but despite 
 however much we hate American history and however much many of us find the Colonial age incredibly 
 boring, this works INCREDIBLY well in it. It's quite a hop trading archers for musketeers, but 
 it all in all fits perfectly. The game does a great job of showing that some of the old archaic 
 influence is still upon some of the nations (We still have pikemen, archers, Spanish swordsmen 
 [Rodelero] ) , but that it is ultimately moving. And it's really amazing seeing the battle scenes 
 in the game, when you have musketeers firing, hussars charging, artillery blowing infantry to bits, 
 so much happening at one moment. The home city is a great new addition and gives more to the Discovery/Colonial 
 age feel. Your out in the New World to gain power and expanse for your country, so you can request 
 shipments in cards once you earn shipments (Dont EVER forget to get new cards... EVER!) . These shipments 
 will definitely be imperative. A way to earn shipments faster, is by constructing Trading Posts 
 on a Trade Route, but thats not the only thing you can do with a Trading Post. You can also construct 
 them near Native American villages, giving you different technologies, and even units.
  
  Once you warm up a bit, after destroying Queen Elizabeth a hundred times on the Easy difficulty 
 you may possibly be ready to take the fight online! This is where the real action begins. Multiplayer 
 will make you feel insecure, unsure about whether your opponent is getting the upper or the lower 
 hand. Your always on your toes. The people there are from the entire world - and they dont seem 
 as crude as the people on Halo 2.
  
  The bad news - The game does chop down at times (If you run on a minimum standard computer, your 
 computer WILL bog down SEVERELY on any naval scenes) , even sometimes it bogs while on the ground 
 fight scenes. The other bad news is that there just isnt enough diversity in the game. In the game 
 we have Spanish, British, French, Portugese, Dutch, Russian, German, and Ottomen. Except for Ottoman, 
 these are all European Christian races. While each does have their own gamestyle, I say they could've 
 fit in something with a bit more flare - Japanese, for example. I guess in a way the Ottoman is 
 an escape.
  
  Other bad news, I personally didnt enjoy the campaign as much as I did with Age 2. I dont really 
 know why, it's probably because there was never any historical records of the Black family. I enjoyed 
 much more playing as William Wallace or Joan of Arc instead of playing a fictional character in 
 a historic setting.
  
  All in all, this game tops off it's predecessor, Age of Empires 2, and I personally believe that 
 it's all-in-all historically accurate, the home city adds a new depth to the setting, and the game 
 itself is just great. In my opinion, it even tops off WarCraft 3. If you like real-time strategy 
 games, I wouldnt miss out on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackattacka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Well, I can easily say they added one or two things to this game. And they surely improved the 
 graphics, but other than that. There just isn't much to drool over. The game-play feels just about 
 the same as the other two before it. You get to control your own city, but really, you don't. All 
 you are able to do is put things into the city, and look at it.
  
  Nothing more can be done with your beautifully made city. For the battles, they can grow large. 
 But there is nothing new, or revolutionary in this series compared to the ones before it. Age of 
 Empires 3 just isn't too great. It can still provide a graphical fun, compared to the last 2. But 
 the multi-player isn't all too great either, not such a large community. You may have trouble getting 
 into games at times.
  
  The single player gets a bit boring, with a slow, boring sound track. You usually wind up in silence, 
 with a slow paced war game. Building up units, going to attack, and then just building up more. 
 It's just not a lot of fun to have. So if you look for a relaxing, slow paced war game with nice 
 graphics where you're mostly in control. This can be your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lrkatzenstein
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  It's really a good experience playing Age of Empires III.
  I always liked this kind of Strategy games: defend your town; grow your army; get plenty of resources; 
 then destroy your opponents...
  
  Although anything else you can get inside the game-play and have hours of fun. And Age of Empires 
 III is a gift for our eyes... The game makes you pay attention to every detail of it.
  
  But if you are looking for something different from Age of Empires - Age of Kings you won't find 
 it here. Forget it
  Good game, Good game, Good game, Good game, Good game, Good game, Good game, Good game, Good game, 
 Good game, Good game, Good game, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltfan469
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 26, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  
  - Great new adaptation of the original Age of Empires theme
  - Each civilization has its own great abilities and faults
  - Deathmatches are faster and troop 
 training is as well
  
  Bad:
  
  - Graphics are not great
  - Some civilizations are extremely hard to play as and need some fine tuning as far as historical 
 units (Example: The British did not use as many musketeers in 1500 as the game shows.)
  - Too Easy
  
  Bottom Line:
  
  This is a fun game with some flaws that hopefully can be 
 fixed in the expansion packs. Some of the civilizations also need help as far as economic structure. 
 But the bottom line is that with more people on the internet and with a better map building system, 
 this game might be close to being as good as the original two. But for now, it is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comptrex
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 24, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  You still have to gather resources. You still have to prepare for the rush. But the grass sways, 
 the trees move, and the water is as ever changing and life like as a back water bayou or constantly 
 moving ocean tide. It overall brings a new look and feel to the game, and some of the new characters 
 are engaging. Overall more of the same, but a good game to have around...
  
  The new thinking goes into defense versus offense. In most other strategy games you build up defenses, 
 wait for the big rush, then take your time in rebuilding and going on the offensive. With this 
 one I tried the normal formula and was plesantly surprised that they kept coming and look for holes 
 in my defenses. The AI is much improved and lends to new strategies to incorporate to win. Once 
 i'm through with the single player campaign, i'm sure it'll be back to the old grind online, but 
 it is a little refreshing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo16161616
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  I loved the other AOE games but I'm very disappointed with esemble studios. The trailer and game 
 play pictures looked amazing, and the graphics were almost that good except..... you need a very 
 good graphics card for it to run well. Oh and one of the biggest game files ever. Over 30gigs of 
 space wasted for a long time not to mention the $50 bucks I wasted. Bottom line:
  I want a refund
  They took too muh of a risk trying to use guns. Not fun. Swords were the way 
 to go. Dont waste your money on this game save for a xbox 360 so you can get Halo Wars (RTS) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grope2
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  Age of empires 3 is the newest addition to the age of empires franchise, if you enjoyed its predecessors 
 and you enjoyed them greatly then this is a game you should get, if you are looking for a new game 
 or you just enjoy the game type then search your bargain bin, this game is really nothing special 
 and really isn't an improvement to the older games, if i was to recommend a game then get age of 
 mythology, this game is just a basic expansion pack but it's in a different time frame, no real 
 impact is made to players when changing from age of mythology and this, or even from team to team, 
 the special units aren't really so special and game-play is repetitive and boring after a while. 
 The new abilities such as home colony aren't really needed and are quite illusive and unnecessary, 
 really just a con to justify charging you &pound;30. The game does have more units and improved 
 sound track ect but really isn't worth getting unless you adore the age of empires series and even 
 then you are in for a large disappointment, such as myself, i have every age of empires and loved 
 them all and this one was a regret. It is very same old same old so you might enjoy it and is no 
 worse than its predecessors. Overall this game was OK but nothing new or special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zigzak
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  Personally i couldn't wait to get my hands on this game! neither could my friends, but when it 
 came out, me along with lots of other people i knew were very disappointed. The graphics's were 
 pretty amazing for the time, the story line was ok but maby a bit short, but the game handling 
 was pretty bad, it just didnt seem like the original classic game at all, its like they got the 
 classic, said right here what we are gonna do! and threw it in the bin!
  ah well... although they did ruin the perfect name of age of empires with this game, its still 
 a fairly average game, you can still have hours of average fun on it, order about average soldiers, 
 actually speaking of soldiers, WHY ON EARTH DID THEY PUT GUNS IN THIS GAME! its a good add on to 
 the original games and they are fun to use, but it just doesn't really feel right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordiepordie66
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This is a great RTS, strategy game! you can choose from like 11 new colonies. The graphics are great 
 and I love the online for it. It is amazing! and they advanced the gameplay to 3D type game. But 
 there was some dumb stuff that they didnt add, such as: no American colonies, they could of just 
 added revoulotion and native colonies on this game. And they still keep the same damn population 
 limit, which I hate!!! anyways this is a great game, its highly addictive and the war type gameplay 
 is amazing. You will probably just love this game, I had the demo for awhile and I was addicted 
 to that. But I prefer you to buy the expansion with it now. Anyways check out AOE3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thestrateger
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Age Of Empires 3 it is a very very good game because the game, we can see a many new things like 
 the home city, the game cards and many many Attributes.
  
  the graphic is upgrade and the sounds, the gameplay and the campaign too,
  if you play the game 
 you can see a many fames people from the past,
  and in the all ends of the three parts of the campaign there is a short film with very high graphics.
 
  
  what is the all thing about the home city ? :
  
  the home city is a city like the all cities, they gave houses, roads, people...
  but you can 
 upgrade your city, like the color of the houses, you can bring more people to your city, you can 
 brings cannons, carriage, ships and more many things.
  
  what is it all about the game cards ? :
  
  the game cards is a many cards, and they give you 
 a special upgrades and they can give you a many solders, and sometimes you can get a special,
 
  and you can get them just in the game cards.
  
  so if you don't buy the game you must to buy it, because it make you happy. :) :) :) :) :) :) :) 
 :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrymonster
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  this third installment of age of empires made many changes to the formula but still managed to 
 keep it in the scope of the series. the new features are interesting but after you're done admiring 
 the new toys it's still the same game at heart as it's always been. it's not a revolutionary title, 
 it's just a different slice of the same pie.
  
  in the end if you like the series you'll like this game even if you're not used to it from the 
 start or if your old strategies fail you now, but that's just the way war is.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  For over five years, I've been a loyal patron of the Age of Empires series. The original installment 
 captured my attention in middle school, and quickly sucked me in. I was ecstatic when The Age of 
 Kings and its expansion came out. AoE II: The Conquerors was the pinnacle of gaming for me. And 
 then rumors of a new edition met my ears. I could barely wait.
  
  The first thing I noticed about this game was that I had no idea what was going on. Unlike the 
 other games in the series, this wasn't really a game that you can just pick up and go. Before starting 
 a game, you have to establish a Home City and build up a deck. Having just opened the game for 
 the first time, I had no idea what any of this meant. So I retreated to the instruction manual 
 (noticably thicker than previous editions) . Once I had a basic idea of what was going on, I headed 
 back over to the game. Basically, AoE III has a different feel to it compared to the first two 
 versions. This one puts more emphasis on building up your civilization and receiving aid from your 
 home city (the aforementioned cards in your deck provide shipments of resources, units, or technologies 
 to your colony) . The overall game puts emphasis on progressive buildup across games: gaining experience 
 in games raises your home city level, which allows you to unlock more cards for use in your deck. 
 While this pays off once you've been playing for a while, it's frustrating at first, and discourages 
 experimenting with other civilizations. The campaign mode, the hallmark of the series that still 
 has me playing the second edition, is vastly changed as well. Instead of multiple different campaigns 
 to try, you play in the midst of a single story unfolding across centuries of American exploration. 
 The campaign is punctuated with brilliant cinematics. While this type of campaign is not necessarily 
 worse that those in previous games, it is... different. The sense of accomplishment found in leading 
 France to victory against Britain, then moving straight on to command Saladin's army against the 
 crusaders just isn't there. There are plenty of subtle changes, too. The monks can't convert enemy 
 units, and their healing power is limited by a regeneration period after each heal. Villagers can 
 build mills and plantations, which provide neverending supplies of food and coin, respectively. 
 This means that there's no more hunting for more resources late in the game. For me, this seems 
 like a cop-out. But that's just me. I fear change. On the bright side, there have been numerous 
 improvements as well. There is a much wider selection of units available to create, from swordsmen 
 through musketeers, from tiny fishing ships to absolutely massive galleons that cause my computer 
 to freeze up every time they move! The game's selection of seige weaponry is stocked with multiple 
 types of powerful cannon, from anti-infantry to anti-building. In addition to your own civilization's 
 units (which vary greatly from civ to civ) , you can create trading posts on Native encampments, 
 allowing you to build native warriors, which handily don't count toward your own population limit. 
 The graphics are a step up from previous editions, of course, and terrain features are beautifully 
 detailed. Trees blow in the wind, artillery fire causes buildings to visibly crumble, and visible 
 wakes protrude from behind elegant ships. Similarly, the game's sound takes leaps and bounds forward. 
 While I don't play with the music on (I have an older computer, so I don't want to lag too much) , 
 the sound matches the different maps perfectly. Waves crash against the sandy white beaches in 
 the Caribbean map, and coyotes howl in the Southwestern area. The sounds of battle are realistically 
 detailed, as well, especially cannon fire that booms across the landscape, so you can hear it even 
 if you're focusing on an area halfway across the map. Overall, this is a good game, but it doesn't 
 seem to fit in with the previous titles in the series. It's a much more involved game, relying 
 on you to build up your civilization, rather than just walk in and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netraam
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Intro: - Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings was a great and revolutionary RTS game. But does the 
 3rd game in the Age of Empires series live up to it's forerunners? The answer is... yes.
  
  Gameplay: - AoE III doesn't play much different than AoE II, you will still have to manage the 
 economy, military, and everything else that happens within your rapidly growing colony. You will 
 have the typical barracks, houses, and town centers that epitomize the AoE series, but there are 
 a few new buildings that will help you on your way, such as the plantation, or the ever-so-useful 
 factory. Buildings can vary from country to country (i. e. the Dutch have a bank building that gets 
 you coin) , but overall they are all the same. While on the topic of countries, you can choose from 
 the Spanish, Portuguese, German, Russian, British, Dutch and French in skirmish mode. A new feature 
 that proves to be useful is the 'home city' element. The 'home city' or capital can send certain 
 shipments that you choose to your colony, with packages ranging from a boat of settlers to a delivery 
 of a group of Swedish mercenaries. Your home city levels up as you play and you can also upgrade 
 your home city's appearance with points you earn during skirmish matches. The campaign mode is 
 pretty good, and even though you might question yourself as to the importance of the current mission, 
 it all comes together in the end. The story mode is short, and although you won't find yourself 
 playing it again for a while, the skirmish mode is the real feature of AoE. You'll still find yourself 
 searching for the normal resources, food, wood, and coin (gold) . There are numerous ways to retrieve 
 them, but the best way is the old-fashioned way of hunting, chopping and mining. The military part 
 of the game, once developed, will have you neglecting your bustling colony for a while, but thats 
 ok. There are a variety of troops and artillery to choose from, some traditional, some new. Overall 
 the combat system is the same, but it does slow down a bit during big battles. The sea-battles 
 are improved on, and you might just be dropping your mouth as you watch your galleon being blown 
 to pieces.
  
  Graphics/Sound: - This is where AoE III really shines. The graphics are very impressive, for the 
 most part. When a cannon blasts a shell into an enemys town center, pieces will go flying every 
 which way, and you will truly get the sense that you are destroying the enemys territory down 
 to the very last brick. When a soldier gets hit by a cannon they will like-wise go flying, and 
 the image of many muskets constantly firing is a very good one indeed. For the most part, the graphics 
 are sharper, more detailed, and just all-around better. Sound could have been improved on a bit, 
 but it will still have you involved in the battle with full attention. Value/Tilt: - The skirmish 
 mode will no doubt have you going for quite a while, but I would have liked to see a campaign with 
 more acts. The game lags a bit, depending on your computer, but you shouldn't mind much.
  
  Overall: - Overall, AoE III is a great game that really stands out in graphics, combat, and as 
 a game in whole. 8.6/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avand963
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  When someone hears the name age of empires many people thing of a boring slow moving game that 
 one campaign is the same as all the rest. One of my buddies laughed at me when i said i wanted 
 age of empires 3 and said that it was a one trick pony, but after he played he went out and bought 
 himself a copy. The skirmish system is frickin amazing. the idea of a home city makes the skirmishes 
 worth playing because the more you play the better your shipments get and the better you can pwn 
 online. the campaigns can get a little fusterating, but that makes games fun, doesnt it? overall 
 this is a worthy buy just because it adds a whole new angle to the RTS style game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John5227
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is just one of those games that you will enjoy for a long time. I for one really 
 enjoy the single player/campaign modes. Although I haven't tried any multiplayer (I'd probably 
 get beat) , I'm sure that is probably fine. If you are one of those people that really like RTS 
 games, then you should give this game a whirl. The gameplay is really great, and some added features 
 such as the hometown, really add a new element and sense of wholeness to the game. The graphics 
 are really stepped up from previous versions, but can sometimes bog down the system, that is if 
 you don't have a powerful computer. The sound is pretty good I would say, but I really haven't 
 paid that much attention to that element. Overall, I would say that this game is really good, and 
 I can recommend it to anyone who likes strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djpmm
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  I was craving a medieval war game the other day and just happened to find myself at a local gaming 
 store so I decided to buy this one. My experience with previous Age of Empire games has been positive 
 so I decided to give this one a try. Got home and popped it in the PC and was pleasantly surprised 
 at how easy it was to understand. I picked it up in no time and was completely addicted after just 
 a few minutes.
  
  However, there are a few drawbacks. A couple of levels in story mode that I completed the game 
 did not allow me to continue to the next level. I was stuck on the previous bored waiting for something 
 to happen. I'm not sure if I was doing something wrong or if the game had a bug in it. Either way 
 it was a little bit frustrating. I ended up having to type a cheat code that allows you to skip 
 the level.
  
  Overall this game has been a lot of fun. There is a lot to it so you don't get tired of it right 
 away. I think I'm going to go play now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of any war, this game really is fun! You get to find an array of forces with different 
 specialities, which is what I like in a game. Content wise, I'd say this is pretty good. The interface 
 is like any other RTS, very easy to learn. Although I would have preferred larger unit groups and 
 formations for the musketeers, since they really fought in large numbers in a 2 line formation (Correct 
 me if I'm wrong) , this game is fun! Lasted me a good year of weekly playing. The story line was 
 really unique and follows well. Multi-player is fun too, but only one game mode gets boring after 
 time. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dangerous112233
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game's graphics are just astounding. In other RTS's you expect like choppy movements and some 
 skipped parts (e. g. when a boat sinks) , this game has it all!!! You have a variety of new commands 
 and new units to use, this game is well worth its $40 value. Any RTS fan would love this game and 
 should go out to your local Wal-mart or something, and buy it! Any fans of Civilization or the 
 total war games, will absolutly LOVE this game. I am a very hardcore gamer and I play and rate 
 any games that are fantastic and I've played 100+ hours in, and this definitly fits right in! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilhamster
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Age of Empires, a franchise that if named, commands instance recognition. Yet with the latest 
 sequel, Age of Empires III, you may well find yourself left wanting.
  
  The basic idea of the game is to develop your settlement, churn out units and destroy the other 
 team. Which is one of the main reasons why this game can get so repetitive and dull.
  
  After you churn out your 10 or so riflemen, you send them marching off to fight a group of exactly 
 the same types of units, then, a battle ensues in which each group forms lines and fires at each 
 other. After this you are left with hardly any units remaining standing, so, you must churn out 
 more units that will fall to exactly the same fate. There is little skill involved in these battles 
 and there is little you can do to defeat the other except build more, and more units. This on top 
 of the fairly poor graphics, with the zoomed out view not allowing much detail, makes battles very 
 dull indeed. Of course there are the token upgrades, but these make very little aesthetic difference, 
 and in the end it's still the same, very, very similar looking, riflemen, cavalry and m&ecirc; l&eacute; e 
 units fighting and killing each other. There's just not that certain something about the military 
 aspects of Age of Empires that can distinguish it from any other RTS game, and in an overcrowded 
 market that the RTS market is, this is a certain aspect that this game desperately needs.
  
  One part of the game that is impressive are the naval units of AoE III, the sight of your Galleons 
 gliding between the islands of the Caribbean maps is something to behold, sails whipping and cannons 
 thundering. Yet even this positive has a negative side. This being that whenever a ship nears the 
 shore, it has a tendency to manoeuvre in very odd ways, for instance the sight of a Man-Of-War 
 turning on a sixpence is very unrealistic indeed.
  
  So in the end, the graphics, gameplay and nature of this game give little that will make you want 
 to suddenly return and play it again, months after you thought you'd put the CD back in it's case 
 for the last time. And that's the true sign of a very good strategy game, a game that is enthralling, 
 entertaining and innovative, all things that this game is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 2:17 am PT
Review:  My initial thought on a new AOE was 'Yay'!
  
  Still that feeling was a bit premature. First of all. this is not game 1, or game 2, or even the 
 mythology range. they all have a lot in common. Even though this game hasthe title in common, that 
 is all it has in common. There is no question about the graphics or sounds. they are all real good 
 and smooth, it is however the gamerplay that is the issue. Firest of all, do not get scared. thee 
 gameplay and controls are not that bad, however, you should be aware that the easy old interface 
 and use of the game is gone. there are new elements to this game that make it a lot harder and 
 somewhat more challenging. So, this game is not merely a continuation. In some ways it is almost 
 something new. there are strategies to use, choices to make, and all in all it is alll well designed, 
 but now all the old fans will love this. that easy joyfull playtime is gone. it is more serious, 
 and a weak, or even a 'too relaxed' playmode will kick your butt double fast. The game is in that 
 regard, a lot less forgiving. This is not bad, not good, just somehthing you must deal with. Too 
 that effect, having a 'simple' mode game added to this might have turned this intto something close 
 to perfect. The game is still good, still worthy, but almost a game that deserves it's own title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walrus8303
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  Age Of Empires III bears a heavy burden. It has to succeed Age of Empires II the Age of Kings which 
 someone would say has been the best RTS of all times. Ensemble Studios have made some great work 
 on the title however and Age of Empires III accomplishes its mission.
  
  As far as graphics are concerned AoEIII has excellent graphics! The physics of the building as 
 they are being destroyed, the huge size o the ships, the graphics of your home city (which is a 
 new element in the game) and of course the unforgettable sea reflections and lightning (I\ve been 
 staring at it for hours it's absolutely the best sea graphics I've ever seen.
  
  The sound of the game is very good keeping some themes from AoEII but changed enough to fit with 
 the new era.
  
  The gameplay however has changed. There are only 3 resources (food, gold and wood) and they are 
 gathered without the need of an equivelant storehouse nearby. Moreover gold and food are practically 
 infinite in the game as farms amd plantentions (the two buildings producing them provide infinite 
 supply) . The very new element (to AoE not to RTS) is experience. Your nation gains experience through 
 building, researching and of course fighting. The experience in AoEIII unlike any other RTS acts 
 as the fourth resource. With enough experience you gain shipments which are sent from your Home 
 City. These shipments contain resources, unique upgrades and army. As your City gains levels the 
 more the options you have for shipments. The fact that you can only have 20 cards in your shipments 
 deck adds to the overall tactics and strategy a player might follow which is a feature I found 
 very interesting in the game (A feature that has been criticized by many however)
  
  The only drawbacks of AoEIII is first of all its camera. I would prefer the camera to be able to 
 zoom out more as even in the very far position I couldn't see much. In addition to this the UI 
 takes place in the 1/3 of the screen minimizing your field of view of the battlefield (you can 
 minimize it though making things much better)
  
  Another thing to mention about AoEIII is that there are only 8 nations to play with. They are more 
 than enough however as there are many differences between them. Moreover I forgot to say about 
 the native tribes and the trading posts that are added to the game. These are sites you can capture 
 so that you can produce native warriors (that do not cound to your overall population) and trading 
 posts where you actually trade in resources or experience.
  
  Age Of Empires III has very few drawbacks not to be enter the hall of fame. It is an outstanding 
 game surely worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aziansniper
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 10, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  Aoe3
  it's a pretty fun rts gamee overall
  it justs takes time to learn the game and be good at it
  when you first start, it might not be 
 2 enjoyable because you're not 2 good at it and mite b frustrating
  the single player campaign is OK
  they took out some cool builidings from aoe2
  but they have 
 new cooler unitss and buildings
  it's really complex soo it's goin to take you awhile to be really good at it
  it you're an rts 
 fan and you love game and have lots of time 2 play, than u mite want 2 think about buying this 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samwise-Gamjee
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 5, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Age Of Mythology was a great game when it came to campaigns but the skirmish wasnt that worthwile 
 like Age Of Empires : Age of Kings (Masterpiece) . I thought Mythology was trying to do a bit too 
 much.
  Age of Empires 3 returns to the gameplay of AOE2 in most aspects and the campaigns as well as the 
 skirmish mode is amazing.
  The sound is amazing and you i just had a flashback of the menu sound of AOE 2 which is exactly 
 the same for AOE3 in the menu.
  You need a good graphics card to the take the full advantage of the great graphics the game has 
 to offer.
  It adds to AOE 2 but stays true to its roots which makes his game amazing.
  Anxiously waiting to AOE 4 if there will be one :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Well those who remember Age of Empires 2: Age of Kings should agree that it was one of the best 
 RTS games of its time and with Age of Empires 3 expected it to be just as great. Unfortunately 
 though as good as Age of Empires III is, for me it just wasn't anywhere as exciting as Age of Kings. 
 The most notable reason being the game takes place after medieval times, during the exploration 
 era when the European countries was expanding into the New World. This was a negative for me because 
 a lot of units aren't as interesting to look at. I mean as cool as the musketeers look in coats 
 with their rifles, it just doesn't compare to soldiers in heavy armor wielding swords and shields.
 
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as it was in Age of Kings with the addition of the Home Cities 
 and caravan routes, which is good if this is your first RTS. However for veterans of the series, 
 its just more of the same, which is a shame really since they could have done more to make it more 
 innovative as some of the newer RTS games. The Home City adds a MMO type feel to the multiplayer, 
 but most of the upgrades you get at certain levels only affect the eye candy of your city
  
  The graphics is pretty much the best feature this game has to offer as it looks gorgeous at 
 high settings. Although the bloom is a bit over done, but it's still a pleasure to look at.
  
  The sound effects are fantastic as you can hear off screen cannon fire, which sounds very realistic. 
 The music score is good as well, the voice acting in single player not so much.
  
  In conclusion AOE3 is a fun game although very familiar to its predecessor. So anyone who has never 
 played an RTS before will have a blast with this. Veteran RTS players however may get bored of 
 the gameplay pretty easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amogh8188
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is very exciting, a total worth for your money and time. I am sure everyone will like 
 it.
  
  Thye campaigns are very interesting and the gameplay is worth recommending. The storyline was very 
 good and surely was a different type from the regulars where we have to make armies and destroy 
 the enemies. The graphics are absolutely wonderful, and still not so heavy. On my 7300 GT , P4 3 
 GHz it gave a framerate 0f 40 fps with all settings at max.
  
  The bottomline is ' Age of Empires ' is by far the best strategy game I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zenodoros
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  Ensemble Studios are an old hand in Real Time Strategy development. They've been doing it since 
 1997 with the original 'Age of Empires', a great-at-the-time, though now very outdated RTS game. 
 Set in a very broad time period from the stone age to around 100 BC, Age of Empires was the game 
 that not only introduced me to RTS gaming, but also history - so naturally it has a special place 
 in my heart. After the expansion pack, which increased the chronology to another 500 years, Ensemble 
 released the critically acclaimed (though I personally find disappointing) Age of Kings , the second 
 in the series that truly set the public standard for history-based RTS games. AOK and it's expansion 
 pack The Conquerers covered the dark, medieval and early colonial periods with a plethora of civilizations 
 to choose from - from the Mayas to the Japanese, the Franks to the Saracens. After that, ES had 
 a break in the historical chronology and released Age of Mythology , quite possibly the best in 
 the series. Unlike the previous two games and their expansions, which had strictly 2D sprite graphics, 
 AOM had stunning 3D visuals and plenty of special effects. Among that, it added plenty of new features 
 and reinvented others, making it a drastically different experience to any other RTS prior. To 
 top it all off, you fought with Minotaurs and Phoenixes as well as human hoplites and ulfsarks. 
 The single player campaign was also a massive change in the formula - no longer having seperate 
 scenerios based on historic events, but rather one massive campaign starring fictional (though 
 some based on real mythological) characters that caught themselves up in mythological settings, 
 such as the Troyan War, the search for Osiris' body parts and Ragnarok. AOM was an excellent success, 
 as was the further reinventive expansion pack, the Titans.
  
  So, why did I give a brief history of Ensemble's career? Because if you've never played an Age 
 game before, or even if you have - it helps. In a series like this, one must always compare the 
 latest to the earliest, to find whether it's revolutionary, or whether you should just stick with 
 a previous installment.
  
  What should one do with Age of Empires III?
  
  The game is set within a Colonial to Industrial setting (approximately 1492 - 1850) - which automatically 
 put off ES fans who didn't wish to play with musketeers and cannons - preferring the spearmen and 
 archers of earily AOE games. Not to worry though - because spearmen and archers are still in the 
 game. As are swordsmen and halberdiers. And the musketeers and cannons? There hasn't been anything 
 like them in previous AOE games - and they're excellent, highly enjoyable additions - and are by 
 no means unbalanced (unlike what many 'professional' reviewers might say) . So, if you've thought 
 twice about buying the game for those reasons, I hope you're seriously considering getting it now.
 
  
  The civilizations to choose from are all European and colonized parts of the Americas - with the 
 exception of the Ottoman empire. This unique faction was included for extra variety, and to reflect 
 on the importance of the Ottomans during this time period. Quite simply, although they didn't really 
 colonize America, they were certainly capable of doing so. It's merely another 'what if?' in the 
 AOE series. Other than the Turks, you can choose from the British, French, Portuguese, Dutch, Spanish, 
 Russian and German civilizations. The Germans are a combination of numerous German-speaking people 
 rather than Germany itself (which is out of the games timeline) and thus are another more unique 
 civilization. Each civ has it's own strengths, weaknesses and unique units, making them much more 
 different to play as than those in previous Age games.
  
  The graphics are outstanding, even without some super-duper graphics card. Even at the lowest setting, 
 they're a vast improvement over AOM's - which still looked fabulous anyway. Although water looks 
 particularly impressive (assuming you have a top graphics card, which I currently don't) , it's 
 the physics engine that looks the best. Once a cannonball or even a flaming torch hits a building, 
 particles of the structure will slowly slide and break off, falling to the ground below. Smoke 
 and fire has never looked so realistic. And if a cannonball manages to break right through the 
 building and hits a slope, it'll slide down the hillock until disappearing completely. It's enough 
 to make you completely forget about your micro and just gasp in awe, even if you're playing your 
 fiftieth game.
  
  The sound is actually rather disappointing. The voice actors in the campaign are somewhat underwhelming 
 - whether they don't fit a character or just sound plain silly, it never really fits the supposed 
 seriousness of the story. The music also gets repetitive - it sounds good initially and certainly 
 isn't bad, but you'll be hearing it so much you'd much rather just listen to one of your own CDs 
 after a while. On the plus side, every unit in the game speaks their appropriate language (Spanish 
 speak Spanish, British speak Olde English, Iroquois speak Mohawk, etc.) and with clearly a lot 
 of care. Each unit, or at least most, even have their own voice actors. It's a massive break from 
 previous Age games - in particular the first in which every unit had the exact same voice and spoke 
 the same drivel. In that respect, AOE3 sounds great. Oh, and there's a whole lot of multiplayer 
 taunts too, if you happen to care.
  
  The gameplay has gotten some bad rep from quite a few reviewers and players because it supposedly 
 doesn't concentrate on economical issues as much. This quite possibly comes from the fact that 
 villagers no longer require drop off points for gathering (think the Citizens in AOM: The Titans) 
 and mills and plantations (farms) have infite resources. This concerns players who believe that 
 ES are slowly getting rid of economy to make way for a much more military-based game. However, 
 even though some economy has been taken out, new stuff has been added. For example, you no longer 
 start with resources, you have to gather them from crates that appear around your Town Centre first. 
 Secondly, whereas huntable animals in previous Age Games would not scatter when shot, AOE3 introduces 
 a 'herding' system that basically translates to more micro . It's now important for villagers to 
 shoot animals in the direction of a TC, as the animals scatter in that direction. Without the right 
 concentration, your villagers are raid-prey. Among this, certain buildings such as the livestock 
 pen require very special attention to be utilized effectively, although they aren't underpowered.
 
  
  With that covered, it's now time to get to the most revolutionary aspect of AOE3 - giving it some 
 RPG juice. No longer can players choose what civilization they are for any game - not unless they 
 have a home city for that particular civ first (and preferably a high level one, at that) . Home 
 cities can be made anytime when not playing a game, and grow experience levels as you play games. 
 As you grow levels, new 'cards' become unlockable. Cards can be sent during a game assuming you 
 have a 'shipment' to send. For example, a Spanish colony in Amazonia may want to send 8 Pikemen 
 from Madrid to prevent a raid or rush an opponent. They can do so by selecting that 8 Pikemen card 
 in a deck (limited to 20 cards and set seperately throughout the 4 important ages) . Other than 
 sending units (including the elusive and expensive mercenaries such as the Mameluke and Ronin) , 
 they can also send cards that give resources, automatic unit upgrades and building wagons - as 
 well as others that don't come into any particular class. Higher levels mean better cards. As a 
 result, you may find yourself pretty desperate to advance to Level 25 and purchase a card that 
 can turn your strategy from bad to broken. Such is the great strategic inclusion of Home Cities 
 and cards. On the downside, players with social lives may find it unfair that while they're spending 
 time drinking with friends and leaving their home cities in the dust, nerds from all over the world 
 are perfecting yet another Spanish strat. But hey, that's the case in any experience-based game, 
 and thus shouldn't only apply to AOE3.
  
  Scattered around the maps, which are all based on particular areas in the Americas are trading 
 routes, which upon building on certain sites grant resources and/or experience as a travois or 
 train moves past - and native American settlements. Once allied with the natives, they grant you 
 one or two types of units that you can add to your army (for no population cost, though at a build 
 limit) and two or three unique technologies, creating even more potential strategies to the game. 
 While the Caribs will grant you the ability to train blowgunners, the Comanche will give you a 
 mounted archer on a mustang and one of the fastest ranged units in the game. The Indians are located 
 on maps appropriate to their original locations - thus you'll find the Cherokee in Carolina rather 
 than Texas, and the Lakota in the Great Plains rather than the Yukatan. One must admit though, 
 there is certainly a North American bias in both maps and natives. A total of 3 uniquely South 
 American Indian tribes exist within the game - as opposed to 8 that are from North America. This 
 may not be surprising since that ES is located in Texas, however I personally found it disappointing 
 that they allow such bias in a worldwide available videogame - especially since the Europeans came 
 into contact with South Americans first.
  
  The single player campaign is the reason why probably around 80% of gamers actually buy an AOE 
 game, goodness knows why. Players expecting another historical campaign will be greatly disappointed 
 - the AOE3 campaign puts you in the shoes of Maltese and Scottish Knights travelling to MesoAmerica 
 to stop a mad European cult from discovering the Fountain of Youth... or something. That's the 
 jist of the first act, anyway. The second and third are slight improvements, but still follow a 
 very stupid and unrealistic premise. You may find yourself wishing to play the Julius Caesar campaign 
 from AOE1, or the Joan of Arc saga from AOK, again. About the only historical side is one brief 
 scenerio set in the French and Indian wars, which still isn't exactly historical accurate (the 
 Iroquois are allied to the French in it!) . Thus, you most likely will find yourself disappointed 
 in the campaign. (On the plus side, I've heard that the campaign in the expansion pack WarChiefs 
 is a bit better as it follows the American Revolution and the USA wars with the plains Indians, 
 although of course you'll need to purchase that if you wish to play it) .
  
  As for the multiplayer and balance - it's excellent. The game has certainly gone through a few 
 patches, but right now it's close to perfect, better than most RTS games. There are a few overpowered 
 and underpowered civilizations and units, but it's not as much as a stretch as it was previously. 
 While it wasn't as possible previously, a Dutch player can now beat a Spanish one with relative 
 ease, and vice-versa. The multiplayer experience is truly the real reason to play the game - if 
 you've never played online with an RTS, AOE3 is a great place to start. And if you're a veteran 
 in the series, you'll certainly enjoy the new challenges and civs.
  
  Overall, Age of Empires 3 is a far better game than many people are making it out to be. There's 
 so much to do, I wouldn't doubt that you'll be playing for months - online or off. The single-player 
 is a disappointment, but with luck that's just forced more people into logging onto ESO2 for the 
 first time. If you liked previous ES games or are just searching for a top-notch RTS experience 
 - buy this game as soon as possible.
  
  So where to next for Age of Empires? World War? Age of Mythology 2? Or maybe a reinvention of the 
 ancient period? Regardless of what is chosen, I have no doubt that it'll be done well.
  
  Pros: Addictive home city system, great multiplayer, improved balance, good civilization variety.
 
  Cons: The campaign is a far cry from previous ES examples, and so is the editor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan1191
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 24, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is good on gameplay, graphics and the controls are pretty easy to learn. all i think 
 of this game is that it was just an improvement fron the last two with just a twist of the new 
 land. the whole concept of home shipments and the explorer being the hero of the game is good but 
 it is really not that appealing to someone like me, who has seen a lot of strategy games that are 
 a lot better than this one only in the storyline and all that stuff. The graphocs, though, are 
 are pretty good and the look and the feel of AOE is not lost. The bottomline is that this the kind 
 of the game that will appeal to people that liked the last two and also people that are discovering 
 the genre of strategy games. I will still buy it because it is probably worth the 50 bucks i spent 
 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivan789
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 18, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  The graphics look amazing! so much detail including real physics. the sound, the graphics, the 
 gameplay, and a Home City makes this game the best. I played all of their previous games like age 
 of kings, but all of them fail in comparason to this. The campaign is just an adventure. 24 missions 
 with super cool cinematics makes you jump into the game and enjoy. the home city feature is one 
 of the best features in the game. it allows you to ship shipments to the new world. I think Age 
 Of Empires III is going to conquer the new world! (game market) . the scenario editor is also powerful 
 its kind of the same from aom. I enjoy this game every day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toad1956
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 18, 2006 12:52 am PT
Review:  Spoiler alert; I will be saying things that might wreck your total enjoyment of the game.
  
  Age of Empires 3 is not a bad game at all; in fact there are worse games out there. I biggest 
 complaint is the campaigns; there a joke. At medium settings, for the most part, the campaigns 
 are ridicules easy. Half an hour and you will complete the mission. Take for example the Journey 
 Through the Andes mission you just kill the scouts and take a small break in camps along the way, 
 no stopping, and you win: To easy. Other problems that I do not like about the game are many. The 
 first is citizens finding work is gone, it is back to the dumb citizen era so Age of Empires 1. 
 There is no default attack and move. Even if you do attack and move it sometimes they will not 
 fight. Microsoft Game Studios fixed some of the problems, but your infantry will still creep out 
 of place and die! Another thing I found infuriating is the artillery does not setup when stopped. 
 It takes a deliberate attack on the artillery by the enemy before it will setup and fire. Why should 
 we gamers have to do this level of micromanagement? (The same can be said for the ships as well.) 
 The game scale makes the game play weird; on some oceans the ships fill the distances between islands. 
 The best part about the game though is the AI. It can beat your pants off if you do not pay attention. 
 I got run over by the Turks because of their ability with hand cannons. So they created an army 
 of Hand Canners and cannons and I was over run; I had neglected my Calvary. The maps may be small, 
 but they offer different terrain types to force you to adjust your tactics to. For example the 
 Great Plains map is more open then the Great Lakes. And on some maps the Trade Route creates 
 problems for defense. Then you add the natives; each map has different tribes to ally to. With 
 the different tribes comes different strengths and weakness. Lastly is the Home City; choosing 
 the right mix of cards can be a challenge or very frustrating. This makes the game a winner.
  
  (I upgraded my graphics board and what difference it makes. With the 7900 board I now see walls 
 and towers with pieces coming off and the building burning; cool.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthulhu34
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  When I first turned this game on I had the sense of feeling I was playing Civilization. After 15 
 minutes of playing I was very happy to have purchased this game. The content is very good, flashy 
 graphics, nice storyline, little if any bugs or glitches, the game runs smooth. Mainly aside from graphics, what 
 I buy a game for is good graphics but content and bugless. So far it's alot of 3am nights i am looking 
 forward too, just one more mission.:) .
  
  I have also played the Demo Warchiefs and I am quite impressed how it fits in so smoothly, all the 
 additions are worth the buy. So long Civilization, Age of Empires has that bite that Civ doesn't 
 have ,more combat oriented. One minute your fighting pirates and the next your being attacted by 
 Native Americans.:)
  
  One game totally worth buying and playing and I am not a big fan of Microsoft games... exceptions:) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshidino
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 15, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game of the series. It is very addicting, and it features 3 different campaigns 
 for story mode. Age of Empires III is without a doubt fun to play. There are 8 different nations 
 you can play. The British, French, Spanish, Portugese, Russians, Ottomans, Ducth, and The Germans 
 (my favorite out of the 8) . Each nation offers a unique set of units, which include the Ottoman 
 Janisarries, and British Redcoats. Age of Empires III offers a new Home City button during gameplay. 
 Your Home City provides resources, units, special upgrades, and wagons to build stuff. It also 
 offers an XP bar, which determines what level your Home City gets to, and how many shipments you 
 can recieve. The Shipments in your Home City is called your deck (cards basicly) . The higher your 
 homecity level the more cards you can stick inside your deck. There is a limit to 20 cards per 
 deck. The graphics in this game are jaw-dropping. The way the water is done is simply amazing. 
 However, there can be massive lag problems if you create a giant navy at a sea level. So laggy 
 in fact that you might have to blow up your navy just to move your camera around. If you liked 
 the previous Age of Empires, then I wouldn't hesitate to get this one. And even if you didn't like 
 the last two Age of Empires, get this anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 14, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  The Good: Still a good game compared the the likes of the original, complex and quite interesting, 
 lots of content and levels have a lot of depth, great graphics for people who have good computers. 
 Good game with many small significant let downs.
  
  The Bad: Some aspects of combat don't look and feel quite right; frame rate can bog down at the 
 wrong moments; falls into some of the same traps as many older real-time strategy games . Very 
 slow action and takes agers to get into to. Can get really boring and repetitive. A lot of replay 
 value, but most people wont bother with it.
  
  Fun to be had but not the must strategy game out their. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodnecron
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 13, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  i bout this game not tolong ago, this game is great stuff. it has good graphics, good 3D, and good 
 sound too. the campain is sort of hard but once you used to it, you are Killing Superme (that what 
 they say in halo when you kill lots of people) this game should atleast get a 9.0 because i think 
 it has better graphics then Dawn of War (my RTS favorit) . i started playing age of ampire when i 
 was in 6th grade and i bought the Age of Emperor 1 and the expantion at best buy. the graphics 
 is fine and the sound, i don't like. the micro soft studios worked hard on this one and it payed 
 off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 16, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  At the current price of $40-$50 (USD; as of this writing) , Age of Empires III carries a heavy weight 
 to succeed after the series absence. The sequel picks up right where we left off with Age Of Empires 
 II: The Conqueror's Expansion (or simply AoE II) .
  
  Age of Empires gets a huge face lift, focusing mainly on the new visual look and engine. Microsoft 
 did this well, as we are now able to have a 3D environment complete with a rotating camera. The 
 core game-play from AoE's past remains the same, with the simple build and attack strategy still 
 there. New campaigns give it a new feel with the great graphics as well as a Home City and a card/deck 
 system (with bonuses and much needed items/troops you can choose for each new Age) . Best yet, the 
 options for creating custom maps are still present.
  
  Unfortunately, AoE III offers nothing too revolutionary to the series other than the graphics. 
 The inclusion of Native American allies isn't so spectacular, as they virtually do not do anything 
 noteworthy other than being good for recruiting native troops and trade. The AI is still a problem. 
 Often times you'll see enemy troops all bunched up together walking awkwardly toward your own army. 
 Other issues include some poorly acted cheesy dialogue in the campaigns (though much of it isn't 
 so bad) .
  
  All in all, Age Of Empires III does manage to succeed. It does not do so on a grand scale, but 
 it brings new life (visual-wise) into an already classic game. The sequel is great at retaining 
 the basic themes and core game-play of AoE. This should definitely satisfy the fans thirsting for 
 a modern update to the series, but many of them will be left feeling that something much newer 
 should have been done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larim
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 3, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  It took me a while to complete Age of Empires 3. It was not the graphics, the sound or even the 
 gameplay that meant it tok me so long to do so. It was simply this. Age of Empires 3 has a very 
 dull story-line which made me wonder why I was not simply playing skirmish games?! So even though 
 its story-line is weak the game itself is very good. The graphics are top-notch and as soon as 
 you patch up the game the sound is too. The game-play? Well that depends on your style of play I 
 guess. If you are a player ywho can take their time and build up a major force it is easy as pie. 
 Go a bit more gung-ho and I guess it can be difficult. I enjoyed the game and any RTS fan should 
 try it. It is easy to learn, pleasant on the eye and is not going to leave you frustrated because 
 of its difficutly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eefreak8
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 23, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Third in a highly successful genre this game had a lot to live up to. The question is, did it?
 
  
  The game was clearly designed with the casual gaming market in mind as they are the ones who make 
 up a majority of sales for ES and as a result a lot of things were simplified, or simply removed 
 making the game far less complex.
  
  With 8 civilisations and a fairly complex counter system there is scope for a lot of strategies 
 and the way the game is played has completely changed from patch to patch. The large amount of 
 unique civilisations however ,make it very difficult to balance resulting in some civilisations 
 being too strong and others being too weak.
  
  The multiplayer intereface was at first dysfunctional, laggy and overall somewhat pathetic and 
 lacking in features but by now it is solid and works as it should with a lot more useful features 
 built in.
  
  It has a nice and varied sound track, changing the music for the appropriate situation filling 
 your speakers with suspensful music as you siege an enemies town centre while playing soft, melodic 
 music as your villagers sit and farm while the birds fly by.
  
  The graphics are not amazing, but with a high end graphics card are no doubt impressive and some 
 of the effects on the water with shader model 3 are beautfiul.
  
  The homecity function really speeds up the game and adds a lot of strategic decision making but 
 almost dominates the game too much, allowing people to ship in victory from their homecity.
  
  Overall it is a very good game and although it lacks some of the complexity that made its predecessors 
 great it is an incredible piece of work in its own right and will only be made better by the upcoming 
 expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Grave
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is another good Microsoft RTS, but not very innovative. The campaign follows the 
 example set by Age of Mythology. You with lead fictional heroes through historical setting, meeting 
 great historical people and fighting armies of nations in completely wrong places (like Russians 
 that crossed the Pacific to conquer the New World or Ottomans who came in search of the Fountain 
 of Youth) . This is not really a bad thing, but it might disappoint some players who looked for 
 historical accuracy. There is something good for them in AoE3, however, as all the nations in the 
 game have historically accurate strengths and weaknesses and unique units.
  
  New features (compared to previous AoE games) are mostly the necessity of setting. Most importantly, 
 those are the natives whom you can befriend to gain their very interesting and unique units and 
 the Home City which can ship resources, units and upgrade as you gain XP by doing almost anything 
 in the game.
  
  The game should have been much better graphically. Strangely, I find Age of Mythology visually 
 more appealing. It seems that graphics in Age of Empires 3 looks sharp only with maximum zoom, 
 which is useless for normal gameplay, while it tends to become blurred when you zoom out.
  
  The sound is good with some nice voice acting and cutscenes.
  
  The only great disappointment 
 in the game is length of the campaign which I finished in about 3 days of playing. It spans from 
 the first days of colonization to the days of wild west and has quite good story, but it is really 
 too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 19, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  All fluff and no substance. The graphic and physics value of this game is vastly outweighed by 
 the fact that the story line blows hardcore. The heroes aren't very interesting nor are they expansive 
 or even VITAL to ahve around, the army formations they promised fall apart into typical RTS chaos 
 while attacking, and the PvP aspect is all very repetitive. None of the nations really appealed 
 to me, and all the interesting eras were the ones that were either upgrded through too quickly, 
 not explored enough, and in general just one step in a long chain of upgrades you never appreciate. 
 It all ends up poiting into the same end result as any other RTS made in the last ten years has 
 gone before. Disappointing. An average RTS game despite its press. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires was one of my favorite series growing up. It introduced me to the genre, and opened 
 the way for some great games like Starcraft and Warcraft. But, they newest installment is more 
 of the same, which isn't all that great.
  
  The biggest addition is the persistant home city. The more you play, the high you level up. As 
 you level, you get cards to add to your deck that you can use to ship troops or gain bonuses during 
 the game. While this sounds good, what ends up happening is that players build huge armies real 
 quick and blow the heck out of each other.
  
  There isn't much in the way of strategy in the game. Whoever has the bigger army almost always 
 wins. Units don't have any special abilities really, and aren't interesting. And combat is mostly 
 rock paper scissors. It gets old. And boring.
  
  While the game concept is great, there are new RTSs out that put this to shame. And older ones 
 too. The game is absolutely gorgeous to look at, but not much else. Too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alkku94
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 16, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Good game, its worth of play. it has got good graphics, nice sound and gameplay is great. There 
 are 8 great country. Those are Spain, Germany, Great Britain, Turkey (Ottomans) , Russia, Portugal 
 and Holland. It can be played in the Internet or LAN. Game is good and you can have your own home 
 city where you van reap the rewards. In game if you got enough EXP you can use card from your home 
 city and you can get: Food, Coins, Wood, Bombards, Infantry or Cavalry. But when you have played 
 the game too much you start to think thats boring game. So dont play this game too much because 
 you would be then boring guy or you will be crazy turkish terrorist then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBlacknifex
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 16, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires II was pretty awesome. It was addictive, customizable, and you could even make your 
 own scenarios, which was cool. When I got Age of Empires 3, I was overwhelmed. It had awesome graphics, 
 detail, etc. It had so more much to do. The only thing I didn't like was the scenario editor for 
 this one. It is too confusing when it came to creating the scenario part. And the fact that there 
 isn't many nations to choose from. The worst part of the game: The building limits. I want more 
 than 7 guard towers. But everything else is awesome about this game. I especially liked the part 
 with native tribes, and trading posts. It's so cool. I still haven't played online though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarki983
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3
  
  Yeah, so anyways, Age of empires 3 is pretty much the same as the 2nd one. It's just got a few 
 more colonies than it. And it's just got more units. Other than that, I've always loved Age of 
 Empires 2, so this one was okay, but I needed something different for a change.
  
  Gameplay
  
  As I said before, I've always loved Age of Empires 2 , And the gameplay was the 
 only reason for that. But enough of AOE2, we're talking about AOE3. So anyways, the gameplay for 
 this was great, but it lacked something, Value. If it's exactly the same as the other one, than 
 What the hell do I need this for?
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics were the best of the best for AOE. It had great graphics, but it seemed that was all 
 the people that made it were concerned about. Graphics aren't always everything, Yo .
  
  Difficulty
  
  Well, I've developed a way of beating AOE on any difficulty, so It was fine for 
 me. I'd give the difficulty an Okay .
  
  Anyways, that's my review for Age of Empires 3. Alright go away now.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacquesjoubert
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 9, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires III moves the action to the New World, letting players lead a variety of European 
 nations from the Age of Discovery through the Industrial Age. Eight playable nations battle across 
 a wide variety of geographies -- from the swamps of Florida to the snowy passes of the Rocky Mountains. 
 Players can recruit different Native American tribes and seize control of various trade routes. 
 Material and technological support will be offered by the player's home city back in Europe.
  
  The 24-mission campaign is very well designed. Divided into three large acts, it tells the 
 story of three generations of the Black family. First Morgan Black, a Knight of St. John races 
 to the New World to stop the Spanish from seizing a powerful natural wonder. Next, Morgan's grandson 
 John and his Native American allies find themselves in the Seven Year's War. The final act shows 
 John's granddaughter Amelia as the head of a railroad company making their way west.
  
  I won't spoil the particulars of the story here but a common quest and a common enemy unite all 
 three acts. The connections aren't always clear at first, but the associations start to build as 
 the game goes on. Putting the pieces together isn't terribly hard but it gives a nice sense of 
 purpose to the whole game and keeps you invested in the action.
  
  While we're talking about the game's story, it's refreshing to see a game that covers this era 
 of warfare without referencing either Napoleon or the American Revolution. While both are fertile 
 ground for strategy game developers, it's nice to get something a little different this time around. 
 Meeting Washington and Bolivar and taking part in the Seven Year's War adds a little authenticity 
 as well as variety. On the other hand, some of the choices -- like finding Russians in Colorado 
 -- may leave gamers scratching their heads in wonder.
  
  The range of missions is pretty broad. There are plenty of defense missions where you have to protect 
 a given structure or a whole town from enemy assault. In other cases you'll have to destroy or 
 capture key structures. Along the way there are plenty of other objectives: rescuing captured settlers, 
 seizing trading posts, liberating Native American settlements and a whole host of other tasks. 
 Better still, many missions combine a variety of these objectives at once. While most of the missions 
 let you build a base and start collecting resources, there are some missions where you have to 
 make do with a set number of troops.
  
  Outside of the single player campaign, Age of Empires III benefits from a very soild multiplayer 
 interface. A few simple clicks take you to ESO2, Ensemble's online matchmaking service. Finding 
 and joining games is remarkably easy and there are a wide variety of options to choose from. Different 
 starting eras and resource levels will let players jump into as advanced a game as they want. The 
 AI offers up a few taunts from time to time to (sort of) replicate the personality of a human player. 
 It's a nice trick honestly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kromedeyez
Rating: 4.8
Date: Sep 8, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  It's more than obvious that they''ve focused on the look of the new Age of Empires. But I don't 
 believe that they've been focused on gameplay. In an interview one of the developers of AOE3 spoke 
 on a deadline that was issued by Microsoft. This would explain why the game looks great which was 
 the focus, but it is simply boring. It lacks the the pure contents of the first Age of Empires 
 which defined the series. AOE2 was just like the first except it had additional units and civilizations. 
 Even Age of Mythology was great. But the real problem with AOE3 was that it's a totally different 
 game from the series. They've incorporated guns and cowboys into the genre. The game just doesn't 
 have that classic feeling. I don't even think these are the same people who created the first Age 
 of Empires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miabb
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 28, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  i like aoe3 the best in the rts games. moreover it is quit blazing and splendid than its older versions 
 .ensemble has made it worth playing.
  very good game indeed, a real jump we can say. aoe 2 was not so good i cant think of that improvment 
 in the graphics and sound effects.
  one of the best rts games.
  dont hasitate to buy this game, play it in full graphics mood and enjoy the sound, and blasting effects, i 
 have also played empire earth, stronghold, rise of nations, red alert2, c&c generals, celtic kings 1&2 
 but aoe3 is still my favourite one.
  if that game has any problem perchance it can be only and only the problem that the compaign is 
 little bit a short othewise the game is the end. i have given it 10 to its gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hozhoz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  The Age of Empires series has been revolutionary to Real-Time Strategy (RTS) for years, so its 
 no surprise that the enchantment from the previous games has carried over into Age of Empires III. 
 In spite of the brilliant formula of previous games, AOE 3 may feel like the same horse and cart 
 probably depends on how much you've enjoyed and played the previous games in the series.
  
  In this latest game in the series, gamers play as an explorer of America between 1400 and 1800AD, 
 the time in which America was cultured by European countries and starting to grow to what it is 
 today. A new feature is the Home City, a place where you can visit at any point during a game to 
 send useful shipments for your explorer and settlement. There is a wide array of thing to send 
 from your Home City and whatever is sent will speed up your enjoyment and place in the game whether 
 it be units, buildings or advancements in resource gathering speed.
  
  The tutorial is split into two areas, one explaining the interface of the game and Home City and 
 the other part letting you play a game and receiving advice in-game. The advice is good to start 
 for any player whether new or a veteran to the series. If you have played previous games you will 
 obviously be at an advantage with many of the older games features carrying through, like similar 
 resources, buildings and units.
  
  Resource gathering is at a similar state to previous games and upgrades to wood cutting, hunting 
 or mining can all be found at the market or in shipments from the home city. Another feature continued 
 from old games is the resource trading from the market and tributing to other players, but unlike 
 older games the market is available in the first age and is likely to be the first building you 
 erect. One of the biggest changes to resource gathering is that settlers, or villagers do not have 
 to walk back to deposit resources, this indeed adds to the speed of the gameplay and is a welcome 
 new feature. This obviously eliminates the need for mining sites but there is still a mill which 
 never runs out of food produce and every village you have on it gathers food form it at a slow 
 rate, there is also a plantation which does the same job for coin (or gold) .
  
  There are three new features to all maps treasures, trade posts and native alliance spots. Firstly 
 treasures are worth while thing to collect like, resources, upgrades, etc. and are usually guarded 
 by strong or weak treasure guardians, the strength of the guardian depends on the usefulness of 
 the treasure. Trade posts are a new system in the game to earn quick experience for getting shipments 
 from the Home City, nearly everything you do gets experience as well but it is a worthwhile place 
 to build on. After an upgrade to the trade route, you can also get resources from the trade post. 
 Native alliance points are a big new gameplay feature where you can create Native American units 
 and get unique upgrades, these can be an early help or an end game breaker as the units created 
 there cost no populations but still cost resources.
  
  The Home City is a big new feature and as mentioned before sends shipments of useful or unique 
 units and upgrades to your colony. To earn shipments you must get in-game experience and to get 
 this all you do is play; building, gathering resources and creating units all earn experience. 
 There is another use for experience all the XP you earned in a game gets added to your created 
 Home City's level and you can buy new shipments and customizations for your Home City. The customizations 
 are just cosmetic but the shipments do help greatly to your strategy in the game.
  
  Your explorer or hero in AOE 3 is more useful for just fighting and collecting treasures. The explorer 
 can also negotiate and set up trading posts with the Native American villages and these relationships 
 can lead to Native American warriors fighting on your side. He can also use trading posts to put 
 on set points on trade routes to gather quick XP. The only other unit which can create trade posts 
 is the settler. Your explorer can be captured by the enemy and held for ransom, but killing him 
 isnt an option. They can slowly heal themselves, run at quite a speed or when captured just stay 
 on the ground incapacitated.
  
  A main selling point from old Age of Empires games has been the upgrading the age of your colony. 
 Doing this is the only way to get better units, buildings and better upgrades to your economy and 
 military. It is also graphically noticeable when you advance an age. With the passing of ages you 
 can also get better shipments from the Home City, the reason for this is obvious; imagine if you 
 could get another Town Centre in the first age, or only one settler in the last. One of the main 
 reasons for wanting to advance age for the shipments is forts and factories two new buildings. 
 Forts are like the castles of AOE 2, extremely powerful defensive structures capable of creating 
 your civilizations favoured units. Factories create resources at very fast rate and are always 
 worth a spot in your deck of shipments, they can also create super artillery very powerful building 
 destroying units that cost a lot of population.
  
  Counter units have been in the series for years and this time they have been improved and balanced 
 to perfection. Defensive civilizations have many countering units so building a force of them will 
 pummel attackers of certain kinds. Countering is done by having multiplying bonuses against certain 
 types, for example, skirmishers are good against infantry and have a two or three times bonus. 
 To effectively use counters setting unit groups to numbers is essential and takes quite a bit of 
 skill, but doing so you could see an army of 100 beating an army of 150.
  
  Graphically the series has taken a huge step forward. Every unit, building, tree look brilliant 
 and I don't like saying it but it does improve the experience. Of course if you want to experience 
 the game fully at a good speed you'll need a good range PC. AOE 3 should work on most PCs but not 
 look as good as it would on high end ones, make sure not to sacrifice game speed for improved graphics.
 
  
  One of the best features is the way the units die. Sounds strange but when you see a unit getting 
 bombed by a ship or an artillery unit you will probably smile at your dominating cannon. The physics 
 in the game are slightly exaggerated but it never detracts, more likely adds to the fun. Watching 
 battles can get you distracted from other tasks, such as telling other units to attack. Seeing 
 the trees swaying, the water rippling is something to actually watch instead of the less exciting 
 graphics of previous games.
  
  The sounds of the game are good, but don't add to the experience as much as the graphics. The sounds 
 of gun shots and of units building are realistic but there isn't much other than that. The music 
 on the menu's is nice but I can't see wanting to listen to it in a game. I would say the best sound 
 feature is the computer's taunts; varied for each personality it is a nice addition. Overall I 
 prefer to have the sound off and would say they could have done a slightly better job with it, 
 but it is definitely not very important.
  
  The Artificial Intelligence is well implemented and computers do play better on higher difficulties. 
 Your own units are also smart and stick to commands, putting them in defensive will make then only 
 move short distances from they're point to attack, but attacking will follow enemy units far to 
 kill them. The formations work well and the path-finding is very good, with units barely ever getting 
 stuck.
  
  The Campaign mode is quite short in length but different for each scenario. It follows the saga 
 of the fictional Black family. It keeps up a rapid pace through-out, objectives take you through 
 caves and other points of interest. Side objectives improve your unique Home City level for the 
 campaign and allow you useful shipments and items for the whole campaign or just the one mission. 
 You also encounter some historical figures but don't go in depth into factual content. There is 
 also a skirmish mode for "random" matches
  
  Online, this is where the game explodes fun; I've been playing online for over three months and 
 never gotten tired of it. The balance is important here and when you get beaten you never feel 
 too angry except at your own mistakes, this usually leads for you to improve. The online mode is 
 more of a reason to get the game than single player though both are good reasons. The online interface 
 is good and the servers are reliable, most of the community is good and the rating system is fair.
 
  
  If you've been a fan of past Age of Empires games you'll be certain to love this and if not you'll 
 be likely to get into this. If you were tiring of past games this has enough new features to bring 
 you back to the series. I recommend this to be purchased if you enjoy RTS or online gaming, a long 
 lasting and thoroughly enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 17, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  The graphics actually sell this game. It is a nice "add-on" to an already decent series.
  
  The downside to this game would be that you are limited to the Old United States, and South American 
 continents. Granted, you may create your own map to resolve this issue. However, if the option 
 is available in previous versions of the AOE saga, then it should still be represented in future 
 releases.
  
  It also looks as if you don't have as many Character choices as you did in previous versions of 
 AOE. 
  
  Not a bad release, just limited. If you are an AOE series collector this is a "must have" simply 
 based off of graphical advancements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homersbart
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  SOME WRONGS IN THE GAME
  
  1) Janissaries are portrayed in the game as bearded, although in reality they were banned from 
 wearing beards. 
  2) In the campaign, Natives taken captive are portrayed as Incans in Florida. However, the Incans 
 originate from South America. 
  3) The game confuses gunpowder with trinitrotoluene (TNT) several times, and the use of the latter 
 is expressed before its supposed invention date. This is evident during in-game cinematics throughout 
 the game. 
  4) St. Petersburg is portrayed as the main port of Russia. However, St. Petersburg was constructed 
 during the reign of Peter the Great, not while Ivan the Terrible was in power
  5) The events of the Single Player Campaign begin in 1565, when the Ottoman Turks attack Malta. 
 Therefore, Morgan Black could not have encountered the Aztec Empire, which had fallen in 1521. 
 
  6) Also in the Campaign, in the third act Amelia Black has to help Simon Bolivar gain independence 
 for Latin America from Imperial Spain. However, Simon Bolivar died in 1830 and we are told that 
 the third act begins just after the American Civil War, which ended in 1865. 
  7) The flag for the French should be the modern one, seeing as it was when Napoleon ruled 
  8) The 
 leader of the French civilization in Age of Empires III is Napoleon, however it was Louis XIV who 
 oversaw the greatest expansion of France into the New World. In fact, Napoleon actually sold French 
 Louisiana to America and therefore brought about an end to New France 
  9) The flag for the Ottoman Empire is actually the flag for modern day Turkey and is therefore different 
 from the historical flag. 
  10) The leader of the Spanish civilization in Age of Empires III is Queen Isabella of Castile who 
 died in 1504, even though Spain wasn't a nation until 1516. The first king of Spain was Charles 
 I of Spain (Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor) . 
  
  IF YOU DONT BELIEVE ME THEN GO TO 
  (www. wikipedia. com) and type age of empires 3 in the search box 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueAtlas
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires has done it again. After the long wait a sequel to Age of Empires II is finally 
 out. This installment is crammed with tons new features and animations. The New World environments 
 are really stunning sight to behold when running on a high-end video card. But the most anticipated 
 improvement would have to be the physics in the game. Ragdoll physics have been incorportated to 
 show the true brutality of war. Another feature that has been added is the Home City. This feature 
 somewhat doesn't provide any contribution to the actual gameplay besides supplies and upgrades 
 being sent to your colony. But I fail to see the part how changing the color on your Home City 
 cathedral will help your colony. Overall this game was worth the wait and should be a great game 
 to many RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmsru11
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 9, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I have always liked RTS's. I started to like RTS's more when Rise of Nations came out. But, Age 
 of Empires has always been one of them to fall back on. Age of Empires III does not fail me. This 
 game is an excellent example of what an RTS should consist of. Great graphics, excellent game play, 
 short learning time, and a user friendly interfece. Go buy it or download it now. You will not 
 be disappointed. Also, I think that Age of Empires III goes beyond other RTS's to date just by 
 making the game feel and look more complete in various levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyuzfuny
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 6, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  This is my first Age of Empires game and frankly, I was very excited about my purchase. So, I went 
 home, put in the cd and I was confused. What is all this hype about Age of Empires? It just seems 
 so simple. But then, as I began to play it more, I saw the level of complexity slowly grew. But 
 still, this didn't seem like a very modern RTS.
  
  Gameplay: This game really does become quite complex the further in you go. The main reason, for 
 me, to play, was the online. It was always quite fun to challenge others online and the connection 
 always stayed quite smooth. In the single player, you get a solid campaign against some tough A. I. 
 But still, I feel like there's something missing...
  
  Graphics: Zoomed out, all of the many maps look great and are very pleasing to the eye. They blend 
 well and there is good contrast. But as you slowly zoom in, the blur begins to increase, but it 
 still stays reasonable. The main problem in this department, though, is the framerate. It is really, 
 really bad during battle. Really bad.
  
  Sound: Good score and sound effects. Nothing to write home about, but still quite solid all around.
 
  
  Value: The single player is incredibly long and the multiplayer will keep you coming back for a 
 very long time. There is a lot to do and a lot of people to go against online. 
  
  In the end, I do recommend this game to all RTS fans. It also helps that an expansion pack is coming 
 out soon to give you even more reason to stay. I'm not as happy as I thought I'd be, but again, 
 this is my first AOE game, and I think my expectations were a bit high. But still, I won't be putting 
 this game away any time soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost_loy
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 5, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Basically it is an Okay game, Definitely better than some other games I've played this year. I 
 really was let down though with the Factions not the gameplay. When I pick up a Age of Empires 
 game I expect swords, spears, bows, not guns. I don't mind the presence of guns but to me every 
 faction seems the same all i ever see is guns. 
  
  Well im gonna give this an overall of 7.3 because if only the theme and feel of the game was more 
 of an AOE feel I would have enjoyed it much more. Im already wishing I hadn't bought it. Maybe 
 mods will fix this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poton
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 4, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Well i always end up coming back to age of empires 1 and 2 paticually 2 never seem to get bored 
 theres so much to do, AoE 2 is a masterpeice so i was hoping AoE 3 would be the same, however as 
 soon as a got the game i have to say AoE 2 is far better. Theres dramic differences to the game 
 such as, no lumber camps/storage pits. No stone? i mean come on what was wrong with stone : ( also 
 you can fish gold? wood is the rarest resource? and u have some hero wanna be explorer. If that 
 didn't put u off theres no need for barracks and other buildings really, since fortresses build 
 almost everything? The game looks the part and has a more realistic scale than AoE 2 but just isn't 
 as good when it comes down to gameplay AoE 3 doesn't touch AoE 2. I'm not sure what to say about 
 the cards, didn't like them myself...
  
  Sadly the game really has been noobified : (
  
  Ain't the worst game, sure its good but you may aswell play AoE 2, certinally not the best in the 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 4, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  ##  : ensemblestudios 
 
  
  ##    
 : http://www. ensemblestudios. com/ 
  
  ##    
 : http://tothegame. com/screenshot. asp? id=3080 
  
  ##  : In this highly anticipated next installment 
 in the Age of Empires franchise
  
  from Ensemble Studios, Age of Empires III places players in the time period
  
  of roughly 15001850, 
 picking up where Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings
  
  left off. As players work to establish their empire, they take on the role
  
  of a European 
 power struggling to explore, colonize, and conquer North and
  
  South America.
  
  
  Age of Empires III introduces exciting new gameplay elements, including the
  
  all-new Home 
 City and an incredible combat system. Players have new
  
  civilizations to discover, random maps to conquer, and a single-player
  
  campaign unlike any 
 other. Players also find stunning graphics as a result
  
  of a revolutionary graphics engine that pushes the limits of PC graphics 
  
  technology in 
 an entirely new way.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: triplehrulz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 1, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  Intro - Age of Empires 3 is the Best Age of Empires EVER! 
  
  Gameplay - The Gameplay of AOE 3 is amazing. It is the first AOE that introduces the home city 
 feature that gives the Age of Empires series a new edge. The gameplay of Age of Empires 3 is superb.
 
  
  Graphics - The graphics of AOE are perfect. The best graphics yet for an AOE game. It feels and 
 looks realistic.
  
  Sound - The sound and music for AOE is perfectly fitted for this 17-1800's style. It is perfectly 
 fitted for this game.
  
  Value - AOE is worth all the money you pay for it. I got it for $50 when it was $100. (there was 
 a sale on 50% off) But i would of payed $100 for it anyway.
  
  Overall - Overall Age of Empires 3 is a great game and is perfect for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kishmish
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is great strategy game. Stunning graphics, Great game-play, Impressive sound and 
 an outstanding online game-play brings back the whole series to life. Here are the details:
  Graphics:
  The graphics are very good! The environment design is great and full of details and 
 rendered well. They added the rain, snow and fog for each environment for example the Andes Mountains 
 are full of snow and the Amazon Rivers jungles are full of fog. The building design is really 
 great and quite rendered. It got the 17s century look, of course it should be because you are in 
 the new world and you have conquer the New World. The Native land buildings look like the Mayan 
 temples, pyramids and homes. The Home city design changes according to your empire but I can give 
 an example about it: Russian home city is full of snow and the building looks like Moscow buildings. 
 The troops design is more than great, the shape of the troops is different than the other empires 
 for examples the Russian wearing coats but the ottomans looks theThe Turks in the old times. 
 The destruction of the buildings is great not like The Age of Empires 2 The Age of The Kings, when 
 your enemy attacks one of your buildings (the guarding tower for example) first the building will 
 burn and burning parts will fall until the building is destroyed. There are also high rendered 
 creatures guards the treasures. What can I say about the graphics? They are really cool.
  Game-play:
  Like any RTS game, you will take control of eight mighty civilizations to conquer 
 the New World and bring glory to your home city and unlock hidden surprises and build your own 
 deck of supply cards used for sending support to your army. To build your camp in the New World 
 you need workers to do that for you. You can build homes, military bases, castles and guarding 
 towers some of them can create Grunts and some of them can hold Grunts. You can evolve your camp 
 by building necessary buildings, go to the City Center and click on the evolving icon and has some 
 ages and it has been numbered starting from II. The combat system is great it is similar to AoE 
 2, like usually build your army from grunts, archers, horsemen and heavy weapons and get ready 
 to be attacked by your enemy or attack your enemy. The best way to keep your camp safe is building 
 walls by evolving your empire your walls will be stronger. You need elements to build your city 
 like wood, food, gold and stone each of them found in the map that you play in it for example you 
 can get food by hunting animals or fishing. Age of Empires has a limit for your army number you 
 can increase the number by building a lot of houses each house can carry 5 peoples. If you dont 
 like the skirmish mode, you can play the Story-Based-Campaign or play Online. You can customize 
 your Home City by evolving in the Skirmish mode. The Game-Play ROCKS!
  Sound:
  Is there any better sound in RTS game than this? No, the sound rocks! The music is the heroic type. 
 It is really cool! Every creature in this game has a sound for example your explorer has a heroic 
 sound, The Grunts has a Soldier soundetc. they are not so low and not so high. When you 
 get attacked black mage music will be heard. Although I dont know much about the sound but 
 it is really great.
  Overall:
  This game rocks! I was playing the series since I was 7. I enjoyed the third addition so much. 
 A great game like this shouldnt be missed. Microsoft always makes good games such as Halo 
 and Fable. I can say this is the best historic RTS game. I hope the upcoming one is great as this 
 game.
  System Requirements:
  Windows: XP-256 MB RAM, Processor: 1.4 GHz, Hard Drive: 2 GB, Video Card: 64 MB or higher, Other: 
 Sound Card &Speakers/Headphones, Online: 56KB Dial Up Access or LAN. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjornishigi
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  If you know the age of series you've probably played age of conquerors and loved it. I play all 
 types of games but for rts multiplayer aoc delivers something special. Its been modded out the 
 wazoo, there's even a LOTR conversion. It occupies a special place in the public imagination because 
 of its unique quality, which largely consists of its excellent presentation (best buildings &amp; 
 units ever) , its tight feel and openended dynamic gameplay. So what happens when you take the best 
 qualities of a game, its look and feel and chuck it out the window in favor of implementing superficial 
 marketing trend analysis? You get a watered down 3-d turd that compromises the scope and vision 
 of its predecessors. Going from aoc to aoe3 is like going from a ferrari to a Chrysler LeBaron 
 in terms of performance. How is making a game less responsive more linear and polygonally challenged 
 supposed to enthuse me? I mean come on people, ?#!%ing seriously! The units from seven years ago 
 still look and feel (imho) better than todays incarnation. That is unacceptable. This version should 
 at least be of the same quality. The lack of continuity in quality, appearance and responsiveness 
 of units from aoc to aoe3 is a big deal and pretty much slays this series for me. Jeesh. What I 
 believe many liked about aok (c) was its open-endedness and the ability to implement your expansion 
 as you saw fit (vs predetermined town centers :p) . What we friggin needed to make the game better 
 was more depth. That is the byword of this title. Even bigger maps, better strategic use of the 
 environment (which was partially implemented in aoe3 but not as well as it could have been for 
 3d) but above all continuity of presentation from the excellent original release, especially if 
 you cant really add anything to the game by going 3d. If they could have captured the feel of aoc 
 then yay-hoo, but seven years later and voila, the new hotness is CLUNKY and a retrograde of the 
 original action. Heads up somebody. Aom had the same craptastic feel to it but the subject material 
 was fun so it was still marginaly playable. In short this release was an anticipated but major 
 letdown. For someone who has been a big fan for years and still plays the original I for one can't 
 comprehend the direction this game has taken. If you want simplicity and formulaic gameplay go 
 to the console of your choice. But that is antithetical to the pc platform. Give us more freedom, 
 not less. Thus concludes my overdue rant. Apologies to those who love the direction and presentation 
 of this game, my feelings are hurt and I'm lashing out, crying out in pain, a voice in the wilderness. 
 And yes I am going to make my own rts game because blah blah blah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grass21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 26, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 leaves off at the beginning of the discovery of the new world, around 1500. The 
 new havok physics bring new life to siege warfare, cannons rip through buildings and debris fall 
 to the ground. This feature alone gives this game a more realistic feel than the others in the 
 series. The campaign is a good 10 hours or so of gameplay and takes you from the crusades up to 
 the 1820's featuring segments of the revolutionary war and America's expansion out west. Multiplayer 
 is like all the other games, but still fun none the less. LAN parties can be a blast if you get 
 your friends to join and play till the wee hours of the morning. New technologies like the musket 
 and cannon provide more intense battles, and have the player wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m34d
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 26, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  I love this game, it screems Im going to blow your head off with a cannon. The cannon physics of 
 the game can only be described as amazazing. You shoot at one building and the one behind it recieves 
 damage as well. The campaign mode is ok, but the skermish mode is sweet. Age of empires rules the 
 world of our fore fathers RTS style. I havn't played the multiplayer but im sure its just as good 
 if not way more challenging than skermish mode. This genre has been on fire since C&C. Happy Skermishing. 
 
  
  You start off with a few villagers and a scout. Use that scout as a bait for the computer of other 
 player later in the game it is very usefull. you will need alot of houses wich the build limit 
 sucks btw. Lots of villagers make good frontline bunnyhopping riflemen. The scout is not too good 
 at fighting so avoid as much as possible. If you are an expert at Nepoleonic war tactics then you 
 will pwn this game all over. L33t gamer byaaaaaaaaaaaaah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KriTTerBlack
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Superb Game, but are a few bugs.
  
  The Graphics are very good, the gameplay is similar at the last series of Age Of Empires, 1 and 
 2 and if you not have a good pc, the game not play on your pc.
  
  I consider the Age Of Empires a good game!!
  
  My preferid civilization: Turks
  My current 
 level: 41
  My preferid infantry unit: Janissary
  My preferid cavalry unit: Cavalry Archer
  My preferid artillery unit: Abus Gun
  My preferid 
 ALL unit: Draw (Janissary and Abus Gun)
  
  Play that game - its very good.
  
  The Expansion packs - I wait for this!! The Warchiefs!!! The Natives'Control!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wnyt
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Great game But I dont like gathering things But in custom maps you dont need to gather well in 
 some but quit good I like first person shooters better Starigy is not bad its quit good woth all 
 those building and natives its Was better if you can make your own units well that will be PERFECT!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 if that was Real I Know you will rush to the shops of Age of Empires 3 And the computers say things 
 they all got a unqie unit so a specil unit
  and things fly Away BETTER THAN EMPIRE EARTH2 because in empire earth 2 it only gets on fire nothing 
 fly away well the expansion migth but its good you can go on differnt ages to epoch1 to 15 now 
 lets get Back on AGE OF EMPIRES 3 I think I will buy the expsion of Age of empires3
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: master7151
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III really sets the bar for all Real Time Strategy games. There are so many units 
 and new features available in AOE III versus it predecessors. Some of these include trade routes, 
 Home Cities, and Explorers.
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in AOE III is the best in any RTS game ever created. The new features in the game 
 just heighten the all ready soaring reputation of the Age of Empires series. The trade routes available 
 in the game allow you to build trading posts at certain points along the route. They then generate 
 coin, wood, food, or xp for as long as you hold that post. The xp in the game allows you to up 
 your main level in multiplayer, and allows you to get shipments from your home city. Your home 
 city basically constitutes a general city from the nation you are playing. When you have shipments 
 available, you can send them from the deck you are playing in the game. Decks are made of shipment 
 cards. Whenever you go up a level, you can choose a new shipment card. Your explorer is an unkillable 
 unit. He goes around and can (guess what) explore the terrain. He has higher attack stats than other 
 musketeer units, and has some special powers. Your explorer though, can be knocked unconscious 
 when his health points are gone. He then begins to regenerate them while unconscious. You can send 
 any other units to go near him, and he will be back in action.
  Graphics:
  The graphics in AOE III are amazing. From seeing the smoke trails of individual cannon balls, to 
 seeing the trails of ships in the water; the graphics in AOE III are the best in any RTS to surface 
 yet. When cannon balls slam into buildings, you can see parts of the building explode and fall 
 away, leaving gaps in the walls and ceiling. The same with ships when they are hit. You can also 
 see individual blades of grass swaying in the wind as well as the trees. Overall, the graphics 
 will leave you out of breath as you take in their full scope.
  Sound:
  The sound in AOE III is pretty good. There are several theme songs that play in the backround while 
 you play. The environment sounds are also really good. The sounds of battle will make you think 
 you are on the actual battlefield. The music however, after about and hour of gameplay does start 
 to get boring. You may just find yourself listening to your own music after an hour.
  Overall, Age of Empires III is a really good game. From the spectacular gameplay, to the mind-boggling 
 graphics and sound, AOE III is really the best real time strategy this year to buy. The replay 
 value is endless due to the randomized terrain. You will certainly find yourself staying up until 
 1:00am playing. AOE III is just an awesome game that no RTS player should go without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morpheus009
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 21, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  The new AoE game AoE 3 brings new campaign and a multiplayer mod-
  
  Positive -This game is very addicting the campaign can get u stuck for hours as u start as Saint 
 Johns knights u go thru a list of mission all the way to Amilia Black And u can just make a game 
 whit 8 mighty civilisations
  and u chose either Skirmish (start whit low resources and work it up) or Deathmatch (o start whit 
 a stockpile of resources.
  
  Negative- Multiplayer is the only negative thing in this game it crashes spamms and to play online 
 u need to have a thingy that will Close the hole game and start downloading a file that takes forever 
 and when its done u see the multiplayer is **** so dont waste time on multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 15, 2006 1:44 am PT
Review:  This game is great! It shows how a real time strategy game should look and feel like if you put 
 a lot of effort into it.
  
  Gameplay: Thanks to the new and improving features including the new home city, AOE 3 is a much 
 more complex and interesting game than AOE 2. Although AOE 2 was better when it came out, AOE 3 
 improves on it a lot of features.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are simply awesome! It looks almost like it's areal world! Microsoft seem 
 to have put a lot of emphasis on the graphics and the work has payed off. If your looking for a 
 game with incedible graphics then go with AOE 3.
  
  Sound: Here's another feature that's that's superb. You can hear everything so clearly. Everything 
 sound so realistic as well. The sound is amazing!
  
  Value: This game will keep you playing for a long time and that's a great thing becaus this game's 
 so superbly presented.
  
  Tilt: I would recommend Age of Empires III to anyone who likes great games because thy're not going 
 to be disappointed!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: divb
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  This game spans out among the time the Revolutionary war was taking place, except for one thing... 
 this game is much funner than the American Revolution!!! You can control many great civilizations, 
 which each have strengths, weaknesses, and tactics that make the game challenging.
  
  The only possible bad thing I could say to this game is that it has quite high system requirements... 
 2 gigabytes. It will not install on the PC sometimes, which means you could completely waste your 
 money.
  
  Another thing I like about this game is the sound. The sound is awesome that's all I can say. Also 
 the graphics are great but they aren't their best on a laptop.
  
  To sum it all up:
  This game is definitely a game that you should get!!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboyvinnie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Story-8 Different countries are fighting over specific areas of the world to get land gold etc
 
  
  Graphics: Pros-Buildings and the different environments look superb, special effects like the smoke 
 of a cannon looks very realistic
  Cons-The models, while decent looking still look a bit too similar to the models from Empire Earth 
 which was released back in 2001
  
  Sound: Pros-Weapon sounds are great, little effects like hearing birds sing or people chopping trees 
 really immerse you into the game, great soundtrack
  Cons-Voice acting is pretty lacklustre, soundtrack is a bit too short
  
  Game play: Pros-Classic 
 strategy game play that AOE2 defined still work really well, a lot less micro management from its 
 predecessor since you dont have to re plant farms and stuff like that anymore
  Cons-AI can be pretty stupid at times (running away when you dont tell them to)
  
  Replay Value-First 
 theres 4 campaigns which are really fun and should take someone anywhere from 10-15 hours to complete, then 
 you can do a skirmish game with infinite customisable options against the AI, then you can make 
 your own scenarios and maps and finally theres a great on line mode so theres plenty of replay 
 value there
  
  Overall-AOE3 is a fantastic RTS game that doesnt try to revolutionise itself but to be honest im 
 glad they didnt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patodia_manas47
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  Ok doke game . The graphics of the game is good but not playing part. For people who love or like 
 to play strategy game would find it very easy and wouldnt have aby interest. It is a short game 
 completed find 5 to 6 hours. If u want to play a real strategy game try playing civilization 4. 
 age of mythology 2 is very similar to age of empire 3 but much more tough and difficult were your 
 knowledge or game or talent is used and you can prove yourself to be a champ in strategy game where 
 as age of empire 3 is so simple that you don't need think but just play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praharsh22
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is one of the best games ever made and if you still haven't played it, then it 
 is your BIGGEST mistake in life! It's much better than it's predecessors. The graphics of the game 
 are simply awesome. The sound also could not have been any better. The gameplay is perfect. It 
 has stood up to all it's expectations. From the old ages of kings, which was there in Age of Empires 
 II, we have come to the European civilizations in this game. This game is highly addictive and 
 will keep you close to your computers for loads and loads of hours. One may feel that the game 
 could have been even more better... but it is really very good as it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1scfan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 8, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  i was really impressed with the graphics and the different style of gameplay.
  the screen shots were absolutely amazing, especially when a soldier gets hammered with a cannon 
 ball and his body goes rolling down the road. But i was definitely disappointed with the campaign 
 aspect of the game. In other versions you were able to choose the civilization you wanted and start 
 the campaign with that civilization. But this new version you are only able to play the U. S. The 
 campaigns are too short. It would have been better for a campaign of the U. S. to start in the 17th 
 century when Great Britain control the states and the U. S under George Washington over threw the 
 british. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick_sellars16
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3; the long awaited sequel to the popular Age of Empires 2: the age of kings finally 
 emerged 6 years later. Despite the huge success of the previous game, AOE 3 did not enjoy the same 
 sucess; nevertheless, a stunning game emerged from the microsoft game studios. AOE 3 brings fourth 
 some of the most stunning graphics and gameplay ever in the video gaming industry. It has a diverse 
 gaming style and provides many hours of campaign and custom game gameplay. Best of all, AOE 3 brings 
 the past to life with its in-depth historic logs and gameplay. This game takes place during the 
 industrial age of the new world and the early days of the United States. As the campaign's progress, 
 so does time as you make your way from about the early 1500's with the knights of St. John to the 
 late 1800's with the ambitious Amelia Black and her railroad company. This game really pays close 
 attention to historical alignment in terms of technology and similar factors regarding battle. 
 Although this game brings a solid exciting experience in almost every aspect, it has one major 
 flaw. The system requirements for this game are unbelievable. It exceeds the standard computers 
 capasity and requires a powerful computer. For more information on the system requirements visit 
 the Microsoft website and search the game. I recommend not getting this game unless you have a 
 very good PC. Overall, Age of Empires 3 is a game that should not be missed. It is a diverse game 
 that can be enjoyed by almost anyone. Great Job Microsoft we couldn't have asked for anything better! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_locky_-
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 7, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  I had high expectations of Age of Empires 3 since i saw the first screenshots around a year ago. 
 When more info was released i learned of the home city which astounded me further. Then the videos 
 rolled out showing action packed battles with cannons bombarding infantry and buldings, I was gobsmacked 
 at the physics engine when I saw buildings crumble and troops fly into the air as they are picked 
 of by cannons. Then I played the game...
  
  Gameplay... After playing Rome: Total War i had new hope that RTS had changed and was becoming more 
 revoloutionary and original sadly when I played this I found the same gameplay that i experienced 
 with all the other AGE games, all that was different was the era and the graphics. Units are still 
 clones of their counterpart civilization's and the physics engine gets repetative after you see 
 a few buldings crumble and a few units die. Thats not to say the physics aren't good because they 
 help the gameplay seem more real indeed but its not totally as realistic as they made it out to 
 be. They tried too hard trying to make it *look* more realistic then to make it actually *be* realistic, 
 this time around it seems its all about the visuals rather then the out of date combat it has. 
 
  
  The combat can be boring with a few hundred troops and usually the infantry stand still and pick 
 each other off, cavalry will run up to troops and stop near them and either shoot them or hack 
 at them - theres no charging through enemy ranks slashing through them. Cannons are generall weak 
 but near the end years can be the total army of a civ if they have enough, the devastation done 
 by them is not seen with craters, shockwaves, rock and dust flying into the air and boddies being 
 ripped apart but its felt only by the untis HP which also adds to the bordem of combat. Sea combat 
 has always been a downer in age games which they did try and change this time around with stunning 
 looking ships and sea effects and ship's special abilities but it lacks the ability to feel realistic 
 eg. men boarding enemy ships and battling it out on the decks or the ability to ram or have any 
 real reality in that part. And generally in combat the game lags an dthe frame rate goes down alot 
 especially near ships and water.
  
  The economic side to it is still reletively the same with animals, farms, mines and trees as rescources 
 but it also adds a bulding known as a plantation which gathers gold as villages work on it. Still 
 your villages must go into the dangerous world to find forests which are generally small and are 
 exhausted quicte quickly so that'll always be a troubling rescource.
  
  The civilzations are generally the same with a few small changes which offer limited variety in 
 battle.
  
  The new things such as natives and home city are good additions that yet couldve been better such 
 as native troops are weak as when it comes against europeans even if logically you should be able 
 to merge civilizations and train cheap natives with guns but you cant. The homecity is really only 
 good for getting units for free except the mercenaries. The homecity itself isnt that customizable 
 and only the new cards you get are the major thing you'll be paying attention to.
  
  The campaign is really the only thing I found interesting about the game which is made of 3 short 
 parts to it with each part consisting of 10-15 scenarios. The campaign is based on myth eg. the 
 fountain of youth. And has a small historical value to it. Although I enjoyed the story mode campaign, 
 I would have enjoyed some historical campaigns to be included to.
  
  Overall the gameplay is pretty much same old same old with the exceptions of the native and home 
 city which add limted new experience. While playing the game through the ages you see no real change 
 in your buildings which are usually alike to those you may have saw in aoe2. The era the makers 
 have chosen to do next while its interesting they made the time frame too short, i would have liked 
 to see the civil war and napolean and the discovery of australia but i guess these things must 
 wait.
  
  Everything else is standard except the graphics which are through the roof but cause frame rate 
 issues making things annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9469
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. its definately the best in the series, no doubt about it. Theres fantastic 
 campaign play with a immersive storyline that makes you feel like watching the history channel, 
 well maybe not but its still an interesting set of stories that gives you hours of exciting fun. 
 The gameplay has still got some of your old favorites, like town centres, barracks etc, but with 
 new units and other buildings. Theres still a bit of bloody sword action but now theres also guns, 
 and cannons. The amount of battle units is a bit of a let down especially with some civilizations, 
 but it helps you keep ontop of your army and controll the different units to perform specialist 
 tasks. The new feature home city is fantastic. It lets you ship in economical and army units to 
 give you a boost to create a new city and take over the annoying neighbours pethetic town. This 
 game will have you playing God for hours. An expansion pack will be well needed to kepp this game 
 entertaining with new units and civilizations, and i recomend investing in this fantastic God Game 
 and cant w8 for the expansion (s?) coming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo9601
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I really love this game! beautiful graphics, great sounds and perfect gameplay... it's easy to 
 learn the controls etc and in my oppinion the "learn to play" mode is not necessary.... multiplayer 
 is quite fun with rankings of your home city in which level it is gives an additional fun factor 
 to the gameplay. i'm quite dissapointed about 1 aspect though. and that's the storyline. it easily 
 gets boring because in every single campaign no matter how far you progress it's all about the 
 lake of the moon etc... and i expected a more spectacular ending of the story... skirmish mode is 
 fun too and the scenario editor has many enchancements and tools so i'd rate this game nearly great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragerino_dude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Many fans of earlier Age of empires games didn't think much of this game because of it's time zone, 
 not many RTS games have been made in this time zone so it's something completely different.
  Many say that gameplay is to simple and generic, but age of empires three is one of those games 
 that you have to explore before giving your opinion.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  The graphics are very nice, the terrain is well created and lighting and shadows off buildings 
 and terrain is well done. In some games when your units are attacking your opponents building it 
 falls down in stages, but in age of empired 3 you get to actually see the bits of the building 
 break off, see glass shatter off buildings, to see ones buildings be destroyed is like a movie 
 itself... sorta.
  
  General Gameplay: 
  
  Civilizations:
  
  The differance between civs may not seem huge but minor tweaks to the traditional race make the 
 game alot more interesting. The dutch are one of the civs that are changed the most, villagers 
 are created with gold so your resource gathering strategy changes completely. The russians units 
 train in batches which end up cheaper if you were to click that amount of time with that unit on 
 another civ this makes your military strategy comletely different.
  
  Units:
  
  The units in this game a fairly simple, in most civs you get a pikeman or helberdier, heavy infantry, 
 light infantry, cavalry, ranged cavalry, Light artillery, counter artillery, and a heavy artillery 
 and no matter how hard they try to change it always ends up the same.
  
  Extras:
  
  This is what really runs the game
  
  native american tribes:
  
  native american tribes 
 can really make a turn in the game, they have awesome units and worthy upgrdes, i don't know one 
 other rts that has native american tribes.
  
  The home city:
  
  What the game is most known for, the home city. As you play a game of AoE3 you gain experience, 
 when you finish the game this turn into levels which you can use to get new cards to send while 
 your playing a game that really change the games flow.
  
  These two extras may not seem huge but just wait till you play the game, like i said before it's 
 the extras that run the game.
  
  The multiplayer is another reason to get the game, you'll probly have to download a few patches 
 first but afterward it's great, although a lot of people make game like no rush 40 min, my advice 
 is to play the game as it should be played, no rules.
  
  Sound is fairly good but theres not much to say there. Overall this is an excellent game that anyone 
 can play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadlytoque
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Having been a huge RTS fan throughout the development of the genre (I still have a copy of "Dune 
 II" on 3.5" floppies kicking around somewhere) , I am always happy to see the concept progress and 
 evolve. I remember the first Age of Empires game being a really interesting experience in resource 
 management and combat tactics, due to its wide variety of resources , its numerous and varied units, 
 and its fresh take on research and development, all of which seemed more like something you would 
 find in a turn-based strat game.
  
  The sequels have been much the same. They have retained the unique parts of the original, while 
 updating the technology. But that's about all they have updated.
  
  While Age of Empires III (AoE3) is an enjoyable and visually impressive strat title, it just lacks 
 anything to make it thrilling. The concept of the home city is intriguing, and the way it develops 
 throughout the campaign or the skirmishes adds a nice personalization to the game. But with each 
 upgrade earned being so minor, and so superficial, the incentive to play skirmish after skirmish 
 is all but nonexistent. As far as the campaign goes, I have never enjoyed the campaign levels of 
 an AoE game. I find their reliance on heroic units (who must be kept alive) , pacing which is alternately 
 too fast and too slow, and mediocre voice-acting and writing to be very disappointing. When the 
 first level of a dated game like WarCraft II has more dramatic impact and excitement than the whole 
 first campaign of AoE3, it becomes clear that the campaign was -not- the main focus.
  
  I cannot speak to the multiplayer aspects of the game, but since the skirmishes are solid and rewarding, 
 I suspect the multiplayer skirmishes would be much the same. If you don't mind that there are only 
 a handful of large maps, the skirmishes provide a variety of environments that support a variety 
 of different playstyles (the resource-rich Saguenay plays very differently from island-hopping 
 in the Caribbean, for example) .
  
  The graphics are pretty, with nice textures, light blooms, unit animations, and other little details. 
 Sometimes it can be tough distinguishing one unit from another, due to their tendency to cluster 
 together. The music is stirring, and works nicely, although sometimes it kicks into dramatic mode 
 for no reason. The sound is nice, although I can't understand why a historical game using real-world 
 cultures has units that speak gibberish, rather than using actual words for unit responses. Further, 
 although there are audio cues for different events on-screen, there is no way to quickly jump to 
 the cue to respond. If your explorer finds a sheep, for example, there is the sound of a little 
 bell, but if your attention is elsewhere and you don't see the minimap ping, you may very well 
 never find that sheep.
  
  The controls are nice, with easy-to-use hotkeys and simple unit grouping. One confusing aspect 
 of the game, however, is the way the units will march in formation if grouped together, but that 
 you cannot choose the facing of the formation. Protecting your rifles with pikeman is pretty much 
 useless if you can't decide which way to face the pikes. Also, if units of different speeds are 
 grouped together, they will all move at the speed of the slowest unit in the group, even if you 
 try to charge them into combat. Watching your cavalry trot leisurely forward just because you've 
 selected them at the same time as your artillery is a painful experience.
  
  Overall, I cannot recommend this game to anyone who wants to be thrilled. If all you want is the 
 depth and range of choice of a turn-based strat game but in a quick little package, then perhaps 
 AoE3 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  This game puts in a battle for the "New World" which is the actually North and South America. You 
 can choose between eight different country's you want to control, each having its own unique pros 
 and cons. You also can form an alliance of seven Native American tribes, which provide you with 
 many different units to battle with. Another new cool feature of this game is the Home Cities. 
 These Home Cities provide many units and resources for your colony. If you played and enjoyed a 
 lot of any of these games you'll love Age of Empires 3. If you own Age of Mythology, Age of Empires 
 2, or any other Real-Time Strategy video game out there then you should by this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justin456456
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  The basis of this game is quiet simple with a minimal learning curve. The game is easily connected 
 to the Internet. If you haven't played the series before it has a wide selection of things to do 
 but, for players that have played the earlier games it is like a expansion pack with better graphics. 
 When I play the game i end up glued to the screen for about 1-2 hours, the game simply reels you 
 in to the setup. The in game graphics are better than the previous games though not very amazing 
 but, the movies between "levels" are exquisite. Overall it is a well designed game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kilbz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 22, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Good, plenty of missions which are easy though time consuming. I never used multiplayer 
 though I hear its great. You can make you own scenarios though it is kind of hard. Skirmish mode 
 is good and there is insentive to keep playing because you want your home city to upgrade. I found 
 that I only used the English which was an annoying habit. The only problem is that after a while 
 you just use a basic plan time and time again which is repetitive.
  
  Graphics: Depends on your computer. Mine looked great almost like the screens though without the 
 awesome water.
  
  Sound: Can't complain, its good.
  
  Value: Can get boring after a while though scenario editor and multiplayer add life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iriver_H10
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is an excellent game for AOE newcomers and those of us who have played AOE since 
 the start.
  
  The game is overall great, graphics are good, loading times are fine for a game of this size, online 
 multiplayer is smooth and the gameplay is interesting. The choice of nations to command is wide 
 and the nation specific units add to the interest.
  
  Age of Empires 3 introduces a new element thats referred to as the 'Home City'. During the game 
 you will recieve points for certain things (eg. Destroying enemy uinits & picking up items) . This 
 gives you options to send units and resources from your home city to futher help your cause. Many 
 wont be too bothered with this feature but it does help you out of tight corners sometimes.
  
  A big round of applause to Microsoft and Ensemble Studios for creating a game that lives up 
 to the Age Of Empires name. SW
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of the AoE games ever since the first one cam out a very long time ago.
 
  
  I have played to death each installment, upgrade and new version and was really looking forward 
 to trying the latest version.
  
  First impressions are good, installation was quick and easy and the setup screens etc are clean 
 and simple and very easy to navigate around.
  
  The first big change is that there is now a campaign mode and after playing through it a few times 
 I have to say that it is the best feature of the new game. You are led through different encounters 
 solving problems and completing goals and it just adds that little bit more depth to the game.
 
  
  The sound and visuals are top notch and the game flies along at a pretty decent rate, but I have 
 a fairly high spec system so not sure how it looks or plays on something older.
  
  Another nice new feature is the cards system. During a game you can switch back to your capital 
 city and there you will find a list of extra items that you can send to wherever you are fighting. 
 They range from more troops to gold and other collectable items.
  
  The AI of the computer controlled characters is pretty good and the path finding is way better 
 than in the previous games. No longer do your men get stuck running at a tree or wall as they cannot 
 find their way through.
  
  Online there is the usual options and modes where you can play over the Internet or over the LAN 
 etc. I have not put a great deal of time into this yet, mainly because the campaign is so compelling 
 and so much fun.
  
  All in all this is a great game and the new features make it worthwhile investing in. To top it 
 off there is even an expansion arriving soon which should add even more features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celawyn
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jun 18, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I may be biased, due to the fact that the 'Age of Empires' series has never been a favourite of 
 mine, but Age of Empires III seemed like the combination of a tired, unchanged, simplistic idea 
 which has just had a new body thrown on it to allow it to fit into the current market.
  
  BOOOOO!
  
  Boring, same-old, copied sides with different skins/models, symmetrical crap!
 
  
  I'm sorry people but this game just does not cut it. But is this going to be the ever going trend 
 with most of Microsoft products; full to the brim with features and polish, but never really delivering 
 the complete package that everyone is after? Such failed attempts spring to mind such as Dungeon 
 Siege (RPG nightmare: where was the 'role playing' the game is so linear it was like that game's 
 world was like a bike track that runs through a local park; with arrows pointing you in the right 
 direction.) , Windows ME (Need I say more.) , and even Windows XP, sure it may be advanced and have 
 a lot of 'stuff' but basically it (Like all Microsoft products) is a to broad of a product to serve 
 any real use when it comes to specific solutions. 
  
  Age of Empires III, along with its predecessors, meet these same pitfalls. Age of Empires III is 
 one of those game that leaves you wondering, 'Is that it...?'.
  
  This game is not worth 50 bucks, not on any day fo the week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basez2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 16, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3
  A review by Basez2.
  
  The Age of Empires series has achieved enormous widespread success around the Gaming community 
 with millions of copies sold and genre defining RTS gameplay that inspired many gamers out there 
 to become RTS fanatics.
  
  It started with the first instalment: simply titled Age of Empires, Ensemble Studios, developer 
 of the AOE series, held their breath and achieved staggering success with multi platinum copies 
 of the game being shipped all around the world- and with this success; Ensemble released an expansion 
 for AOE, which made worthy and fun additions to the gameplay adding new content which consumers 
 widely appreciated. When Ensemble announced a successor- Age of Empires 2: Age of Kings, the RTS 
 community went fanatic and eagerly wished to know what this title would turn out. They were not 
 disappointed; in fact, AOE2 became possibly the most famous RTS Games there ever is, with a new 
 isometric camera and graphics which gave an extraordinary image of the world you play on and breathtakingly 
 addictive gameplay. There were awesome and vivid campaigns which put you in the reins of famous 
 War commanders, fighting in their associated Historical timelines, and this added to the great 
 realism that was AOE2. An expansion pack was released, and this provided fantastic new additions 
 that made AOE2 even more unhealthily addictive than it was. Then AOE3 came, and all in all it did 
 make for an interesting and in-depth RTS, with beautiful graphics and stunning scenery, but felt 
 like an improved version of AOE2 in terms of gameplay and the resource mechanic. A new and interesting 
 campaign based on a family caught up in various troubles surrounding the New World was added and 
 this is mostly well-received due to a good storyline but the same old familiar scenarios where 
 you build a base and destroy the enemys citadel. Read on for a full review of the whole game.
 
  
  The new setting for AOE3 is the New World, where you will be fighting against 8 civilizations battling 
 for supremacy for control of the land. Youll be building bases, training units and creating a 
 strong strategy to overcome your foes. There are also the addition of the Native Americans, located 
 at various villages across the map, who are available to ally with, providing another mix and match 
 of troop types which may or may not benefit your army depending on which strategy you choose to 
 play. There are over 8 different Native American clans to choose from, and they come each with 
 their own researches and units, providing new strategy, and adding to the strategical and choice-making 
 in-depth ness. Talking in detail about the European civilisations, well, although one can argue 
 that there are 8 different countries, there isnt much in terms of difference and innovativeness. 
 Although there are unique bonuses such as the Dutch ability to build banks, and the English ability 
 to spawn a free settler for every house they build, not to mention the French Cavalry and a strong 
 Russian military. But with all this, there is not much else to mention at all perhaps some significant 
 architectural changes and a couple of unique, but nothing breathtaking (or game-winning for that 
 matter) units although Age of Empires 3 does do well to contemplate this with its extraordinary 
 physics and graphical detail and these elements are indeed, the real strength behind AOE3.
  
  The graphical display and the way the New World is rendered is arguably one of the games strongest 
 points, stunning and beautiful in your face graphics with leaves falling of trees, and whales/fish 
 and various other marine life moving about in the beautifully pixelated water. The water itself 
 is like going to the seaside with tides coming in and darkening the sand, and brightness levels 
 increased and decreased depending on the various shadows of coastal trees and units. When you play 
 on snow environments, youll notice characters footprints, and the snow fall on the mountains. 
 Its the various details like these that make AOE3 a beautiful setting to play in. Soldiers and 
 buildings themselves are well-detailed, and the new physics engine for AOE3 does a fantastic job 
 of sending units flying and bouncing all over the place, with realism. Soldiers who happen to have 
 a soft landing in the water, hit with a splash and end up at the bottom of the sea. You can also 
 notice recently destroyed ships at the bottom of the sea, lying in the sand dormant and necessary 
 only to add to the sheer realism of AOE3.
  
  With these stunning real-time graphics combined with extraordinary realism, comes a satisfactory 
 level of gameplay. There are many modes available to play in, with the typical Player vs. A. I. 
 or online mode skirmish battles. Also featuring is a mostly well received campaign which could 
 have been better, but the scenarios were fairly Generic in some terms- the objective being to build 
 a base and destroy the enemy fort, or hold tediously repeating hordes of enemy cavalry while waiting 
 for a reinforcement force, that may just help you win the mission. The storyline is interesting 
 to note though- and thats the main factor when it comes to making RTS Games Campaigns (How many 
 developers even think of that?) , and sure thing, Ensemble has created a well-designed plot based 
 around the Black family, and its family members involved in the usual RTS Game plot to acquire 
 or prevent the acquisition of some powerful artefact, and in this case its a strange fountain- 
 I wont go on so not to spoil it, so find out yourself.
  
  With todays modern RTS market, and RTS games moving on to higher standards, some wonder if games 
 like AOE3 will carry on achieving the success they obtained, because if there is going to be an 
 AOE4, then Ensemble studios will have to think of something different, and not simply improve on 
 the previous instalment.
  
  Summary: Due to the fame and successes of its predecessors, Age of Empires 3 came with huge expectations, 
 and although the gameplay and combat feels generic and a simply improved version of AOE2, the graphics 
 and physics look and feel awesome and AOE3 delivers well on those fronts with an interesting and 
 fluid campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitslav
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Obs: I'm from Brazil dont write english quite...
  
  Graphics: I like your graphics (except d grapic bugs, ex: units travessing inside objects, terrain, 
 or eye candies...) . I like the cliffs and the shadows of all thinghs, and mainly the water effects. 
 But the units are'nt detailed.
  
  Gameplay: The changes are minimal at AOM, maybe... worsen, Bcose the units stats are litle visibles... 
 the people have problems to find, \o/.
  The campaing is anoying, owe speak about real historical Enlightenment battles: Napoleon, American 
 revolution, SouthAmerica discover, blablabla
  like as Age of empires 1 & 2...
  I like the formations of footmen and cavalry
  The map Editor is equal....
  AAahh the villagers 
 dont put the ressourses in storage or town C, or one cart, this is an absurd!! The games must be 
 dificult.
  Add the Japaneses, Chineses, Scotishs, koreans, or other more poor metropolis of these Times and 
 I mute the score to 9.0. 
  But is vicious.
  The rest is shaving... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSergeant
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is a logical next step for the series and adds some great new features to the 
 past gameplay formula. Unfortunately, however, I did not find it as enjoyable as some of the older 
 games carrying the AOE banner.
  
  Having been a fan of the past Age of Empires games, I wasted little time in picking up AOE III 
 after it was released. Fond memories of adventuring through medieval Europe and Asia following 
 the paths of great conflicts in our history were still in my mind as I started the main single 
 player campaign.
  
  Right away I knew something subtle, but significant, had changed.
  
  The story now followed the exploits of a fictional family living through a period of our past. 
 That alone was a disappointment for me as I had loved the pure historical accuracy and value of 
 AOE II, and in my opinion the introduction of fiction took away from the overall seriousness of 
 the campaign. However, this was not a show-stopping flaw.
  
  Playing through, I found some great new features - like the home city - that blew my mind with 
 their advantages and overall applications. At times, I felt the scale of certain units compared 
 to one another was off, but it was easier now to tell which units fought for which side.
  
  Of course, I can't write this review without making mention of the abundance of gunpowder-based 
 technology. There were certain sea skirmishes I fought galleon to galleon with my enemy, and didn't 
 care what the outcome would be. Seeing these massive ships open fire on one another was visually 
 amazing and hypnotic.
  
  The AI in the game is impressive overall, the way different groups of land units seem to work in 
 tandem with one another had me staring at the screen in wonder. However, the naval AI seemed as 
 clumsy as it has been in past AOE games.
  
  Overall, while I enjoy this game on its own merits and recommend it to anyone who enjoys RTS games, 
 I cannot say it holds up to the example set by Age of Empires II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waznprd
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 13, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  I dont really care for the age they put it in. I liked it better in the Midevil ages. The diferent 
 ages didnt seem all that different. I didnt care for how small the maps where either. Sure the 
 graphics looked cool but for me the game play was boring. Nothing special was really added. I liked 
 Empire Earth a lot better than this game. Empire earth dosnt limit you to one age and each age 
 has its own stratagy. 
  For now Rise and Fall nations At war would be my #1 choice for RTS games. Ive played the demo for 
 Rise and Fall more than ive played the full game of AOE 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arvievo2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 11, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  dude... age of empires III is number one... like it very much... good graphics and good army... 
 lot's of useful facility... nice....................... I played as the british one that i think 
 that is very nice... my enemy is dutch haha... when i start playing, i always make my city bigger 
 first because my ally can help and protect me, after that i make a huge number of musketer and 
 horse riders... i rarely make artillery army cause, slow.. haha....
  
  my weakness is attack, but don't try my defense beacuse i always defend my city and my ally, i'm 
 kind like a supporter of my ally...
  
  
  WOOO!!!!!!!!!! ~THIS GAME ROCKS~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rasds
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  This game is a great game but it has some flaws, the game itself is great but the story is the 
 same and is center at one family, the Black family, but the game has some instant campaign to play, 
 I like to play Portugal, because I am Portuguese, and the rest of the game is good. It has new 
 weaponry and new things to build and for me the game is fun to play. I tried all the other races 
 and they have unique individuals, for example, the Portuguese people has The Cassadores and The 
 Dragoons. But game it hasn't the races that I want, like the japanese, but it has some things that 
 i like, when you have indians on the gameplay you can build something there that you can train 
 them and it has trading posts, and I like the cards we can use in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djynen
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game a few months ago, I immediately wrote it off as a complete and total 
 failure. Compared to its illustrious predecessor, AOE3 is extremely limited in scope. Where's the 
 awe and wonder in seeing your cavemen being transformed into pikeman when transitioning from the 
 Stone Age to the Bronze Age? I was hoping for a sequel closer in majesty and scope to Rise of Nations 
 or Empire Earth 2. The developers certainly have the expertise and the ambition to do that.
  
  Instead, Ensemble Studios, sensing that Stainless Steel and others had already trodden that 
 path, decided to explore a more contained and eventful era - the exploration of the new world. 
 The result is a game lacking in the scope and grandeur of AOE2, but surprisingly fun to play - 
 providing you can get over or dismiss the lack of realism.
  
  The most important issue to overlook is the more self-contained and utilitarian building choices 
 in AOE3. For instance, Instead of 3 separate buildings for refinding your gold, metal and wood, 
 you have a single market building in which you can research resource gathering refinements in all 
 3 areas. Or having your villagers gather resources without having to travel to a resource gathering 
 point. This makes it easier to coordinate gameplay, but isn't as realistic. In fact, there are 
 quite a few areas where the developers have sacrificed any sense of reality for gameplay convenience. 
 
  
  Another minor nitpick I have with AOE3 is the way the "City Cards" concept was presented. Instead 
 of having a limited view of the City Harbor, I wish they had implemented a majestic view of the 
 entire city instead.
  
  In conclusion, it's obvious that Ensemble Studios have turned AOE3 into a much faster paced game, 
 in order to compete with Dawn of War or Warcraft 3. Instead, the result is a game lacking in that 
 sense of reality that made AOE2 such an in-depth and lengthy experience to play. I wouldn't call 
 AOE3 a classic, but it has enough merits that it can stand on its own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capt_karem
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I have played Age of Empires 1, 2 and Age of mythology to death and I had very high expectations 
 for this game. While I cant say that the game is truly revolutionary in the way the old AOE games 
 were, I can say that it does enough stuff right tp make it a must buy for anyone who enjoys playing 
 these games.
  The Home City concept is a great new feature. It lends a sense of persistence to your skirmish 
 games and it is satisfying to watch your home city level up and improve. The graphics are truly 
 outstanding, These are the best graphics I have seen in an RTS to date! In particular, the ships 
 with the water reflections are truly top-notch. The physics lend a sense of depth and realism to 
 the game that otherwise would not have been there. Its freakin awesome to watch sea vessels slug 
 it out with cannon ball volleys, watching soldiers throw molotov coctail into buildings to bring 
 them down, and artillery destroying buildings and infantry.
  In the end though the basic RTS mechanics are still the rule and that makes the game feel a little 
 boring at times. I was kinds hoping that they would do something truly different to shake up the 
 series. Like add a 'meta-game' aspect like Rome: Total War or what they are planning to do with 
 DOW: Dark crusade. All in all if you love RTS games then you should put the time and money into 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diablo795
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  This game puts in a battle for the "New World" which is the actually North and South America. You 
 can choose between eight different country's you want to control, each having its own unique pros 
 and cons. You also can form an alliance of seven Native American tribes, which provide you with 
 many different units to battle with. Another new cool feature of this game is the Home Cities. 
 These Home Cities provide many units and resources for your colony. If you played and enjoyed a 
 lot of any of these games you'll love Age of Empires 3. If you own Age of Mythology, Age of Empires 
 2, or any other Real-Time Strategy video game out there then you should by this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geiger871510
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  Well my overall impression of the game is wonderful. Installing it onto my computer took a little 
 bit of time but after that it was smooth sailing. I like the graphics compared to the earlier AOE 
 games and hope that if they come out with a new AOE game in the series that it just keeps getting 
 better. Probably my favorite feature of the game is group training, where I can create 5 musketeers 
 in one shot. That feature is very handy when building my army. The story mode was not that bad 
 considering. However, the fact that it all revolved around a fountain of youth turned me off because 
 that is not historical, or at least not to my knowledge. I would rather see more historically relevant 
 story lines in later games, but I am just a kid, who is going to listen to me?? But overall I gave 
 this game a 9.0 because I really enjoyed playing it and it was pretty darn good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I'm a little bafled at the reasons some people say this game is not better than AOE2 when it clearly 
 is. I mean 2 is ok but foe the most part the armies were completely generic with only one original 
 unit per army, Sure that make the battles much more balanced I guess,.. but more boring to someone 
 like myself who is a lover of strategy games and knows that war isn't about having everything be 
 even for you you. So i guess that less thought involved style might apeal to some but not as much 
 to me. To me that mismatch is what makes games like C&C so great.
  Some didn; t like it because of the factions included with this one. And the fact that it takes place 
 in the Americas,.. or the new world. Too bad I say. It is a big event in history that involves alot 
 of confilct between may nations. Just because it doesn't incude an asin nation doesn't make it bad,. it 
 just makes it more accurate.
  The game looks great,. it sounds great,. and plays great too. The destruction in the game is very 
 cool too.
  I suppose you could say that the game is pretty old school. It actually has resource gathering still,. which 
 I prefer than the RTS Lite style that seems to be creeping into the genre as of late. Anyways,.. the 
 game is great and is alot of fun.
  Reccomended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quills_GW
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  Well, this is a good game with wonderful graphics . as i said all about it in my first review .
 
  but i realised that it's getting worse. even the new patches gives more problems!!! guess what 
 .. i dowloaded the newest patch . and i was unable to log on to ESO online. i tried evrything. but 
 still doesn't worthis is oe point they really lose out to Blizzard.
  services provided by blizzard are just the best...
  
  Well.. just to tell you guys... this game 
 is going down the drain .... 
  ensemble studios can just give up for the future patches.. cause its gonna give more problems to 
 the players online now... trust me ...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: owens_lv
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Nice game. Like the new civilisations but still I think this part of Age of Empires is not so good 
 as were previous Age of Empires ... Actually I hoped that graphics would be a lot better and civilisations 
 would be more then 5-6 ( couldn't remember how many they were ) . Now I'm hoping that Age of Empires 
 VI ( if there be one ) will include more civilisations and more opportunities, campaigns. 
  For me this game was boring because I managed to complete it in a week time and I spend a lot more 
 time trying to complete previous Age of Empires game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grahamdm52
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 1, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a "console man". I recently purchased a new more powerful computerand I decided 
 to give a computer game a try. I could not believe how much fun I had. I finally get a chance to 
 use my brain on games. Strategy is actually a factor. I couldn't get enough. I can't wait to see 
 what all is out there. What can I say except, if you like gaming, do not limit yourself to just 
 console games. There is a whole nother universe of gaming pleasure waiting for you. I recommend 
 this to all people, young and old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alby1481
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 31, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  Some people think where is the fun in little people and small buildings. Well its like being a 
 little kid again building your dream cities and army's. If you never get the chance to boss around 
 people at work or even home this is the chance for you. You can tell anyone to do anything at anytime 
 and believe me they will listen. This game dominates young and old to build their dream lands and 
 nations and their is one Emperor - you. Call me nerd but this game is addictive and fun. Battles 
 is not the only thing that you can do there but they are cool to do and follow. Its like overlooking 
 centuries old battlefields and makes you only wonder how did people lived at real times like that 
 it was a fields of strategies and domination, nations of hard work and discoveries.
  
  Wow!!!......... Kind of forgot what was I doing. Anyway I think you get the point: I like this 
 game and so should you, if you into these kind of games. 
  
  Great graphics, great scenarios lots of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bert159
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2006 2:24 am PT
Review:  Vernieuwd is de gameplay allerminst, maar verslavend des te meer.
  
  Blaadjes vallen van de herfstige bomen, golven slaan te pletter op de klif en dieren hupelen/ zwemmen/ 
 vliegen/ dartelen in het rond. Dit moet een nieuwe graphische revolutie zijn in RTS-land.
  
  De heroes zijn de enige units die de rijkelijk aanwezige schatten in amerika kunnen innen.
 
  
  Om je arme systeemje te sparen kan je naar hartelust spele met de instellingen.
  
  De mappen zijn eerder aan de kleine kant maar wie maalt erom als je ziet...
  
  De weinigvinnovatieve 
 gameplay wordt meer dan goed gemaakt door de immer aanwezige verslavingsfactor en de graphische 
 pracht. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: girik9
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 27, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  GOOD:
  
  New and original features
  Home City
  RPG style charcter experience points
  Graphics are brilliant and are optimized
  Up to 8 players per match
  Great physics engine
 
  
  BAD:
  
  Can get boring sometime, maps lack variety
  Not really a lot of units to choose from if you play as one civilization all the time.
  Gameplay 
 seems a bit too easy, certain lack of stratergy.
  
  OVERALL:
  
  There is no doubt that AOE3 is a good game, everything is highly polished from the graphics to 
 the gameplay physics. The developers have made a real effort to evolve the genre and AOE3 is certainly 
 something different. If you are an Age of Empires fan, this game will keep you hooked for months 
 on end. For the others, mabye this is not quite the game for you. You might find it a bit boring 
 afterwards, so try the demo first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigammer915
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 26, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Now personally I've been a fan of RTS games for awhile espically this series. So when i got AOEIII 
 i was wondering about how moving to the colonial age would affect the gameplay with muskateers 
 and such. Well the core gameplay is still here from the past games which is great. Also, in the 
 past games you would make a couple of swordsman and bowman and just walk over and oblitereate the 
 other team, but in this game you really need to decide what units you need to put and artillery 
 as well. Now for the homecity aspect of the game. It is very unque and inavative for games and 
 it works well by sending misc. things once you fill up a bar. You can also get different things 
 to send once you are in more skrimish battles etc. Graphics are top notch just watching the water 
 move is amazing and smoke affects are good as well as the building chucks that get blown off. Sound 
 is good for cannons muskateers and sword clinging. There is much value with online play and infinte 
 different was to play skrimish modes. This is definetly a game you wanna check out if your into 
 RTS's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: den1233
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 22, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  this game was great but not as good as i wanted it to be. AOE2 was a perfect game and alot of people 
 expected the same changes in III. but they kept with pretty much the same formula this time just 
 a little tampered with. the only hugr noticable changes in this game is graphics. home town, better 
 online sevice, and a different age. not really revolutionary but still a formula for a great game. 
 just not perfect. gameplay is solid as AOE2 was solid gameplay and this is pretty much the same 
 only a few changes to make it more flashy. graphics are great but not the best. the only way to 
 get the great graphics like in the pictures on gamespot is to get a high powered pc and even then 
 its not the best it can be. sound was my favorite part of the game. awsome voice acting and perfect 
 gameplay music. the music will change from calm to battle to ambush and there very well done. 
 
  for the value ill say its worth getting as long as your like me and like pretty much all stadagy 
 games. it has tons of content and worth getting. for my final say i think if your in to the history 
 or just want to blow things up euro style then you will not be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quina919
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 21, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III takes place during the colonization of North America...
  
  GAMEPLAY: For times sake, I'm gonna assume you know how an RTS like this works: build cities, gain 
 a population, gather resources, and conquer others with an assembled army. That's about it; only 
 in a North American Colonization setting. First off, I love the setting. I think it's a great background 
 for an RTS game and it works well, because it gives the excuse for what an RTS is about: building 
 an empire and the conflicts over territory that result. Second, the main campaign actually has 
 a story line (for the first time in the series, apart from Age of Mythology) that takes place through 
 about three generations in the Black family, a related line of adventurers in The New World. It's 
 not terribly compelling, but then again, I never found RTS stories that interesting; it does, however, 
 do its job in moving the game forward and in creating different scenarios. Finally, what sets the 
 game apart from the rest of the series and RTSs alike, the game introduces the Home City feature. 
 The Home City, with using various types of 'cards' unlocked through experience, can ship many many 
 different forms of help, whether it be a needed natural resource, a new technology, or a shipment 
 of men for your army. Players can also slightly customize and enhance their city to meet their 
 needs. In the end this feature does add some new life to RTSs and can really affect gameplay in 
 certain situations. 
  
  Overall, gameplay-wise, Age of Empires III doesn't do a lot much different, but it was still a 
 load of fun for the few weeks or so that it lasted.
  
  GRAPHICS: The visuals are by far the best quality of Age of Empires III; from the dynamic lighting 
 and shadows to some of the best water effects ever produced in a game, AoE III is loaded with eye 
 candy. The only fault is some laggy framerate issues here and there, but that didn't bother me 
 much, do to years of previously playing on a lower grade PC. If you've got the specs, this game 
 sure is a treat visually.
  
  SOUND: From the ambiance to the musical score, AoE III more than does its job. The sound effects 
 are for the most part well done, and the musical score is well composed and definately fits the 
 setting.
  
  VALUE: Fans should blow through the campaign in less than a few weeks or so, but the squirmish 
 mode's many features and the decent multiplayer experience should pack on enough hours for the 
 game to pay for itself.
  
  ON THE NEGATIVE SIDE...:
  - Sometimes laggy framerate
  - Not much that different from the others in the series except for the 
  Home City feature
 
  
  BOTTOM LINE: If you're familiar with Age of Empires then there's a good chance you won't be disappointed 
 with what part III has to offer. Otherwise: 
  Age of Empires III doesn't do much that's different to the genre; however, that doesn't stop it 
 from being a very, very enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  AOE III adds some new features and pretty graphics to an already stout franchise.
  
  This time you can play from the 15th century all the way up to the late 19th. The game is as highly 
 addictive as ever putting you in control over you colonies and little minions. The new main feature 
 in the game is that you have a home city in Europe and you can call back to them for help like 
 supplies, reinforcements, food, weapons, etc.. You have a story mode and of course multiplayer, 
 with the most played mode create your own battle. Your can build your empire up and take it online 
 to destroy the weak who get in your way. 
  
  The graphics overhaul is amazing bringing all the next-gen goodies to the game like HDR, and real 
 time destructible house's, trees, and so on. The island maps with sandy white beachs and the water 
 is o so beautiful.
  
  AOE III is a great game that will have you playing for hours upon hours. If you don't own it pick 
 it up now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iforgotokie
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 16, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: This review is written assuming you have previous history with AOE.
  
  
  I don't know what to say. I really don't. I guess I have to try though.....
  This is really one 
 of the best games I've played in a very long time. I may be a bit biased because the Napoleonic 
 Wars is my favorite historical time period, but that doesn't mean that I'm not saying one true 
 word.
  Gameplay: Very, very smooth and simple. Easily learned, great gameplay is one of the key points 
 of this game. It does require a little more micromanaging, but this game does an excellent job 
 of matching foes and running a great fighting engine. The balances of cavalry and infantry work 
 very well, and so does artillery. No complaints here.
  Graphics: Dependable. If you don't have an actual video card, don't bother with this game. Before 
 recently I had only integrated video memory, and the game is not even half as good as it is with 
 an actual video card. Anything above 100 mb will do fine. If you want the best graphics with this 
 though (which are absolutely amazing) , go with a 256. I run it on medium-high settings and am very 
 impressed with it's graphics and proformence.
  Sound: Traditional. Nice, classical music traditional to the AOE series. No complaints.
  Value: 
 This game has a HUGE replay value. There are countless ways to play this game, with each civilization, 
 though even if you play it one way you still will have several hours of replayablity to use.
  Overall: Wonderful components come together to make a griping and very addictive game that I call 
 no less than breathtaking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Join_XtremePC
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 15, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Hokay, this will be my second review today. Reason: Im bored. , I have beaten this game a few 
 times already and have enjoyed playing it a fair bit. The story campaign took me about ten hours 
 to complete.
  
  Contents:
  
  Intro/Story
  Gameplay
  Graphics
  Sound
  Pros/Cons
  Conclusion
  
  Intro/Story 4/10
  Age of Empires 3 has one of the most retarded 
 storylines I have ever played through. It consists of three different campaigns.
  In the first one you are a fat old Scottish knight like person with the most annoying accent you 
 have ever heard, taking place in the Medieval-like age. Your main enemies are the Ottomans and 
 your goal is to find and get to the Fountain of Youth before they doyes, thats right, The 
 Fountain of Youth. All my hopes of this being a nice realistic and historically accurate game 
 shattered. Although playing through it isnt quite bad, its just quite retarded. There is even 
 a mission where you have to find six sunken Spanish treasure fleets so that you can dig up some 
 coins and pay a woman to let you pass. There isnt much flow either.
  In the next campaign you play as his Great-great grandson. This time your uncle has been kidnapped 
 and you must rescue him, all the while making an allegiance with Native Americans and combating 
 the English. This campaign is more believable and is a great deal more fun, especially the fact 
 that you dont have to listen to that guys accent.
  The third and final campaign is the granddaughter of the previous guy. This campaign doesnt really 
 have much of a storyline, from what I can tell you are fighting to protect the rail roads and your 
 allegiance with the Native Americans.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  The gameplay aspect of AoE3 is where the game really shines. From storming a village with an army 
 of musketeers to bombarding it with cannons, its all extremely fun. 
  A new element to this game is the Home City. As you progress through the game you get experience 
 points, which can be used to upgrade your home city or purchase new cards. These cards can range 
 from units to resources. Lets say you purchase the 10 Musketeers card. On your next game you 
 can go to your home city and click on that card. In a few moments the ten musketeers will spawn 
 from your town center. Its a really convenient concept, allowing great strategies. For instance, 
 you can purchase many of the unit cards and when the game starts you can use all of those cards 
 and you will automatically have an easy army. The only problem is that some of the cards require 
 you to be in a higher age (referring to time/tech periods) . 
  Another new concept is the explorer character. Basically, this person is the hero and has a few 
 powers that he can use, such as instant kill. If your hero were to fall in combat he will just 
 lie there moaning and groaning and rolling around until you pay a ransom at your town center of 
 come and rescue him yourself.
  
  Since, I have already more-or-less described the story oriented aspect of this game I will focus 
 more on the skirmishes and such in this section. There are 8 different playable factions. Russia, 
 Germany, England, France, Ottoman Empire, Spain and the Dutch. Each faction has their own advantages 
 and disadvantages and special things that are only available to them. For instance, Russia can 
 build infantry units very quickly and in huge masses, but they suck, so it all evens out. 
  When youre playing a skirmish its a great deal of fun. Like all of the AoE3 games you must gather 
 resources. The resources have been simplified in this game and are now down to stone, lumber and 
 food. Now, instead of dragging the acquired resources back to a storage house the villagers will 
 just mine/chop/pick away until the source of the resource disappears. The resources just go straight 
 to your points. This is obviously much more convenient, but I prefer it much more the other way 
 (previous AoE games) at least that had a gram of realism to it.
  Now, when youre building units you can build them in packs of five. It takes just as long to build 
 one unit as a pack of five (you can have less but five is the maximum) . This is a lot more convenient 
 then in the previous versions where you would build one soldier at a time, which was quite unrealistic 
 and took way too long.
  If you are on a team map where you and your ally is against two other teams, you may all work together. 
 If you press the enter key you will get a set of dialog options. Such as work on defense or attack 
 here. Your enemies will also work together and can be quite smart. For instance, one time I was 
 playing both of the enemy armies attacked me from each side, the sides which were most unprotected. 
 I was quite surprised at the intelligence of the CPU. If you are attacking the red team and they 
 are in trouble their ally will come to help, sometimes even retreat from their attack. Unfortunately 
 your ally isnt quite as smart. 
  
  Graphics 9.5/10
  The graphics in this game are superb. The terrain, character models and water detail are all spectacular. 
 I especially liked the water effects. The only rebuts I have are when you are zoomed in as much 
 as possible you can make out a few jagged lines on the character models, but thats not really 
 much of a concern seeing the fact that its surrounding environment is so good looking. Other than 
 that, theres not really much else to say. 
  
  Sound 10/10
  The sound is great and very believable. There really isnt anything wrong with it and it all sounds 
 genuine and in place. The gun shots, cannon fodder, sloshing of the ships it all sounds real and 
 really makes you feel as though you are part of the game.
  
  Pros
  Great skirmishes
  Extremely fun battles
  Cannons rule
  Exceptional graphics
  Great AI
  
  Cons
  Stupid 
 storyline
  The guys damn accent
  Allies arent too smart
  
  Conclusion
  In conclusion, Age of Empires III is a great game and will provide you with a great deal of fun. 
 Excluding the story aspect of the game there is nothing really wrong with it and is a great deal 
 of fun. You will find yourself playing the skirmishes for a really long time, theyre just so much 
 fun. Theres just something missing in the game, something that would make it exceptional, I just 
 cant quite pinpoint what that is
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Mccloud666
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 14, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with the gameplay, very good, just like the first 2 AOE's except you no longer need 
 stone, just food, wood, and gold so there is some relief economic wise. The battles in this game 
 are pretty good but not totally realistic but hey its better than alot of others. You dont have 
 to worry about re-planting farms anymore, just make them and let them go. Wood and gold, however, 
 is a diffrent story but then you can just make plantations to produce more gold but for wood.. well 
 you wont play a game long enough to totally run-out.
  
  The graphics in this game are very good. Everything looks as real as can be.
  
  The maps on 
 this game are also very good but unlike AOE2 where you pick a map and the lake is in a diffrent 
 spot, this one.. you just get put in diffrent places each time if you play the same map again.
 
  
  Sound on this game is very nice, i especially like how after the battle is over, your men (if you 
 win) will celebrate and cheer on the battlefield instead of just standing there like "eh we won 
 good k" lol.
  
  Overall this game is a very good RTS game and worth playing.
  
  A 4 out of 5. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: De3emon
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 14, 2006 2:24 am PT
Review:  After playing this game for many hours just skirmishing (I really hate campaigns in RTS games) 
 I have to say I find nothing wrong with this game.
  
  AoE 3 is a huge step forwards from AoE 2 and the first one, which I played both for many days... 
 Aoe 3 has very, very pretty graphics that I am able to run high with an above average computer 
 but not too far above the line.
  
  My Computer: Utterly Bad |-----------------|---------| Aweeesome
  
  At first when I just went 
 to start playing I saw all these card things and I was like whoa, what are all these things for? 
 But i quickly got used to them after 2, 4 on 4 skirmishes. They are actually pretty cool and aren't 
 confusing at all other than the first look, they give you coll upgrades from your home city which 
 help alot when you want to make an amy of 25 motars to obliterate Queen Elizabeth little colony 
 which brings my to the amazing new physics.
  
  In the old AoE's you only got to see the fire burn from getting hit by swords and blowing up really 
 quickly, now you can take a cannon and blow parts off the building which do actually use physics, 
 while I can't say they fly off in the most realistic way they do still look cool and make the game 
 more fun. (Make an army of 25 cannons to see what I mean) . Along with that are the ship battles 
 which I used to hate but now I love them. The beautiful water being clashed with a few warships 
 broadsiding each other is just what the doctor ordered, again using the physics.
  
  Bringing me to the quick summary that AoE3 is huge step up from its last ones and it runs well 
 on computers that you have had for about a year and a half depending on what you got. It looks 
 amazing and the battles are satisfying altogether making it an awesome game.
  
  Side Note: If you don't like the hoses slashing that the reviewer implied then don't use horses. 
 I personally hate the horses and just make an army of cannons and rifle-guys to kick the crap out 
 of the other teams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: untzmaster1
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 12, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  I thnk that if you have never heard of it you should try it it is one of the best games for the 
 PC. I think that its the best out of all of the series because of the graphics and i thought they 
 did a great job with the story of the game. I thought that it was great with the graphics and is 
 not easy so it's fun to play. I also like blowing people up with the cannons or a huge army of 
 musketters. I thought the building were cool to and they have some coool things int he campaign 
 that you don't see very much of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 11, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Coming off the huge success of Age of Empires II and its expansion, one would think that making 
 anything follow it would be extremely hard with all the hype that any company or the fans themselves 
 would have for the new installment. Does Ensemble Studios deliver? Well, in some respects yes, 
 but in other parts, sadly no. Coming to store shelves on October 18th of 2005, fans were presented 
 with a story driven single player campaign that covers the discovery of America, and along with 
 the campaign, they were given a multiplayer component that was meant to rival the extremely entertaining 
 success of the previous game. Could Ensemble Studios pull this off?
  
  Unlike the previous Age games, AoE III has one long continuous campaign that spans from the discovery 
 of the new world of the Americas to the settling of the entire country. There are three acts in 
 total with a multitude of different chapters that tell the story of one particular family line. 
 Youll soon learn there is an evil society known as The Circle who are trying to find the famed 
 Fountain of Youth, which was thought to be a myth. Knowing that the New World would be a terrible 
 place if The Circle were to find the fountain and have eternal life, one man, along with some help 
 from the local natives sets out to find the fountain himself and ultimately destroy it before The 
 Circle can get their hands on it. But that would only be part of the first act, the second and 
 third act deal with descendants of the family who are also out to stop The Circle from finding 
 any remnants of the famed Fountain and thus having eternal life. Also unlike its predecessors, 
 AoE III has an in-depth story that will keep you focused on whats going on from mission to mission. 
 Between each task, there is a movie which describes whats taking place that is easy to follow 
 and really adds a lot to the entire campaign. These movies, between chapters are presented with 
 in-game graphics while the story spots between actual acts are presented in a more cinematic 
 direction. 
  
  New to the AoE series is the idea of the home city. This is a far stretch from what has been 
 done with any real-time strategy game up to date. It definitely adds a little bit of strategy to 
 the gameplay and does make a difference in the multiplayer component of the game. Between each 
 chapter, youre presented with a screen of your home city where youll be able to pick out different 
 cards. Cards consisting of different upgrades to your existing towns or cards that will give your 
 civilization instant troops instead of always having to make them at the local barracks or stables. 
 These cards can play a huge role in trying to defend off an opponent in a time of military defense. 
 There are a multitude of cards for the different areas of the game including upgrades for different 
 resource gathering, military upgrades, religious upgrades, and also as said before instant troops 
 and artillery. There are also hero units throughout the different chapters, and through these home 
 city screens, youll be able to enhance those hero units with more hitpoints and attack power. 
 Youll only be able to pick cards out between chapters, but youll be able to use these enhancements 
 anytime while playing by pushing on the home city button on the interface. The amount of enhancements 
 youll be able to play is considered by the amount of experience you gain while playing, because 
 of killing, trading with the local Indians, and amassing resources. The experience and leveling 
 system in the game is a nice touch, but it may seem to be too much micro-management for some who 
 enjoy a faster paced real-time strategy game. 
  
  Many civilizations from the previous game are back consisting of the British, the French, the Spanish, 
 and the Dutch while new additions to the civilizations include the Russians, the Portuguese, the 
 Germans, and the Ottomans. Each civilization in the multiplayer are different and unique enough 
 from the other where you wont see everyone playing the same one because its the best. Another 
 new component to the AoE series during the single player campaign is the inclusion of secondary 
 objectives in each map. These are little side quests which you can complete for extra experience 
 if youd like. Some consist of discovering all the treasure on a map or killing different important 
 members in the oppositions army. These secondary objectives are nice because theyre not always 
 listed from the start, so sometimes, youll have to discover what they are by completing some of 
 it and this provides a little extra fun in each map. And a great thing about the single player 
 campaign is that not every chapter consists of you building up a base town and army from scratch 
 and obliterating the enemy. Ensemble Studios mixes up the gameplay a little bit with different 
 main objectives that not only keep the main storyline flowing, but also the main campaign fun and 
 interesting.
  
  The graphics in AoE III are some of the most realistic and most beautiful in any RTS game out to 
 date. The ability to zoom in and out and to rotate the camera view in any way real adds quite a 
 bit of depth to the 3D map and units. Gone are the days where youll have to push and drag your 
 mouse across a large expanse of land to see if any of your troops are hiding anywhere; now youll 
 be able to just rotate the camera around. There is quite a bit of detail with the different characters 
 and units that youll be able to control throughout your game and when attacking a building, youll 
 now be able to see it crumble apart and explode into pieces as your cannons blast large iron shots 
 into their sides. While exploring the different, multilayered environments, youll come across 
 different inhabitants of the wildlife consisting of wild boars, mountain lions, deer, black and 
 brown bear. During the single player campaign, their wont be a lot of battles on water and thats 
 a little sad, because Ensemble Studios made the water look very beautiful, with the flowing waves 
 splashing against the rocks and shoreline. The movies that progress the storyline through the different 
 chapters and acts look fantastic and you can tell the developers spent quite a bit of time in planning 
 out each sequence in not only the storytelling, but also in the different map layouts to make the 
 games both fun and challenging. One of the main and only complaints with the graphics comes from 
 the interface itself. Its quite large and what I mean by this is that it seems to almost take 
 up one third of the playing screen and this can be annoying with dealing with a large battle or 
 an expansive town where youd like to keep track of a lot of things. Ensemble should have included 
 a feature to make the interface smaller for the player if theyd wish. In a time where most developers 
 have been trying to get rid of the interface completely, this seemed like a bold move by Ensemble.
 
  
  The musical score is quite nice while playing through both the single player campaign and during 
 the multiplayer skirmishes. And the voice acting for all the characters is superb. The voice actors 
 really make the storyline shine. Usually in most games, voice acting is done in-house to save on 
 costs and a games voice acting can really make or break your experience through the campaign. 
 An example for me would be Dungeon Siege II, the voice acting in that game was done very poorly 
 and really took away from the whole experience of the game. In that respect, I could have done 
 entirely without the voice acting and just gone along with reading the words on the screen, but 
 with AoE III, you wont have to worry about that because Ensemble Studios really fleshed out their 
 characters with not only the storyline, but also with the voice acting.
  
  The multiplayer component in AoE III was done quite nicely and shows experience in the multiplayer 
 aspect of gaming, but who can forget how awesome the multiplayer was in AoE II? One large detriment 
 in AoE III multiplayer is the win option, where youre given only one and this is the last man 
 standing, where you have to completely decimate the enemy entirely to win the match and this can 
 be quite frustrating if your opponent decides to take one of his peasants and hide in a corner 
 of the map in beginning of the game, thus making you spend quite a bit of time searching for him 
 just to end the game. Like the single player though, youre able to gain experience with online 
 games where youll be able to build up your home city and be able to purchase enhancements to 
 help you against your opponent. The experience and the home city are different from your single 
 player home city so none of your experience will carry over from the campaign to multiplayer 
 and this is meant to prevent people from cheating. But, if youre not one to play online, there 
 are three different settings of difficulty for single player and they range from easy, to hard, 
 to expert with easy being extremely easy and expert only providing a normal amount of challenge 
 to most hardcore real-time strategy gamers.
  
  In the end, Ensemble Studios did well with returning to the AoE series with amazing graphics, wonderful 
 sound, and in-depth interesting and fun single player campaign. While the multiplayer component 
 could have used more options, fans from the previous installments will generally be happy with 
 this new game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agefreak
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 11, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, Age of Empires III was the most hyped up RTS ever, as it was a sequel looking forward 
 not only to step into the boots of its predecessor, the runaway hit RTS, Age of Empires II, but 
 to make them a bit bigger, if you know what I mean. Does it manage to live up to all the hype created 
 before it was even released? Lets find out.
  
  Coming out almost 6 years after the last Age of Empires game (The Conquerors) , it was inevitable 
 that the franchise would get a massive graphical overhaul. The graphical splendor seen in this 
 installment is absolutely fabulous. Period. Thereve been RTS games which have tried to infuse 
 3 Dimensional models on an essentially 2 Dimensional map scale. Plenty of them have inched towards 
 perfection. But what AOE3 showcases is perfection. The swaying trees, the lifelike shadows and 
 reflections, the subtle touches like bullet traces, footprints.. All are a visual treat for the 
 player. The new Havoc physics engine lends your battles a destructive yet engaging look, almost 
 visceral in nature! Cannonballs knocking off soldiers in your ranks, buildings catching fire and 
 getting knocked off chunk-by-chunk, debris and remains of your conquests flying everywhere. Life 
 can get real beautiful sometimes (Yeah, and Im a sadist!!!) .
  
  As far as the core gameplay is concerned, AOE3 sports a colonial setting, with European powers 
 vying for supremacy in the New World. The gameplays much like AOE2, yet a lot different because 
 of subtle touches by ES. One of the major improvements to come along in this title is the new Home 
 City concept. This concept is partially responsible for giving the game its colonial feel. The 
 concept is quite simple  each player is actually controlling a colony (yes, not an entire civilization, 
 for gods sake!!) , with a home city watching over it. Players can occasionally seek aid from their 
 home city, based on the amount of Experience (xp) points they earn. Aid comes in form of resources, 
 villagers, military reinforcements, and even mercenaries. Different shipments are available to 
 you in different ages in the form of cards (Kind of like Risk 2, only that its more than just 
 territories here!) . The game requires you to stack up a deck of at most 20 cards, divided between 
 ages, which you may access when you have the required number of xp. Most shipments are available 
 only once, and the game requires you to weigh all your options before using a shipment. The best 
 part, though, is the ability to unlock new cards as you play the game and gather more experience 
 point. Newer cards are available are higher levels, giving the system a quasi-RPG touch, yet staying 
 firmly within limits. The whole home city concept is an interesting twist added to the normal RTS 
 gameplay, which helps make this game fast paced and aggressive.
  
  The rest of the gameplay has also undergone a makeover. You start your colony with your villagers, 
 a Town Center and a Hero-cum-Scout-cum-Treasure Hunter. Apart from the usual scouting, you now 
 need to look out for Treasure in various parts of the map, most being guarded by wild animals or 
 bandits. Treasures vary from resources to experience to free units. Treasure hunting aside, youre 
 required to build up your colony, and in the process, advance through 5 ages upto the Industrial 
 Age. Your villagers are used to gather resources, namely Food, Wood and Coin. Villagers in this 
 installment do not need drop sites, which proves to be a blessing in disguise, averted from the 
 otherwise complex nature of the game. The game shifts back to the normal Town Center system of 
 AOE2, instead of carrying forward the Settlements of AoM.
  
  The ultimate goal, obviously, is supremacy, and youll need to fight hard for it. Military consists 
 of mostly Infantry, Cavalry and Siege units, although now the swords have been traded for muskets 
 and the Mangonnels for Cannons. Your troops are now trained in batches of 5, which requires some 
 more resource planning, but eventually pays off. Although the core of all battles is still the 
 same Rock Paper Scissors formula, the correct balance of units and the amazing battle scenes (Repeat: 
 Top Notch Graphics) do lend some originality to gameplay. 
  
  A special mention must be made of the naval units here. The ships in AOE3 are nothing short of 
 Royal!! They are absolutely huge and dwarf all units in the game. Their power is a reflection of 
 their size, and thats why ES has put caps on the no. of naval units youre allowed to train. However, 
 even with the cap, those who control the seas definitely hold an edge in the game.
  
  
  Age of Empires III offers eight different European Nations to play with  The British, French, 
 Spanish, Dutch, Russians, Ottomans, Portuguese and the Germans, each having some key differences 
 in their economic and military approach. The vast differences between these civilizations is something 
 that makes this game quite complex and challenging, and take quite some time to figure out. However, 
 with the Home City system in place, players are compelled to choose a favorite and stick with it!
 
  
  The single player mode consists of a Campaign spread over more than 20 scenarios and subdivided 
 into three acts. The campaign follows the story of Morgan Black, a member of the ranks of Knights 
 of St. John, who embarks on a journey to the new world to save a Fountain of Youth from the clutches 
 of an ancient order. The Campaign goes upto the American Revolution, following the Black descendants 
 through a cohesive storyline. Apart from the campaign, theres the Skirmish mode which pits you 
 against the computer, and allows you to practice and fine tune your Home City for the real battles 
 online. Ensemble studios has provided the ESO matchmaking services, where players can compete in 
 ranked matches over the Internet. LAN and Direct IP connectivity options are also available. Apart 
 from this, the game also features a full fledged scenario editor, which players might fondly remember 
 from the previous games in the series. The good news is that its back and better than ever before, 
 allowing you to create custom scenarios with ease using a user-friendly interface, as well as explore 
 the complex depths of AI and Random Map scripting.
  
  The game, apart from looking great, sound good too. The musket fires, cannonballs getting pumped 
 out, units acknowledgments, all might be run-of-the-mill for a strategy game, but they lend a definitive 
 engrossing element to the game. The background scores good too, although not as great as some 
 of the previous games in the series. The in-game cinematics, though, are jerky and definitely need 
 improvement.
  
  The game (like any other) comes with its fair share of problems too. Graphical goodness like this 
 almost guarantees that there will be frame rate problems. Although the games engine is extremely 
 adaptable (I successfully ran it on lowest settings on an age old SiS chipset and the GeForce 2MX) , 
 the game sometimes stutters at highest settings during intense battle sequences. The complexity 
 of the game is another factor which die hard AOE fans will have to contend with, as the game might 
 prove to be too different, although the core gameplay remains the same. The Home-City system, as 
 stated before, as a refreshing add-on, but does tend to force players to pick up a nation and stick 
 with it, gradually improving its level for online battles, making experimenting a bit more difficult. 
 The Single player campaign is one of the weakest points in the game, in my opinion. After the different 
 campaigns in AOE2 and its expansions, players expected more of the same (Ive probably seen a million 
 threads predicting a Napoleon campaign in AOE3, prior to its release, obviously) . The campaign 
 in AOE3 follows a storyline which might sound interesting at first but tends to get rather foggy 
 towards the end. 
  
  Minor problems apart, Age of Empires 3 offers a great package for those looking for a historical 
 RTS with loads of eye candy, great gameplay options and complex internals. AOE fan or not, if you 
 like RTS games, youll probably do yourself a huge favor by picking up this one.
  
  
  
  Highs
  
   Drop Dead Gorgeous graphics, Runs on low end systems too.
   Revamped gameplay 
 with new options.
   Good blend of originality and complexity within the core gameplay.
   Great Skirmish mode and Multiplayer.
   Mercenaries!!!!!
  
  Lows
   Visual stutters on 
 some machines, High requirements.
   Poor Campaign design.
   Maybe too different.
   Experimenting between nations limited.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: webmessia
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 7, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  One of the best series ive played. Age of Empires 1 was quite good, but still fun. Age of Empires 
 2 was a lot better with new options and scenarios but it didn't get much better with Age of Empires 
 3. 3d graphics for the first time was a great bonus. but the graphics 
  efficiency was terrible. my game went slow and i had to get a better graphics card. The gameplay 
 is somwhat hard to get used to. Although there are more options with the new Hero unit type, treasures, 
 and home cities, they to take time to learn. New native americans can give you technologies and 
 units which are better than aoe2 such as tamed jaguars. Scenario cinematics (videos show before 
 a scenario) are better and in 3d. All based around exporing and going to new world, makes it hard 
 to create large empires since you have to start much smaller. The new scenario editor shows the 
 wide range of units and buildings you can have. with new terain options such as caves. And since 
 it is at the begining of an industrial era now all most units have guns instead of bows and swords. 
 also when you reach the industrial age you can build railways for better trade with other players 
 and native americans. Value for money 19.99 ($29.99) new and 11.99 ($15.99) used.
  Another review by Webmessia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-mE_16
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 6, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  this age of empires i would say is probably better than the others. it has turned from the medival 
 age all the way to the enlightment age in just one short turn. the boats in this game are probably 
 the best thing to hit this series... there ginormeuos and the damage that can be done is superb. 
 i would love ensemble studios and microsoft to make maybe a fourth but this time in the owrld war 
 2 and or after that modern day technology. i would recomend this game for you. it is amazing how 
 different they have made the game from the others. the solo play miossions are soo much more orginized 
 and fun. its just the rts game weve been needing for that time period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_G7676
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III  The Good, the Bad and the Just Plain Ugly!
  
  On Oct 18, 2005 Microsoft released the North American version of its long awaited game Age of 
 Empires III. Microsoft promised a whole lot that this game would be the most spectacular real 
 time strategy game ever. My answer to this is: Microsoft, what were you thinking!
  
  The Specs
  
  Although Microsoft gave age of Empires a whole new style with better looking graphics, 
 this game really is a hog for what you get. If you enjoyed playing Ages of Empires II on your Celeron 
 or PIII, forget it! You need a minimum of a 1.4 GHz processor, 256 MB of RAM, a 64 MB video card, 
 2 GB of hard drive space and a decent sound card. Now to be honest with you, if youre not using 
 a NVIDIA video card, youre going to need at least a 128MB video card. Im telling you right now 
 that I have a 1.9 GHz with 1 GB of RAM and a 128 MB video card and the game is slow. The recommended 
 specs are, get this, a 2.0 GHz CPU, 1GB RAM, 256MB video Card and 3 GB disk space (not a game for 
 everyones average PC) . Now, I heard and have seen it run better on some systems versus others 
 but it still does not change the fact that its a hardware hog. 
  
  Game Play
  
  Well, if you have played Ages of Empires II then youd better forget most of what you know. The 
 interface, although not too hard to understand, takes about 1-2 hours to fully get the hang of 
 it. The new game features are great and the player interface is very easy to understand. 
  
  Once youve mastered the interface and are about to control your units, the game play is quite 
 simple and easy to use. The good side of Age of Empires III over its predecessor is that the new 
 game features are a lot of fun. Call in re-enforcements, get special skills depending on what you 
 do in the game and a couple more fun features. Story mode is not too much different from Age of 
 Empires II except for the fact that you find yourself in the year of the discovery of North America. 
 Cut scenes guide you through a very good story and throw you into an easy learning curve making 
 the first couple levels pretty simple to play. 
  
  The Good
  
  The game graphics are more 3D and the cut scenes are really incredible. When you go from a cut 
 scene to the actual game play the transition is seamless. The game follows the same style of gamming 
 experience as Age of Empires II, and is true to its nature as a RTS (Real Time Strategy) . Its 
 pretty easy to get hooked to the game, if it doesnt crash, freeze or run too slowly. And, the 
 learning curve for a newcomers to Age of Empires is pretty short. Players will really enjoy the 
 multiplayer mode which is one of the greatest things about this game. The multiplayer mode presents 
 new advantages. The more victories you get, the better the equipment you get in the next game you 
 play. Really and truly a great deal better then Age of Empires II as far as multiplayer goes.
 
  
  The Bad
  
  Okay, so you took a great classic Age of Empires II and wanted to make it better. Thats great! 
 But dont try to tell us that making the game a bit more 3D makes this a worthwhile cause to upgrade 
 your PC. The game sounds are nothing to cheer about. The same background tracks will drive you 
 nuts after the first couple hours of game play. In some parts of the game, your musket-equipped 
 soldiers will have to fight a band of pistol carrying bandits. Now, I am not a firearms expert 
 (although I have fired the C-7 and the lien field in cadets back in the day) but if I fire at a 
 guy with a rifle, he is going to get hurt a lot more then if he gets hit with a pistol. The game 
 really needs to think over its realistic-ness level.
  
  The Just Plain Ugly
  
  Well, I said it once and Ill say it again; This game is a HOG. Not to mention it took them about 
 a month to finally release the first patch for the game fixing some really bad bugs such as levels 
 freezing, graphic glitches and more. There are still people out there reporting bugs, but then 
 again, isnt it expected? We are talking about a Microsoft game! Seriously, I find that this game 
 gobbles up too much resources for what you get -- not enough bang for you buck. Id wait and buy 
 a copy for no more than $19.99 when it eventually goes on sale.
  
  If you have a new computer system and want to play a good RTS this is a good pick. Even with it 
 hogging all that power, I still liked the game. Youll have to decide for yourself. If I am going 
 to pay $49.99 for a game, it better be worth it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 5, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  Some of the best graphics you'll ever see in any type of game.
  A huge leap on the steps of the Age of Empires series with detailed graphics, better sounds, and 
 the experience point system.
  Ships and buildings are scaled a lot better for a more realistic touch.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  You 
 really don't feel like an official Age of Empires with the lack of the Stone Age. It kind of feels 
 like the same age over and over.
  Tower-limit caps. No more wall of bombard towers! : (
  Online has a lot of random issues on the EOS server. *Disconnects, lags, etc.)
  
  :Overall:
 
  A terrific game. A beautiful game. If you're looking for a load of ages to go through, I'd suggest 
 Empire Earth II. If you are looking for a rock solid economic/strategy game with a ton of great 
 features, this is going to be the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: logansdabest
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 4, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Despite the 8.2 rating from gs and most others, im giving this game 9.5. Why you may ask, well 
 because its just plain fun. I cant begin to describe to you how incredibly exhilarating it is to 
 amass an army of 200 or more men and wreak total havoc. Combat is definitely 1 aspect of the game 
 youll love. Another is the simplicity of this game compared to some strategy games i know. Its 
 simple enough for casual players and in depth enough for the hardcore ones. The graphics are amazing, 
 the sound is amazing, and it is awesome to watch 3 of your oppenents soldiers go flying after a 
 blast from a cannon, or to see ship to ship combat. In this game you can also play as 8 different 
 civilizations, all having different strengths, weaknesses, or abilities. For instance the british 
 have powerful infantry and a good economy, while the ottoman have more powerful cannons, some unike 
 units, and they can spawn villagers at no cost. Villagers gather supplies such as gold, wood, and 
 food. Theres also somewhere around 20 maps too chose from and you can play online with friends. 
 The only flaw i noticed was the boring campaign mode. All in all age of empires 3 is an incredible 
 game that i reccomend to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jj3ysk
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2006 3:14 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires III had a lot of expectations to live up to, given the popularity of its predecessors. 
 The home city concept adds a new twist, making the game slightly more interested than it had been 
 before. If youre a fan of historical RTS games, then youve probably already picked this up, but 
 if youve been on the fence about whether or not to make a purchase, Age of Empires III absolutely 
 deserves a spot on your desktop. The sound is also very well done. The music is always appropriate 
 for the mood; they save the big Deus Irae-type choral segments for climactic battles and save the 
 more subdued numbers for early in the game when the players are mostly focused on resource gathering. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MHAH
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  it's realy good game but i got bored fast ... anyway the sound is good but it's not like the age 
 of empire II.. no strategy music so you can feel that you are in real war . graphics is perfect 
 it's the only thing that is better than the old games from the series .. however there is alot 
 of good things in graphics like trees , animals , fish , birds the water beautiful designed and 
 water combat was amazing. .. combat aint like rise of nations you have to train alot to got an 
 army but the good thing is when you make an army and you move you see them making each army in 
 a line and their view makes you feel that they are real army . good RTS style . the online gaming 
 no diffrent from the old AOE it's the same but registering your CD KEY is new thing .. game missions 
 has new style you can see what i mean the first AOE and the second 1 has a historical storeys and 
 it's real thing that it happened but this one is a historical but its not real i mean it didnt 
 happen it's a good and bad in the same time .i thought it would be the best game in the series 
 but i think AOE2 is better and i hope the new game in the series is better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_godfather_1
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  This game looked great with excellent sound and good rts gameplay however the story was good but 
 it wasent at all historical like the two past AOE games. 
  You start off has a knight of st. john and you end up chsing your enemies the circle of ossus in 
 every campagin for that god damn fountain of youth. At first i thought it was gonna have historic 
 campaigns with the british and the french and spanish but the online games seemed more like a historic 
 battle so the story i thought was bad. Now gameplay is a typical good RTS style gameplay. The graphiques 
 where amazing like when a cannon hits a building you actually see peices of the building fall off. The 
 water was very well dont and naval combat was amazing. Online play wasent much differnt from the 
 old AOE. So overall this was a good looking game but was missing an historic wich the old Aoe's 
 had so if you want one of the AOE get number 2 and it's expansion because they had much more of 
 an historic storyline. If they make an AOE 4 i hope it has a storyline with real battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prostar343
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 26, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Have you played Age of Empires 2? If youve played the game and you hated it its probable a good 
 idea to skip Age of Empires 3. However, if you loved or had a fun time playing Age of Empires 2 
 this is definitely a buy.
  
  Simply put the game seems to stick too closely to the formula set down by Age of Empires 2 and 
 its innovation is frankly limited. This is not, however, a completely bad thing as the formula 
 is a pretty good one.
  
  Lets start with the campaign, which is broken down into three acts that follow three generations 
 of the Black family. You start out as the great great grandfather of the narrator and by the third 
 act you play as the narrator. With each act connecting to the next though only in a loose manner. 
 The campaign if summed up in one word would be boring. The plot is weak, and follows an almost 
 generic plotline that you can guess pretty easily at. You shouldnt be playing the game for the 
 campaign. Apart from that the cut scenes are well done with excellent graphics.
  
  Talking about graphics the game is excellent in this department. I played this on a very good computer 
 initially and was greatly impressed at the detail placed in the game, and than played it on an 
 aging computer. Even on the aging one the game worked smoothly and the graphics were okay.
  
  When you have graphics you have sound. Which was in short well done with good voice acting 
 for the campaign and in the actual battles was well tuned. Though the unit says became repetitive 
 very quickly.
  
  Game play I believe is the most important part of the game. What I truly missed was the ability 
 to change the formation of your men this option was not well put together though forces would automatically 
 form up when near similar units which was a great touch. Another great part that truly added to 
 the game was the physics engine with cannons rolling on, and bodies hitting the water when falling 
 from a cliff. It was quite exceptional. What I also was annoyed by was the pace of the game. The 
 best innovation was the home city feature that allowed you over time to collect cards you could 
 send to your colony every time you earned exp. It is an excellent feature and well implemented.
 
  
  In short Age of Empires 3 is a must have for those who enjoyed its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awa123456789_12
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 26, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  First of all, the scenerio (the, as in one) is a dull piece of sludge that is VERRRy boring. The home 
 city thing is weird, and unnedded. The gameplay is decent, but it dosn't feel the same as age of 
 kings or the original. No castles, siege weapons, or good technology. The lack of civilizations 
 and unique units is a disipointment and the map editer is also less then the other games in the 
 series.
  
  I have to say though, the graphics are great. the faces of your units are visible, and the addition 
 of treasers and explorers are great. It is above average for a RTS , but below the other games 
 in the series. You are better off getting what i think is the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leandro29
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 25, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game! I thought this game would be just like the others but better. AND IT DIDN'T 
 FAIL ME!!!!!!!!!! 
  I got this game thinking it was going to be cool, and it was. This game has amazing graphics and 
 the game play is amazing. It's like you don't even want to get out of the seat. And if you do, 
 you'll miss something. This is as close to real time strategy as it gets. Except that it doesn't 
 have weather. Other than that one minor flaw, I 100% want you to get this game! Although you can't 
 create unlimited guys, you can still get pirty big armies. And the formations DO mean something 
 in this game. You can't just run at them, you need to form a formation. If you have a choice between 
 some other game and this game, GET THIS GAME!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric_Bresnahan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 25, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  I got this game thinking it was going to be cool, and it was. This game has amazing graphics and 
 the game play is amazing. It's like you don't even want to get out of the seat. And if you do, 
 you'll miss something. This is as close to real time strategy as it gets. Except that it doesn't 
 have weather. Other than that one minor flaw, I 100% want you to get this game! Although you can't 
 create unlimited guys, you can still get pirty big armies. And the formations DO mean something 
 in this game. You can't just run at them, you need to form a formation. If you have a choice between 
 some other game and this game, GET THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icebuster
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 24, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely an above average RTS. Few bugs, good story and good multiplayer. Sounds are 
 out dated. Very good, still quite different from the first one.
  
  The graphics are very very good, i think that it is very well designed game with and average but 
 slightly annoying interface. It is quite different from the original game.
  
  I think that the initial idea of a Third Age of Empires is very good. However, it was way below 
 my expectations. If you REALLY REALLY like Age of Empires II then this will not be able to compare.
 
  
  Is it worth buying?
  
  I think that it is worth buying, though there are better RTS games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob1354
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game when i was out Christmas shopping and i have to say it rocks. The graphics 
 are pretty good. the sound is to die for, but the game play i feel does kinda suffer, first due 
 to the lack of the ability to do anything long term with your troops, you cant make them patrol, 
 you cant make them defend. Or anything of the sort and it gets annoying when they run outside your 
 walls to shoot at an enemy that is running away. And the fact that your enemy can shoot through 
 your walls is even worse. It makes you wonder what the hell is the point to walls if they dont 
 stop weapons fire?? and the economy while is pretty cool due to how the villagers gather. Is kinda 
 screwy and more often then not i found myself with 40 villagers just to keep up with upgrading 
 my units, making my units and having enough resources to expand. As for combat its ok at most. 
 I found myself making whole battalions and marching them across maps. As for combat due to the 
 lack of any ability to set troops at defend you often just find yourself throwing re-enforcements 
 into the fray to end it quickly. So in this game its just really a matter of building your armies 
 and marching them across the map as quickly as possible. I just found this game kinda empty and 
 really lacking. It still leaves a lot to be asked for in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 22, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  It's a lot like the other ones, isn't it? Just because you give your little men guns doesn't turn 
 it into a different game. Granted there a few new ideas such as shipping things in from your home 
 and finding heroes who will join you, but two or three news ideas doth not a new game make, if 
 you know what I mean. Also, the others had so much troop variety! Frankly, this was a big disappointment 
 for me. 
  This does, however, have a good multiplayer. This game can be fun if you're a big fan of the series, 
 which frankly I never was.
  It was just like the other ones. As my heading says, been there, done that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PotHeel
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 22, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  The Age of Empires saga, as most of us know started back in 1997 when the Original Age of Empires 
 was released. The Age of Kings improved upon the first and (supposedly) the third improved upon 
 the second.
  Age of Empires III is a very unusual game. It continually dances an awkward gait between fact and 
 fiction that has often left me confused, this is particularly true for the campaign. 
  The campaign (yes, THE, as in 1) is a hideously long and boring pile of sludge that completely 
 fails to inspire any feeling at all in the player (except perhaps uninhibited boredom) . It follows 
 the tale of a Hospitaller knight from the island of Malta being pursued to the New World in search 
 of the Fountain of Youth (No this isn't Indiana Jones) and the rise of the United States of America. 
 It also follows the knight's descendants one of whom travels to South America and helps the Native 
 Incans while being pursued by a group conspiring to take over the world.... (as I said, been there 
 done that)
  Age of Empires III borrows heavily from Ensemble's recent Age of Mythology titles, making frequent 
 references the the latter's Myth Units and Heroes.
  However not everything is bad news.
  The graphics on this game are absolutely fantastic and the sound is nostalgic of the memorable 
 tunes of the second. Voice acting, although ridiculous, is actually delivered believably.
  There aren't as many civilisation's to choose from and most of them are very similar. (I would 
 also take a moment to point out to anyone who has played this game that in real life cannons are 
 not the supernaturally accurate killing machines that are present in this game.)
  This game, as already stated, is a very messy masterpiece. A nice idea but very rough around the 
 edges. 
  
  Silent Bob
  
  PS To any of you ensemble boys, AoE II was a true masterpiece, maybe you should try and take from 
 the past by LEARNING from history. Maybe try a campaign following, get this, CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS, 
 ERIC THE RED, MAGELLAN, THE WAR FOR CANADA or THE SOUTH AMERICAN WARS FOR INDEPENDENCE!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2o35
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 21, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I had the money to buy another game and my choice was between Civilization IV or Age of Empires 
 3, and i decided I wanted something a little more action packed. 
  I took Age of Empires 3 and didn't regret it. If you are or were a fan of Age of Empires 2, then 
 you would definitely like this improved game. 
  
  The best part about this game I think is the action-packed, explosive battles that you find yourself 
 engaging in quite frequently. The graphics are great and really immersive. Navy battles are much 
 more exciting as well, the ships do crazy explosive damage, and parts of your ship are flying everywhere. 
 It would have been cooler if sunken ships sat at the bottom of the ocean floor. 
  Bombarding a city with cannons and artillery is really cool as well, cause like a navy battle, 
 the damage is pretty realistic, in the part that parts of the building fly off or theres a big 
 hole in the wall where a cannon ball struck. 
  
  This game had me fantasizing of the perfect RTS, and how no such game exists yet, but this game 
 is coming close. A game needs things like active weather and realistic damage. In this game the 
 weather is static like in most games, and although most people don't notice it, I think it would 
 be a great thing for all games to have dynamic weather (like Elder Scrolls: Oblivion does) .
  
  Several new unique features in this game from Age of Empires 2 make it more interesting than 
 before, giving you other elements in the game to work with such as the home town feature or the 
 trading posts. 
  
  There isn't much more to say about this game; it's graphically attractive, really explosive, exciting 
 battles, lots of action, unique gameplay features, and has quite fair system requirements (not 
 that it matters to me cause I just upgraded to a Radeon X1900XT =D) .
  
  If you like RTS games, this one is definitely one for you, period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8sardinr
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  The Age Of Empires games have always been regarded as great strategy games. Age Of Empires 3 takes 
 the series to a new time period, and graphical level. 
  
  The games graphics are a major update from AOE2, with stunning new unit textures that can keep 
 you distracted while you build up your armies. Battles overall though don't have much visual detail, 
 you see your rifleman shoot and reload and be overrun by native American axeman. Naval battles 
 look good, with great reflections on the surface of the water.
  
  The player can expect the usual building of structures, and resource collecting. With a few improvements 
 to these areas such as the collectors not needing to return the goods to a building, instead say 
 a peasant cuts down a tree, that wood is automatically transported to your treasury.
  
  Game play overall is very bland, with the mass producing of superior units being the quickest and 
 most efficient way to defeat your enemies. Naval battles play along in the same way, its basically 
 whoever has the most ships will win. (Although i admit the naval battles were very visually stunning.) 
 
  
  All in all, if your a die-hard AOE fan then go out and buy this, otherwise wait til the price lowers 
 and pick-up a mediocre game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -daniel-
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  AoE is one of the most oldest RTS game there is and one of the most innovating games ever.
  
  Age of empires III offers 3 campaigns with 8 levels long each. In start you play with the spanish 
 that reveled americ, then you go on to the british and last you play with the U. S. A. The game is 
 relaible to history and the armies are very simliar to the original.
  
  AoE III is like any other AoE which you need to planish resources for a great army and finally 
 defeat the enemy. But this game hold some new improvments as well like the home city. The home 
 city can send you supply, soldiers, cannons and other artillery guns, alongside some improvments 
 to your colony. This will be very important when you go on to the later stages when you need more 
 skirmishers in hand.
  
  The battles in game are sometime stanishing and sometimes not more then nice. Take for example 
 the sea battles: when ship go and attack another ship you will see the beatiful havok engine in 
 work when those ships smash each other in the most reallistic graphics there is. The ship front 
 can fall. the pool can explode and ctz.
  
  The missions are most of the same with couple of new aspects. There is secondry objectives which 
 can help you gain more power but most of the levels are quite the same, but it won't damagemuch 
 of the gamplay.
  
  As i said before, this game offers some of the best graphics there is to an RTS game today with 
 beatiful enviornments and nice models.
  The sound is similiar to the times and this game have some nice soundtracks during the campaigns.
 
  
  Overall this game is a nice advanture to all AoE and old fashion RTS funs with briliant graphics 
 and good solied gamplay that have also the muliplayer and skirmish mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattitude22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  this game is very very good. the graphics are good and the game play is excellent. i thiink thats 
 this game diserves a higher rating than any other age game because it is so much better. this game 
 also has many more things such as the ability to go o your home city and new graphics such as bodys 
 making a splash as they land in the water after flying threw the because of geting hit with a cannon. 
 also units dont shoot or stab the buliding they set it on fire and pices even fall of and can hurt 
 enemy units. also the graphics such as water reflection and the way units die and more are very 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superelite2688
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  age of empires 3 continues on where aoe2 left off
  aoe 3 pit you in the new world era where several countries are conquering the new world. 
  
 
  The games music is ok but more tracks should've been added and it could've been more depth to 
 music score.
  
  The games gameplay is quite good although in aoe 3 you no longer have to micro manage your resource 
 ops because if u send a villager to gather wood he will start chopping at a tree not going back 
 to drop off wood or anything. This makes many strategies of many players like myself where we were 
 very good at micro managing recource ops become uselss so it changes the strategys needed to win 
 in the game. 
  
  Combat is ok although many units espcecially infantry units could've done with more detail to their 
 base model and some varieties to each unit with skin eye build ect would've made the game all that 
 bit better. This leave some battles feeling likeur usng a army of clones on each side. 
  
  The graphics are pleasing and there are good effects throughout the game though they could've been 
 a bit better none the less they are great.
  
  i have not played the campaign alot and dont plan on due to not having the interest in doing so. 
 
  
  aoe3 is a decent game with some great qualities although it could've been just that bit better 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroid_dragon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is not the revolutionary game that some fans of Age of Empires II had come to 
 hope it would be, it is however a fun historical real-time strategy (RTS) game that will not leave 
 the average RTS fan disappointed. Age of Empires III stays true to the same applied formula that 
 rocked the RTS world in Age II, with basic gameplay left intact, but with many setting and subtle 
 changes added instead to still make this an enjoyable game. The game is set in the colonization 
 of the new world, North and South America, and the technology is now all based around gunpowder 
 instead of bows and swords. Don't think that they have excluded bows and swords though, there are 
 still a number of melee units and archers available, and they are just as useful as the next unit, 
 especially in the early ages. Although by the time you reach the industrial age and such, more 
 emphasis will be put on large cannons and musketeers. 
  
  Combat is similar to the previous instalments in the series, which is rather disappointing to some 
 people. There are so many improvements made to the economic, graphical and other game play elements, 
 that leaving the combat so similar was unexpected by many fans of the series. Many units are still 
 shared between nations, and the cultural differences between forces are not nearly as noticeable 
 this time around. This is probably for historical accuracy since all of the nations involved in 
 the real colonization were European and the game still only includes those main 8 nations in the 
 game. British, French, Dutch, Russians, Portuguese, Germans, Ottomans and Spanish. Units, instead 
 of being unique to a civilization, are usually unique to a few civilizations instead and most nations 
 only have 1 or 2 completely unique units while about half of your other units are shared by only 
 a couple other nations. This gives the feeling that rather than having many unique units, you are 
 instead being denied units that a couple of other nations are sharing. units will self-organize 
 themselves into columns and rows while marching from one location to another, only moving as fast 
 as the slowest unit, which is usually your cannons. However, unlike most real battles in the time 
 period your forces do no stay in formation once battle starts. Instead of staying in position and 
 fighting with some element of organization, all hell breaks loose and units will just get to wherever 
 they can find and start firing as fast as they can reload. Cannons are pretty much a necessity 
 in order to assault a base, footmen are not very efficient at taking down structures, especially 
 ones that are being defended from within. In the end most assaults on a base will consist of cannons 
 doing the main chunk of the work while your footmen are there mainly to protect the cannons.
  
  Differences between the 8 nations are mainly noticeable in the economic area of the game rather 
 than combat, with Ottomans being the main exception with their strength being some rather mean 
 exclusive cannons and other gunpowder units. All other nations are noticeable more while building 
 up your base. The Dutch for example put more emphasis on gold and less on food, they also have 
 a unique gold producing building. The Spanish on the other hand, put emphasis on home city shipments 
 and get their more quickly and with some better upgrades to buildings than other nations. Your 
 Economy is generally the same though between the 8 nations, that is to say it's nearly identical 
 to Age of Empires II as well. You start out with a town center and a few peasants and you start 
 gathering resources then build up your army as you advance though the ages. Main differences from 
 Age II is that they have eliminated stone as a resource, now only food, wood, and gold are needed 
 to build the main units. Experience has been thrown into the mix but it's not really a typical 
 resource as it is used and gained completely differently. Peasants also no longer have to carry 
 back resources to a gathering building, instead they will just stay wherever they are and chop 
 trees or mine what they are gathering right where they are without moving until the resource has 
 been exhausted, then they move on to another if there is one nearby.
  
  Home Cities are a unique new aspect to the series. Your home city is easily accessible at any point 
 of the game and has many shipments of goods or units that you can send providing you have the experience 
 necessary. Experience is gained through building units or buildings, or by destroying your opponents 
 units and buildings. Some buildings can only be acquired through your home city, and there are 
 many unique mercenary units that can be gained through it as well. This is probably the only way 
 you will see any units that are not European the entire game. Most shipments are free of charge, 
 but some (such as mercenaries) do cost resources in addition to experience to ship. Your "deck" 
 of 20 cards is what shipments you have available during a match. You can buy new cards with your 
 experience in-between matches. Your deck can be altered in-between matches to correspond to what 
 kind of map your playing, such as removing naval unit cards in a map based in the Rocky Mountains.
 
  
  Tilesets are widely varied and unique, with many doodads and nice touches to make them believable 
 and enjoyable to look at. The Caribbean's waters and sand looks beautiful, while watching a fort 
 fire cannonballs at an approaching army on the great plains is just as appealing. There are many 
 tilesets available no matter your taste, and all of them have their own little gameplay changes 
 and feel. Graphics are generally a great thing to see, if you have a higher end system then Age 
 of Empires III's graphics are one of it's best features, unfortunately, if your on a more moderate 
 system then the game can tend to bog down when in the middle of a fierce battle with the graphics 
 set on high.
  
  Physics are a very nice addition to the series. Rag doll effects are very nice, and it will never 
 get old to see a musketeer take a cannonball just to go tumbling backwards and perhaps down a hill. 
 Buildings and ships both have realistic collision physics, when a cannonball strikes a building 
 or a ship, the area that got his will subsequently be visually damaged. a cannonball can take out 
 the mast of a ship, or perhaps blow a massive hole in the side of your fort. Unfortunately (or 
 fortunately) these are all just cosmetic and buildings and ships still function just fine when 
 it appears they are held together by little more than scotch tape and and some chewing gum. This 
 is a nice change over pelting a building with thousands of bullets or explosives just to have a 
 little fire sprout up on the opposite site you are attacking. 
  
  The campaign is a little lacklustre and seems almost thrown in just to give you some unique scenarios 
 to play if you don't have an active internet connection. It takes place over 3 acts with about 
 10 chapters in each one, give or take. You follow the story of a particular family and each act 
 brings you to the next generation of that family while they undertake dangerous missions or searches 
 for legendary places. Although the campaign does have it's moments, you will quickly tire of it's 
 repetitive missions by the third act as little new is introduced as you progress through the campaign. 
 rather than gaining access to all your units over the period of a single game as per normal, you 
 will slowly gain access to the units in the game over the course of the entire campaign, making 
 for little variation in what you can build through each act.
  
  Online offers only the mode of conquest, while lacking some of the scenarios that players enjoyed 
 in the previous instalments, such as defend to wonder. Conquest gets annoying in that you have 
 to literally destroy absolutely everything of your enemies in order to win. So an annoying player 
 may drag matches out by scattering peasants or buildings throughout the map, making you track down 
 each and everyone one of them before you get the victory. Computer players are quite varied in 
 the skills they possess, you can play computer players ranging from moronic at the "sandbox" difficultly, 
 to quite challenging on the later difficulties. The computers are instinctively better at land 
 combat than sea combat, although they can still pose a challenge at the later difficulties when 
 playing on island maps.
  
  Age of Empires III has a lot that RTS fans will enjoy even if it's unpolished. The game doesn't 
 fill the role of redefining the genre and tends to play rather similar to it's predecessors, but 
 if you're looking for a generic RTS game, or if you enjoyed the rest of the Age series, then you 
 won't go wrong by picking yourself up a copy of this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover153
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  hello agian now needs some work but its all right. well the U. S needs to bre in their not just 
 forgin counties. like France Germany and etc. gotten be going now writing more reviews. oh one 
 more thing if you want to buy this buy it at Eb games or gamestop, hint hint. i just love it if 
 i had a chioce i will play it all day and night thats how good it is. now i din't know about the 
 epxened pack so you will need to wait till i find more info. thats all for today. Bye Bye!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMo1337
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 17, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  After Age Of Empires 1 and 2 i didn't think i could stand anymore age of empires .... guess i was 
 wrong ..... this is definately one of my favourite rts games other than Starcraft . But this one 
 has plenty of gameplay time it is highly addictive in skirimish ive made alot of home cities getting 
 them all up choosing different cards ... and the graphics in this game are prettyful.. I had to 
 get a new graphics to run it lol i was only running a fx 5200 im now running an x850 and i only 
 paid $40 for AOE3 yay got it for half price :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Almighty-mints
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  I love this game. The story line is not one of the better of the series, but Ensemble Studios took 
 a sharp turn towards a made up story. The different races are all very well balanced and all have 
 their advanteges. The one problem i have with this game is the boat fights, artillery shots, and 
 massive waves of musketeer shots. These make the game super laggy. The online gameplay is almost 
 the same but instead having to click on a guy to build several times to make a group of 5 you only 
 have to click it once to make a group of 5. Online leveling up you're city is very simple for example 
 I played the Russians and in one game i leveled my home town up 4 levels. The clan system is also 
 something that works well for this game. For example I joined a clan and put the tag in front of 
 my name without having to make a new account! The clan level system is also very cool. Instead 
 of having to make people write their ranks in the clan in their profile all you have to do is check 
 the clan button and see your level. Member, Officer, Leader. But overall this is a great game.
 
  
  P. S. Oh yeah I forgot. When playing a regular skirmish game DM or SURP, I love the maps. Some HUGE 
 some medium, some have rivers and lakes others are desert. I also think the leveling up for the 
 cities is very nice. every time you level up you can add to you're cities beauty. You can also 
 buy new shipments and during the game ship them to your base and use them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crassus1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  When you compare this game to the previous two versions, it is stunning how much different the 
 game really is. There is actually a story! They've toned down the idiotic resource gathering and 
 "clickfest" baloney! 
  
  I was so unbelievably let down by AOE 2 that I swore not to buy this one, but I'm certainly glad 
 I did. It is nothing like the first two, and you dont have to fight the game to play it. I really 
 enjoy the RPG like aspect of the game, the battles are far more controllable than in previous versions, 
 and you know what, its fun! The grpahics are far more than adequate, the controls are intuitive, 
 and you can just really pick it up and play. The inclusion of real world empires like the Ottomans, 
 etc, gives you a sense of immersion and time. The previous iteratrions, you built your castle and 
 had all of the AI factions asssaulting it at one time. Not in this game. I'm proud of Microsoft 
 for not giving up on the franchise and finally puttng out an enjoyable AOE game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Oblivion_20
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 13, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Good, but... it isn't funny...
  Yes, AoE is only good whit the graphics, a very good graphic, but after 1 or 2 hours... you don't 
 want to play plus, because it is boring... 
  Ensemble Studios, we want a game that it doesn't have to be boring! 
  Bad game... 
  well, then, 
 the sound is very boring... 
  I hate AoE II sounds. They aren't exciting, they are very slow and, in this game, the sound have 
 to be various...
  Boh... 
  Well, I think that a good player doesn't play it, or, maybe, doesn't buy it. 
  I hope that, in 
 the future, ensemble studios will make a good AoE, 
  and, really, I hope very much!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddy_of_york
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  This is.... a dissapointment, but understandable, just the same.
  
  The graphics yep... their good
  
  The sound... yea its good
  
  The gameplay... yea I'd say 
 its definetely enjoyable
  
  So whats the problem? Well... It hasn't changed. AoE was an ok game, but had some problems... AoE 
 2 was a great game becasue it fixed those problems and introduced new content without creating 
 any big problems. AoE 3.... I started playing and I didn't find anything new. Theres siege weapons, 
 and cavalry, and archers, and pikemen. Just like AoE 2. The game is still using the same damn system... it 
 just dissapointed me so much that the only real innovation that I could see was that there was 
 now a new feature where you could order reinforcements from your home colony. If you enjoyed AoE 
 2... go play it again and wait for this to hit the bargain bin if your really aching for a new campaign 
 to play through.
  
  PS: I could have missed some new gameplay dealies, but I doubt they are worth the money/time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franxes
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  So, let's make it clear. This game is good, but it has some big problems that may turn it into 
 a waste of time and money to some people out there. The game is original, no one is denying it, 
 but this originality becomes bothering when trying to set up a new game. You're supposed to choose 
 a home capital, and start a colony. Colony after colony, your home capital gives you more "cards" 
 providing you bonuses for the next missions. The problem comes when you realize that every colony 
 is working alone. In the moment you win the game, you just come back to the main screen and get 
 your new cards. Period. Your colony is gone and you can start a new one on a brand new map. The 
 colony won't exist anymore, only the exp you earned will be added to the home capital. I would 
 have liked to set some kind of network of cities, like a real colonial empire. No way. Play and 
 then trash everything and start again. As if it wasn't enough, the game is HARD. The AI at some 
 point will syncronize attack every 3 minutes, with your army just standing there waiting for your 
 orders. They won't lift a finger unless you place them closer to the enemy. If they don't get stuck 
 between two buildings of course. Don't even make me talk about the "adventure" game, the series 
 of episodes composing the campaign. I mean, what the hell? A colonial game involving Malta, Turkey? 
 Russia? Hello? Where are the spices? The economical wars? Stock exchange? Or were colonies just 
 building cannons and attacking each other every 3 minutes? An intriguing game, but also a terrible 
 waste of good ideas for a game that leaves you wondering "what if?". Not to mention that game's 
 speed will sloooooooow down everytime a naval battle is involved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy27
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  Good Idea:
  Graphics are amazing.
  Leveling up feature is always nice.
  A big military rushing into a noob town.
  
  Cons:
  Very small pop cap.
  No classic mode.
 
  In old AOE games, when you advanced in age, it visually felt like you did. You don't get the 
 same feeling in AOE3.
  
  Overall:
  A great trice game. A ton of great features that are in fact, awesome. I still wished there wasn't 
 a population cap and there were more levels to go through and a caveman age. Working from Stone 
 Age to Coin Age was a classic on mine.
  
  --------------------------------------------
  
  If anyone of you peeps has played the Age of Empires series before, you probably already know 
 what it's about. Economy and military. Alliances and betrayals. Slow passed fun. So, I sat down 
 with my Mountain Dew, started it up and began to play. The graphics are terrific. I love the way 
 the trees fall after been chopped on for a while, the whales and fish move about the ocean, and 
 the way the cannons actually look painful to the little enemy scouts that walk among my town. It's 
 a beautiful game. The set up looked the same too, so the learning curve was almost next to nothing. 
 But they changed some things that I didn't like at all and some things I wonder how I lived without.
 
  The best feature, besides the sounds, graphics, and game play is the experience meter. You can 
 actually control what special characteristics your village will have. In the game, when you get 
 enough experience, you'll hear a ding, confirming that you can ship out a special something for 
 your town. You can have a good peasant, special resource/villager upgrades, or even just drop off 
 a few good soldiers. It's amazing how a village under attack can just deploy an army off to defend 
 in a matter of seconds with this feature. Beginners can fend of the experts now. Every time you 
 level up your village (you just play the game a lot and get plenty of experience in the game to 
 level up) , you are able to buy 1 card and 1 town visual. With the cards (explained above) , you 
 can replace a previous card that maybe you never use. The town visuals effect how your main menu 
 will look. You can place some art, statues, and even new villagers around your town, making your 
 town flourish a bit more. The leveling is basically the best feature they added to the Empires 
 series.
  Another feature, yet a little disappointing to me, are the villagers no longer have to travel back 
 to town to drop off their goods. Instead, it just accumulates into your current food/wood/gold 
 resources. I didn't really like this for a game like Age of Empires. I expect that more in Starcraft 
 or an action strategy game. It's one of the few things I didn't care for. I liked that my villagers 
 had to travel a distance to drop off their wood. It was the purpose of lumber mills to take care 
 of that. It does shorten the time it takes to complete a match. 
  The markets are a lot better. The stocks are the same as previous Empires games, lowering or rising 
 depending on what the people have per resource. The improvements are in the way everything about 
 resource upgrades are actually in the market (besides a few miscellaneous farming and such) . The 
 thing that kind of sucked is for multiplayer games. There's no caravan building so you can't really 
 have a real trade route. In replace, you have a few places on the maps to build a drop off point 
 for resources. When a buggy, train, or whatever passes your drop off point, your town center will 
 have a few barrels or crates of food or whatever you choose to have dropped off. For instance, 
 you can have the traders give you gold, food, or even experience for the level up menu. It's a 
 great feature but I wish you could have a trade route through friends.
  I like the way the towers are a lot but I don't like the tower limits. I used to have fun building 
 a wall, building a wall of bombard towers, and the building a wall around that (sandwich look) 
 but you're limited to 7 towers. It was a let down for me. Maybe not to my foes, but for me it was 
 taking away my fun of tower building. There's no option to disable that either. There's also the 
 fact that the town centers are limited as well. It's a let down but oh well. The maps are great, 
 yet the lack the randomizing and the "Huge" options for people whom like to build have a few big 
 cities around the map.
  I believe the AI could have been better. It's good for some but I found the game a bit too easy 
 on certain difficulty levels and extremely hard on others. The allied members you can team with 
 seem to give up really easy as well. It's a bit frustrating to play a single player game at times 
 when you want to actually battle it out with some intelligence. The first multiplayer game I started 
 was with my cousin and two AI opponents. We played the "continent map" to test out the boats. Low 
 and behold, the AI doesn't really use boats. The sent unit after unit over for the first 20 minutes 
 but didn't really try and go to different spots on our land. They just went to the same spot over 
 and over so we eventually just put towers right there and our military units there. Then, they 
 quit coming after I built a wall around the whole island. We went over there and killed them less 
 than an hour later. It was a bit disappointing how easy they were to kill. This is the same reason 
 Age of Empires II was a little easy for me. They never really used boats and, therefore, lost. 
 But the multiplayer is terrific. It's just like old times for me. Nothing really to explain besides 
 the fact that if you want to have a good LAN party, definitely play Age of Empires III.
  
  In my honest opinion, if you think this game is just a hype, you need to at least try it with some 
 friends. If you like to play games like Diablo, you'll love the level up features. If you just 
 are an old school Risk player, play this game. It's action and strategy combined in perfection.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------
  
  Violence:
  There's some blood and that's about it. This game is a History game, so the violence isn't pointless.
 
  
  Sexuality:
  None.
  
  Language:
  Maybe one minor word in the game.
  
  Substance Use:
  Talk of alcohol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cr3sent
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:14 am PT
Review:  This game is OOOoookay Not really good.. I am a fan of Age of empires. Had the entire collection 
 so i thought i shouldn't miss Age of empires 3.
  
  The offical trailers and videos looks amazing. Looks pretty promising. But i am fairly disapointed 
 with ensemble studios. It is quite boring after sometime. The units hardly change meaning limited 
 units. I mean Comon. NO unique units? Dont tell me only ottomans have those special units whereas 
 others are like Oookay not this, will probably be that.
  
  When i found out that i can't make formations ,it does not give me the freedom to choose the stratergies 
 on how to engage my enemy, makes me feel disapointed. If i havent been a fan of AOE i wouldnt have 
 rate AOE3 that much.
  
  And there is no heros to recuit as if the explorer that looks the same for all countries will work 
 on me. Sigh... Needs a lot of improvements. However campigns are great and the new feature that allows 
 you to create a city then you slowly upgrade them BUT gets boring after sometimes causing me to 
 use cheats. Alright... overall fairly disspointing. It dont work on me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iamfroman
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 4, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game, but it is definitely not another age of empires II. While it is an improvement 
 upon age of empires II, it is not enough of an improvement. It seems like it is almost the same 
 game as the last game in the series that was released years ago. For instance horses still have 
 to stop and then chop down infantry instead of just trampling the infantry like many other RTS 
 games allow horses to do now. It is a good game with some fun new features, and a pretty innovative 
 online play system, but it is missing something that would make the game great. There are just 
 too many RTS games out there now that have taking huge steps toward revolutionizing the RTS world, 
 for this game to earn the title of being superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bennett555
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  If you have played the previous AOE games and their expansion packs, you are going to be disappointed 
 with this one. It's not horrible by any means. But it's not better than earlier versions. I had 
 to tone down my video because it ran so poorly. The new additions like the home city thing is just 
 plain goofy. The gameplay was pretty weak. Played it for a couple of weeks and then just got fed 
 up and uninstalled it. 
  
  Some of the other reviews must have been from family members of the developers because there is 
 no way this is the best in the series. Far from it. I was looking forward to this release and wanted 
 it to be good, but it's just not worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daqua_99
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 7, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is a game which is set in the New World. You can play either as the Portuguese, 
 Spanish, French, Ottomans, Russian, Dutch, British or German empires as you attempt to colonies 
 certain sections of the New World. Each civilisation has their own positive aspects, whilst they 
 all have their drawbacks. Youll never experience the game fully until you play as all civilisations.
 
  
  The campaign section of the game provides an interesting storyline for those who like to play solo. 
 It also provides some great experience for all. Skirmish allows you to play against computer-controlled 
 players. You can get a handle on all maps in this game type. Online is great, as there is little 
 lagging and a wide range of player skills so anyone can be challenged. And online is free! This 
 provides a great gameplay for this game.
  
  The home city addition also adds to the replay ability of this game. You receive shipments from 
 your home units in Europe, depending on your experience. As your home city levels up, you can get 
 new cards to be sent. Some cards, though, can only be collected from the higher levels, so you 
 need to work hard to get to those. You can also extensively customise your home city with new purchases, 
 which is always nice.
  
  Graphically, Age of Empires 3 stands quite well. The graphical detail isnt as high as some PC 
 games (FEAR?) , but it is still very good. Trees have many tones of green, the grass is not all 
 one shade, there are waves in the ocean and each character has perfectly placed shadows. The buildings 
 really deteriorate when they loose HP, which brings a new sense of realism to the game.
  
  The only really thing that is holding this game back is the inequality of the sizes of different 
 objects. When you zoom into the closest point, you can see that villagers are larger than certain 
 ships and some buildings are smaller than musketeers. Other than the few size differences, this 
 game has great graphical capabilities.
  
  The sound in this game is superb. The music suits the style of game, you can hear different units 
 dieing, the cheers of army men when they win, the sound of trees being trampled by an invading 
 army and the sound of fish and whales. Every gun fire is heard and you really get a sense of where 
 the action is due to the fantastic sound effects.
  
  Age of Empires 3 is a little expensive here, but all computer games are. It is currently $100AU, 
 about $40 - $50US. If it can get down to around $75AU, or around $35US, itll be perfect value. 
 But to compensate for this price, online is free, so you sort of pick up from one what you lose 
 from another.
  
  Overall, a great strategy game that all strategy game lovers must buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheval52
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 6, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are okay but the storyline is about as accurate as a George Clooney movie. If your 
 into reenacting historical events than you too will be scratching your head over the latest Samurai 
 Scenario. In it the American Indians have emigrated to 1870's Japan and have allied themselves 
 with the last remnants of the once proud Samurai Clans who in turn are making a last stand against 
 the Japanese Government who is supported by US Forces recently landed to support the quelling of 
 the Samurai Uprising.
  
  Are you still with me ??? It gets even funnier !!!
  
  The allied confederacy of Samurai & Indian units are led by an indian warrior by the name of "Red 
 Hawk" who with the help of an attachment of Samurai Archers ( dressed up as indians complete with 
 feathers & warpaint ) are ordered to prevent an American Troop Train from providing further reinforcements 
 to the disputed battle zone !
  
  I know what you're thinking !!! "An American Troop Train in 1870's Japan ???" LOL I'm not making 
 this up, just reporting the actual scenario !!!
  
  In short, if you're looking for historical accuracy or believeability in a game, do yourself a 
 favor and save your money by buying a Super Mario Brothers game instead.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Bock
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  This game is superb. It shows you the time, work, money, and effort it was to make things. also 
 it helps show you the age like the stne age, and so on. ok its really cool that if you work hard 
 enouh you can get an up grade in time so your opponent is an age behind you. My favourite thing 
 about this game is that you start of with locals who build you things. then they make a house so 
 you can get soilders so if someone attacks you you can protect yourself. and then later on you 
 can attack other ppls villages, castel if you beat hem you can take over so your town becomes as 
 bid as 2 towns so your twice as strong. My last thing is that you can get weapons when you attack 
 it doesn't take as long.
  
  *J-Bock 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_muzaka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  
  AOE 3 is an excellent game. It is an addition of a long line of AOE-s before that AOE, AOE 2. The 
 game boasts wonderful graphics, has a pretty decent storyline, historical depth and many innovations 
 that attract immediately. I had only one thing to say, why has not Europe and Middle East been 
 included more directly in the game with missions and civilisations? It would definitely create 
 a much wider dimension for the game and more entertainment for the fans of the genre. 
  Havin said that I still think it's the best game of AOE series, at least graphically, while historically 
 it remains way behind AOE 2 and its expansion pack Conquerors. Definitely worth playing and collecting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenwaiy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 1:13 am PT
Review:  Worth playing!
  The best of all Age of empire's, most specific side was that, all three campaigns were connected 
 to each other. Thats really made game more enjoyable and with wish of completion. It have vert 
 cool and Very impressive video cut-scenes in the game especially last one was great.
  Graphically game was well designed and tools for controlling game was fairly enough to control 
 game, as it required.
  Especially I liked race on trade routs, capturing trade points and gaining more income form taxes 
 and so. Improving trade routs up to railroad, just was so cool.
  YOU HAVE TO GET THIS GAMES is worth playing! Go on try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gissamuel
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 4, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires was the first RTS game I played on the computer. Ever since then I have enjoyed 
 the series and their expansions. Age of Empires 3 is more like Age of Mythology than its predecessors. 
 The environment is real 3D, the graphics are smoother, and the gameplay is a little different. 
 The game seems to be built for a speedier type of player in that resources are no longer dropped 
 off at a building and cards are selected in a deck at the home city screen to send extra supplies, 
 building, and units to your base. Features like card decks, home city, and experience change the 
 gameplay from a normal build and play game to actually giving you advantages for future games by 
 allowing you to level your home city which gives you chances to send better items to your base 
 that your enemy might not have.
  The new features both add and take away from the enjoyment of the game. For those who enjoy a slow 
 game and a strong base might not like the limits on buildings and units. For example you can only 
 create 2 of the biggest ships in the game and only seven defense towers. Also the walls are much 
 weaker making it harder to create a real defense thats impenetrable. The music in the game has 
 the familiarity of the first two games and the graphics are amazing. The cannonballs roll across 
 the ground bouncing, ships and buildings lose pieces when hit, and units fly backwards when hit 
 by cannonballs giving realism to the game.
  The game is worth trying but may upset slower builders. The online community will enjoy it more 
 for its quicker gameplay and new concepts.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abyssion100
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  nice game! i recommend it to all rts fans! the graphics is good definitely the water! it looks almost 
 real!!! and the realism is wery good maked, like when a unit dies it looks cool and when tower collapses 
 so it falls on other enemy buildings! its so cool! but i dont think i like the card thing actually 
 it doesnt rise or low some points. but i would be best if it would be more normal like that there 
 needs no buildings when cutting threes... but of course its good but i would rather want normal 
 things. but great game after all but not the far not the best and not the rts but almost i think! but 
 theres not the good music from aoe 2!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_mad
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires is becoming a real disapointment. The first rocks, the second was good and the third, 
 I will not say...
  It looks like Cossacks, but it's not the same: Cossack is immersive and we can do huge armies, 
 but in Age of Empires we cannot do that. We are limited because the units limit is too short and 
 the game is a bit heavy in the older computers.
  So, they should think before do a sequel to the best strategy game. Good graphics and sound does 
 not mean that this is a good game. The Age of Empires game does not deserve this!... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armor_Key
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  I don't see any new mind-blowing changes, everything feels the same, well there are some new things 
 to make or build. Also the graphics are now improved and sound seems to stay the same, well music 
 is different somehow at least. So the game is almost like the others, or not even worse. The strategy 
 still stands the same as in the previous versions. You can say that AOE 3 is like AOE 2 with better 
 graphics and much boring strategy. Sure you can proceed to different time eras, but it isn't something 
 great. 
  
  If you wanted to try AOE, I suggest you go for the 2, because it's much more fun to play and it 
 should be very cheap by now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  The way this game morphed into was splendid! I love the crisp new look. The Visuals were done great. 
 The new extra's as known war hero's such as Napoleon giving strategic suggestions, and updates 
 on his advancement. Seems though the game is to close. Meaning the screen should pull away farther. 
 Seems though as if the game is to cluttered. The individual animations are good. There's a few 
 things missing such as a Wood gather point? If you know what I mean. I might have missed it, but 
 I thought you could build a half way mill of some sort in previous so you wouldn't have to walk 
 all the way back to the base. I think they actually left that out so the Peasants wouldn't have 
 to. I think that's a great Idea. I'll have much fun with this one once I play my 30 other games 
 I need to play! ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: george33387
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 
  Review for Gamespot 
  
  Age of Empires 2: The age of kings was my favorite RTS and when I learned that AoE3 would be published 
 I really got mad. I bought a new graphic card of 330$ and I also started saving money to have an 
 ADSL connection in order to play it online also.
  But all in vain as when I bought the game I was disappointed as it wasnt what previews described 
 and what I red but only what I saw meaning wonderful graphics.
  I found all the new features of the home city and trading posts revolutionary but the game was 
 lacking of a feature that is basically for the genre of this game and its the unit's behavior. 
 There isnt a stand ground behavior neither a guard or patrol ability and formations like AoEs 
 2. The most nervous was the lackness of guard behavior and stand ground because when I was attacking 
 a city, my army was just dispersing around the city and attacking everything letting the cannons 
 alone and vulnerable to the enemy. I couldnt play it.
  I suppose that now youre going to say but how can you guy put the game a 5 gameplay rating just 
 for this? Well I am of the idea that these features from which the game lacks, are as I sed before 
 basically of the RTS and if a game of this genre does not have them, every other feature above 
 them despite how good it is its not considerate because its useless as you can build a six store 
 apartment without having the base, its just the same.
  
  However I congratulate the game for its wonderful graphics and animations where it gets 10 from 
 me and also for the sound and the music composition where I give a 9. 
  
  As a value Im going to put a 7 as it keeps balance from the graphics and the sound and as for 
 the gameplay I think that new gamers on RTS wont have any comment and it will be more easy for 
 them to play it without all the behavior commands and they will be addicted from the home city 
 feature. Its only us, the veterans of RTS that will complain and I think that this is why Ensemble 
 Studios cut all this features, meaning that its for attracting the new gamers but she Ensemble 
 Studios didnt thought that the veterans are always more from the new comers... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBSHX
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I am very disappointed by this game, there was so much hype surrounding this game maybe I was expecting 
 too much of it. This is a very beautiful game... if you have the comp to back it up, thats about 
 all it has going for it. There is no real depth to this game and the number of units / upgrades 
 is laughable. The home-city feature is a welcomed addition to the formula. This game just goes 
 to show that great gameplay is much more important than great graphics. I hope the expansion will 
 add more depth to this game... it seems like it should add quite a bit of new units and factions. 
 Ensemble should of just plugged all of the Age of Empires II gameplay / story into the Age of Empires 
 III engine, that would of made a much better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralGeorge
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires has been a great series so far, and all though this newest addition is not dissapointing, 
 it could have been better.
  
  Age of Empires 3 has some of the greatest graphics I have ever seen with extreme details. For example 
 parts of ships and buildings flying. Stuff catching on fire. The glittering of the water or even 
 the shading of an individual tree makes me stare in awe.
  
  But of course, Graphics aren't everything.
  
  In my opinion the gameplay has strayed from the 
 Original Age of Empires. Although the main concepts of a real time strategy game are still there. 
 The speed of the gameplay or the extra features start to make it a whole different game.
  
  In terms of speed. Age of Empires 3 has a too slow gameplay. This is because of resources. Stuff 
 is too expensive and resources come in too slowly. There are also limitations to your units which 
 makes this a very limited game like WarCraft 3.
  
  The features like treasures, similar to Age of Mythology, are a very nice feature that allow you 
 to relax and focus on small things rather than being stressed about the big things. However, they 
 might prove as a distractment which might lead to your downfall.
  
  In general, AOE3 has all the elements of a great game, but it's slow gameplay ruined it a little 
 bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoLake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  La saga Age of Empires est&aacute; en la memoria de todos los jugadores como una de las mejores 
 en el campo de la estrategia en tiempo real. Desde su primera entrega hace muchos a&ntilde; os solo 
 hemos contado con otras dos, con much&iacute; simas expansiones todas. Sin embargo, mucha gente 
 puede pensar que este &uacute; ltimo juego es lo mismo de siempre con gr&aacute; ficos renovados 
 y cuatro cosas nuevas que no aportan mucho.
  
  Empecemos por los gr&aacute; ficos. Son espectaculares. Vale, no es un Total War, no tenemos miles 
 de unidades en pantalla. Sin embargo, el detalle de cada una de ellas es alucinante. Otra cosa 
 que hay que decir es que tiene... Havok. Y es que este motor f&iacute; sico famoso por ser el del 
 Half-Life hace maravillas en este juego, sobre todo en los combates o al atacar edificios, queda 
 incre&iacute; blemente realista. El sonido est&aacute; a la altura, con un doblaje bastante profesional 
 y unos efectos de sonido realmente buenos.
  
  Ahora llegamos a la jugabilidad. Vale, b&aacute; sicamente es lo mismo de siempre colocado en una 
 &eacute; poca algo m&aacute; s moderna y con unas pocas mejoras. Me pregunto: es un problema? Si 
 la f&oacute; rmula de Age of Empires es buena, por qu&eacute; cambiarlo? Creedme, para m&iacute; 
 no es un problema. Es m&aacute; s, para m&iacute; fue un alivio enterarme que era lo mismo de siempre, 
 porque de cambiarlo podr&iacute; an haber armado una muy gorda.
  
  Age of Empires III es el mejor juego de estrategia del 2005 despu&eacute; s del Civilization IV, 
 y el mejor de estrategia en tiempo real. El juego es muy entretenido y los apartados t&eacute; cnicos 
 tienen un nivel sobresaliente. Si lo juegas no te arrepentir&aacute; s. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carloscuesta
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Last time, at Age of Empires II everything and I mean everything is cartoon like and its rubbish 
 everything is 15th century now with Age of Empires III everything is realistic Native Americans, 
 flags, seeing your Home City (capital) , shipments, and gun warriors advancing through the ages 
 of the 18th century (unlike Rise of Nations) .
  
  At Age of Empires II making Hovels for popularity boosts at Age of Empires III are houses (different 
 than Hovels) .
  
  With new troops for your colony & new heroes (at Skirmish scouts) looks good that changes everything 
 in your life as a knight of St. John, a mercenary, or an American but not a traitor like Alain 
 Mognan and never trust a French man that leads you to the Circle of Ossus as a hostage for finding 
 the Fountain of Youth.
  
  To be a hero you got to be brave like a hero have might of a hero like Morgan, John & Amelia Black, 
 Sahin, Lizzie the Pirate, Kanyenke (at Amelia's story he's old) , Kanyenke's sister (trust me I 
 forgot her name) , Washington, & Major Cooper.
  
  Some heroes made by cheat codes are your own secret weapon like The Tommynator a monster truck 
 (that's all I now) .
  
  What are the Ages? Simple Discovery, Colonial, Fortress, Industrial, and Imperial Age.
  
  In 
 Skirmish its different from the campaign new buildings (last thing I knew is the Harbor from Morgan's 
 story) , choose a country to use, choose your own ally (French: Napoleon, British: Queen Elizabeth 
 ah find it on your own!)
  and name your scout (I named him Ferdinand Magellan who found The Phillipines) .
  
  Well, hope 
 you enjoy it and find the hidden treasure good for a Multplayer scavenger hunt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bomber009
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I've been a huge fan of the Age of Empires series since the first game launched. This game was 
 kind of a letdown in some ways, however it's still fun to play. They changed the gameplay too much. 
 I don't like that villagers just collect resources now and don't have to drop it off anywhere. 
 Heroes are great in other games but it's just not what I want from the Age series, I loved the 
 just pure strategy and micromanagement building of the first two games. 
  
  The graphics are actually quite impressive for a RTS game, with debris flying everywhere from cannon 
 fire.
  
  I'm quite undecided on the home city idea. The idea offers alot of new strategy in how you setup 
 the city and of course the race to get xp during battles. So yeah I suppose I like it because of 
 the strategic aspect it adds to the game especially once your city is high level.
  
  In all the game was disappointing compared to 1 and 2 but yet still a fun game to play and hard 
 to master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zua12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:34 am PT
Review:  . After the 
  release of the 4 AoE games, the fan had to be satisfied with games such 
  as Age of Mythology released by Microsoft itself and Rise of Nations 
  which was built along 
 the same lines but took you from a medieval age 
  right up to the current technological era.
  
  It was then inevitable that after the announcement 
 of the next edition 
  of the AoE series and the release of screens and previews, the fans of 
  AoE were eagerly waiting 
 to get their hands on the next big strategy 
  game in the market. But has AoE III met the expectations of gamers 
  worldwide?
  
  When one 
 takes a look at the screen available all over the internet one 
  cant help but wonder Will this game work on my computer? All fans of 
  AoE, neednt worry. 
 A PC with a modest configuration and a DX9 
  complaint graphics card can help the game chug along with minimum 
  graphics and effects. But 
 apart from that there is nothing more to the 
  game that can appeal you. Yes, other than the stunning graphics that 
  AoE III has to offer you, 
 there is little more that has been enhanced. 
  Gameplay is not much improved compared to the last version and there 
  are some such major changes 
 that the learning curve has become slightly 
  steep for seasoned players whereas newcomers will find the game very 
  easy to play. So if you 
 want to revel in the splendor of AoE III 
  graphics, then be prepared to make your pockets a little lighter and 
  invest on a high end graphics 
 card.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  
  In the single player mode there are 3 scenarios or acts which spans 
  across the lifetimes of 
 3 generations of a family. You are in control 
  of a few lead characters similar to AoM and the story revolves around 
  the other European civilizations. 
 The game has something different 
  called the home city. This is the capital of your civilization and you 
  can occasionally go 
 back to your home city and send back shipments of 
  troops and cargo to your colony to help you in your game. This is 
  something new and interesting 
 in the game and is sort of a hit or miss 
  efforts in that you may either like this feature or you will absolute 
  hate it.
  
  On the 
 other hand there are a few things that have been made relatively 
  simple such as resource collection. The gatherers dont need drop 
  points built near their resources, 
 so you can pack them off to a new 
  resource location and dont have to bother much about them. You spend 
  most of your time with 
 your army sorting them by their strengths and 
  weaknesses and grouping them by their preferred opponent and also 
  providing sufficient cover 
 for their weaknesses. Newbies to the series 
  will find this easy as they dont have to worry about resource 
  gathering but the seasoned players 
 will not like this since it 
  nullifies the strategies used in juggling resource collection and 
  expansion which in earlier 
 games used to make or break a players 
  strength against his opponent.
  
  In course of the game, you can also ally with Native Americans whose 
  settlements have been 
 spread across the map and can gain use of their 
  units and researches. The trade centers have also been changed and you 
  can build a market on 
 an existing trade outpost and the more outposts 
  you have as you advance through the ages, the better the collection of 
  the trade centers. This 
 also determines how frequently you can send 
  back shipments from your home city.
  
  Verdict:
  
  This edition of AoE has really added something to the series. 
  The graphics 
 during the fight sequences such as gunpowder smoke, 
  recoil, Ships firing in tandem are really something worth watching. I 
  would buy this game just 
 to see such graphics and physics in action, 
  and I also need to pay some emphasis on the stunning sound and effects. 
  Although the gameplay 
 has not changed dramatically the game is great 
  fun to play and you can spend hours on this game. The separation 
  between the strengths of civilizations 
 has been highlighted well and it 
  makes sense to choose a civillization depending on your strategy. 
  
  Overall I rate this game 
 very high and if you want to know what RTS 
  gaming is all about then this should definitely be high up in your 
  collection. I rate this 
 one, A Must Buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  I sttil play AOE is the bottom line that I have to put.. One of the best multiplayer startegic 
 game that I played ever
  
  GOOD: Great startegic play, very stable game, and the gamesplay is awesome. You can spend hours 
 on end creating your army and great nation to defeat your enemies. You hardly get sick of the game. 
 There are so many options in the game you can try out.
  
  BAD: There really is nothing bad to say about the game, compared to AOE 3 the game's graphics are 
 not so good, but still it's the best there is when it some to game play.
  
  Even with AOE 3 out it's still the game preffered by most players, and loved by most LAN and online 
 players. Used to spend hours playing online with my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9/10
  Found the colours to be very vivid and eye-catching. However, the detail is somewhat lacking, especially 
 in the zoom in. The water graphics have been much improved though, even with sprites for wave effects. 
 Also, the way that the ships move are also very smooth. One thing to note is the failure to make 
 a very successful 3-D environment, resulting in disorienting gameplay, but increasing in the realism.
 
  Sound: 9/10
  Worst part about the sound is the monotony of the unit selection confirmation effects. There isn't 
 a lot of variety in them. However, against the AI, they do occasionally talk to you, so that adds 
 a "human" element to the single-player game, where you could sometimes feel you're playing a human 
 player.
  Gameplay: 8/10
  The gameplay follows in the footsteps of the first 2 AOE titles, especially in the economy of it. 
 Therefore, the gameplay couldn't drop that much. As well, there is one HUGE new concept to AOE 
 3. This is the idea of the home city, where you could actually level up your home city, get new 
 "bonuses" unique to your own city, and also customize the look of your home city. Also, you get 
 to name your home city whatever name you want with a unique name for your own explorer. So in essense, 
 AOE 3 combines real-time strategy with role playing concept, which gives a new feel to this all-new 
 AOE. However, all these new features seem to come at a price, and this is the variety of units, 
 buildings, and technologies available in the game. Whereas in AOE 1 and 2, there are more variety 
 of units available than possible to use, in AOE 3, there are only around 30 techs and 15 buildings 
 available. Thus, the 8/10 score.
  
  Good: Major innovations, rpg factor, graphics improvement, smarter AI.
  Bad: Variety, slow gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxLamppostxx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Its a very PRETTY game it looks and feels like your in the colonial times. The graphics are what 
 make this game so unique in that it is just so good to look at. I never really played the old AOE 
 that much i was sorta a Starcraft / warcraft /diablo guy but this game is a good change. Overall 
 i beileve this was a good game nothing Great just a perfect addition to a RTS lovers collection. 
 Its very enjoyable and im looking forward to seeing if the expansion will be as fun or as good. 
 
  
  The gameplay is a little hard to get used to , in battle sometimes your units sorta like wonder 
 off or dont fight with the other ones. I hate the attack move button there needs to be hotkeys. 
 I love having complete 100% control over my armies and when you have a big one (which you normally 
 get in this game) you have a hard time controlling it. 
  
  This a good game to just pick up if your interested in playing in the colonial era not many games 
 have that. Its a very demanding game meening you have to have a decent Computer to run it so be 
 careful. = ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asw1982
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Best-in-class graphics, infinite re-playability, excellent balance, and engaging micromanagement 
 are only slightly offset by quirky physics and a high-rollers-only video requirement. No question 
 that this is a landmark for not just the Strategy genre, but gaming software as a whole. 
  
  Like movies, video games require a certain suspension of disbelief. Like, for instance, when 
 you see your navy suddenly pull a 90-degree sidestep like they were square dancing. Or, when your 
 50-man infantry group all decide to simultaneously shoot the same enemy soldier when you use the 
 attack command. But, these are minor grievances against what is arguably a perfect game- practically 
 zero "behavioral" bugs (other than the ones mentioned) great land-unit physics, excellent balance 
 between a truly diverse set of nationalities, and trouble-free multiplayer. A-. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyg091481
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  -----
  GOALS:
  ------
  
  1) Destroy the German defensive guns.
  
  - There are four of them. Two on the southern edge of the town, and two more
  a little to the 
 west, in some trees on a small hill.
  
  2) Eliminate all traces of the enemy.
  
  - Pretty straight-forward goal. Simply destroy all enemy units.
  
  ------
  UNITS:
  ------
 
  
  1 T-34 Medium Tank (4 Crewmen)
  
  1 BA-20M Armored Machine Gun Vehicle (2 Crewmen)
  
  2 Soldiers
  
  ------------
  WALKTHROUGH:
  
  Start by taking your tank northwest to 
 the small farm. Park it so it's facing
  northeast at the top of the farm, where the gap in the fence is. Take the
  BA-20M up there too, 
 and park it slightly below and to the right of the tank,
  it can fire at infantry if they get too close to your tank. Move the two
  infantry men so they 
 are south of the vehicle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 070758
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  to be honest gameplay is quite boring. these are most of the objectives: gather #### resources, 
 go and destroy sth, and stuff like that. and the first Black guy's accent sucks. he must have overdone 
 it. zooming in really closely, you can see all the low poly counts, sticking out of the ppl's "faces". 
 ya i think these are the bad points. but theres an editor tool that lets you create maps!!! yay. 
 unfortunately one guy takes so long to kill, making it so unrealistic. awww... but if you zoom 
 out the graphics look so damn good!!! yay. and so on and so on...................... . ......... 
 into the    
 trooops get  . 
 . . . . . . . ...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abhilash_123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  Its Fact what they said "Those looking for a complex and interesting real-time strategy game with 
 fantastic good looks and some historical flavor will find just what they want in Age of Empires 
 III."Its most intresting when You play without using cheats. You wont be bored playing it like 
 rest of the games. its worth to buy this game. You will get tons excitement when playing. The graphics 
 r superb. Never miss a game like this. As you all know its a Multiplayer game u can also enjoy it 
 with your friends over internet & LAN. Age of Empires III Expansion is also now available. Visit 
 the offical web-site. I always write the fact in my reviews. TRUST ME! Its The The Best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FearlessVampire
Rating: 3.2
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Im not quite sure why anyone would give this game a high rating.
  Its clunky, unoriginal, and uninspired. Thrown into the "yawn" basket.
  To be honest, I enjoyed 
 the first Age of Empires games a lot more, perhaps because they werent the microwaved remains of 
 a decent concept. 
  
  If only more genius and less marketing was put into games.
  I can see the thinking behind it now... "It worked last time, how can we do it again... ok guys, 
 update the graphics, throw in a couple of updated concepts (naturally, ones stolen from other games) 
 change the setting and hey presto!
  
  I found it a bit buggy too (have they fixed the problems with unloading your units out of ships 
 yet?
  
  Actually, you know what the AI in this reminds me of... Command and Conquer: Red Alert. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smidmike
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:26 am PT
Review:  I was very happy with the money spent on this game. It definitely lives up to the series expectations. 
 The story mode was interesting and more in-depth then some recent buys that I have had recently. 
 Also I find it difficult to want to come back and play some games after I have completed the story 
 part of the game. This one was totally different. I was, and still am, engrossed in the playability 
 of the game after I had already "beat" it. Graphics were amazing, soundtrack and special effects 
 were great. All in all, one of the best games I have got this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is not a huge breakthrough like the Age of Empires II was, but still is a good 
 game and let the player "re-discover" Age of Empires. The graphics are astounding and breath-taking 
 and all the graphical environment and sounds are amazing. If I would have had the choice, I would 
 have wanted to start with this game as the first Age of Empires. I really appreciate the "home-city" 
 system and all the military strategic aspect of the game. Unfortunately, in terms of RTS game, 
 this game is quite the same as many others games and does not differentiate from the others. Also, 
 I found the game too easy at the first difficulty levels, and too hard at the higher difficulty 
 levels. At the end... it's still a real good RTS game, a must for anyone who's not exhausted of 
 those types of games. Note: I have not tried Age of Empires III online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StraiN-ShifTeD
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 19, 2006 1:26 am PT
Review:  I've been a great fan of the previous Age of Empires game; Age of Empires 2 Age of Kings. Fighting 
 with swords and shooting with catapults and all kind of that stuff.
  
  But now it's here, the long waited sequel, Age of Empires 3.
  I actually don't have much to say 
 about this game, since I'm not a pro reviewer but the things I can say might sound familiar.
  Age of Empires 3 really feels Old Skool, and that's a good point. But as soon as you're starting 
 of your Campaign it starts to feel so empty. After playing 30 minutes, when you have an army, it 
 comes to battle. The thing that I disliked a lot in this game is the way how the soldiers battle. 
 And ofcourse, it's the age they're in but ...... god. There are 50 soldiers with guns vs 50 soldiers 
 with guns, what's gonna happen next? They're standing in front of eachother shooting one by one 
 until there's 1 army left. And this fact keeps continueing itself until it's getting bored. I've 
 said it before, it's the age where the game handles itself. The age where people did use guns and 
 that age is pretty boring for a game like this. Every campaign I've played ended with a massive 
 shoot-out between the two armies. (Mine vs the CPU)
  
  But now about the graphics, I honestly expected far better graphics. These graphics do look nice, 
 but for a game were we've waited 3 years for...
  A thing I really like about Age of Empires 3 are the sound effects, they're really awesome. Like 
 you hear everything that's happening on the battlegrounds, every horse you hear die, every soldier 
 you hear fall. It's just super sound.
  
  My conclusion: 
  Age of Empires 3 feels really Old Skool, and this is a good thing ofcourse.
  But the gameplay 
 kinda feels sloppy because of the massive shoot-outs between the armies. I'd recommend this game 
 to everyone who likes the age with guns and 'snipers'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 18, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  Age Of Empires is perhaps the foundation of RTS games. The earler games started you in ancient 
 times playing as the Greeks and Egyptians. After that you moved up from the Age of Pharoahs, and 
 Ceasars, to the Age Of Kings and Emperors. After that time, ensemble then threw some mythology 
 at us, and went through the underworld chasing a cyclops hell bent on releasing the titans. We 
 learned about Arkantons, and his girly son.
  
  Now Age Of Empires 3 is here. The games looks great. It's just what you'd expect from an AOE game. 
 The trees, the waters, the building models, and the incredible physics are just great. They really 
 do add to the experience of conquering the new world.
  
  Now the gameplay is still the same. You've got your two button mouse, keyboard short-cuts, and 
 so forth. It's still point and click here and there. You're units attack, their units fight back, 
 and usually who ever has the larger force wins.
  
  One thing AOE has always been about, was WAR. It's always failed in this concept, as having a large 
 force wins no matter what units are on the field. This isn't a bad thing, but it simply takes the 
 strategy out of battling people.
  The game doesn't even have an easy interface for commanding multiple types of units. If you want 
 your skirmishers in front, and the calvary at the back, you'll have to select each group individually 
 and send them into battle. You'd have to wait for the skirmishers to reach the battle before you 
 can move in your calavary, becuase the calvary moves faster than they do. If you select all of 
 your units at once, they'll move together, but at the pace of the slowest unit in the group. 
 
  
  A minor change from the formula, is that you no longer have to build dropsites for your villagers. 
 What ever they collect simply goes straight into your inventory. The villager just works until 
 that resource is depleted, in which case you'll need to find more of the needed resource, unless 
 you've developed your nation into a powerhouse that can produce raw materials (you can) .
  
  Now a major change in this game, which I didn't like one bit, is that it completley disoriented 
 history. This series is known for great story telling, but with some historic accuracy thown in, 
 don't expect to find that here. You won't get to do the campaign where you slaughter an entire 
 race of people. Nor will you get to participate in the slave trade, take part in the US Civil War, 
 or anything relevant to that period of time. 
  
  Now, if you're a fan of the genre, you can find a better game else where. However, this isn't a 
 bad game. It's a good game worth checking out. If you're old the series, you wont hate this game 
 either. Just don't expect anything new or relevant here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefjk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't interested in the AOE Series after I played the first two (Age of Empires I and II) but 
 I went to my friends house the other day and when I played this game, I simply fliped.
  
  It has the perfect balance of elements which make it Amazing compared to other games like Empire 
 Earth II and Civilizations III which were the ones I played most. The RPG things really make it 
 much more interesting than its rivals.
  
  I dont have much to say... but just buy it. There is no question about it. Plus it works on almost 
 any PC. I have this 2 year-old Toshiba laptop (not upgraded since) and I just set the Colours to 
 16, and it works like a charm.
  
  If back in Age of Empires II days, you though it just couldn't get any better than this, you were 
 defenately wrong... Cuz it just did! And the expansions are awesome too, check 'em out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  A lot of hype is out there about the new AOE3 game, much of it deserved, some of it... not so.
 
  
  The story in the campaign mode is interesting, but doesn't hold my attention as well as th campaigns 
 did in the previous AOE games. The fact that all 3 acts were of the same story was a nice touch, 
 but there is something nice about trying many different civiliations like in the previous stories.
 
  
  Gameplay - almost identical to the previous games, with the addition of the home city feature. 
 The home city is pretty neat and a valuable resource, but it takes a lot of work to make it worthwhile. 
 And in multiplayer games, it isn't as helpful because the games don't last as long with the tendancies 
 for Zerging that many people have.
  
  Graphics - Nice... but not top of the line. It is an overhead strategy game and at times it is difficult 
 to pick out your main characters if you have them in a larger group.
  
  Sound - Probably my favorite part of the game, nice solid sounds... nothing exception, but they 
 fit well.
  
  Value - If you love the AOE games, you already have it. If not, wait for it to drop in price a 
 little. IT's a good game but it's not all that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santig91
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  this game capt all my expectatives, good graphics, good stories, and also a good strategy game. 
 any conquest game could be comparate with this, the only thing that im not accord with the game 
 is the difficulty, i think its a litlle hard, but if you have a good strategy mind, it couldnt 
 be difficult, aldo this game teach you history, i think its good because wihle youre playing you 
 can learn somethin about historical wars, but it deppends to you for see the story. in conclussion 
 this game is a best seller, a good game with good sotries and an excellent conquest game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grungaloo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 16, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  If you have every played and liked any of the previous AoE or Star craft, you will most likely 
 enjoy this newest edition. AoE III keeps up with the already solid reputation of real time strategy 
 games, but adds a few new twits. In this version, you can gain experience by killing units, building 
 buildings and collecting treasures. As you gain experience, your Home City will expand. Your home 
 city changes depending on the civilization but the idea is the same. It is a place where you can 
 purchase cards. Cards can be used any time during the game. Each of the cards has a different effect, 
 some send units to your colony while others may increase health of units or buildings. This adds 
 an interesting new spin and allows players to use a different strategy. The unit base is also a 
 tad different. In the other two AoE's, the majority of the units were close ranged units. In AoE 
 III, a large number of them are different types of gunners, making them long ranged. Over all, 
 I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys a good strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tribalice
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Although the game has exelent grafics and sound, the gameplay eas very similar to the AoE 2 where 
 every unit move as slowly as the slowlest one in the formation.
  It has its good original things such as:
  -The grafics are amazing.
  -The proportion of the 
 units ( the ships are 10 time bigger than the people) ,
  -The Chanpain has a good story although it`s not based on real facts as theAoE 1 and 2 champains.
 
  -The idea of the main city and all the cards thing is amazing and it can save your ass in a dificult 
 situation.
  -The custom Civalisation and the decoration of the boring main city.
  -The indians that can be joined to yours and help you very much.
  
  As well as its horrible 
 things such as:
  -the gameplay
  -There are only two tipes of game stiles: dead math and conquest.
  -The camera, very empire earth 
 or warcraft stile.
  -The images of the emperors when you create your custom civ. are allways the same (Napoleon, queen 
 Elizabeth, etc.)
  
  In conclution dispite the horrible gameplay, it's a great game which I enjoy playing and I'm sure 
 you'd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuSvardenvyrd
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 14, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  We all wanted more of AoE after AoE2 and its expansion pack. Maps, multiplayer, etc. etc. were 
 fine but the elusive AoE3 hovered far beyond the horizon - almost wishful thinking. Now that it 
 IS here, all I can say that it has left me disappointed. 
  
  NOT for ppl who wanted more strategic complexity! NOT for ppl who wanted more complex unit commands 
 and battle behaviour!! NOT for ppl who haven't fallen out of love with AoE2!!! NOT the quantum 
 leap I was dreaming of.
  
  HOWEVER, it does have new things in it, like an ultra boring profile/self-civilization that u can 
 upgrade in the manner of levelling up. Neutral units that can be won over (built into submission?) 
 with different abilities for that unique (?) edge. Just buy this!! If for nothing other than completing 
 the AoE Trilogy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redbear81
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This game has stunning images. You can fell as if you are there. The game is sort of easy to learn 
 and really easy to learn if you played previous Age Of Empires games. In this game you need to 
 know your country's units if you want to go into battle quick. It is hard to rush because it takes 
 a little while to get resources. I think that people who are patient and don't mind losing we like 
 this game. Oh and people who like strategy games might just like it too. In this game it somtimes 
 rains ant that and other things in nature have thre realistic sounds. The graphics are the best 
 when you are in battle. When you boats get bombed peices of wood and sails fly right of the ship! 
 this happens to buildings too. Instead of your soldiers shooting the building to take it down, 
 the soldiers throw torches at the building. There are trading post in which you can gain resources 
 if you need to get resouces when you ran out of a cetain resouce. A traverler will vist the posts 
 and give you the resource you need. The best thing is that it doesn't cost you any gold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GromHellskream4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is the third game the series with alot of different Expansion sets. Age of Empires 
 III doesnt have an expansion yet but watch out for it. I've played all the AoE games and i've gotta 
 say III is the best by far. When I first saw it i thought that it wouldnt be a good game because 
 of its complexity. But when I finally got it i saw that i was wrong.
  The game has a Skirmish mode, Online mode, and Single Player mode (Story mode) . In the skirmish 
 and online modes thers a total of 8 nations that you can play. In the previous games there were 
 many more nations to play but most of them were exactly the same. In AoE III the 8 nations differ 
 greatly, each has its own attributes and set backs, there are also many different units that are 
 unique to the race. Also, every race has different units that can be upgraded again already when 
 they've been maxed out. Every time you play a game you start out with an explorer. The explorer 
 has a attack but is not meant for your army the explorer helps you explor the map and exploit the 
 treasures hidden in the map. Sometimes these treasure will be guarded by guardians that attack 
 when a unit gets too close to the treasure, although any unit can kill these guardians the explorer 
 is the only one that can gather the treasure. A huge thing that is new to AoE is the use of rifles. 
 In previous games there were never rifle men now there are in AoE III, infact they make a huge 
 part of your army. Indians play a big roll in your strategy as well, You can make alliances with 
 indian nations and create Indians soliders as well as have indian attributes that help your economy 
 greatly. There is also a card system that will let your home city send certain supplies or troops 
 to your colony. All these new features makes the game a great game
  The graphics are AMAZING! and so is the sound. all the techinal stuff on this game are flawless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waynehopwood
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 12, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I've enjoyed AOE3, but have found myself very disappointed in the gameplay. Rather than borrow 
 from Rise of Nations and Empire Earth, the gameplay is mostly the same as the previous installments 
 (with the semi-interesting exception of the home world) .
  
  The home world is a good idea and I enjoy mixing the cards, but the appearance upgrades don't do 
 much. The home city should start out small, and the upgrades should be significant and noticeable, 
 not just "guy walking around", flags, and boxes. I know, I know.... a small home city would be 
 unrealistic..... but the appearance upgrades are just not meaningful otherwise.
  
  Disappointments:
  - no Conquer the World-style strategic game
  - slow and limited zoom; shoulda 
 made it capable of zooming in and out further, a la Empire Earth
  - the battles, compared with what we were told during the development stages, are awful from a 
 tactical perspective. They are just mass attacks, everyone moves as slowly as the slowest unit, 
 and formations are practically useless as they are broken upon entering the fray.
  - selecting an individual unit is not easy. You can't just click on the box of the unit you want, 
 and finding your hero in a mob can be tough.
  - Battles lack customization. You've basically got two options - regular or death match. Compare 
 this to the myriad of battle types in Rise of Nations and Empire Earth. Or the great map selection/randomization 
 options in Age of Mythology. The game's replayability is seriously wounded by this lack of customization.
 
  
  I have nothing interesting to say about the good aspects of the game because they are the same 
 as the previous two Age installments. So it's entertaining, but not much of a leap forward. Worth 
 it for Age fans, but hard-core RTS fans would be better served by Empire Earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ritchiegrc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 12, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  This is game is really fun! Age of empires 3 is a really big success... but does it really hit 
 the extreme great game rate? I think not. The gameplay is great and the sounds are amazing, so 
 is the graphics, but there are major problems in Age of empires 3 that are dreadfully annoying. 
 I have a pretty fast graphics card and the game stil lags!! This happens when there are about 50+ 
 guys on the battlefield and the game server gets flooded. Well I dont doubt that this game is a 
 great game. 'But next time microsoft, make it the best you can possibly make it. Yeah like Age 
 of Empires 2, it is one of the best classical games ever!!' Sorry about this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julienelson
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game feels the exact same as its peredesesors. Dont expect the inclusion of rifles to liven 
 things up. The game is entirly resorce juggling and brief skrimishes. The story doesent cover anything 
 from actual history which was a big disapointment for me. On the other hand the graphics and physics 
 are simply AMAZING. Waching my great bombard blowing apart an enemy town hall has been one of the 
 most satisfying experiences ive had for mounthes. over all buy this game if you have never played 
 a AOE game before but dont think that it will be inovative. If you are looking for a good stratigy 
 gaming experience try going to starwars: empire at war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piztolero
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  the graphics are great a lot of details like shadow, the detail of the trees, buldings, the gameplay 
 is like the other games of age of empires the only diferent thing is the metropoli but the game 
 is great the history is cool, but i really spect more of this secuele of age of empire III, but 
 well i really like.. is just right nobody perfect.
  
  something of the old gameplay thats reaaaally coool, and something new like metropoli thats fantastic, 
 the natives (indian companion) are asewome, the rutes o hell yeah!!!
  
  if you know age of empires series the learning to play is the same gameplay, cos i tell, the only 
 change of the game play is the metropoli and i say THAT IS FRIGGIN ASEWOME...
  
  in conclusion only i can say age of empire III is the best of the series of age of empire, and 
 much better of age of mithology a lot of times, and rise of nation but well that is my opinion...... Piztolero's 
 work team... thats only a thing funny at least for my. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opium2k
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 3:12 am PT
Review:  I think that this is a very good game to buy if you dont already have an age of empires game or 
 any of the many similar games out there, or if your just bored of the one you've got. Sadly this 
 game did not live up to my expectations as far as advancements in the series as well as the genre. 
 The most notable change from previous age of empires games is the graphics, as for any other notable 
 changes ... nope cant think of any, it basically the same game everyone is used to but nicer looking. 
 I would definitely recommend checking out the demo for a while before slapping down any money for 
 this game since although it is extremely fun it does seem to get boring very quickly due to the 
 similarities it has with other games.
  My opinion may be slightly biased since I hold very high expectations of this series and a very 
 low opinion of microsoft.
  
  In the end I guess you'll just have to judge for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  This game looks nice, plays nice but offers nothing really new, The game offers a new home city 
 aspect and you can develop this city over the course of 3 diffrent campagins. Much harder then 
 the previous age of emipres games. Comming from someone who has played and loved all the games... this 
 one isnt much better.. definatlly not enough to warrant buying a new game. If you like rts and you 
 havent played age of empires 2.. then this is for you :) The game offers a lengthy and challanging 
 sing player. The storyline is kinda fun but offers no real historic knowledge like the previous 
 games. Not much diffrence from army to army..... again.. its a tried a tested formula with updated 
 grafics, If your looking to get started here you are, if your looking for somthing new and intresting.,.. look 
 elseware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benhalcyon
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 6, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Being a long-time (now retired) veteran of AoE2 (I've owned it since it came out) and having experience 
 in the original AoE, you can imagine I almost wet myself when I learned about AoE3 all those months 
 ago. Now that I have it, finally (I waited to see the consumer response) , I really have to say 
 that it didn't really blow me off my feet.
  
  The reason is because, unfortunately, as far as most modern RTS games go this was pretty standard. 
 The mentality of today's RTS market is essentially, "Lets make it look good, take a huge amount 
 of CPU/Video power, and add just enough new features so we can string it into an expansion pack 
 later."
  
  Now don't get me wrong, AoE3 is a great game. But when you look at the predecessors that, at the 
 core, spawned countless games and influenced many more. You have to realize that AoE3 had huge 
 shoes to fill, and it came up a few inches short.
  
  The new features are pretty neat though, such as the Home City system. Which is basically where 
 you can receive bonuses, units, and resources from a city that sponsors you overseas (the game 
 takes its roots in the Colonial times for the most part) . You can even customize it, through the 
 singleplayer campaign. Even though this does absolutely nothing, and (to me) the color changes 
 of the buildings didn't really stand out very much. I think it adds an interesting dynamic to the 
 game.
  
  The units are what you'd expect; colorful, and progressively getting stronger with better weapons 
 and such. The graphics are pretty good (although Empire at War looks far better as far as I'm concerned) , 
 but optimization for the quality of graphics is pretty poor. Which is to say, for what you get 
 it takes a lot of horsepower under the hood.
  
  The singe player campaign would have to be my biggest gripe. AoE2 featured a really polished singe 
 player. In regards to the fact that it wasn't just one campaign, but many individual campaigns 
 that followed several historical figures. AoE3 features basically one campaign that just goes over 
 different timelines, that follows the descendants of the original character. The biggest difference, 
 however, is the fact that AoE3 uses a mostly fictional storyline that gets silly after a while. 
 AoE2 was pretty historical (albeit with liberties taken) , which gave the feeling that you were 
 having fun and learning something. 
  
  Another missed feature was the Encyclopedia. For those that were less interested in AoE2, it was 
 the easily overlooked option that contained historical information on practically everything illustrated 
 in the game. For the people that liked history (me included) this added a whole new level of depth 
 to what you were playing.
  
  All in all, AoE3 is a good game, if somewhat unoriginal. But in light of its prestigious predecessors, 
 AoE3 comes up short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ilija_True_Game
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This game realy does show they tried to perfect the game, I meen the classical Age of Empire 1 
 was realy good and then number 2 and its expansion where amazing but this one is to good, I play 
 it time to time. The online is also good but dont bother with it much cause i'd rather play the 
 original Campaign.
  
  This game has wicked gun shot sounds, pretty good graphics and nice overall gameplay. I realy enjoyed 
 playing this game, i beat the campaign like 50 times already. But still the Campaign is pretty 
 small but fun I gotta admit. This is a good strategy game but takes more skill then Age of Empires, 
 the before versions, and Age of Mythology. The good thing about this game is the extra coutry or 
 city ressources where you get enough XP to buy or get free ressources or units from you coutry 
 or city.
  
  I recomment this for people who like stratedie and mayby played the other AoE and AoM versions.
 
  
  Hope you Enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neosupreeth
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  Too late for writing a review, isn't it... Well anyway its worth writing something. After playing 
 AOE series, I could hardly wait to get my hand on this but all i found out was that it just had 
 too many complications and awful graphics. I welcome the 3D change but the way the camera moves 
 is horrible. The map size is extremely small ( i feel it could have been bigger) . More civilisations 
 could have been added... Its not only me who is feeling the game has let down the expectations 
 it carried but even many of my friends , AOE forum members on different sites who genuinely feel 
 the game hasn't kept upto its expectations.....
  
  Better luck next time AOE, you didn't satisfy the entire AOE fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PBitt
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is an excellent real time strategy game. The game features a good story mode in 
 the campaign as well as decent A. I. The units, environment, etc. have much more detail then in 
 previous games in the series and the sound is also very good. The coolest improvement is actually 
 the water which looks pretty realistic. AOE 3 is friendly to both RTS playes and new people to 
 the genre. If you are looking to try an RTS game, this is the game to get. However, there are a 
 few rather annoying thats about the game. One is that you can only select 50 units at a time. If 
 you have, say, 200 units, you can only order 50 of them to do something at a time and this get 
 get a little frustrating if you have a large army. The online play is also very laggy and a little 
 unreliable but it is still fun once you can start a game without lag, and you will have no problem 
 finding someone to play with. This game is a definite buy as it is among the best RTS game on the 
 market to this day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_RAG
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Once again Ensemble Studios has done it yet again.
  
  AoE 3 is awsome. There are alot of things to do in this game, that the last games didnt have. One 
 of them is the new online feature. In the last two games in order for you to play you had to go 
 to MSN zone to play online and you had to go thru alot of BS just to play online. Now AoE 3 offers 
 you a new online Interface, which allwoads you to setup your online account thru the game, note 
 in order to setup your account you need the cd key. CG in AoE 3 great, as well as the sound plus 
 the music. You can update the game thru game or online. when you log on in the game it will do 
 auto search for updates, so no worries.
  
  AoE 3 has some bad stuff do it, but its just small stuff like you can do a wonder match like in 
 AoE 2 and you basiclly doing more conquest then researching and studying your enemies. But it this 
 has the AoE style, you will see once you get your hands on it.
  
  AoE 3 has show us what real time strategy is all about. Sound for all you fans of Ensemble Studios 
 and of Age of Empies get your butt up and buy it cause its awsome and fun.
  
  Captainrag 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thezuki
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This is my second favorite game in the series next to AOM. The New World setting is so great. This 
 is probably the first time ive seen it in a game. The graphics are simply amazing especially the 
 explsions, the sound is also just amazing. The gameplay is the typical RTS but its just so good. 
 This game is one of my favorite computer games and i cant wait for the Expansion packs. I recomend 
 this game to anyone who likes RTS games or who just like history even though the story is a little 
 weird. A fountain of youth is a little weird. Also the difficulty was really mixed, on easy it 
 was just to easy but on moderate it was pretty hard so they need to work on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeronomer
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the Age of Empire series. Few franchises have this kind of longevity but the 
 games were always well-done and made for quick, enjoyable gameplay. The latest offering from Microsoft 
 requires Windows XP. I am *not* a fan of Windows XP so I will not be purchasing this game. Ever. 
 For me, it is a shamless attempt by Microsoft to force us all to use their latest operating system. 
 I'm a Win2k user (and fan) . I hate Windows XP and may give up on PC games altogether if Windows 
 continues its current decline. I did manage to play the demo on a machine at work and I have to 
 say: I hate the camera perspective in this game. I feel like my face is being rammed into the map. 
 I keep wanting to back off and get a bigger overall view (like in the old games) , but it's possible. 
 I have instead opted to spend my RTS money on Warhammer 40k. That is a truly great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbydema
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires III,
  More then 5 years have past now since we first played Age of Empires II.
  The next game in the 
 Age of Empires franchise is here.
  Does AoE III have the power to please us? 
  
  The Age of Empires games have always been connected to a certain era.
  AoE I situated itself 
 in the time of the Greek and the Romans. And AoE II was situated in the middle ages (castle ages) . 
 
  AoE III is situated in the 16e - 17e century, where European nations started colonizing the recently 
 discovered New World .
  
  All the basic features of an RTS game can be found in this game. You need to gather resources, 
 create buildings, train units and complete the given objectives. To build your army you can chose 
 from the following types of units: infantry, ranged units, cavalry, artillery and naval units. 
 
  
  AoE III contains some new features to the AoE serie. For instance, there is the implementation 
 of the home city. The home city is a new feature that represents the capital city of your nation. 
 Throughout the game you will get experience for gathering recourses, destroying enemy units and 
 buildings, finding treasures and completing objectives. When you have gained enough experience 
 your home city will go up 1 level. Every level will give you the possibility to send goods or troops 
 from your home city to the New World to help you completing your objective.
  Another new feature in the AoE series is the presence of Native Americans (Indians) , which are 
 located on the map. You can ally with these natives to help you with your objective. 
  
  There are 4 game modes in AoE III: 1) Story based Campaign; 2) Single-player Skirmish; 3) Random 
 Map; 4) Online & LAN multiplayer mode. In AoE III you can command 8 different civilizations: Spanish, 
 British, French, Portuguese, Russian, Ottoman, German and Dutch. 
  
  I am not going to tell anything about the storyline here, so I wont spoil your gaming pleasure. 
 But what I can say is that every mission is connected with the next one and slides easily from 
 one mission into the other with the help of nice in-game movies. 
  AoE III has a good storyline, its rather short, but that depends on the difficulty you want to 
 play. I have to say that the easy mode is very easy this time. You should only play that way if 
 this is one of the first RTS games you play. 
  
  The graphics of the game look good, not superb, but still good enough for these types of games. 
 The details in the textures are quite good. Thanks to the 3D engine you can zoom in and out, but 
 its easier to keep an overview when you are fully zoomed out. Every building, unit or object also 
 has a real-time shadow, which adds just that little more realism in the game. 
  Buildings no longer just turn on fire when you attack them, they literally fall apart. When you 
 are attacking walls with your cannons, big pieces of stone will come of and fall down. You will 
 even see the earth shake when it hits the ground. Trees fall down realistic when you hit them with 
 cannonballs. This is all very nice to watch. You really get sucked into the battle by these graphical 
 enhancements. When firing a canon on enemy infantry, they will get blown away. If you hit a group 
 of soldiers you will blow away even more. 
  
  The sounds in this game are just right. The weapons sound realistic, people death screams sound 
 real, cannon fire can be heard from a distance and the ambient sounds of nature dont get annoying. 
 
  The music that plays in the background fits well with the theme of AoE. It wouldnt hurt if there 
 was a little bit more music, because sometime youll really miss those tunes. 
  
  Conclusion: Age of Empires III was definitely worth waiting for. The graphics are good; sounds 
 are good only the storyline could be worked out better. AoE III surely has pleased us in different 
 ways and is sure worth buying it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: srocciso
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 3, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  First off let me tell you the game's graphics are the best that I've seen since Warcraft III series. 
 The physics are really well thought out with cannons droping back with a shot, cannon balls continuing 
 to move even after hitting a group of poor halbediers, and marvelous caravels that rock back and 
 forth with the waves while reflecting on the marvelous water. So with this stated let me say that 
 I really missed the hand to hand combat which I was really looking forward to before buying this 
 game. The thought of having 20 musketeers standing in front of 15 tomahawks doesn't appeal to me 
 that much as watching, say the vikings axes clashing with some british swords. I would agree that 
 the campaing be on the new world, but to we have to be limited to the America's in skirmish too 
 ?? What about the mighty japanesse infantry or the marvelous naval warfare the vikings could accomplish 
 ?? This things should be included in skirmish as the Conquerors expansion on AoE II did perfectly. 
 They should upgrade the graphics engine on AoE II and THAT would be the RTS of the century. Imagine 
 the beautiful graphics and EAX sound applied to the great gameplay that AoE II had. Hmmm hours 
 of gametime.
  I think Ensemble tried to mix AoE II with Warcraft III (the greatest game of all time) without 
 taking advantage of those games strenghts (AoE II's huge number of civilizations and Warcraft III's 
 cinematics) and without offering a true RTS experience. And what's up with the home city ?? It's 
 really a drag to be traveling back and forth to the home city to send "cards" to my town, I think 
 it unbalances the game since you can actually win a skirmish game without building a barracks or 
 a stable (you could call soldiers from home city and wait till you get the mighty fort to build 
 more troops) .
  Overall I think the game improves a lot on the eye candy part but leaves out the substance from 
 the previous game. The micromanagement is not really good on this game (where in hell do villagers 
 put all the coin they gather ?? and why do plantations gather coin if they look like a more improved 
 mill ?? Instead of a plantation we should have an underground mine or a metal workshop perhaps. 
 So if all you like is a nonsense warfare (much like USA's wars against "terrorists" ) you'll love 
 the game, but if you are interested in a more realistic civilization don't expect to much from 
 this title.
  I still recommend it even over Rome Total War (it's too slow paced for me) but it is very well 
 under the Warcraft saga. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Age of empires III really amazed me especially and i mean suprisingly with their well known and 
 undefeatable game play. The games graphics is marvellous and the game is just amazing at all levels 
 and inspire every gamer at every levels. The movement is kind of choppy but as long as the game 
 is good and the graphics are amazing the i don't care for the movement. One of the best in the 
 series and the boldest, so i thank everybody who worked on this and i appreciate your efforts. 
 This game will make my list of the best PC games.
  Thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narsilflammer
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:52 am PT
Review:  It's a shame i really Liked the Age of empires. Now 3 is released i was a bit dissapointed with 
 it. Sure the Graffics are decent and you get really awsome ships. But it seems to have lost some 
 of the best features, i found the story mode ok The first was great , then the second part of story 
 mode came it was rather boring. I thought that the units were cool and heros as well i loved the 
 cannons but i just hate single units that annoys me, why not 5 soilders come out in a group build 
 a stronger army. I found the diffrent factions ok i thought some were tireing. I still like this 
 game i just find not as good as the old games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchitha
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  After a long time they release something disappointing. I loved Age of Empires series so far and 
 played this as soon as they released it. The game wasn't hard at all. But surprisingly its disappointing. 
 The new graphics are pretty kewl, graphics effects and sounds are good they were up to the level 
 but they have changed the whole gameplay strategy into another. Played only once in the network, 
 never played after that. The story is ok but new age is not what I expected less civilizations. 
 The websites gave a quite a good publicity about the game before they release it. But its a such 
 a good multi-player game and Internet direct play is also not available in this release. Thats 
 one bad thing about this game. Overall cannot recommend this game at all, for those who specially 
 loved the old series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hussein_nahidh
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 28, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  i have played the second part of the game, and i was actually amazed by the way the producers of 
 the game have shown how the things in the game are moving and fighting.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  in that part of the series, lots of things has been improved, the graohics is outstanding, the 
 sounds are perfect, the game play is not that much likely but notwithstanding the game overlay 
 is quite perfect, the story of the game also tracks more player, it actually reminds me with the 
 movieThe Patriot. also the teams in the game are making the game goes to be exciting, strategy 
 is the most important thing that need to be considered in this kind of games, and i think that 
 Microsoft have shown a really standing strategy that makes the game compaired to the best real-strategy 
 games... seeking to play it as soon as possible... SWORD MASTER.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusismyhomie
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This is game is really fun! Age of empires 3 is a really big success... but does it really hit 
 the extreme great game rate? I think not. The gameplay is great and the sounds are amazing, so 
 is the graphics, but there are major problems in Age of empires 3 that are dreadfully annoying. 
 I have a pretty fast graphics card and the game stil lags!! This happens when there are about 50+ 
 guys on the battlefield and the game server gets flooded. Well I dont doubt that this game is a 
 great game. 'But next time microsoft, make it the best you can possibly make it. Yeah like Age 
 of Empires 2, it is one of the best classical games ever!!' Sorry about this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaohed
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft games needs to take some special time with themselves and realize that you can't just 
 slap a new engine on the same game with a new box and say that it will revolutionize the RTS genre. 
 Don't get me wrong Age of Empires is a fun game with great visuals. However there is just something 
 lacking in this game. Call it ingenuity. My impressions of this game after playing it is that there 
 is nothing new under the sun. There is no depth. There is definitely an attempt for depth in the 
 introduction of the home city which allows you to choose what kind of resources and armys you can 
 bring into each level; it is a weak and gimic soaked addition. 
  There is nothing new as far as gameplay involved here. I found no new strategy opportunities but 
 the same, "I can build more armies than you" gameplay. 
  
  If you are also looking for a great story to follow that is intelligent and involving. IT IS NOT 
 HERE. Compounded by some terrible voice acting, the story seems as though it was an after-thought. 
 As though the guy responsible for single player enjoyment was taking a nap until about a month 
 before release. 
  
  Devs need to understand that a new graphics engine is not a great new game. It is a tool to build 
 a great new game. If you want good strategy games with depth, fun, and great visuals. Seek "Rome 
 Total War", and "Empire at War". So to cap off, this game is fun, but as far as the hype goes, 
 there's not much to keep you coming back to it. 
  
  Please keep in mind that this review is of the single player game only and not the multiplayer 
 aspect of this game. I'm not interested in multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knofou
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 28, 2006 1:44 am PT
Review:  The naval battles look great with ships showing the damage they take and masts and sails falling 
 and holes in the hulls. The musketeers and riflemen are not very intelligent, all of them firing 
 at the same target usually. They should have been devastating when in line formation firing at 
 incoming opponents. Cavalry I rarely use since they go down so easily and it seems are only useful 
 when you want to get to enemy cannons fast. I understand the necessity for huge amounts of wood 
 for buildings but not for units. The earth builder as usual is hard to use, I wish games had a 
 tutorial for that also.
  The campaign was fun to play although the plot about the fountain of youth was a bit far fetched, 
 especially with St. John knights and otthomans fighting in the new world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowbrains788
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I love the graphics, I love te new economy section, I love the new home city stuff, heck, I love 
 the game! The campaign starts off shakey, but you quickly get attached, I have already finished 
 part 1 and 2, but I lost it on 3. The "in game" style clips are easy to avoid, unless you like 
 the story, like I do. The levels are easy to lose on, and are somewhat repetative, but I look forward 
 to the amazing clip scenes at the end of each, which there aren't enough of.
  The natives have a great affect on the game, they're just about free, they don't cost any population, 
 and they are effective warriors, who are great support units. There are tons of each one, but I 
 just don't think they have as much effect on the game as they possibly can. An idea for the expansion 
 would be being able to build native buildings for economy boost (corn gardens) or a boosted population 
 (longhouses that support 20 each) Even more types, seriously, 1-3 a tribe and 1-2 tribes a level, 
 it just isn't enough.
  Finally, there are the home cities, great addition, they allow you to actually accomplish somethingduring 
 standard play. I love the customizations, but my fried actually asked me how it affects the game... 
 WHO CARES! You have it as your start up page, you can get torchy! Torchy is the best, get him first 
 thing! It's just plain fun.
  Ensemble makes yet another great game, with astonishing graphics, which are getting better each 
 time, it just sort of makes you wonder, what will it be like in 10 years? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvalancheRider
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to go particularly in-depth here, I just want to touch on a topic I haven't seen 
 touched enough here.
  
  The AI in this game is monumentally awful. The pathing is poor, and the attack-move option is bugged. 
 I marched an army of musketeers into a city and had them go to town for a while, but then an enemy 
 army of longbowmen showed up. Naturally I ordered my men to fire on the longbowmen, but the AI 
 isn't intelligent enough to do so properly. If you order an attack-move, your men will fire at 
 the nearest living target (whether it's a cannon, an infantryman, or a panicking civilian) ; if 
 you right-click an enemy unit, your entire army will fire at that man specifically until he is 
 dead, then revert to the attack-move routine instead of continuing to attack the unit that man 
 was in. This is incredibly frustrating, especially with melee units (your men are always either 
 attempting to swarm an individual soldier or running off randomly after women in farm fields) . 
 This single-handedly ruined the game for me. Why would I want to play an RTS whose major weakness 
 is in the combat department? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vangaren
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this game I expected it to be an improvement upon the first and second one, but 
 instead it turned out to be the same thing with a new system to add a little glimmer on it. The 
 graphics are pretty much amazing for a game of this style if you crank them, the sound is good 
 as well, but as for the gameplay.... it seems to have slowed down from the other games of this kind, 
 it takes longer to do everything in comparison to AOE II... but it does make up for it in it's new 
 card system.. In this new system you play in multiplayer or singleplayer and level up and buy cards 
 and create a deck. Each of these cards have different abilities such as "Rewards you with 300 wood" 
 and you can use these cards in game when you get to a certain age and have points from conquest 
 or resource gathering. Of course don't get me wrong, there aren't just cards for your agriculture, 
 they have them for everything from farming to military advancement. Overall this game plays like 
 the first two yet, adds new units, smarter AI, more maps, and a new twist on the gameplay with 
 the card/home city system, but the multiplayer is where the real value is at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing AOE since the very first game came out, so for me a new AOE title will be worth 
 playing. You wont be disappointed if you have followed AOE since the beginning as this is basically 
 the same fun, with some nice additions, but at the core is just AOE adapted for more powerful computers 
 and game engines. So, some people will be disappointed, and I would agree with them
  
  Saying this, it wont be much different to play than other AOE game, and innovation, thus present, 
 it is not really determinant for the outcome of the game. The addition of the main city is a nice 
 touch, but customization is just plain silly, and the use of cards adds a bit of a nice touch and 
 can be determinant in some battles, but good management of cards it is not a must to play the game. 
 This game is just played as the others in the series
  
  If you are not an AOE fan, this game may seem repetitive and in a way just the same AOE, just more 
 polished. But as an AOE fan you cannot let this one pass
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  Pros: When you startup age of empires III, you will first be stunned by the new engine. It looks 
 beautifull. Also when you're ingame it looks great, especially when you destroy a building and 
 the building is destroyed where it is hit. Gameplay is almost the same as Age Of Empires 2, except 
 for the added citymanager, what adds unnessesairy managing to the game! 
  
  Cons: There are just a few units available. 
  The city manager is very irritating. 
  It's not 
 very special to stand up in the crowd... 
  It's too slow for an RTS-game.
  If they look at Empire Earth 2, then they should learn what a extra managing screen should look 
 like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Age of empire's most specific side was that, all three campaigns were connected to each other. 
 Thats really made game more enjoyable and with wish of completion. 
  Very impressive video cut-scenes in the game especially last one was great.
  Graphically game 
 was well designed and tools for controlling game was fairly enough to control game, as it required. 
 
  Game was based on colonization of North and South America and it showed how that time was tough 
 to survive. Especially I liked race on trade routs, capturing trade points and gaining more income 
 form taxes and so. Improving trade routs up to railroad, just was so cool. 
  I say, this game is worth playing! Go on try!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbur16
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, the demo does this game no justice. if you were turned off by the demo buy 
 this game when the price comes down. if you liked age of mythology and like the colonial theme 
 pick this game right up. it is basically age of mythology with different characters and setting. 
 whether this is good or bad is up to you. plays exactly like age of mythology. no creativity points 
 here since it seems like it uses the eaxct build of that game. nothing innovative in AOE3 but if 
 youre looking for a solid RTS this wont disappoint. I find the RTS genre lacking recently but thats 
 just my personal taste. Home City and the Card Deck thing is interesting. This game is definately 
 not revolutionary but will hold you over til the next great RTS or will give you plenty to do based 
 on the games merits. a great and fun game in itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TDG_drunkguy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  The game is good and all, but I think they should have put a little more into the designing your 
 own battle stuff... like I dunno how to use the triggers... I dun even know what those are, and 
 like when ever I playtest the scenario, it like has no effort from the computer... all the little 
 soldiers i put on the other teams, just sit there, they dun move... atleast they attack when i 
 get close, but come on, i wish i could like have a challenge.... and another thing, in Skirmish.. 
 i have the Ottomans as one of my cities, and I can't get them to go to level 5, not on home cities, 
 but like during the game, to build a capitol building and to get some upgrades on my little peoples, 
 i need to get to level 5.... does anyone know why the Ottomans don't go to level 5? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfkunrendered
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Well, I`ve had this game since it came out, and i`m just now getting around to writing a review, 
 so here it goes. When I first heard about this game I was very excited, I own all of the AOE games. 
 When I first started to play, I was like, this isnt the same game, sure it looks alot better than 
 the first two, but I like the arrows, swords, and catapults. Sure they still have some of those 
 things, but its not the same. Dont get me wrong, I like this game, but its just not the same. The 
 multiplayer is awsome as always. But I personally dont like the guns and stuff like that, but I 
 guess i`m just weird or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scaputnik
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 18, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let's start. I've played all age of empires games, and I think this one is the best. Of course, 
 it's the most recent, but even if all of them had the same graphics, the third one would be still 
 the best. Its the most revolutionary, with really good graphics, great new ideas, but that isn't 
 nothing that you doesn't already know. The best thing, is the Home City (is that the name? I'm 
 Brazilian and play the Portuguese version) level. This things with levels are the most addictive 
 ones. You see, this level thing, makes you want to play more and more just because you will like 
 to have a better and better home city and improvements.
  
  I like this game also because its easy to make your strategy. The "army combination" its one of 
 the best things. I mean, you don't have millions and millions of kinds of units to choose, its 
 just infantry, cavalry and the cannons. I like 25 musketeers and 25 pike-mans (i play with the 
 British civilization) . Its bad to have only 8 civilizations, but the differences between each one 
 of them makes this problem really small. I doubt you will play enough with each one to know which 
 one is the best.
  
  But my big question here is: If the Age of Empires 3 has already made a game about the colonial 
 age, what is the new game (if they make one) going to be about? I doubt they will do something 
 like Rise of Nations, since the beginning of the civilizations, but whatever. If someone ever read 
 this, I would be really happy, and thank you. =D
  (Gee, look at the size of this text!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 24, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  
  Age of Empires III is the sequal to Age of Empires II. Both games are very good games and if you 
 are into some seriously fun strategy games, you need to own these games, why? I shall explain. 
 First off, the game takes place to when people come to the new world and set up colonies. You can 
 play as multiple armies and each one has advantages and disadvantages. You can play as the fast 
 British or the powerful French. 
  
  This game is just plain fun. The graphics and particle effects in the game are awesome compared 
 to Age of Empire 2. However the graphics weren't as good as I thought it would be compared to some 
 of the screenshots provided to when this game was annouced.
  
  The gameplay is fun, 9 out of 10. The campaign is very fun and exciting and there is three parts 
 to it. The skirmish part is where you have the most fun. Playing against Expert computers is fun 
 and challenging or if you are a beginner, you can play against easier opponents are they will still 
 give you some fun. Some of the greatest improvements to Age of Empires III is the Homecity system. 
 What this means is that you can get supplies from your Homecity, example: If I played as the British, 
 London can send me Food if I ask for it. But after you ask for it, you must gain XP in order to 
 use it again.
  
  To gain XP, you can do some of the following things: destroy enemy building and destroying enemy 
 units. You can also gain XP by creating units and creating Buildings. Ensemble Studios did a very 
 great job on the gameplay, the game is very well balenced and you will not put this game down for 
 a very long time . . . and when the Expansion Pack comes out, it will keep you playing even longer.
 
  
  The multiplayer part of the game is at its best; however, the most important thing that is missing 
 is where you can upload your own created maps online like you could with Age of Mythology. Eventually, 
 in a update, this will be fixed. You can play up to with eight people in a Multiplayer game, and 
 play on a wide variety of maps such as the Carribian to the Carolinas to even the great plains. 
 All is awesome.
  
  It is so much fun to play with four people against two Expert Computer AI and watch the computers 
 kick your ass. This game is definately a buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 to my opinion was a great game, it had top of the line graphics, awesome gameplay 
 and everything you could have hoped for in a strategy game. The only flaw to my opinion was the 
 storyline which didn't seem to count for much anyway to me, i think it would have helped to have 
 a real storyline that actually happened instead of a bunch of mythical stuff. Other than that i 
 just loved the game. The graphics of course were great, for example one well placed cannon shot 
 can send around 3 enemy soldiers flying around, into trees over cliffs into the water, and ship 
 battles seem more realistic now, you can tear the masses down with a shot, set it on fire, and 
 then watch an epic animation of it sinking to the botton of the ocean, and instead of all those 
 other games that infantry just seem to stab at with a knife and tearing down a castle, it seems 
 more logical now, they actually throw torches onto the building, setting it ablaze, ripping it 
 down as the roof catches on fire and a tower comes crashing down, and you can even hear the feared 
 screams of the citizens inside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementmaster92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 16, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. The onll thing that kills this game is that there are not much civilizations 
 like the other AOE games, which had a wider viarity of civilizations. The guns are cool, still 
 the guys miss a shot from 3 cm of distance, but still they are cool. Well I like the spanish empire 
 is pretty cool. I like their technology tree, ohh and talking about that you cant have the full 
 tech tree like in the other games (bummer) . The graphics were the best. Well for a game of that 
 series it is. Since it is powered by Nvidia what else do you expect from the graphics. I liked 
 the movie of the beginning of the game, two words: killer graphics. I enjoyed playing this game 
 since I waited 1 1/2 hours in line to buy it but it was worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimboryno
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 16, 2006 3:14 am PT
Review:  Ok. So where did it all begin? Way back in 1997... I still remember the very first Age of Empires 
 very clearly. Although the graphics was not that great back then, it was most probably the start 
 of a new stage in gaming history.
  
  And so when can continue trough the years, past the Age of Kings and so on, and we will finally 
 get to Age Of Empires III. Perhaps what will become one of the greatest Strategy game of all times...
 
  
  Taking the Single Player Mode, we go go back in history to the 1800's and we start of with nights 
 looking for the Water of Youth... Whatever that might be. With greatly improved graphics, it's 
 a real joy to zoom in to see the people up close. Following them around as they take on the enemies. 
 Hmmm, the enemies... There was some places that I thought that it was just too easy to win. Sometimes 
 it was very impressive and it took a long time to eventually figure out a strategy to win against 
 your enemies. As the Acts continue, one realise that this time is actually following a real story. 
 A story of a family trying to stop the "Circle", as they are called, from destroying their ancient 
 city. The city where it all began, and where the game ends.
  
  Ok, now for the muliplayer part. I have'nt really played the Multiplayer yet, but I'm really looking 
 forward to it. Should be great fun and a good challenge...
  
  Overall I think Age of Empires III is a stunning game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zephyr451
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought Age of Empires III, I was in awe of it, mainly due to its extreme graphics. 
 Recently however I have become annoyed with several features of the online and single-player experiences. 
 First I must confess that, in addition to a love of gaming I have a love of literature and of history. 
 So I was rather irritated that the campaign followed no historical or mythological basis. (The 
 Ottomans and Russians look really out of place in Florida) . It also lacked the same addictive gameplay 
 as Age of Empires II. (A true masterpiece) The online interface appears to have everything that 
 is to be desired, (That is after the newest patch which added a refresh button) but the simple 
 implementation problems that if the release had been stalled slightly could have been fixed. There 
 are many problems find games hosted by, or even with someone in it who has a firewall, anti-viral 
 software, anti-spy-ware software, or drinks orange juice on Sundays. One might ask, "If you hate 
 this game so much why give it an 8.0?" The answer to that is that I tend to be hyper-critical of 
 things, especially those for which I have to pay. Overall this game has an interesting concept 
 good graphics and ample explosions. However if you wish to buy this game, I would wait for a few 
 month; to let Ensemble work out all the bugs.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohitmukheja
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 15, 2006 1:24 am PT
Review:  graphics hae been improved a lot but the game play is just the same .nothing new is added except 
 a new age. very ordinary game. not much apealing. some missions are really good but their number is 
 limited. if u liked ao mythology than this would be a disappointment. not worth waiting for such 
 a long time. the developers should have done something new instead of th e old game. it freatures 
 few new things that resources can be brought from th e city by using cards. which come in handy 
 at times. all the final missions of act one two and three are fien but rest is crap. not impressed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Germans
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 14, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Better graphics than Age Of Empires 2, but thats about it. No new stuff, nothing. You'll play it 
 for a solid hour or so and then be sick of it and saying to yourself "I could have bought Rise 
 Of Nations." If you have not played AOE 2 then by all means play this game, it's a better version 
 of AOE 2. When you get sick of single player, which will happen fast, there is a decent multi-player 
 aspect of the game that is good-for-a-go. There is only one new aspect of the game and that is 
 the ability to get supplies sent from your home base to your colony, but this is a weak addition 
 to the game itself and does not at all make it worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ParkCarsHere
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 14, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III, the latest installment in the Age of Empires series, is definitely worth your 
 time and money, especially if you liked the previous Age of Empires games.
  
  In the third installment of Age of Empires, Ensemble Studios is taking us back to colonial times 
 when explorers were first settling the Americas. If you have been following the Age of Empires 
 series, you will know that with each new release, the developers go forward in history. The main 
 new features of this game include: Home cities, which allow you to get shipments from home after 
 acquiring experience points (also new, but only useful for home city growth) , Indian tribes, which 
 allow you to trade and make alliances with Indian civilizations, and new civilizations and units, 
 each with their own strengths and weaknesses.
  
  The story is on par with the other Age of Empires, following through the regular campaign type 
 gameplay that RTS fans have grown accustomed to. While Age of Empires' story isn't revolutionary, 
 it still is a good story that will, most likely, make you want to finish the game to see how it 
 plays out.
  
  Graphics and sound are where this game really excels. The graphics are very much so updated from 
 the previous Age of Empires games, and it is easily seen. For example, when you are attacking buildings, 
 certain parts fall off while you attack, instead of the general flames that used to appear when 
 you were attacking a building. Other things such as beautiful landscapes and amazing unit details 
 make this game very visually pleasing. You may be thinking, "With all these good graphics, how 
 can my mid-range computer run it!?" Well, if that's the case, don't worry: these graphics seem 
 to run extremely well on mid to high range computers, even on the highest, or near highest, settings! 
 I have experienced no slowdowns running full specs, and that makes the game look even better. 
 
  
  Sound in this game is also very well done. You hear tons of ambient sounds which add to the realism 
 of the game. The units still talk when you click on them, and the buildings still play a sound 
 when you click on them, so it helps add to the feeling that you are actually there and commanding 
 your troops and villagers. Everything in this game has its own, unique sounds that make this game 
 sound very good.
  
  The value of this game, like all the other Age of Empires games, is great. Even after you finish 
 the campaign mode, the real bulk of the gameplay is in the random map games that Ensemble Studios 
 made famous with its first Age of Empires games. You choose a general landscape, your civilization, 
 victory conditions, and last but not least, enemy civilizations and number of enemies (or teammates!) . 
 These random maps are very fun to play either single player or on online multiplayer, helping to 
 add many hours to the value of this game.
  
  For some reason or another, even though I love this game and think it is the best Age of Empires 
 yet, I find myself playing it much less than I did either of the previous two, and the Age of Mythology 
 series. I'm not sure why, because like I have stated in the review, it is an amazing game, but 
 I guess I can't just get into it. Maybe it is because it's more of the same, or maybe I have passed 
 on from my RTS phase. That is the reason for my "9" in reviewer's tilt. Don't get me wrong though, 
 I still have dedicated many hours to this game and will definitely keep playing. It's one of those 
 games that you pick up and play, even if you haven't played it for a few weeks or months.
  
  Overall, if you're a fan of the Age of Empires series, or just looking for a great RTS, this 
 is the game for you. It has the great qualities of the Age of Empires series, but with added visual 
 and sound extras that make the game an even better one. I highly recommend this very much so under-appreciated 
 game!
  
  **Note on scoring:**
  Difficulty: It has many options for a change in difficulty, from the first being very easy and 
 the last being very hard, so it's hard to label an overall difficulty. It's based on how you choose.
 
  Learning curve: If you've played any Age of Empires game, or any RTS game for that matter, you 
 will easily be able to pick up and play this game. If not, there are great tutorials you can use, 
 and the learning curve would probably increase to 30 mins-1 hour, depending on the type of gamer 
 you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowofamn1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 14, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  I have high hope on this game, but when i bought it home it let me down so bad i stop playing and 
 when to sleep.
  
  The gameplay is crappy, they remove the formation command which i think is stupid. AoE timeline 
 was set from caveman world to when medieval world. Now it pirate world with upgrades. Unlimited 
 resources, you can use the in game trading posts and your homeland to get infinite resources, so 
 when do the game ends. I like games where i fight with my opponent until we have to chop each other 
 with villagers when resources is depleted. Storyline is ok but it is short, bacially it tells a 
 story of a family of their 3 generation. 
  
  Graphic was a disappointment, those screenshot on gamespot, the box cover are fake. You wont see 
 those graphic in game and the boat and ship's graphics is ridiculous. Total disappointment.
  
  Sounds are all the same, the usual 3 to 5 line of speech when you click on a unit.
  
  For 
 a game like this i wouldnt paid 50 bucks for it. I regret buying this because after 2 months it 
 cost 20 now.
  
  Overall i rather play AoE2 and hope they can start working on AOE4 instead of a expansion of AOE3.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RawStorm
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed when I played AOE3 was the graphics. I couldn't imagine an RTS with dynamic 
 shadows, advanced shaders, realistic water reflections, and Havok physics. This is one of the most 
 beautiful games you can play. The environment is very realistic and drawn to scale. The big ships 
 look amazing with the water reflections and pieces breaking off during a battle. The cannons are 
 very cool and seeing troops flying across the screen is very satisfying.
  
  However the campaign was very lacking. The cutscenes that were created using the engine were extremely 
 bad and I would have preferred Ensemble to use their storybook cutscenes from AOE2. I am also dissapointed 
 because you could not fight in the Revolutionary War, but I hope they make an expansion for that. 
 The scenario editor was also disapointing. It is not as simple as AOE2 and has a lot of new features 
 that a modder would find useful but a normal player like me would find pointless. and it would 
 have been nicer if the camera could have been moved to show more of the map.
  
  I also hate Microsoft for making this only for Windows XP.
  
  Overall the visuals are amazing 
 and no other RTS comes close to AOE3's graphics but the dissapointing campaign and the difficult 
 scenario editor makes this edition to the series not as great as AOE2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chriseales
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I have played all aoe series, and this is the best, the introduction of home cities is a nice change 
 there is a dedicted server that the game will link you straight into, no messing about trying to 
 find games on the net or with other software such as game spy, and the online gaming is fantastic, 
 there are ways to see other players experience and win percentage which helps you find suitable 
 (or noobies to crush) partners.
  
  The game looks fantastic I spent 2500 on a new pc mainly vecause I wanted the most from this game 
 (admitadly I needed to spend no where near that much but wanted the best!)
  
  I cannot find fault with the game tbh I havelost days and nights and lots of  playing this game 
 I havent been to the gym since I bought it, warning very addictive
  
  
  SEE YOU ONLINE ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elessar_Tinuvie
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 13, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  What i like about this game?! Hm, lets see: first, there is experience, then there is good campaing 
 story, there are some good mercenaries like german black riders (as i recall) , very much like see 
 fight (sound, graphics, large ships) , canons are great, etc.
  In this game i made tactic on my own that was very good, unlike other games! This is good and bad 
 thing about this game because when i defend my "town", i make defence that is very good, and i 
 can live my "town" and work on an atack, or counteratack without even any look what is going on 
 while im under atack! By this i meen on AI!
  Maybe im wrong! I'll play it again to make sure of it!
  
  Bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salmanj1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Awsome game its better than iits preceders and the graphics are amazing the missions are cool for 
 once there not boring and thew sounds are simply to die for gggrhgrhrghrgrh im dying :P that was 
 a joke..
  Well the "HYPE" isnt well as nice cuz it still needs improvement the expansion pack will 
 be what im looking forward to all the game before this have been better in the expansions.
  Its a game to really look forward to if you want awesome multiplayer id recommend this game 
 but u need to know how to play it so u also need age of empire 1 and age of empire 2 beforehand
 
  Dont think of this game as a patch cuz its not its just a separate game like resident evil 
 or dino crisis e. t. c
  Well thats it for me GOOD JJOB MICROSOFT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthRevan
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  
  This review is a comparison between Age of Empires II and Age of Mythology, the 2 games that are 
 the predecessors to Age of Empires III.
  
  From a graphical standpoint, Age of Empires III is a tour de force that looks significantly better 
 than Age of Empires II and Age of Mythology. The water effects are spectacular and really add to 
 the game. I was playing a map with islands and, all of a sudden, I saw a reflection of a huge ship 
 unlike any ship that I had seen up to that point in the campaign. Then, the ship appeared and it 
 sank 2 of my smaller ships. It was a really cool effect. The production values are outstanding 
 and the musical score is excellent. This is an area that Ensemble has mastered.
  
  From a gameplay standpoint, Age of Empires tries hard to make a leap but it falls short of its 
 lofty objectives. The units play and feel just like Age of Empires II and Age of Mythology especially 
 when it comes to pathfinding. The cannons are a nice addition as is the new physics-based damage 
 when a building is bombarded. The game is fun to play but if you've played the previous games, 
 you will definitely get a sense of deja vu. In my opinion, the story-telling in the campaign was 
 not as memorable as the story in Age of Mythology (and certainly not Warcraft III) and I didn't 
 feel any real need to find out what would happen in the next level. Ensemble should hire someone 
 in the future who can write a better story. The biggest addition is the home city which allows 
 you to send reinforcements (units, resources, carts to build forts and factories) as you gain experience. 
 These reinforcements are a nice addition and they're customizable in the sense that you can pick 
 the list of available reinforcements that are available at the start of the game. You can also 
 customize the look of your home city and that's not a bad feature. 
  
  After finishing the campaign, I decided to play some skirmish games against the computer and here 
 is my major complaint. If you set the difficulty to moderate, the computer offers no challenge. 
 It's a walk in the park. If you play hard, the computer cheats like crazy so towards the end expect 
 the computer to churn out waves of 50-unit armies faster than you can say "gotcha". I've beaten 
 it a few times but the battles were insane and I had to load and play out battles again and again 
 to ensure that my main army was not too weakened since there is no way to catch up once your main 
 army is gone. And here is where the antiquated pathfinding affects the gameplay. In huge battles, 
 the units tend to "stumble" on each other which spells doom if the other side is firing at you. 
 I've found out that playing the same battle over and over again could yield tremendously different 
 losses based on whether my army got confused or the computer's army got confused - trust me, you 
 will want the latter to happen every time.
  
  I've not played the game online and it may shine there.
  
  I hope this review helps you.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_mist03
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 12, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  This long awaited game, turned out to be a disappointment at first, however grew on me as I played 
 it more. When the game first opens with a few videos, you get the great impression that this is 
 going to be awesome, however once you get to gameplay it kinda loses its affect. The whole game 
 concept was almost entirely turned around, but kept some of the characteristics of the former Age 
 of Empires predecessors. The home shipments idea was very interesting but, seemed kinda of like 
 an RPG, with its civilization upgrades, that you could purchase. Overall the game retained much 
 of the fun elements as the older games had, and it was worth buying. If you do not like it at first, 
 then I recommend that you continue playing it for awhile, and it might grow on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greendrg654
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 11, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  As a past and present Age of Empires series player i was looking foreward to the new game. And 
 when i got it, it exceeded my expectations and i thought that it was great. Although some of the 
 game play got really slow i got bored and tried to take over the enemy fort without enough men 
 and almost died immediatly. The Music and graphics made up for it's fairly slow story line. What 
 i found really cool was that now for the first time you could actually destroy the buildings, unlike 
 in the older ones in which a trebuche to the side of a wall did nothing but lowered the health, 
 now you deliver a cannon to the walls and chuncks will come off and land on the ground. But over 
 all it was fairly good and i was really pleased with it's over all performance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmpRichard
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  the first screens and video's makes you think it's a really good game, and the gameplay is okay, 
 but their are almost no really good new options, thinks like shipments are cool in the beginning 
 but after a while, the game becomes boring because it's really the same thing we have seen in AOE 
 1 and 2 
  so if you are a graphics-gamer you will like the game but if you are a hardcore age of empires 
 player, you maybe like Age of Kings better. So if you are a gamer with a small purse (all dutch 
 people act like that) or a bad pc and never played a age of empires game I considder you should 
 buy Age of King witch will save you about 30,-  / $. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burghardt
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 10, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  in my opinion this age of empires game takes away from the last two. the gameplay and look of the 
 game are good dont get me wrong but i dont like all this home city and cards malarchy whats the 
 point the game would be better if they had left it out i used to be a huge aoe game but now i simply 
 play rome total war as its more of a challange and runs better and plays nicer and is more tactical 
 than aoe these days. in the old days aoe was about building high walls putting your buildings in 
 strategic positioning and hopeing for the best basicly that you wouldnt get rushed early on by 
 some boring person but now its all about cards and exp and so ion its taken alot of the fun out 
 of the game. they should get it sorted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordbob13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 10, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  All in all I would say this game is very similar to the previous 'Age of ...' titles. They have 
 given it a little different format but this is still much the same in the way of gameplay. Don't 
 get me wrong, the game is fantatastic and I am thoroughly addicted, but if you find RTS games boring 
 then this one won't change your mind. I am also a big history nut and this game fits right up that 
 alley. The single player mode takes you on a quest to conquer the 'New World' before the other 
 super powers of Europe. There is also a little bit of mythology in regards to the search for the 
 Fountain of Youth. I personally like the way the Natives are portayed in the game. They are not 
 a playable race, however they can be allied with by building a trading post near their camp. The 
 Native American camps cannot be destroyed, which would have made the real conquering of the Americas 
 fairly tough, but if the opponent's trading post is destroyed they loose their alliance with that 
 tribe. This game's strongest point is the graphics. There are multiple subtle graphical aspects 
 that may go unnoticed if you aren't paying attention, such as the waves rocking the ships and the 
 spectacular settings. Buildings and ships also break apart piece by piece and look very nice while 
 doing it. These increased graphics will probably slow down your frame rate when the you-know-what 
 hits the fan but I still think its worth the trade off. If you were a fan of the previous Age of 
 games, or any RTS for that matter, then I would say you will like this on too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiggyPiggyMan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 10, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  To start off is the physics. You've probably heard this a million times before but its just plain 
 cool when you hit a bunch of guys with a cannon and they go
  flying, maybe even off a cliff, and also when a cannon hits a ship and it leaves an enormous hole 
 in the sail.
  
  The graphics are fantastic. The troops are highly detailed and there are reflections in the rippling 
 water (if you want it to be) but the thing I found was a bit disappointing was that when a building 
 is destroyed it doesnt crumble apart or explode, it just kind of fades into a pile of rubble.
 
  
  The actual gameplay is highly fun, but campaign mode can be completed in less than 3 hours. There 
 are many new features that make 1-player skirmish highly replayable, like the home city, where 
 you can get shipments of resources or infantry, and native americans, who if you build a trading 
 post with them, collect resources and experience for you. A lot of people complain about how 2-player 
 mode lags, but when you think about it, all 2 player games do!
  
  All in all an extremely fun game, but is only just better than AOE2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranzou
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 9, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires (AOE) remains my favorite game of all time. It was a gift from my new girlfriend 
 at the time, she is now my wife. I have spent more time on the AOE Franchise than any other (possibly 
 combined) . So when the newest version was coming out, I was very happy. Personally I felt Age of 
 Mythology was a bit lacking in gameplay.
  
  AOE 2 really set the stage. This remains an alltime favorite with gamers. Easy to play and tremendously 
 fun. Lots of variety. The online component made it even better.
  
  In AOE 3 the team returned to the more traditional format, with plenty of new twists. Enough to 
 force you to use new strategies, yet still dominate with old. Some of the economics in this version 
 is confusing. Unlimited food from farms, but a slower gather rate.
  
  The most worthless feature yet is the home city feature. Gain points to spend customizing it, but 
 there is now advantage to this. Even visiting it during gameplay simply sucks time, and you can 
 get massacred if you don't jump back timely. The idea of a homecity sending you bonus materials 
 or troops is nice, but again the delay (shipping) takes away from the fun.
  
  This game honestly feels more like a bridge between AOE and Rise of Nations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 9, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  I borrowed it from my cousins a few weeks ago i tried it out and it was good but still its not 
 how i aspectted to be. Itought it would beat the heck out of aom but no
  
  the maps are to small and the soldiers are quite weak mostly in imperial battles soldiers do fall 
 but they rise up agian qiute fast in aom it take time and time for them which is quite hard
  
  the worst is that u have to buy food supplies in ure menu so that when u star the game u dont 
 have to upgrade cause you already done that which is good for games 
  
  even tough it didnt beat aom i hope ensemble would now focus for the aom family now that it has 
 finish the aoe family, im not saying that aoe3 is the last title in the aoe family they migh have 
 more of aoe maybe it might be about ww2, i just want them to make the next aom family.
  
  i hope ensemble dosent retire and stop continueing the aom and aoe family because ensemble anre 
 compony's that has ways of making true strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugi_nayar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 8, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  The latest edition of Ensemble Studios was expected to be something we'd all been hearing about 
 and eagerly anticipatint. The result - a really great game but, still not something really of the 
 mettle of being considered the best game ever.
  
  The gameplay has greatly increased from the last editions but, then again so have we and our expectations, 
 which unfortunately this game just misses by a few inches. The graphic detail has really been turned 
 up with the new engine, particularly the beautiful settings and landscape. The naval battle has 
 also greatly been paid attention to. But, the game has lost some of its simple beauty possesed 
 in AOE2. The sound does also leave us wanting more.
  
  The concept of the home city and all the environment of colonialism is really a great new concept. 
 Based in the middle-ages, the game takes us to a world dominated by guns and bombs. This is the 
 most saddening part as the whole concept of cavalry is rendered useless with them being the least 
 powerful units. But, thats because in the colonial age, the use of gunpowder rendered traditional 
 weapons virtually useless and we also must move with the times ;) . The power of the siege weapons 
 has greatly increased making them indespensable. An interesting addition is the concept of natives 
 and trade routes.
  
  The campaigns take us through three generations of settlers through the expeditions of the Black 
 family. Though the number of missions in the campaigns has been reduced, still they remain as a 
 must - play to gain early experience of the new features of the game. The random maps and multiplayer 
 modes as always remain the ultimate battle-ground for testing one's skill and dominance over the 
 game.
  
  In a nutshell, though this game may not be your ultimate dream, it does remain, as always, a must-play 
 for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 8, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun when you first try it. The graphics are ok but the gameplay is really fun 
 for the first 20 hours.
  
  Pros: Ok graphics, very addictive (I spent 10 hours in a row playing just the demo before I bought 
 it) , it is cool to have a whole bunch of peasants working for you because it's like you're their 
 god and you control their lives. The battles are ok, but not extroadanary.
  
  Cons: Again, the graphics are just ok, it's fun for the first 20 hours but after that it's the 
 same thing over and over again. The music is terrible, it they had more exciting music it would 
 be more enjoyable to play. All the peasants guns are massive!!! They are generally bigger than 
 the peasants which make it look a bit like anime which makes it look a bit cheesy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: democratjp
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 7, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  The graphics of this game are indeed superior to previous versions of this game. That does not 
 make the game better however.
  
  What the previous versions lacked in graphics they made up for in game play and plot. The plot 
 in this version is not well developed and overall redundant. You get bored after a while because 
 you are doing the same thing over and over again except with different units and characters. For 
 this reason I would wait a while before buying it.
  
  The best value would be the buy the previous versions of the game which are currently really cheap. 
 There is a lot more utility in the games and you will get a much better value than paying 50 dollars 
 for limited game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasewase
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 7, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  I have previously owned Age of Empires 1 and 2, but ES have made the 3rd installment extra special. 
 The graphics are very nice and reflect organic and natural themes. The gameplay is also easy-to-understand, 
 while players of previous versions of AOE are still treated to new elements of the game. All of 
 AOE3's components are all very good and this can only be the result of many years of experience 
 in this field by veteran game designers, programmers and publishers. This game is addictive, as 
 I struggle to find time for homework, and all parts of the game is up to scratch. Well done ESO! 
 (just fix the LAN thing if you can!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wu-Tang-Clan93
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is my favorite game in the AoE series. Even though it has many spectacular changes 
 that separate it from the other AoE games, the changes made the game brilliant. The whole idea 
 for the Home City is an idea that I personally love. And since you definitely need that Home 
 City in the beginning for food resources for that quick advance to the 2nd age or a bakers dozen 
 of Sterlets (if you use Russia) for an early rush. 
  
  The treasures were kind of random in my opinion. I didnt really understand the reason for them. 
 Well now the explorer is there to do what his names explains, explore! He is good for finding other 
 resources, and the enemies bases. Not to mention he can build trading posts for fast XP, or you 
 can get resources from it. The Indian village trading post is important too because you upgrade 
 your armies and get Native warriors.
  
  It also provides an in-game ladder and a clan/friends system for those of you who love multiplayer 
 games.
  
  But for the most part its the best AoE game since its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny_1990
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  when i bought this game i expected an excellent expansion on the age of empires series, but what 
 did i get? i got a game with all the desireable graphics but some awful new features that made 
 it completely worthless. 
  
  one of these, for example, is the home city feature which has been newly added to the series. unless 
 you have time to live on your computer playing about 10 hours to get to just a level 5 home city 
 (which is hardly anything) when your playing on the internet then theres no point playing this 
 game online. 
  
  the internet servers are laggy and slow, you have to wait for about 5 minutes at the start of a 
 game before it even starts (its not just my computer, my computer hasnt got the fastest connection 
 in the world sometimes but ive never had to put up with this) .
  
  the soundtracks are horrifically repetitive and boring, play for an hour and you know every soundtrack 
 by heart, it gets very irritating when they arent even nice to hear.
  
  the single player campaign i thought was very weak and uninteresting. a load of rubbish about some 
 circle looking for buckets of water and conquering cities for it and you having to stop it. see 
 what i mean? sounds rediculous doesn't it?
  
  the only redeeming quality of age of empires 3 is its physics system which works great with the 
 cannons, it is incredably satisfying lining up 10 falconets and unloading a row of cannon balls 
 into an enemy platoon of musketeers then watching them fly halfway across the map.
  
  I'd suggest you rent this game at the most, it took me a day to complete the quite unsatisfactory 
 campaign and trust me, your not missing anything on the internet unless you have no life and are 
 quite happy to spend years getting a reasonable home city level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Longchief
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is my favorite game in the AoE series. Even though it has many spectacular changes 
 that separate it from the other AoE games, the changes made the game brilliant. The whole idea 
 for the Home City is an idea that I personally love. And since you definitely need that Home 
 City in the beginning for food resources for that quick advance to the 2nd age or a bakers dozen 
 of Sterlets (if you use Russia) for an early rush. 
  
  The treasures were kind of random in my opinion. I didnt really understand the reason for them. 
 Well now the explorer is there to do what his names explains, explore! He is good for finding other 
 resources, and the enemies bases. Not to mention he can build trading posts for fast XP, or you 
 can get resources from it. The Indian village trading post is important too because you upgrade 
 your armies and get Native warriors.
  
  It also provides an in-game ladder and a clan/friends system for those of you who love multiplayer 
 games.
  
  But for the most part its the best AoE game since its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiWo
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 3, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  The Game and the gameplay is good but the graphic is too require cuz you will need a monster pc 
 to run perfectly the game with suitable graphic. The scenario is a little bite short to compare 
 with the old version. And they a few I dislike, like a lack of civilization (like in in AOE 1 you 
 got 14 civilization, 18 plus the expansion and in AOE 2 you got if I remember 16 civilization ,19 
 plus the expansion) and in AOE 3 you got only 8 civilization. The other thing that I dislike is 
 the game history is always turn around French, British and Spanish conquest they forgot the Chinese 
 conquest and the Ottoman conquest too.
  The concept is good but I don't recommend this game you will better to try Civilization IV the 
 Sid Meier game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: site_b
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is a very good game because you take control of an army and then you go about 
 trying to discover the New World, which isn't as easy as it may seem on the game's back cover, 
 of course. Even if you choose to set the game on the Easy setting, fortunately, that doesn't compromise 
 the ever-present challenge that the game poses. In the single player mode, you create settlers 
 to help build your structures, soldiers to help you fight your battles, and you can occasionally 
 ally with locals and Natives, such as random villagers you meet. You can also engage in ship cannon 
 fights, but more often than not, you'll need several ships to help back you up if you wanna win 
 cannon fights. And you might actually find that this Web site's cheats for this game are actually 
 quite useful if you don't want the game to progress TOO slowly. Bottom line: If you're passionate 
 about historical strategy, then definitely buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamegaman
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 2, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 offeres up some new ideas which make this game a future gem but unfortuantly do 
 not surpass Age of Empires 2 in many aspects. My real problem is the lack of unique units and the 
 few races you can choose from, as well as multiplayer options. The game lacks a lot of the skirmish 
 options that can be found in the original game that would normally make the skirmish mode a lot 
 of fun. The maps are very limited, mind you the quality of each design is amazing and it actually 
 looks like real landscape. Honestly there are a lot of things missing though. Not being able to 
 group your units into formations or hold position, limited number of certain buildings can be built. 
 I guess the designers wanted to eliminate the cheapness of the past AoE games where people would 
 build hundreds of towers around their base, I did it myself, in order to keep out the enemy. Still 
 though a limit of only 7 towers and limited ships, priests and the native units are a nuisance. 
 The game play is fun and the Homecity and Cards feature is rather interesting, a good way to get 
 units quickly. All in all though this game is lacking in a lot of departments that dont make it 
 nearly as fun as the predecessors, but overall it is a fairly decent RTS game. The campaign mode 
 is rather dumb though and is very short, you really dont have a lot of replayability on those modes 
 unless you want to play it on a harder difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olgert56
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 2, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires is a strategy game based on the previous Age of Empires. This game is excellent 
 in many ways and I'll show you why.
  
  First of all the graphics in this game are awesome, but you need to have all the system requirements 
 or the game will go slow if you fight with ships or canons. Still this games graphics are something 
 you need.
  
  The campaing is good though it will get boring after a while, so don't play the campaing for too 
 long in one day. However the campaing is thought well and it's very different from the other Age 
 of Empires campaing. It features a great story and it's really good. The single player skirmish 
 mode is something you don't want to miss. You can choose from a lot of maps and if you fight in 
 hard it can be a challange. I really like what they did inside the game like railroads and experience 
 points and the shipments which can help you out on playing. You can also customize the city of 
 the country you chose; from people to stree light aand flag this adds a nice thought to the game. 
 You can also choose new cards to send to your shipments. You can make your city to a high level. 
 The city level starts at 1 and I don't know where it ends because I myself am at a level 80.
  
  Finally I just want to say, get this game if you can because is something you don't want to 
 miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danius
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  When it comes down to it, Age of Empires III is a very good strategy game. AOE3 looks and sounds 
 fantastic and it manages it introduce a couple of innovative and interesting features, such as 
 the Home City concept and the elimination of much of the micromanagement of settlers that is a 
 frustrating aspect in any RTS game. The single player game is interesting and well done, though 
 far from historically accurate, and the AI will put up a good fight in Skirmishes. Unfortunately, 
 AOE3 falls way short of, at least my, expectations for the latest installment in the AOE series 
 by Ensemble. The combat mechanics are nothing special, some are flawed, and combat strategy quickly 
 breaks down into who can muster up the larger army, the very thing that has plagued the RTS genre 
 for as long as I can remember.
  AOE3 looks just plain great. The units and the terrains are all beautifully rendered. The smoke 
 and explosions brought on by artillery barrages look awesome and buildings spew chunks as they 
 are damaged and finally come crumbling to the ground. Ships look great and a large navy sailing 
 down a waterway looks really cool, if you can find a big enough river. Navy battles are particularly 
 impressive and ships are rocked and masts splinter by barrages of cannon fire from enemy ships. 
 The game also sounds great. Volleys of musket fire snap and artillery explosions shake the ground. 
 If there is a battle near the area of the map you are focusing on, you can actually hear the faint 
 echoes of cannon fire in the distance. The sweet sounds and visuals allows you to expect a couple 
 of very exciting moments in every game of AOE3..
  Besides for the extensive eye candy and new game concepts there isnt much that sets AOE3 apart 
 from any other decent, modern RTS. This is mainly due to sloppy combat mechanics that have typical 
 flaws one would expect from an RTS of the past. Since the core units of every one of the playable 
 nations are essentially the same, battles can become dull and repetitive. Unit match-ups are sloppily 
 designed and some of the attributes are ridiculous, a unit of Pikemen can take out a building faster 
 than an equally sized unit of musketeers or Calvary, or ships being overly susceptible to land 
 based attacks by artillery and units. Movement of units in groups causes all units to move and 
 the same speed as the slowest unit in that group, even when ordered to attack an enemy force, which 
 causes ordering your troops to attack in the most efficient way possible in the heat of battle 
 very tedious and makes it difficult to exploit the best unit-to-unit matchups possible.
  All in all, AOE3 is fun and well done game and will provide you with hours of entertainment. As 
 good as the game looks, I think Ensemble would have been better off spending a little less time 
 on tricking out the visuals and more on the game fundamentals, historical accuracy, and game mechanics. 
 But, if you are looking for a solid new RTS at this very point in time, AOE3 is the way to go.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adamson10
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 31, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  its a great game best ive ever played but the big problem is that most of the times i tryed to 
 log on to the multiplayer it wont connect and it never will ever again its a major issue the ESO 
 must fix it always will fail to concet it sucks but when playing its amazing and one thing i hardly 
 see is canadians and americans playing so i would say if you dont like playing online get it but 
 if you do i recimend you dont get it and online it somethimes will cut off and say sync error and 
 exits the game and you cant get bak online for about a week or like me a month and its still not 
 alowing me online . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brijeshhsejirb
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  ARE YOU READY TO BE THE RULER
  
  After almost six years, the Age Of Empires is back in full glory with a major face lift. Unlike 
 AOE II ,which featured a sunny, colourful and a lifelike world rendered by a 2D graphics engine, 
 AOE III features a more lifelike world rendered by a cutting edge 3D graphics engine to please 
 your eyes. It doesn't redefine real-time strategy game play, but there are plenty of new elements 
 and strategic variations to make it even more challenging and interesting.
  
  EYE CANDY GALORE
  
  The Age Of Empires 3 utilizes Pixel Shader 3.0 to render soft shadows, 
 HDR lighting, Bloom and real-time shadows so that you dont hunger for eye candy.
  Ensemble Studios has taken great pains to craft this beautiful game which is truly a piece of art 
 coupled with the best technology. Foot prints of warriors, reflections of mighty warships in sparkling 
 water, bright flame of fire, bright skies, dense forests-not a single detail is missing. The music 
 is equally impressive. Done in full orchestra, it cleary highlights the beauty of the landscapes 
 and the fury of the warriors.
  Blast a enemy structure with a cannon ball and you'll see pieces of it flying in macabre arcs along 
 with plenty of smoke and fire. All this is possible because of the real physics engine built into 
 the game engine.
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  Like any other RTS game, the primary objective is to devastate your opponent. You start with a 
 town center and a few settlers who can gather resources. You have to then cleverly use those resources 
 to expand your empire by building barracks, docks, artillery foundry, market place, trading posts, 
 gaurd towers..... You get the idea. Buliding these structures gives you facilities to train infantry, 
 cavalry, artillery and fleets of ships which then have to be micro-managed and instructed to devastate 
 you opponents empire. Since AOE III simulates colonization, you can request shipments from your 
 Home City for your town. You gain shipments be earning experience by collecting resources and killing 
 units. Finally apart from RTS gameplay, a "Home City" represting world power can be created, which 
 supplies your colony. As yougain experience you can upgrade it and add more structures to make 
 it stronger.
  
  FINALLY....
  
  AOE III does seem suprisingly rough around the edges in some respects. Its quite frustrating when 
 the effects go off for a few secs in the heat of battle. However patches do fix this problem. However 
 minor glitches don't affect the core game. If you have never played a real-time strategy game, this 
 is the place to start. And if you are a fan of the genre, don't miss this awesome game. With highly 
 addictive gameplay and levels lasting from a few minutes to a couple of days, you will surely be 
 busy with it for months together.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 30, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 comes within a long line of Age of Empires, delayed due to the other games that 
 Microsoft had been working on (Age of Mythologies, etc.) The game itself joined the ranks of many 
 strategy games that have gone 3D as opposted to staying with the traditional 2D route. This time 
 Age of Empires 3 focuses on the colonial era where America would soon be founded. The game offers 
 many new options that had never been seen before such as the ability to get supplies back from 
 the mainland (or home country) although it would take a while for the supplies to get there. Besides 
 that the game still follows a similar path where the player has to micromanage between setting 
 up the economical structure of the village in order to prevent it from crippling while setting 
 up a strong military in order to protect the village from attacks on the outside. If you loved 
 the original Age of Empires then you are definately going to love the sequel to the original game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuttek
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 30, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  first time you play AoE 3 you notice that it reminds alot of the older games, it has just gotten 
 some better graphic, but hey, the old games where cool so you cant wait to play the first misson 
 of the campain. At first you sit there and love this game, its fun, challenging and well made. 
 but after a while , you feel like that the mission is the just the same over and over again , so 
 at the end you get a bit bored. Then you can always try the multiplayer part, witch is great, but 
 microsoft just needs to get control of there servers, cause it happens alot that the game chrashes 
 and stuff like that happen. but still , its a great game, and i recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matte979
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 28, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Brainless RTS clickfest. No real sense of accomplishment. Just train train and send troops on their 
 way. Troops does not act like they would have done in the period. I really liked AOE I and 2 but 
 this is just a dumb down version. Strategy my ass, its more like click fest. Good Graphics does 
 not make a good game. Try Civilization 4 for strategy and Dawn of War or Rise of Nations for RTS. 
 Sad attempt of a game. Maybe its me I might be to old for this kind of easy game and bland gameplay.
 
  
  All Graphics no Gameplay
  All Graphics no Gameplay
  All Graphics no Gameplay
  All Graphics no Gameplay
  All Graphics no Gameplay
  All Graphics no Gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larry58
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  The best of the series to date would love to see them work a civil war game in the next installment.
 
  I will be playing this a lot this winter and for a long time to come. 
  I am very glad that I bought this game. I hope everyone likes this game as much as I did. the grapics 
 are by far the best AOE has had to date and the campain is very good also. 
  I think that anyone who likes any AOE games will love this game.
  I am recomending this game 
 because I think everyone who plays RTS games will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russian8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  this could possibley be the greatest strtegy game of our time not only for graphics but for everything.
 
  the graphical quality is very much improved the inviroments are well improved and the character 
 models are as good now as a good video consol game from just a few years ago. trust me it's good. 
 the one thing that really blew me away was the ships from the other AOE's they are just buatiful 
 and finally the ships are just huge and life like to the units of the game.
  The game play and strategy are different because there are more ways to win. i mean you have the 
 regular ways from the first ones but you can win by building railroads like in the western day 
 and age. The time periods of the game giving a different level really brings out more than one 
 fighting style and a new diversity to the game play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  lost too much that aoe2 had developed. very disspointed.
  i selected 4 hours or more for learning, that is for people who want to play online and be decent. 
 aoe2 had great multiplayer, i dont see this going well in that aspect, nor the game itself isnt 
 anything to sneeze about. it doesnt have unit command controls, no real strategy like aoe2, i feel 
 the game has been focused more on the graphics than on the actual game and features. now to fill 
 up 100 words because i dont seem to be able to make 100 words because its making me and blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lavalleema
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  There are only a few Real Time Strategy games that I really enjoy. I didn't like Warcraft III. 
 I didn't like C&C Generals. I don't like Dragonshard and I don't like Medieval: Total War, or Age 
 of Empires II: Age of Kings for that matter. What I did like is Rome: Total War, Rise of Nations, 
 oh and that little Blizzard Jewel: Starcraft. I'm happy to say that Age of Empires III makes the 
 list of Real Time Strategy games that I love.
  
  The new graphics engine of AOE III is one of the first new aspects of the game that you wil notice. 
 I run it on an X700 Radeon have the options turned up pretty high at 1280x1024 without problems. 
 With reflective surfaces turned on, you could look at the water graphic all day. It's that good. 
 Other graphical tidbits add a great touch, if you fire a cannon ball at a group of soldiers you 
 can see it wreck havoc upon them.
  
  The game play is top notch, with serveral different nations to choose from, including the American 
 Indians. In the single player campaign, the Native Americans are a cool twist to the gameplay.
 
  
  The single player consists of three "Acts" that take place during different time periods. The acts 
 follow the adventures of the 'Black' family and starts with the narrorator's grandfather and ends 
 with her. You will see America go from the new world to the Old West. Trains are a cool addition.
 
  
  All and all the single player is interesting and challenging, and you'll enjoy it. Great multiplayer 
 keeps the game alive, as well as exploring different options from your 'home city'.
  
  This is an outstanding game and if you're a casual RTS fan, like me, you'll find something you 
 love about, as well as RTS entusiasts.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoomaster18
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 27, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  This game is a strategy junkie's dream game right here. This game really did impress me because 
 of its great leap from Age of Empires 2. (I didnt really like that one.) Everything has improved 
 from its predecessor, graphics, gameplay, sounds, and special effects. You cant go wrong with this 
 game and the replay value is definitely worth it. Its not hard and its not easy, its just right 
 for those who want to pick up a good game and play it for countless hours. The only .4 that is 
 missing is that the Map Designer is a bit tough to use, but they release a patch for it. Multiplayer 
 as well is great and is just as fun as the single player campaign and skirmish. Just go and get 
 it, youll see what im talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin_Kazawa
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 27, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  Game is relatively playable but the races are a little bit un-equal. Like for instance lets take 
 France. Well, peasants are more costly, but hey, as soon as you get your hands on a French horse 
 nothing can stop you. Economy is no longer an issue. I mean send your peasants to work and go do 
 something else. Thats a big plus, regarding other strategy games of a same type (peasants carry 
 resources from x spot to y spot) . Well, single player game is good, keeps you going, but looking 
 at history side, everything makes no sense. 
  That should be all, at least for now. Conclusion, not bad. Spend a few hours. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mYTH_2k4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Its been six years since Ensemble Studios released Age of Empires II, one of THE most revolutionary 
 RTS's to be created to date, and now after a successful detour with Age of Mythology and The Titans, 
 they're back with a bang with the third installment of the pathbreaking historical RTS saga: Age 
 of Empires III.
  
  This is definitely one of the finest RTS's made to date.......... the gameplay is fairly balanced, 
 the multiplayer is fantastic (and is only improving day by day) , the graphics look great even on 
 a dated PC, the New World setting in the industrial age is perfect and the sound, ambience and 
 the single player plot are all exciting and adherent to the high standards we have come to expect 
 of ES.
  
  And on the innovation front, the concept of Home Cities is truly amazing. It fits perfectly into 
 the gameplay and the setting and offers a whole lot of strategic options. In additon to that, it 
 is HIGHLY ADDICTIVE!!! The Home City is basically a European, well, CITY which controls your colony 
 in the New World. Each of the 8 civilizations (viz. British, Dutch, French, Germans, Ottomans, 
 Portuguese, Russians and the Spanish) in AoE III has a unique Home City template which has been 
 made customizable. The home city, literally, levels up from the experience you gain for it by waging 
 war, forging alliances with natives and setting up trade routes in the New World. With each level 
 your Home City gains, you have the option of choosing one out of an array of unlocked cards. This 
 card represents a shipment that your home city can send your colony each time you gain a shipment 
 bonus during gameplay. This card can represent everything from a couple of settlers to a MASSIVE 
 FORT, from a few crossbows to a whole army of Mercenaries or some economic or militaristic upgrades/bonuses 
 etc. These cards form a deck. A deck comprises of 20 cards and represents your card choice for 
 a particular game. More than one deck can be assigned to a single Home City. The HC concept means 
 that two players each playing the Germans may play completely differently based on their card choice 
 and shipment strategy!!! This adds a lot of customizability for your strategies and can be used 
 to augment the strategy which generally suits your style of gameplay.
  
  Along with the Home City concept comes a brilliant, but as of yet under-rated, improvement in the 
 fact that AoE III has COMPLETELY ELIMINATED the need of economic drop off buildings, i. e., your 
 settlers don't need to return the resources to a drop off building in order to register the resources!!! 
 This concept may sound heretic as far as conventional RTS's go, but is an extremely vital and intelligent 
 gameplay improvement which lets you concentrate more on the battlefront than on your food or lumber 
 production.
  
  And the game doesn't forget the Native Americans!! Although there are no playable Native civilizations, 
 you can still benefit from them!! There are usually two or more Native settlements per map. You 
 can forge alliances with these natives by building a trading post over their settlement. This allows 
 you to train troops and research technologies that are unique to each that particular Native. The 
 variety of native americans that the game offers is also amazing. From the Aztecs to the Incas 
 and from the Mayas to the Comanche, all provide unique troops and upgrades. The trading post I 
 mentioned above can also be built on specific locations on trade routes. These posts will then 
 automatically generate resources or experience. Controlling the natives and the trade routes is 
 a crucial part of gameplay and can offer you a militaristic or economic edge over your opponent.
 
  
  But Ensemble Studios has stuck to some of its winning formulae. You still need to advance through 
 ages (5 in total: Discovery, Colonial, Fortress, Industrial and Imperial) in order to make upgrades 
 to your military and economy. While advancing from one age to another, you get to choose from two 
 'politicians'. A politician provides a unique bonus to your colony in the form of a couple of troops 
 or crates of food etc. A strategic use of politicians can, needless to say, offer you some unique 
 advantage over your opponent. The resources that you have to manage this time around are Food, 
 Wood, Coin and Experience. As I've already mentioned, experience can be earned by performing several 
 gameplay actions and is a resource since it can unlock shipments and HC cards.
  
  Gunpowder units with bayonets, Cavalry and Cannons are the backbone of the AoE III unit system 
 in the tried and tested rock-paper-scissor system. There are, however, a few exceptions to this 
 rule. Along with these units AoE III has the Missionaries, like Ronin Samurai, Mamelukes and Finnish 
 Hackapells, which are powerful units generally available only through shipments. Another unique 
 addition to the game is the Explorer unit, which is basically a hero unit used for exploring. An 
 explorer is the only unit which can reclaim 'Treasures' which are basically economic/ military/ 
 experience bonuses spread throughout the map. In order to reclaim the treasure, ALL the 'Treasure 
 Gaurdians' like bears, wovles etc. must be killed. An explorer doesn't die in battle, it only 'falls 
 in agony' until the immediate terrian becomes suitable for him (free from enemies) to rise again. 
 The explorer can also build Outposts, Tradings posts (for alliance and trading) and Town Centers.
 
  
  The single player campaign is very well done and is based on the journey of the Black Family throughout 
 the ages and across the New World. Although the storyline is good, the fictional element in an 
 otherwise historic game makes the campaign good but not all that exciting. The fictional concept 
 fitted very well with the mYTHological *pun intended ;) * of Age of Mythology, but in AoE III it 
 seems a wee bit out of the context. Their historical campaigns in AoE II were brilliantly made 
 and crafted and in my opinion, they should have stuck to that concept. All said and done though, 
 the campaign's flow and storyline is pretty immersive.
  
  The Multiplayer network in the form of ESO 2 is a truly amazing achievement in my opinion. It has 
 tabs for creating clans, browsing games and setting up matches. Its ladder system is fantastic 
 and the several ladder categorizations make it even more brilliant. The game plays surprisingly 
 smoothly even for high pings but a few lag problems do exist which can sometimes truly spoil the 
 mood of the gameplay. This is especially true during the heavy naval battles and when the game 
 gets heavy on artillery.
  
  Units flying through the air when hit by a cannon, ripples and splashes in the water, buildings 
 crumbling to the ground after being destroyed, chucks of structures flying off of buildings when 
 they're hit by a cannon, flying birds casting shadows across the landscapes and Trains (yes TRAINS!!) 
 moving across the railroad trade routes. In a word, the graphics are MINDBLOWING. Period. And even 
 on a dated system (like mine) , they appear fantastic........... even better than the best graphics 
 of some of the other RTS's in AoE III's 'competition' (*cough* Empires Earth 2 *cough cough*) !!!
 
  
  The balance setting of the various civilizations are very well done. The French are more than modest 
 all rounders while the Ottomans rely on rushing. The Russians can mass produce while the Spanish 
 gain Experience quickly. The Dutch have bank bonuses, the Germans get extra cavalry units with 
 their ships and the Portuguese have a Town Center bonus. The sound is perfect for the settings 
 and becomes intense during major battles. The game also comes with a top of the line Scenario Editor.
 
  
  A few annoying flaws and omissions here and there (like only on account per CD key, different Deathmatch 
 and Supremacy HC's etc, the 'Lost Home City' bug etc.) won't even catch your eye when you find 
 yourself immersed in single player knockouts against the brilliant AI or multiplayer battles against 
 living, breathing opponents!!!
  
  This is truly one of the finest RTS's ever made!! Not ES at its best, but since ES is the very 
 best, it doesn't even matter!!! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KilluAll83
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 26, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  well it's back and it good lol yeah it' better then 1 and 2 but it just didn't draw me in like 
 the other games in theat genre have. It still and awsome game when it comes to gameplay, the graphics 
 are a huge leap from 2-d,3-d which is good and with that comes the 3-d camera. The system specs 
 are fairly low so most people out there can enjoy this game but it doesn't look the greatest with 
 a minium specs, and it looking bast run with SLI. It's a pretty solid game both on and offline, 
 online posses a problem though when u update to version 1.04. When this update is applyed it no 
 longer allows player to acess the ESO severs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tala_fox
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 26, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  This game is a unique change, (You need a very fast and powerful computer) It's sort of a cheat 
 game becasue it's very easy to play.
  A good game and a must for age of empires fans.
  Don't bother with playing online, the single player missions are much batter. I missed of the S 
 on empires because there is not enough space.
  
  AA GGGG EEEEEE
  aa aa GG E 
  aa aa aa GG GGG EEEEEE
  aa aa GGGGG E
  EEEEEE
  FFFFFFFFF
  OOO F 
  O O FFFF
  O O F
 
  OOO F
  II 
  EEEEEE M M PPPPPPPP RRRRRRR EEEEEE
  E M M M M P P II R R E 
  EEEEEE M MM M PPPPPPPP || RRRRRRR EEEEEE
  E M M P II R R E
  EEEEEE M M P II R R EEEEEE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  The Age of Empires series is simply put as a great one, and the third game of the group is no exception. 
 The Age of Empire games are some of the best strategy based fighting games there are, and you can' 
 t go wrong buying any of them. The newest addition to the Age of Empires collection is based on 
 the exploration of the New World. Improved from the old games are the graphics, and some of the 
 options you have when it comes to making your civaliztion "yours". The addition of a Home City 
 is a great one, it allows you to cutomize the upgrades your city can get. However the older game 
 (Age of Empires II) is also a magnificant game. It takes place in the Dark Ages and your fighters 
 use swords, not guns. Whichever game you decide to buy will be a great choice, but all the better 
 if you choose both. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfurax
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  I would have to give this game an 8.9 overall due mainly to the buggy software/hardware issues 
 I am getting with my SLI system. I would also add that the 2nd campaign increases in the PC based 
 opposition as the levels become harder to beat, to the point of it being a free for all fire fight 
 with little time to "build and siege". Aside from the small graphical errors on my SLI system, 
 this is an excellent 3rd edition to the Age Of Empires series. The transition from one "age" to 
 the next in the timeline of the AOE3 world is a little distant (you will play as the grandparents, 
 then the grandson, then the son in the three main chapters. The network play is flawless and I 
 have to date experience no network lag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustafa117
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 24, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  this game is sooo sick. i love how the graphics are, and the best part is when u get to play it. 
 this game is realy good. I like it alot because the game has real life type of play and looks aswome 
 to play. i seriosly love this game. it looks alot better than the other AOE (age of empires) that 
 they made. This game has probably the most best graphics i ever seen in AOE. I "LOVE" THIS GAME! 
 all of u people that love this game... u rock. I dont kno who would say no to this game i mean its 
 soooo good. u just have to play the game to kno how it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicare
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 24, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is the next installment in the long running RTS from Ensemble studios. The previous 
 game, Age of Empires 2 - Age of Kings was an exceptionally well done and enjoyable RTS. It dealt 
 with the medieval ages and had you play as several of the great civilizations of that time. Age 
 of empires 3 continues further down the time line. The setting has now shifted to the late 1700's 
 and is centered in the "new world." 
  
  In the game you can play as one of eight european civilizations vying for dominance in the new 
 world. The civs are the portuguese, ottoman, spanish, dutch, french, english, russian, and germans. 
 In typical AOE style, each civ has their own unique benefits and units. 
  
  AOE 3 remains true to the fundamentals of the series. If you have played any of the previous games, 
 the same basic gameplay holds. Gather resources, advance through the ages, build up an army, and 
 trounce your opponent. This time around, there are only three resources to contend with- food, 
 wood, and gold (coin) . The developers have added a few new features to cut down on micromanagement 
 which are much appreciated. No longer do you have to worry about drop off points or having your 
 settlers walk all the way back to your town center to drop off resources. Now they simply go to 
 the area and work. However, you will still find yourself tracking down idle settlers and retasking 
 them from time to time - which does get annoying.
  
  Gather enough resources and you can advance through the ages. Starting in Age 2, combat units become 
 available. As you progress through the ages, certain new buildings and upgrades become available. 
 You will be able to build more powerful land and naval units and develop upgrades to your economy. 
 Unfortunately, the sense and payoff of advancing doesn't seem as large as it has in AOE 2. 
  
  There are a few new additions to the gameplay. You start off each game with an explorer, a 
 hero type unit that is very good at revealing portions of the map. This character also has a few 
 special abilities including a powerful attack that can be used to instantly KO a military unit 
 or treasure guardian. There are several treasures located on each map. You must first defeat the 
 guardians that watch over these areas and then have your explorer claim the rewards - these range 
 from food, wood, and coin supplies to certain units or upgrades. Explorers are also critical in 
 interacting with the various native settlements located on the map. These tribes normally keep 
 to themselves, but your explorer can construct a trading post at their settlement and then recruit 
 native warriors to assist your cause. There are also trade routes that appear on certain maps. 
 Having your explorer construct trading posts along these routes will yield your civ resources or 
 experience.
  
  The final addition is a big one. AOE 3 brings in the concept of the home city. Each civ has a home 
 city back in the old world which can ship units, resources, upgrades and other various economic 
 bonuses to your fledgling colony. What you can send depends on what "cards" your civ has available. 
 As you start the game, your home city starts at level one. As you gain experience by completing 
 games and various challenges, your home city will increase in level. Each new level earns you a 
 new card which you can select - each one has different features such as units, upgrades, etc. During 
 the course of your game, you can play these cards to help your new colony. This adds a new level 
 of strategy as many of these cards can shift the tide of battle.
  
  Graphically, the series has had a huge facelift. It brings into play a new 3d engine which looks 
 very impressive. You have the ability to zoom in, which limits your field of view but lets you 
 really get a good look at the detail of the soldiers and other units. Performance wise though, 
 this game did have a few issues. Despite having a relatively high end PC, my framerate still dropped 
 to low levels during large battle sequences. This really made these battles somewhat annoying as 
 the screen would freeze up and chug thus taking away from the scale and grandiosity of the battle.
 
  
  The battles themselves were otherwise impressive - especially with cannon. In prior versions of 
 AOE, they lacked true anti-personnel weapons. Most of the siege weapons were designed simply for 
 taking out buildings and were uselss against troops. This changes with the addition of field cannon 
 and falconets. These units are designed to take infantry and other military units out fast - and 
 they are quite impressive in doing so. It's tons of fun to watch several of your enemies units 
 go flying as your cannon unload a salvo into the midst of their ranks.
  
  The series does have a single player campaign that takes you through three separate generations 
 of a family. There is a common plot that runs through each age, but it is nothing that captivating. 
 This was one of my biggest disappointments with the game. AOE 2 had several separate single player 
 campaigns that let you play as a different civ for each one. They all were founded in history and 
 were a lot of fun to play. There did not seem to be much variety in the campaign in AOE 3. Despite 
 playing through 3 successive generations, the units had pretty much the same feel to them and the 
 theatre/stage did not change much. I would greatly have preferred to play as several different 
 european civs and relive the battles and adventures that they had in founding their initial colonies 
 and expanding.
  
  In summary, this game was certainly enjoyable. It held true to its RTS roots and was a very solid 
 addition, but it didn't bring too many new innovations to this old genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gupta_dune
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  
  This game is mind blowing man. You just can believe it. It's get's better and better with every 
 sequel. This time we take on the new world which was up for grabs in the medieval past. Can the native 
 tribes be able to revolt against the hegemony of the britain or the gold-loving spanish.
  
  Pros: 1. Graphics are mind blowing. 
  
  2. Perfect missions/scenarios (better than those in 
 the previous versions) 
  
  This game through it's detailed environment and gameplay immerses you so that you become addicted 
 to it. I had no problems in deciding whether to spend money or not in this game in the initial few 
 moments of playing this game. As a ardent fan of AOE series I find this game satisfying and a must 
 buy. 
  
  Cons: This game is really taxing on the system requirements. A 3Ghz,512mb ram, 64 mb Intel extreme2 
 vid. memory seemed to be unsufficient to run the game in all it's glory. It's even worse in lower 
 end systems. So other than your own system you might also have some problems in finding ample community 
 for multiplayer gaming on network. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalaxangr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  I am fan of the age series. I like this type of strategy games and generally all the packet which 
 is included in the gameplay.
  However what i like the most here in ao3 is the campaign which is unfolded in asocciation with 
 the plot.
  It was like i was watching a movie.
  Secondly i like the whloe gameplay the cards, the units the tribes.
  on the other hand like every 
 age there is a problem when you try a skirmish. The al is so stupid like aoe2.
  So after having finished the campaign (it took me 5 days) in hard difficulty i had nothing to do 
 next...
  Just wait for the expansion or for a human opponent.
  Thank you for your patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zurielovsko
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Hi, after two or three months of playing the game, I've been very satisfied by it, the graphics 
 are a LOT better than they were on the past two games.
  
  Also the feature of creating your own city and supporting your troops from it is really an inovative 
 thing that i've not seen in any other games of i'ts kind that I've played.
  
  So, if you are a collector, or If you are a really good fan of the Age of Empires III this game 
 is just right for you.
  
  The only bad thing is that you all don't enjoy it!!!
  
  Excuse me for my English, I'm not good at it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: make_x
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  as we all know that the previos AOE games were quite fun to play .. hehe
  but the way the world changes is incredible ,, which i mean the first AOE game was released and 
 i was likeholy sh*tand the game was coool in a way that you can do what you want , when ever 
 you want ,, of corce in the supply of the resorces that is !?! but you could concor the world with 
 that game .. and in afew year's there was the another one just a little better than the first on 
 .. and so on... till now that they released a perfect game in my opinion .. and i recomend every 
 one who likes the stratigy games .. then they really should buy it .. as the new AOE3 is the best 
 game in all of them ,, cuz i think it has gone to a new level of gameing .. like chosein which concurer 
 you want and after that you can upgrade your own home town .. yes you have a home town to build 
 .. as you play and it helps you in the game like shippin supplies to you when you are short on 
 resourses and human workers so that you can be a better player .. the graphic's is awsom and the 
 way that evey thing looks in the game is the best I'V seen in the whole series and i hope you like 
 it to .. i am not going to say more till you buy the game and see for your self !?!?!?!?
  have fun kill'in people and concunig the world ...
  P. S dot say no to the game until you buy 
 it .. really 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MakinBacon
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 23, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is the third installment in Ensembles Studio's classic stratagey game. Age of 
 Empires II is perhaps one of the hardest act's to follow, seeing that nothing up to then was able 
 to capture the size nor depth of a game Made. the Bad news, age of empires III doesnt deliver the 
 complexity that AOE II delivered. the good news, Age of Empires III is still a fun game with some 
 new features to keep you attached. 
  
  Age of Empires is a historical strategy game created by Ensemble studios. this time instead of 
 going through the middle ages its time to up the ante to the new world. You get to choose between 
 8 diffrent civilaizations in their search and trying to establish power in the new world. There 
 is a campaign in this game that spans 3 acts. You follow the bloodline of the Black Clan. The single 
 player is acually quite fun and very well compiled and pretty historically acurate. while most 
 of the things were retained from AoE II some things were removed. alot of units were removed so 
 theres not as much choice for armies but i guess that is expected seeing as the time period doesnt 
 have much of a differnece in soldiers and people of a community. probably the biggest new feature 
 to the game i the use of a brand new Home City. The home city is your capital from the country 
 you represent. From time to time in the battles you are involved in you can recieve shipments from 
 the home city. this shipments can be anything from Resources to troops or even forts. this adds 
 a little bit more depth to the gameplay and allows you to build things a bit easier. You can upgrade 
 your homecity by gaining experience and getting new cards so your city can send new things. another 
 change from AoE II is the face that your villages do not need to return to the town center or storage 
 pit to stockpile resorces they stay at the source until it runs out. sort of like a mix between 
 Rise of Nations and Age of Empires. Another thing that has been removed is a way of establishing 
 formations of your troops.
  
  The music to the game is well done, all fully orchestrated and sounds perfect for the time period 
 it is. while the music is well done, too bad the same cannot be said about the sound effects. the 
 sounds of the game are good but not as good as they could be. Your vilalges still speek in that 
 giberish language. Too bad they couldnt record it so they speek in the language of the nation that 
 they represent.
  
  the online service for AoE III uses ESO to set up games . the online match making service is done 
 pretty well. its really well organized and looks great too boot. the interface makes things easy 
 to get around and is a nice change to GameSpy hosted games. 
  
  Overall Age of Empires III can be recommended to anyone really. people looking for a totally revolution 
 in terms of strategy based games wont find it here. but new features make this game still fresh. 
 While it is a slight step backwards in some ways from AOE II it still is a fun and rewarding game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedikenobi1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 22, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Although game spot editors gave this game an average score, I think that this game will keep you 
 engrossed throughout the story. Sure, the game may have a few weird things, like the combat system, 
 and the slow moving armies, but who cares. This game will really put your brain to work, when it 
 comes to obliterating the enemies' towns! Overall, I think that enemble did a great job in making 
 an Age of Empires game. This game will really be worth spending 50 bucks for, I definetly think 
 anyone who likes mind boggling and stragtegy and action games should get AoE3!!!!!!!!!!! :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dren_gs
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 26, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  -Maybe this game isn't what we ever wanted and what we really expected but we all know that the 
 '8.2 Gamespot's review' is just not the right score for this game. This game really offers great 
 moments of playing. I mean playing that Campaign with the Black family through centurys is awsome. Great 
 campaign, great graphics and truly nice sounds.
  
  -Gameplay, hmm, gameplay must have a low score because after you finish the campaign you can't 
 really play it anymore maybe because the Skirmish mode isn't good enough but those missions of 
 the 3 Campaign Parts are really, really great.
  
  -Graphics, well there's not much to say except that they're great and great work from Ensemble 
 Studios, all that Nature, i haven't seen anything better. Only if it would've been 3D and yeah 
 some things should've been made better. But really the Nature design left me without words...
 
  
  -Sounds, well when you hear soldiers firing the guns you can see that the sounds are made great, 
 or if you put away the camera from the battle you still can hear the battle like if you were some 
 kilometers away and that's really cool and inspiring. -The story, i don't know what to say, I mentioned 
 something about the story earlier "the Black family", it really has a great story, the missions 
 and everything, it's terrific. The one thing that I didn't really like was the Skirmish mode, it 
 isn't that I didn't like it but I expected more, in a better way to say it: It wasn't what I really 
 'wanted'. I'd give this game a 8.7 score, and it's what it deserves....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is the best Age of Empires ever made. The story takes from the first landing in 
 the New World to fighting for land in it. It is great and adds a little bit of wonder and fantasy 
 in it. The game play is very fun and will take you through three acts. The first you are The Knights 
 of Saint John. In the second you are starting to fend off different nations and the struggle for 
 territory starts. In the third act there are massive musket and cannon battles and the fight for 
 territory increases. The graphics are superb and, with the new graphics engine the battles are 
 better then ever. Like when a cannon fires you se it hit people and the get blown back and you 
 see the ball, that has lost its entire momentum roll on the ground. The great part about the graphics, 
 and my favorite, is the water, and when you fire a cannon and there is a tree in the way the tree 
 falls down it is really impressive when there are giant fights going on. The last great thing about 
 the graphics is the fights at sea. You see the smoke from where the cannon fired from and you see 
 it hit the ship, it leaves hole and knocks down mats and other things like that. The sound is great, 
 especially in battle and adds a lot to the game. The value is very high because of the campaign 
 mode which includes the three acts that you can do on easy, medium ,or hard. You will have tons 
 of fun with this game and I highly recommend it to any one who has the prior Age of Empires games 
 or any strategy games for the computer. It is truly a great game and is truly worth it.
  
  Cover Artwork ~A+~ One of the greatest covers ever that fits right in with the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chogoshen
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game ever. 1st the graphics are some of the best for any RTS out their.2nd the 
 gamplay is very fun and every time you play it is different.3rd relating to the past age of empires 
 each empire has its own charicteristics like the spanish are very into war so you get units very 
 fast or if ur the germans they focus mostly on economy and calvary which are the best things you 
 can use in a RTS so to wrap it up this is the best game ever, Graphics, Gameplay , Sound and even 
 how long you play it they are all to the highest quality 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Eight different European civilizations are at the forefront of Age of Empires III, though mercenaries 
 from other foreign nations sort of make cameo appearances, and various Native American tribes are 
 also included. The usual suspects are here, like the British, the French, the Spanish, and the 
 Dutch. The Russians, the Portuguese, the Germans, and the Ottomans are also available, and each 
 has certain key differences in its economy and military leanings. These differences are significant 
 in practice, such as how the British automatically gain additional workers when they build new 
 houses, or how the Russians may quickly train up large numbers of light infantry. But the eight 
 cultures' personalities don't necessarily come across in combat, because most of the units and 
 structures unique to each side aren't so unique as to be highly distinguishable, and many units 
 and structures are shared in common across most sides. There are certainly exceptions -- the Ottomans, 
 with their heavy emphasis on gunpowder, bring to bear some of the biggest and baddest guns in the 
 game, for instance. And, oddly enough, British longbows seem just as surprisingly deadly here as 
 they did in Age II. It's probably just a necessary consequence of the setting, but don't expect 
 for Age III's factions to blow your mind by how different or unusual they are. Fortunately, each 
 one is complex enough and seems viable enough to where it's easy to find an early favorite and 
 want to stick with it. 
  Age of Empires III is every bit the fully featured game you'd expect it to be, featuring a lengthy 
 single-player campaign in three interconnected acts, each one a generation apart. There's a fully 
 customizable skirmish mode with five difficulty settings for the computer opponent; there's the 
 ability to play over a network; and, of course, there's the ESOnline player-matching service, where 
 you can compete in ranked matches over the Internet, chat with other players, and more. There's 
 also a scenario editor, in case you wish to create your own maps or campaigns, plus some encyclopedic 
 information about all the game's units, structures, cultures, circumstances, and more. A tutorial 
 is there to teach you the basics, and you can also play a practice match in which a fairly helpful 
 narrator will gently remind you of the stuff you're basically forgetting to do.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acronix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is probably one of the best strategic games that are on the market (besides 
 Total War series) . When I say strategic game, im not talking about those "horde" ones, were the 
 big horde of troops wins the match, and were battles take 10-30 minutes. Im talking of games like 
 this one. Lets say something about it:
  
  AoE III single player campaign is nothing stunning, and definitively not historical. Perphaps a 
 bit of fun, but its not thinked to get the players making pages and peges of review about it. 
 Skirmish and multi-player is what this game was made for. In skirmish, we will fight against computer, 
 with computer controlled allies or alone, but what makes it interesting is the metropolis. Its 
 our reinforcements base and in more than one battle, it will make the difference between victory 
 and defeat. Same is for MP. The difference, is that our enemies will be humans, and the battles 
 can give us hours, and I mean HOURS, of playing, including in 2v2 and therefore. Its a real addictive 
 game and, what is more importat, REPLAYEABLE. If you really like strategy or if you are a natural 
 strategic-player, you wont get bored. If you get bored, then go back to horde-games. Only excuse 
 is if you have played Medieval: total war or such games (definitively NOT warcraft or starcraft) . 
 
  
  In graphics, AoE III has a lot of good. First, most textures and models are well done, specially 
 ships. Effects (explosions, smoke, water, etc) are great, more with reflecting. Only drawback are 
 some textures that dont look good, but you wont notice. About ships, that is something i love 
 of this game: ships are big, not like the others AoE, where ships were 4 pikemans long. Now, it 
 makes a lot more of sense to have an army in a ship. Except for carvels, that are a bit small, 
 frigates and galleons are amazing. You have to see them to believe it. 
  In general, graphics are done with caring and for thinking persons, not like the "kid" models we 
 see in warcraft III, but not so detailed how in Armies of Exigo.
  
  Sound... well, theres nothing special in it. Its like the others in the series. Listening something 
 else than "Lumberjack" in every nation language would be nice.
  
  The value is there, where it has to be. Nothing more, nothing less. If you cant buy it, then save 
 some money for it. It definitivelly worths it and won`tregret.)
  
  How I said, AoE III is a great and real strategic game, and you cant win with a horde of knights 
 followed with four cannons and some priests. Use your astucy and intelligency, not your speed to 
 make troops (well, that too, but you wont win with a lot of pikemans only) . Of course, it is a 
 instant classic: you must play, and you cannot dont play it. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guntherpea
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 19, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  It seems that Microsoft didn't do quite enough research for this one. One of the things I feel 
 is an important aspect of an RTS game is when you play God, you are omniscient. Age of Empires 
 I and II had a great view of the playing field and you had a good sense of where things were and 
 you could see a great deal of those things without scrolling the screen. Age of Empires III lacks 
 this. It utilizes an up close and personal approach that I think takes away from an RTS game. Instead, 
 it becomes like playing a 'too far away' 3rd person action/adventure game. 
  
  I would say that is the only main thing wrong with the game, though it is a big enough deal that 
 I can't wait to play something else. As far as everything else goes, it plays well, it looks good, 
 and it sounds decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 11, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  This game was awsome. It was great fighting foes and building a civilization. I like all civilizations 
 on here and they all are fun to use as of who u would like to be like.
  
  I loved the campaign and how u battle these men who think of some legend being true. The storyline 
 is good and everything is worth playing.
  
  The skirmish modes are fun and really let u do as u please with any civilization. If u hate this 
 game, you have big issues.
  
  The only thing i don't like is the Scenario editor. There is no music and fun to the levels you 
 make. This made me mad for sure.
  
  Overall, Age of empires 3 is the best game of the series. Age of empire 2 was fun, but this is 
 more realistic and better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swimt0win
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  With over 8 different civilizations to choose from, Age of Empires threw away almost all competion 
 for by strategy game's like itself. It has outstanding graphics. At least 500x better then the 
 original Age of Kings. The story mode can be faulty at times, following who's son is who, what 
 time period are we in, and how is this happening? But don't get me wrong, I had fun every mission 
 of the story line, always with a different objective to do. From capturing cannons, destroying 
 fountains, you will have a great time. For beginners in the strategy games, it has a great introduction 
 tutorial, where you are able to fight and build. It really teaches you how to play the game. The 
 multiplayer is absolutely perfect. I met some really cool people. You can join a clan and play 
 with your own clan, or play random people. Everyone has the option to start their own clan too. 
 Multiplayer offers a wide variety of maps, and things to make each game different (If you want 
 it different) The option of cusomizing and building shipment decks are great, and having a home 
 city that gains levels is a new touch too, that I also happen to love. You can battle it off head 
 on, or up to 4 vs 4. You can also have a free for all if you'd like. Chat rooms are great too, 
 you can start your own, or join custom ones for experts or beginners. If you love strategy games 
 as much as I do, this is one you seriously don't want to miss out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires III offers gamers the next level of realism, with advanced battle physics and unparalleled 
 visual detail. The new game picks up where Age of Empires II: Age of Kings left off, placing gamers 
 in the position of a European power determined to explore, colonize and conquer the New World. 
 This time period features stunning scenes, from towering European cathedrals to courageous tribes 
 of Native Americans, and spectacular combat with Industrial Age units like rifled infantry, cavalry 
 and tall ships bristling with cannons. In addition to technology upgrades, Age of Empires III also 
 features a slew of new game-play elements, including the concept of a "Home City," new civilizations, 
 units, technologies and an immersive new single-player campaign that spans three generations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightmareseh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is just a replacer for the age of empires 2 series.
  There has bin changes but not all to much. For example.. You can score points by killing, the trade 
 post, or by relects. And with those points you can get something from your hometown. shipped to 
 the battle front.
  That's really the big new thing. Nothing else really is new expect the man and buildings then.
 
  If your'e a real fan of the age of empires series you should have this game.
  In the age of empires 3 series you see this is just an successor of the others.
  There is one 
 thing i'm really satisfied about and that is the gameplay. The game really plays good and you'll 
 have no others problems with.
  The only thing you shouldn't buy this game is there isn't enough changed then age of empires 2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fennecus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  For those interested in buying I have 4 comments to make.
  
  1. It is a fun game. Those reviews where they receive a 1 / 10 are just people who are loyal to 
 another game and feel obligated to give a poor review. 
  
  2. IF you are not familiar with this style of strategy game, it is not made for the great graphics. 
 For this style of game I say they are good.
  
  3. Not playing this style of game since original Warcraft (many moons ago) I enjoy the fact that 
 your men line up properly. ie. knights in the front, archers in the middle and cannons in the rear. 
 I spent many hours in older games making sure the men were lined up properly. (short version good 
 AI)
  
  4. There are many other things to make game better. Select items to be delivered from your home 
 city to help during a game. Hot keys (which I still need to learn better) . Also I map editor which 
 seams complicated but great when you finish.
  
  This was my first review so be gentle if you comment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuNeS13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  i'd say this one of the best game of 2005 it has the best graphics it has a very cool game play, 
 good units, good civilizations... its a pretty good game
  really you must see it to understand the people that gave this game a 10... 
  in a few words 
 i say Age Of empires III is one most-have-game and everyone can learn to play it from children 
 to adults... 
  i'm in a clan that plays age of empires II in Zone. com we recently went to ESO to play Age Of Empires 
 III and my friends have told me about the game that is the best game they've ever play in their 
 life... and i could not agree more whit them... Age Of Empires III Is The Game Of Game in PC!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: narcolepticshee
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 15, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything a strategy fan would love. Great graphics, great gameplay, easy controls 
 and a totally immersive storyline. The controls are so simple it took me about 10 minutes before 
 i was really used to this game, which is excellent for newcomers to the series or long playing 
 veterans. The only problem with this game is that it can get boring quite quickly, because it is 
 essentially just clicking certain units and then clicking somewhere else on the map, but this is 
 more of a genre specific problem than this specific game. The best new feature would be the home 
 city function. This allows you to keep a home city that you can send units and supplies to your 
 current position to help you out.
  
  Better than: Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War
  Worse than: Command and Conquer Generals 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartvuggh
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Once again, Ensemble manges to hit another home run with the third installment of the Ages of Empires 
 series. This time you play as the Major 
  European powers during the colonization era (British, French, etc.) this means that all the battles 
 are on North or South America. Ensemble uses this to create a twist; the home city. The home city 
 sends you shipments that you choose for it to send. example; your army is defeated by an overwhelming 
 force which is now regrouping and headin straight for your city! But if you have a shipment you 
 can call in for reinforcements to defend with OR call in resources to build a defense force with. 
 Plus, you can ally yourself with different Native American nations, allowing you to build a certain 
 number of their unit. Ages of Empires 3 is great, it doesn't require you to be a vetrain of the 
 first 2 games, and is must have for any RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: co30cl
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  So the graphics are 3D, ooooh! How important is that in a RTS? The things that do matter are worse 
 then AoE2. The gameplay is pretty much the same, but mechanics are worse. The visible area is smaller, 
 gotta do lot more scrolling around. There's no "return to work" button so if you round up your 
 villies in the TC you have to manually re-assign them all individually, a royal pain. The manual 
 is nearly useless too, it gives no details needed such as unit stats . The biggest problem is with 
 online multiplayer play, which is the main reason for buying this game. Lots of other irritating 
 issues too. The game interface is near worthless, the Zone was 1000x better. And their servers 
 have major problems, lots of delay and sync issues. At most prime times its narly impossible to 
 even start a game. For now, I'd say to avoid this one and save your $50 unless they manage to get 
 things fixed so you can actually play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maegnas
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I believe they did a very good job blending all the known aspects of Age of Empires II and portraying 
 that in their sequel. I believe the game will be very appealing to all RTS lovers out there. For 
 those of you that enjoyed the prequel, you are sure to love this one. Very good game, adjusts very 
 well to your difficulty levels, and is easy to pick up once you get into the game. Takes place 
 when the new world is being discovered, which in my mind i was curious how well they could portray 
 that era, but they beautifully blended all the aspects of Age of Empires we have grown to love 
 into that age of time for a great all around RTS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mchudo
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 12, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I would just say, that this is the update or add-on to Age of Empires II or even Age of Mythology.... 
 Graphics are almost the same, like some years ago. Gameplay is also the same, even if few features 
 were added, THIS IS NOT WHAT I EXPECTED. Better replay Age of empires II- Age of Kings or Settlers 
 - Heritage of Kings - last one is more graphically developed. 
  This kind of game doesn't look like 2005'one. I am totally disapppointed.
  7 for gameplay, coz 
 I like Age of Empires series
  2 for graphics - pooor for 2005....
  6 for sound - nice background sound.
  3 for tilt - done several missions, but don't want to play 
 anymore. Just boring. 
  Overall value of the game is poor, taking into account the price of new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surenintendo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 11, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  Alas, as many players such as I have awaited for this new installment to the AGE series, its finally 
 out, showing how ensemble studios' products mean quality (except for a few glitches now and then 
 on ESO server, but it'll be fixed soon) . I do not see why people would criticize this game though, 
 because STARCRAFT although a very good game is nothing to compare with this!
  
  Gameplay: im giving a 9/10 in game play because, it still has that old AGE feeling here and there. 
 I love the idea of the home city shipments and stuff, which u can use cards to build all sorts 
 of strategies for differ civs, or death matches strats. In other words, it adds a lot more dept 
 into play!
  Of course the only reason that i didn't give gameplay a 10 was because of the formation. I know 
 its not a big deal, but it gives you more of a sense that u ARE IN that era (1700's or something) . 
 I think the reason they exclude it is because it was too INEFFECTIVE against GORRILLA warFARE battles. 
 WELL you could still do it, only if you micro manage or something.
  The campaign was also great too, even though i just got the fountain of youth, i find it to be 
 very addicting as the plot is so suspensed. I'd prefer realsim like AOE II, but this is fine too 
 because it also involves you into battles that was recorded in history too.
  I really like the idea of having a trade route especially, because you can't run out of resources 
 in a 1 vs 1 game, unlike AOE 2, WHERE YOU NEED at least 2 PLAYERS TO TRADE!
  
  
  THE GRAPHICS ARE 10 FOR SURE
  
  i don't know why people said the graphics sux (probably their 
 computer really sux, or they are WAY TOO BIASed!)
  The environment are georgeous! the lush forest and berries and water makes it feel like you're 
 IN the game. The windmill shadow and trembling leaves of movingtrees (from the wind) and little 
 details like squirls make it seem like it could be a FPS! though not the ULTIMATE if compare with 
 other games like DOOM 3, it's close to there. Also its the first game that ENSEMBLE had like more 
 than 20 people in the art department, so no complain about the graphics (except for ONE unit that 
 lookes horrible) .
  Ultimately in this area, AOE PWNS all RTS games on the shelves.
  
  
  Sounds
  
  Well there is difference in sound in this game. Now whenever there is a battle of 
 some sort you could hear the gun shots and cannons explosion and there is all sorts of feature, 
 nothing major, so im giving this area an 10 ------not just for sound of fire but for music!. Originall 
 and orchestrated, it gave a lot of effort. This overall more that satified me.
  
  Lasting Value
  
  Well the map editor is going to fix up and custom maps will be allowed to 
 be played soon. Also new strategies are coming up WITH the help of the cards on ESO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Babolu
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This is without a doubt the best RTS game ever made!!! the graphics are larger than life. The sound 
 is awesome!! The reflections from the water are just amazing!! The graphics make you squint your 
 eyes they are so beautiful and bright. Even though the addition of more epochs could have made 
 this game a little better,, it is absolutely flawless!
  
  P. S. Better have a good computer to put the graphics on high!
  blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  
  Just buy this game!!
  
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rubber452003
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I played age of empire the demo on my computer i got it off a windows 98 cd rom. and that was the 
 first rts game i ever played and trust me i was impressed with the whole setup of the game. i could 
 control the whole thing by the click and point of a mouse. and then i played AOE 2 and man was 
 it great the graphics improved over the first one and the stage of evolution. like iron bronze. 
 and so on. i am blown away at part 3 and trust me guys just get this game i gurantee u that if 
 you giuve it a try you will live it instantly. just ask some on e who have played the game. and 
 you will see wat i am talking about. this game is a master piece and great to play. easy to understand 
 and u can take it further with on line play. and it will be visious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graeme2005
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jan 10, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  So here we are, Age of Empires 3, the sequel to the hugely popular Age of Empires and Age of Empires 
 2. After being a huge fan of both games you can guess what I was like when I heard about Age Of 
 Empires 3 when it came out! So I bided my time, and for christmas Santa delivered the game as I 
 had asked, now is where it all starts going wrong...
  
  Gameplay (2/10) : Do I really care about a Scottish Warrior in the Caribbean? Come on, this game 
 'claims' you to control the European powers of the 18th Chentury. Where is that? There is no campains 
 about Napoleon, the scramble for Africa etc. just made up campaigns about fountains of everlasting 
 light. Keep it believeable Ensemble Studios!
  
  Interactivity: Not half of what I expected, where the unit commands, formations? Different firing 
 methods, bayonets, grape shot etc. That was where Cossacks 2 has succeded, but remains Age of Empires 
 3's weakest point. I find it hard to believe that it takes 6-7 cannonballs to kill a musketeer, 
 just the one will do, he's not Superman!
  
  Graphics (5/10) : Ok here is where I must give credit, graphics are pretty decent, nothing revolutionary 
 though. There is some nice detail when you blow holes in buildings and the marks cannonballs make.
 
  
  Sound (6/10) : This is the 'Creme De La Menthe' of the game. Sounds are fantastic and very realistic. 
 Sounds from muskets, clinking of swords are all very well presented, but it's the game itself that 
 counts the most. Good graphics and top quality sounds are just... well.. nice extras.
  
  Tilt (2/10) : Not much tilt in the game, it's very linear. You can almost predict what the next 
 campaign is going to be about. And 99.9% of the time it is, sadly. I hate being proven wrong, but 
 I wish I could be with this game.
  
  So here is my review, I hope you have found it interesting and that you may think twice buying 
 it. For new people to the Age of Empires series, by all means get this game. However if you're 
 a regular fan of AOE and AOE 2. Save your hard earned money and don't buy this game...... No really 
 don't!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zim909
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing RTS games for years, cheatless, and when I got Age of Empires 3 for christmas, 
 I was thinking: "oh, another Rise of Nations or AOE 2 wannabe". Then I went back to my other games. 
 Two days later, I got bored and decided to load the game onto my computer. I played it all night. 
 and I've spent a lot of time playing it since then.
  
  Several new things have been incorporated into this game that weren't into the last, and unfortunately, 
 some of the good things that had been incorporated into the last game were removed.
  
  The good: Beautiful music, but it's not limited to that, there's great gameplay, and the campaign 
 mode includes a pretty cool storyline, which has some pretty cool gameplay as well as challenging 
 gameplay.
  
  The bad: They tried, they really did, but I miss the gameplay of Age of Empires two. What'd be 
 awesome is if microsoft had allowed you to advance from the ages and technology of Age of Empires 
 2, and into what they have in three, and then continue on to more ages. Also, there should be more 
 AI personalities to the skirmish mode.
  
  The Beautiful: Amazingly challenging, as well as an awesome system of home cities in which you 
 can call forward shipments to your colony. It really adds to the feeling of colonialism.
  
  In all, I'd say that AOE3 is in the region of low excellence. The whole colonialism system makes 
 me sure that the next game will have stuff up to maybe the world wars, based on the fact that it 
 came from the medieval age to the colonial age between AOE2 and AOE3.
  
  This game is one of several games that I would recommend you try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DioXin_5
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is pretty similar to Age II. The game lets you take control of a colony in the New 
 World. Youll have to gather three resourcesfood, wood, and coinas you build new structures and 
 units. The resource gathering has been simplified since building mills will continually produce 
 more food, and plantations will consistently produce more coin. Also, the workers dont have to 
 carry their gatherings anywhere thereby speeding up the process. The marketplace handles economic 
 concerns. Youll still build houses to hold the expanding population, walls to keep your area free, 
 and military structures to get infantry, artillery and cavalry. Youll spend a lot of your time 
 building a good base and stable economy, and a sizeable military. The games interface makes all 
 of this pretty easy to pull off. 
  
  Age of Empires III is an amazing looking the game. The different units are immaculately detailed 
 which is simply a wonder to see. They move around very realistically, only further providing some 
 oomph for the graphics. The different environments range in typeyoull visit areas like jungles 
 and tundrabut they dont range in attention to detail and overall quality. The many ships and 
 buildings break in parts with plenty of smoke and fire for good effect. The water effects are particularly 
 stunning, providing what is probably the best water in any game. The game runs decently on a number 
 of systems since the games autodetect system is pretty effective.
  
  The games sound is good too. The background music is pretty effective and takes into account the 
 different cultures that the game involves. The voice overs are pretty repetitive as is the standard 
 in the genre but sound satisfying nonetheless. A lot of it is spoken in the native language of 
 the people youre playing as or against which is a nice touch. The sound effects are particularly 
 effective and dramatic, providing a lot of vigor to the onscreen action.
  
  Age of Empires had to meet the lofty requirements that previous entries in the game and recent 
 RTS games have set. The game meets the bar set by previous games in the series though it doesnt 
 really revolutionize the genre. The additions, changes, and amazing visuals make the game one that 
 is easily recommendable though..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller17
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  See, now-a-days, game reviewers ususally take away points if a game doesn't have something or missing 
 something, but I am going to rate the game on what is there...
  
  Overall the game was great, grahpics were awesome, sound outstanding, gameplay a bit lacking, but 
 the multiplayer was okay and the new installment of homecities were good. The different civilization 
 and their unique units were good also, plus was the depth of the detail when using cannons against 
 buildings, amazing.
  
  But one falt in the game was its single player campaign. This is what was going through the maker's 
 head when they were creating the campaign, (if we add a longish looking campaign about nothing 
 that's historical we don't have to do the research to find stuff out about history, good, i never 
 liked history anyways. So how's that mystical campaign going? What you say, it has nothing to do 
 with history? That's the point, we don't care, we just think that something like this will sell 
 better and will catch the gamer's attention more but we know were are dead wrong.)
  
  There, other than that major flaw, there weren't any other things that brought the game down.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gazalem
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  It seems nowdays poeple are more playing aoe less for the tactical spectrum and more for just killing 
 and pilliging i've asked around and found out that most poeple look up the cheats before the game 
 is evan out just so they can be the best the quickest. These poeple like age of mythology better 
 i think it was good but not as good as aoe3 not evan aoe2 from what i've heard is that poeple like 
 it for the god powers instead of what the game was made for. Aoe gave more innovations to the series 
 than aom and it's getting drek about how it's not a huge leap like it was from ao1 to aoe2. Poeple 
 should realy look at the game more closely and appreciate it for what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAMPANERIA
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The story is cheesy and the acting in the cutscenes are corny other then that building 
 an empire and having huge army and going to destroy the other baddies this is were the game rules 
 awesome just pure sweet. land wars, water wars, both totally own the bad guys from all sides and 
 there do the same too you dam smart AI there go and make a path of destruction to you main building 
 taking it out leaving you with no hope alot of fun. bit hard at first but comon its straighy alot 
 too made me think alot hehe that hurted.
  
  Graphics: I can't stress enuff how dam good this looks, best RTS looking game I ever played big 
 leaps and bounds from water waves and reflections to burning down buildings dam the smoke looks 
 awesome. You can have hundres of soliders wait soliders on horses and its amazing you see so much 
 detail when they attack die and roll over so suprised.... perfect 10 why cuz last time I played 
 RTS they didn't looks half as good this is just wow didn't kno RTS could be so graphical so beautiful 
 hands down, two thumbs up way up for graphics.
  
  Sound: Musicaly I didn't find it specal, voice acting in cutscenes found corny the guys voice was 
 like ok, but its real thats how they talked back then hehe... but it rocks in gameplay all the mayhem 
 and carnage sounds are perfect.
  
  Value: 1 of the best RTS ever I played, there series has grown and all them were good and this 
 one tops it all too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasyx92
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Many of you have probally played Age of Empires 1 or 2, and your probally wondering is the third 
 instalment worth it. Well the new game has many new features, such as indian allies and home cities. 
 With indian allies all it means is you get an indian village build indian troops use them to fight, 
 plain and simple. Home cities are probally the most complicated part of the game, but even it isnt 
 too hard. Simply put a Home Cities is a City back in Europe or Asia
  (Depedning on your civilization) That will send you upgrades, troops, and supplies. But you get 
 to upgrade what stuff they send you by playing the game. Basically the more you play the more your 
 stuff you get. Besides the new features, is the game we all know and love age of empires. One of 
 coolest things done to the game is the graphics. AoE (Age of Empires) has always been know for their 
 breakthrough graphics, and that tradition is still going strong. Notice how in the old games a 
 building would simply be replaced with light on fire, then dissappear into rubble. No more, because 
 now a building actually breaks down. Like when you fire a cannon at a house a hole appears and 
 chunks of brick go flying across the ground, and when troops torch a house it burns down to the 
 scaffolding, talk about releisam. The gameplay it self is as good as ever. With simply commands 
 and buildings the game zooms through the dull start up porcess straight into the magificent battles.
 
  So you may Wonder is AoE III worth it? Well i say it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaseykahnefan01
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Now i have been a big fan of the Age of Empires series since the 1st game
  
  And looking at it over the years things just keep getting better for them
  
  With this latest 
 installment you can battle your way to victory using weapons not forseen in the last Age of empires... well 
 at least for the most part you couldnt
  
  this game features a more colonial look about it.... And the Graphics are way better to boot
  
 
  I really like The new Ships.... There so much cooler with the size of them... and the cannons... who 
 doesnt like cannons ^_^
  
  Also, The updated Maps and new features can also keep you busy as you try to figure out how to 
 crush your enimies in new ways
  
  Bad Things:
  You need a up-to-date Computer with the graphics cards and whatnot to fully enjoy the game... I 
 just recieved a brand new dell...... And i still get the error message about how my graphics card 
 doesnt meet the min Req.... I dont believe it... becuase it works fine for me
  
  Maybe a few Glitches need to be fixed as well... such as the Train kind running off the track and 
 
  
  Basically if you like the old Age of empires you will love this new one
  
  So i recommend you 
 go try it out
  
  i give it a 8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomisSandthief
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  Plays very similar to Age of Mythology and Age of Empires II. It does not offer a great deal of 
 differences. Several ungrades in terms of military unit production but AI still needs work. Some 
 times villagers will stop cutting wood even if they are standing right beside a forest of trees 
 mostly because their is lots of villagers working at the forest. Still a fun and engaging game 
 but lacks any real big improvements on the last two editions of the game (not including Galatic 
 Battle grounds) . Anyone who is a fan of the original series and engine will not be disappointed 
 but really this game feels like you have played it a hundred times before but gives very little 
 sense of improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sibren2800
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:28 am PT
Review:  its perfect and the graphics! uncerdible the sound! the peoples! its in one word great! no minus 
 thing expet one gameplay thing! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 .. . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . .. . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valenco
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  The very first game I played of Age of Empires 3, I lost, bad. This is partly due to the fact I 
 had no idea what the number by my flag was. In my very next game, I used those city shipment every 
 time and blew the enemies away. It really makes all the difference in the world. It also helped 
 that I play as Germany and get some troops with every shipment of resourses.
  
  Okay, other than that, this game simply builds upon its predecessors. Controls are pretty much 
 the same, going through the ages has been upgraded to getting a reward when doing so such as 4 
 cows or 2000 gold, but they took out tactics for your military. They always walk in a square now. 
 I was kind of disappointed when I tried to put two monks in the ranks and have the others form 
 a big square around them. Overall, this is a great game that can easily become a little addicting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kujoking7
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I lived this game because of the great graphics and the great gameplay. I own all three versions 
 of age of empires. This game beats civilization 4 anyday! If I had a choice of one game in the 
 world, this would be that game. The new home city addition is the greatest addition to the game 
 besides the new maps, civs, and campaigns. This game should be on everyone's wish list this year! 
 I think that this game is very addictive and you want to play it all day. I installed and learneed 
 to play this game the first time I got it and you should too! This is by far the best pc game of 
 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireInABox
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  If the age of empires series continues like this, I'll still buy the games! I spent the most time 
 playing age of empires 3 trying to figure out if it was possible to tilt the view, so that I could 
 look behind buildings for an example... But as all of you know, there is NO such feature. Even 
 if it looks like a full 3d world, it is just mapping. I now wish that maybe in a patch that the 
 kind of feature will be able, I hope they'll make that wish come true (the ones in Microsoft) . So 
 I hope I have just passed 100 words, and if I havent I'll just keep on blabbering, because I have 
 nothing more to say about this matter. Yes I DO want pepperoni on it........ and NO anchovies this 
 time, you KNOW I'll die if i eat them. Now hurry up! I haven't ate since last week!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fons1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  If u liked the other AoE games u really must buy this 1, and if u didnt like it than u must buy 
 it 2 :P. the graphics are GREAT. its more like reality how the world looks like. resource collections 
 also dont go as fast at the other AoE's but its still fun. in this AoE you are still in connection 
 with your home city, they can send u supplys if u want. the sound is also great and the counterys 
 than u can be really speak the language!!:)
  
  well i hope u liked my review.
  srry its a bit short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morbitallity
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is GREAT, al the things they've changed, but still staying with the normal gameplay 
 and stuff.
  The Graphics have had a huge fix, if you look at the last AOE II.
  I must say that you'll have to have a good computer for this game.
  Everything complete with 
 shadows and stuff, it makes a beautifull game.
  Makes it fun to play.
  The realism has been made better too. Your men don't start hacking in to buildings with their swords, 
 but start throwing bits of wood that are lit in fire.
  You see the buildings fall apart when destroying them, you can see people get blown away by a canonball, 
 you can even see canonballs flying true buildings with some great effects.
  Now you don't start building a city willy nilly, you now have a capitale where you can get things 
 from. When having enuff points you can start decorating you capitale.
  The city effect is also better, not that you build a house and it's not even connected to the other.
 
  Now it does and you can build city's real realistic.
  
  This all makes it great!!
  If you've liked AOE before you MUST buy it!!
  and if you're a RTS lover, BUY IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankcastle54
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  This RTS had so much promise, yet delivers so little. I have been a veteran player of RTS's since 
 Microsoft's Close Combat all the way through to Lord of the Rings Battle for Middle Earth (LOTR 
 BFME) . I'm not saying that I have played every RTS out there but I certainly have seen enough of 
 the good, the bad, and the ugly to make an informed opinion. 
  
  My first problem with this game is that right out of the box it is extremely buggy. I know that 
 patches are available, but this is just unprofessional. Shadow quality, map textures, slow responses 
 to mouse movements are just some of the problems I faced when I opened this game on Christmas morning. 
 I am running a P4 w/HT 3.20 GHz, 1GB Ram, and an Nvidia Ge Force Go5700. Now before you dismiss 
 my video card out of hand, let me tell you that Half Life 2, Doom 3, and more importantly (do to 
 relevancy) LOTR BFME run exceptionally well and graphically out of the box are beautiful. Now, 
 the water effects and musket smoke are fantastic and do warrant a pat on the back to the developers 
 but if you look at LOTR BFME they did everything perfectly. It's one thing to make a game like 
 Age III look super great on the high end, buy every new graphic card as soon as it comes out, machines 
 but there is no reason that this game should suffer in stability and graphic quality when there 
 are games barley a year old that look so much better, and run so much smoother with less.
  
  On to my next beef. Basic game play necessities. Why can't you rotate the camera? This has 
 been a basic feature of RTS's since Star Wars Force Commander. There have been numerous times in 
 both village management and combat that not being able to rotate the camera resulted in a diminished 
 game play experience. Its just less fun if you can't see why your settler can't place an outpost 
 on the other side of a building because there is a rock on the ground you can't see. In a game 
 that relies heavily on using your "Hero" units why isn't there a find your hero unit onscreen icon? 
 Again LOTR BFME has set the standard here. No matter how many heroes you had on your side in any 
 map you could find them with a simple double click of your hero icon. Even when selecting multiple 
 units, which allows you to see your army composition on your information section, you can't select 
 your hero by double clicking on their icon. In the games defence, the AI is rather challenging 
 at times and you will have to use your mind to stop them from exploiting weaknesses in your defence. 
 There seems to be a point though were the enemy just stops trying even though you havent pressed 
 the attack yet. By that I mean, if they no longer feel that they can penetrate your defence, they 
 won't even try. This is either good AI or just math kicking in instead of what the nations previous 
 habits have been. 
  
  The "Home City" screen is a welcome addition but not with out its problems. Here they give you 
 the option of customizing the look of home city by changing the colours of the buildings and adding 
 occupants around the building like priests, drunks, and women of the night... This is all great 
 but again, you are not given the option of rotating the camera to actually see these people. Thus 
 making this customizing quit static and rather boring. Customizing your "Deck of Cards" is a nice 
 additive and this is something I would like to applaud the developers on. In a historical setting 
 where support of the home land had direct results on the success of a colony this is a very relevant 
 option that can be very useful if used well. 
  
  I just can't understand why people are rating this game so high. It has its fun points but I feel 
 that the lack of game play features that are genre standards are enough to bring it down a peg 
 or two into the 6.5-7.5 out of 10 rating land. I will allow that my video card is a little out 
 of date. I am planning on upgrading in the next several months but I will wait and see how Star 
 Wars Empire at War runs (some how I think it will be more up to the standard of LOTR BFME) . 
  
  Well that's all that I have to say so far about Age of Empire III. If you have a similar system 
 to my own and are not experiencing the running problems I am please, please, pass on the levels 
 you are running so I can try them myself... I have tried to many combinations to no avail. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  I was honestly disappointed with this game. It wasn't exactly what I expected from Ensemble Studios 
 and the legendary Age of Empires Series. I bought the collectors addition and it was a waste of 
 my money. The graphics are beautiful and the game provides a lot of beautiful scenery in skirmish 
 and campaign mode. The campaign, as usual, was plagued with less than desirable voice acting. I 
 am an AoE veteran and the game was very hard to adjust to for some reason and, in fact, 3 months 
 later I'm still having trouble with certain aspects of the game. The naval unit limit is a catastrophe 
 and really turned me off to playing water maps. Naval battles peaked my interest in the game in 
 the months before its release and they put it all to shambles with the unit limit and the combat 
 system itself really bothered me, its the usual gather around the enemy and beat him to a pulp 
 system. Ensemble needs to update their combat system if there are going to be any future installment 
 in the AoE series. I think the reason why this game wasn't as good as the previous ones was because 
 it seemed to focused on online play which is really an upset because many people get discouraged 
 playing online if they keep losing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celto2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  What the game lacks in overall length and repetition of the story mode it makes up for in new units, 
 and the brilliant, online play. Other areas that are excellent are the sound effects the musket 
 shots and shells in the distance really do make the feel of the whole game . The one and only big 
 problem I had with the game was that it never includes enough units to have that real 'battle' 
 simulator feel. And for that reason and that reason only, my decision to stick with the total war 
 series, I think, is justified. But, fortunately, it isn't rubbish, and it is one of the best battle 
 and economy sims ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulthespartan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  what can i say? this game is great, it is definitley much more then i expected, and showed me some 
 pretty neat things.
  
  i love RTS games, and this one is for sure one of the best i have ever played in my life, and is 
 lot's of fun, and i was never bored by this game.
  
  usually i don't play that many RTS games, usually the ones i play are of course age of empires 
 (of course) , warcraft, starcraft, and battle for middle earth.
  
  so if you like the age of empires series, and love RTS games, then this game is considered a must 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_DoDo56
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  The ES team just keeps making the AoE series chart toppers each time. AoE 3 is no acception. Each 
 AoE provides a new style of gameplay and has used the graphics of that time to good use. I'm a 
 huge fan of the series and have them all next to me. 
  Some of the pros of AoE 3 are that the graphics are amazing! They have object shadows that when 
 you send troops under them the units are too shaded. When a cannon ball stirkes a group of men 
 the men go FLYING! and their hats and muskets and other attire and weapons are scattered across 
 the field. When a cannon ball hits a building a chunk of it falls clear off or is blown off. Everything 
 is just so fantastic as is superb!.
  But it has' it cons too. The MP is not that great and the requirements are quite high. 
  But 
 overal it's the dream game of any RTSer out there and is a must have as a PC game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kriz_91
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  If you are an AoE fan you'll definitely enjoy the interesting (though myth based) storyline, you'll 
 also enjoy the awesome online multiplayer which is a great place not only to play but to find friends 
 and equally skilled players to find a good match, on the other hand the ESO site needs some improvements. 
 The lack of moderators or a FAQ leaves noobs with basically no guideline or way to get the right 
 answers. The graphics of the game are simply awesome if you have the right PC, the gameplay is 
 very much like AoE II and the gunpowder units and naval battles are just amazing. The diversity 
 of units and the new Home City feature allow for some very in depth strategy planing and allow 
 the player to really match it's style to perform best, though it will take you a while to figure 
 out what civ to use ; ) 
  
  Overall AoE III is just an awesome game and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys RTS games.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fimbulvetr2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  This game is the best Pc game in my entire life so far. This has a good old seven for gameplay. 
 Graphics is a nine. Sound is a lucky and very lucky 7. Value is so great that i rated it a 8. Review 
 is 10. I will tell you a secret in it. You can beat most of the game with the cheat "tuck tuck 
 tuck". Blood looks so real that it is like i heared a gunshot in a open field. I hope you like 
 this game how i liked it. If this game had god powers and stuff like that. IT WOULD BE SO COOL. 
 I thought getting xp is hard but use the cheat Nova & Orion. I hope you liked my little review and 
 its now time for me to say goodbye and here it is GOOD BYE ding ding ding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_Hydra_X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 Is a well balanced fun game with a large community and fanbase, which is especially 
 present in the ESO ( the lobby/server)
  Gameplay-  The game is ballanced with much variety and uniquity between different civilisations 
 but lacks many gameplay options and modes , meaning there is not much variety in the actual game 
 itself. It has also lost some major features which are fundemental to RTS games such as drop offs, 
 and has only 3 resources. But that said the home city , import cards and trade routes / tribe alliances 
 do add depth to the game and innovation giving this game a certain uniquity.
  Graphics -  The graphics are classic aoe/aom graphics, drawn which means it will stand the test 
 of time and is up there with most other major selling games graphically. 
  The only major flaw with the graphics is that there are not many options for a low-end system so 
 i would STRONGLY suggest upgrading your system if you have less than 512mb ram and a 256mb graphics 
 card otherwise sea battles will lag and probably crash even on lowest settings. This is exaggerated 
 at the fact a 7800GT Nvidia card with 1 gb ram can barely handle an 8 player battle.
  Sound -  The sound is what I have come to expect from an age of empires game, much classic music 
 and accurate soundeffects which help immerse you into the battle. This said the songs are often 
 looped due to a lack of them and there are many reports of music/SFX not working on some sound 
 cards.
  Value -  Becuase of the lack of settings for the battles (online /skirmish) , lack of variety between 
 troop types, lack of resources, lack of variety between ages and also the unstabilty of the online 
 lobby im going to have to give this game a low value for money . You will have fun whilst playing 
 the game but the lifespan lets it down.
  
  I have decided to give it a high tilt value as it has tried new things, is not just another normal 
 RTS built round old fundementals but i prefere games with more variety such as Empire earth 2 which 
 i rated higher becuase of all the options and Variety.
  If this game is well patched and has a comprehensive expansion with more settings and different 
 game types then I think it will be able to acheive a score of 8-9 possibly even higher.
  
  Updated   The game has had many balancing issues fixed, and it is now easier to get into and a 
 better long term game, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingluis10
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  So finally the long-awaited return of Age Of Empires is here, the third in the series and AOE3 
 fans will be glad to hear that it`s just as fun as the first two.
  But some people may be let down by the fact that although this game is fun to play and very addictive, 
 there are moments in the game you think to yourself, what`s the difference between this and AOE 
 2? some of the game just feels a bit too familiar.
  But don`t let that put you off, it`s still got enough new adjustments to leave you playing for 
 ages.
  After playing for the last few weeks i`ve found that playing online is way more fun then playing 
 against the computer, as it can can all get a bit repetative after a while, but then you`ve got 
 to have the time to play online as you obviously can`t save the game.
  There are a few little errors, such as when you load a saved game, it says game paused and you 
 have to press the 'pause break' button to resume the game, it doesn`t tell you this in the game 
 booklet so when it happens to you, it`s very frustrating.
  There are 8 different civilizations to choose from, including British, French and Spanish, each 
 with their own unique features, just like the old AOE.
  At first the game does seem a little wierd, but believe me as time goes on it grows on you.
  
 Overall AOE fans will love this game as it`s still got the fun and addiction the other two did 
 but some as i say will be let down with the failure to be a lot different from the first two.
 
  
  still a classic game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djabzy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 31, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Age of empires 3, what can i say. 1 and 2 where pretty damn good and living up to its predecesors 
 should have been a hard task, but for the team at ensamble it was just another day at work, literally. 
 In age of empires 2 we just had that freedom to travel, fight and destroy with a pety army which 
 just roam around killing any enemy in sight in an all for all masacar, and that was good, pure 
 fun in RTS style. But Age of Empires 3 is an all new type of RTS, in the world we live in now we 
 expect top noch graphics that only work on top of the range PC's
  and age of empires 3 delivers, apart from the good fact that it will or should work on any PC that 
 can play Age of Mythology (the sucessful sipn off of age of empires) The gameplay might seem a 
 little overtop at first glance after being an aoe2 fan for 5 years and will take getting used to, 
 but thats the fun of it a new age a new game a new learning curve, from battleing formations to 
 how a villager should chop a tree.
  AOE 3 introduces the conquest of the european empire with all new weapons and units to use.
  
 Over all this game will be as sucessful as AOE1-2 and we all look forward to AOE 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keen_130
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with what was done right:
  Graphics were done quite beautifully and the sounds are very realistic. I always enjoyed the sound 
 of rifles and cannons firing. The landscapes are well done and detailed. Trees look nice, the animals 
 are realistic looking and all the units are believable to what they would have looked like in that 
 time era. Units also have quite a bit of detail and where they really figured it out was in the 
 fighting. Units actually make actions to reload rather than there muskets being magically reloaded. 
 calvary look great and charge onto the battlefield and the cannons and artillery was where it got 
 really cool. The cannonballs rip down buildings and the damage graphics are quite fun to watch 
 as you blow apart a towncenter. Naval gunfights are fun to watch and to top it off it has a interesting 
 campaign which is somewhat historically correct. I enjoyed how the makers made an effort to make 
 the game a little indepth with the home country and homecountry levels, it adds a new element to 
 the game which ultimately means more replayabiltity.
  
  The bad:
  One of the biggest problems i had with this game and many others as well was the fact that are 
 a NO DROP POINTS NEEDED! This I don't understand for it totally takes away from the realism from 
 the game. I mean it would make sense if there was at least an explanation but no, the settlers 
 just put everything into there pockets and it magically appears in your stock pile. Plus I'm a 
 RTSer that like econamy micromanagement. Another large problem I had with this game is even though 
 I enjoyed the better graphics you can't properly enjoy them unless you got a powerhouse of a system 
 that can run everything. I have a decent computer and I had to turn down a lot of the graphics 
 "extras" just to stop the choppiness. Other problems included the "shipments" idea. I found it 
 silly having ur home country send you things durring a battle while you accumulate experience. 
 other little issues invloved unfairness in the civs but I'm sure a patch will fix that soon enough 
 and the dumb idea of treasures which really doesn't give you much. sure its fun when you first 
 start but I mean "this treasure contains a family of tasty possums worth 60 food." 60 food isn't 
 worth the effort fighting off the treasure guardians. It can pay for about... half a calvary unit. 
 
  
  Hope you found this useful.
  See you on the battlefield! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeOfRavenclaw
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 5:14 am PT
Review:  It's tough to live up to a game like Age of Empires II. Some would say impossible. Has Age III 
 done it? Well, it does preserve most of the gameplay mechanics of Age II, while intoroducing some 
 interesting new concepts. Whether that it a good or bad thing is up to you.
  
  There are 8 civilizations in the game, and each one is slightly different in it's abilities -- for 
 example, French settlers can double as infantry, Germans get free calvalry, etc. The differences 
 are excellent for providing variety. One annoying thing is that pretty much all of the buildings 
 look the same, so that you can't tell your barracks from your stables unless you click on them. 
 Each civ has a unique unit (or two or three) , wheter it be massive cannons, longbowmen, or war 
 wagons. You also get a home city with each civ. The home city is new and basically lets you get 
 free recourses, troops, settlers, and upgrades which are shipped from Europe. There is some strategy 
 in this, since only a few shipments can be sent at once, and you only have room for a certain numbers 
 of possible shipments in your "deck". The game lets you build different decks for different situations 
 as you unlock more shipments (or "cards") .
  
  The core of the game is as always destroying enemies on RTS sized maps. You start with an explorer, 
 who is basically a stronger unit who is the only one who can collect the tresure scattered around 
 the map. Mabye it's from playing too much Battle for Middle-Earth, but I was expecting these hero 
 units to be able to hold their own against a lot of enemy troops and have some insane special attacks 
 to do it with. That isn't the case -- the explorer is tough, but not that tough, and his special 
 attacks mostly consist of being able to kill tresure guardians in one hit. As I play the game more, 
 however, I realize that this was is much better. Your explorer must travel with a group of friends, 
 scouting our new territory and clearing the way for your settlers. It's quite cool and fits in 
 historyically.
  
  Your troops are pretty much standard fair -- musketters, crossbowmen, cavalry and cannons. The best 
 part of combat is the naval variety. Seeing your galleons release a thunderous broadside and seeing 
 cannon balls rip up enemy ships and kick water in the air is insanly fun. On land, combat is a 
 bit less inspiring, consisting of what I like to refer to as "the wildly hacking mob."
  
  The ability to get native american allies is an excellent feature. You'll fight with and against 
 the natives, which was how it really was. There are some cool native units and upgrades too.
  
  Again, this is probably from playing too much Battle for Middle-Earth, but the interface annoyed 
 me. In BFME, the enitre map/unit commands/etc took up one tiny section of the bottom left corner 
 of the screen, so to see it taking up a massive strip at the bottom in AoE3 was a nasty shock. 
 Still, it works, and you can see how many settlers you have gathering each recourse, which is handy.
 
  
  Overall, AoE3 is a superb strategy game. However, it dosen't do a lot to advance the genre, and 
 has some suprising flaws. However, from the moment you see your cannons tossing infnatry into the 
 air, or ships being sent to the bottom by an explosive volley from your artillery, those flaws 
 will melt away. It's a safe bet to reccomend this game to anyone who's ever liked real time strategy.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralCortez
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3, third in the series of the Age of Empires games, is quite possiby the best. AOE3 
 takes place during the Discovery Age of the New World.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are wonderful. There are ragdoll physics for infantry units shot by artillery, 
 and for buildings also shot by artillery.
  
  Sound: The music is wonderful. All units of their respective nations speak their native langauge (but 
 the English seem to speak German or French) . There is the sound of thunder from cannons and the 
 crack of gunfire from muskets. All sounds are excellently done.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is pretty standard for an RTS game. But there are several new innovations. 
 The Home City (capital of your empire) will send units, improvements, or Mercenaries at your command 
 if you have gained enough experiance. There are trading posts you can place in Native American 
 Villiages to recruit Native American units, and you can get resourses from placing a trading post 
 on a trade route.
  
  Value: Like all RTS games, AOE3 has almost infinite replayability. Plus, there is the Role Playing 
 Game aspect of the Home City. To get the most out of a Home City, you need to level it up.
  
  Overall: Age of Empires 3 is an awesome game, and deseves to be played by anyone with an interest 
 in history, and a decent computer.
  
  By GeneralCortez
  12/30/05 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brachra
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Take C&C and give it muskets.. then take Some better graphics
  add boats
  
  and youve got yourself Age of Empires 3, this game is truely amazing
  and is a must
  
  the 
 only problem with it is you require a higher end computer to run it (Decently) but WILL run on 
 lower-end pc's on low :)
  
  try it.. or not its up to you
  i give it a 7.5/10
  
  the sound was a little off when i tried it but maybe it was just an error
  im waiting for my 
 new computer to come in before i reinstall it and give it another go
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 1 and 2 are classics that almost reinvented the RTS genre. The long awaited sequel 
 is finally released, and Ensemble Studios has done another great job delivering a solid real time 
 strategy game that on one hand doesn't come up with much new, but that is polished down to a fine 
 piece of work. 
  
  The graphics in AoE 3 are breathtaking. They are actually among the best graphics I've ever seen 
 in the RTS genre. There's a huge attention to detail here. At first the game looks just good, but 
 when you first attack buildings with your cannons you truely see how great this game looks. The 
 buildings get smashed into pieces which'll fly through the air burning. Especially the firefights 
 at sea are awesome. The sails blow up and splashes down into the water, and the destructive fealing 
 you get is really unike considering the fact that this is a strategy game!
  
  The sounds are also very good, but kinda dissapointing this being a new strategy game in the Age 
 of Empires series. The sound effects are good, and the music is very nice, but it's all a bit to 
 repeating and you get a little bored after a while, but it's overall okay.
  
  This is truely a Age of Empires game all the way through. When you sit down with it for the first 
 time, there's not many surprises. It's now set to the "Napoleon period" which is cool, but that 
 is basically what's new about this game! You have the new home city which sends you shipments of 
 choosen goods, such as soldiers, food or gold, and this works really well. I must add that the 
 campaign is really good with an interesting story telling the exploration of America. Age of Empires 
 3 is a very good strategy game with awesome graphics, great sounds (though a bit repeatative) , 
 and a polished gameplay with great value. But what forces Age of Empires 3 down a bit is the lack 
 of inventions to the genre. If you're looking for a classical RTS game, look no further.
  
  +
  Breathtaking graphics. Good sound effects and moody music. Good campaign with an interesting 
 story. The new home cities are really great. The game has great gameplay value.
  
  -
  Both sound effects and music are a bit to repeatative. Very much like previous strategy game out 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aleksisp
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Great game! The game play is addictive and there's lots to do, when you control your city/town. 
 One thing they could have kept from AoE 2 would be lumber camps, mines and so on for the resources 
 on the map. It feels kind of weird when the settles just picks e. g. food and food and food. It's 
 a bit too easy from that aspect. 
  Graphics and special effects are simply stunning! I've never seen a more visually spectacular strategy 
 game. Everything from water reflections to huge buildings getting smashed down looks awesome. But 
 of course, if you like to have all the graphical settings maxed out, it requires a lot from your 
 pc.
  AoE 3 delivers great sound effects. The in-game music isn't anything extraordinary, but it's nice 
 too. The sound, though, isn't perfect. Your soldiers and settlers repeat them self's a bit too 
 often (as in most RTS's) , when you give them new orders (why can't they just shut up!) .
  The game with it's 20-25 missions on moderate difficulty takes about 10-20 hours to complete. After 
 that you might just go out roaming on the Internet with your buddies.
  To sum up, I'd say that this game is highly recommended for earlier Age of Empires fans, as well 
 as for new players of Age of Empires, most of you out there will enjoy it, if you're not searching 
 for something to revolutionizing. When I played Age 3 it felt such nostalgic; it felt just as the 
 good times, Age 2 times. 
  
  //Aleksis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Julien2623
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Why am i disappointed... first of all you have to know that i am a real fan of age of empires. 
 I played all of them and for a very long time. Most games i play cannot last more then a month 
 or two.
  
  So in age of empires i am used to have a real control of my troops. Now in the latest version there 
 is no hold position available, there is no patrol area option either, two things that were making 
 age of empires II so good. Why have they not done that again i really dont know.
  
  Also you cant really give strategic position to your troops its always a square position and you 
 can find munch more option on other games.
  
  I really felt like that game was made for beginners of real time strategy game. When you are to 
 a third version of a game i guess you should think more to those that are more used to thoses games.
 
  
  Finally, i would like to give a good word. There is good new idea, like shipments and the decks. 
 Graphics are amazing.
  
  But i played only for 2 weeks as they aint been able to satisfy my expectation.
  That is too 
 bad as i was a real fan of all age of empires games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerOZ
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is the best in the series! It has more technology, more ages to advance, more 
 buildings, more units and best of all... More FUN!
  It has finally gone up almost to modern age. I have waited for that to happen. If that has gone 
 up that far... then What whould happen in Age of Empires IV? First of all, i like it because it 
 has more technologies for you to upgrade. Second, Better graphics! Third, It has new building and 
 units. Fourth, You have shipments. Last, more FUN! I hope you enjoy it like me because if you liked 
 Age of Empires II, YOU WILL DEFINITELY LIKE THIS ONE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyn1628
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a good follow up to AoE II ... with lots on new features added in. The graphics is a major 
 upgrade, but to be expected since the last version was several years old. The new look feels alot 
 like WC III ... looks good but not to WC III level yet.
  
  The gameplay is fun especially the hometown feature .... 
  
  If you like the AoE II, then you 
 should really pick this one up.
  
  If you are new to RTG .... try it out first.
  
  I have to try out the online mode .... will check that out this weekend.
  
  A good buy .... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimitrismarkou
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 3:33 am PT
Review:  i had been waiting myself a lot of time to seeing the sequence of AOEII. i was hoping of a great 
 game, even better than its predecessor. nevertheless my waiting proved futile! i am honestly disappointed 
 by the game. the game itself doesn't feel right. for instance, can someone explain how its possible 
 to receive aid from your home city, (by shipments) even when there isn't any sea around you? and 
 an other question; why aren't there battlefields in Europe? as we all know, Europe has been devastated 
 by great wars during the era that AOEIII occurs. so it's logical to wonder why you have to fight 
 only in the "new world" and not in the homeland. and it's not historical right to play with OttomanTurks 
 in the continent of America, because turks have simply never gone there! anyway, i had been waiting 
 for something else, something bigger, but unfortunately AOEIII didn't live up to my expectations... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nazarato
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Age III is the best rts out there... It gives us out of this world graphics and sounds , a good 
 single player campaign and a really big sense of re-playability due to the small rpg elements added 
 to the game.. The units 
  and building are unique to each races and offer much variety in the strategies you could use . 
 They did a really great job with this game and I hope they are making an expantion... By the way 
 , if you get bored of the maps found in the game you can always download some or make yours 
  and I should not forget , really neat soundtrack... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darcius
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 1:59 am PT
Review:  great game with loads of replayablity but it lacks more options. plus the main draw back is not 
 every cannon can shell troops or when they do. do much if any damge. 
  
  but the game play is alot of fun, the camplain is kind of short though can be beaten on easy in 
 about 10hrs or so harder settings dont really extend it by much more then that. but its well worth 
 the ticket price for it. 
  
  the homecity is a wicked addon to any rts game when you find your lacking one or more resource 
 of a select type and your able to get 300-1000 of that resource from your home city in 1 go is 
 great. i really enjoy the AOE family this one is really a great game just needs an expantion pack 
 to extend the storyline campain and maybe add more nations and units. 
  
  sound is pretty good though it really lacks any good background music its opening and campain music 
 is good. 
  
  game play its self is good. wish they had added ranks and other tatic options instead of swarming 
 for units. i would love to do a british mass redcoat line instead of a haphazerd horde all over. 
 
  
  graphics are great. compaired to newer rts games its right up there with "Dawn of War" and other 
 RTS plus the home city and background graphics are great looking and pretty eye pleasing.
  
  overall a great game well worth the price and time spent playing it. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdocking
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 11:57 pm PT
Review:  What a shame. I agree on all points previously made regarding sound and graphics (apart from the 
 really weird ship physics - I think they looked at ice-skaters rather than actual ships) . The sounds 
 are incredible, and the graphics quite nice. But then, this is becoming de rigueur these days, 
 so not really worth shouting about too much.
  
  But it's a case a of style over substance. The gameplay has really taken a backward step. A few 
 things that really annoy me include:
  Stupid units - some really poor AI means that each unit simply forgets that it's part of a greater 
 whole. The whole character of the era was one of differing fighting styles - the British Redcoats 
 in their organised (and ultimately futile) massed ranks, the skirmishers of the lesser (but more 
 effective) nations etc. all you get with this game is a mishmash of units all melee'ing for all 
 their worth. No volley fire, no grapeshot etc etc. Having played a few other games of this era, 
 I was really looking forward to a better version of the type of combat you'd expect, but was sadly 
 disappointed.
  
  Microsoft seem to have also dumbed down the interface options. I really liked the fact that resource 
 gathers had to return to a collection point - it looked realistic, and you also had to think about 
 where you put your points - do I invest to get faster returns, or leave them to walk the distance?
 
  
  AOE2 also had better formation control, unit control etc. The upgrades also felt like you earnt 
 them, and were more interesting. I'd rather invest in something that sounds cooler than "veteran 
 pikemen", even if the effect is the same. Perhaps unit experience would be useful?
  
  Anyway, this will get some more gametime from me to see if I can get over these points, but probably 
 not too much. Back to Rise of Nations then..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: non_existence
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'll cut this review into two parts, the good and the bad:
  
  The good:
  Awesome storyline
  Good Graphics
  Superb sounds
  
  The bad:
  Maximum experience makes 
 too many games required.
  There are no 'average' cheats which aren't totally ultimate or totally suck.
  There is a lot 
 of bloodshed
  
  So really, this game is not for light-hearted people, or people who just want a chainsaw massacre. 
 This game is for the tacticians, the ones of us who don't just swarm powerful units and totally 
 let them run their own course. This game is for all of us who get a balanced force, the ones who 
 use each unit's strengths and weaknesses. This is the world of Age Of Empires 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dregolith
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:12 pm PT
Review:  This new colony style RTS, though a great game, can't quite measure up to its predecessor AOE2. 
 To me it seems to lack some of the originality of AOE2 and doesn't bring anything really new to 
 the table other than it's card system. It gets pretty repetitive pretty fast but I must give credit 
 in saying that though it cant measure up to its fathers it is still a pretty decent game. It's 
 not a bad game though if you aren't new to the series don't be surprised if it doesn't live up 
 to your expectations. If you are new to this series I strongly suggest that you start at the beginning 
 because the games seem to go in a chronological order. The first Age of Empires ended with the 
 fall of Rome, the second encompassed the medieval times, and this new third one is colonial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nevermuse
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2005 11:30 am PT
Review:  Familiar gameplay accompanies many new and interesting features added to give a fresh feel to an 
 old face. Great new features and units and a fun new interface where you recieve shipments to give 
 your colony a boost. New "trading post" addition allowing you to colonize native tribes of warriors 
 to use to your advantage, and allow you to set up posts on trade routes that cut through points 
 on the map and allow you to genereate resources via stagecoach, and eventually by train. Also an 
 interesting little RPG type feel allowing your town to level up to gain better shipments and interesting 
 little characters and items to be strewn about your ever growing town. Nice gameplay curve as well... 
 set it to your difficulty and even handicap players during multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HotshotKJAOEIII
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2005 6:55 am PT
Review:  This is the best RTS game, and it's the best AOE series!!! I give it a 10 out 10. Go buy the game, 
 Don't think about it, just buy it. a a a a a a a a a a a a a w w w w w w w w w w w w s s s s s 
 s s s s s s s s s s o o o o o o o o o o o o o o m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m e e e e e e e 
 e e e e e e e e e!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evian
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 4:26 am PT
Review:  i thought the first two were good but it seems to be getting worse, yer the graphics are outstanding 
 but after a few hours of gameplay it gets tedious and repetitive, i went mad 4 the first two, especially 
 age of kings and they were way ahead of their time which added to their appeal, but I think they 
 should have come up with something fresh, all the civilizations architecture looked pretty much 
 the same. once you'd built all the buildings and upgraded to the highest you were just left to 
 twiddle your thumbs, so the only way to enjoy it is to be a pro so you can beat them on the hardest 
 difficulty which is near impossible if your new to the game, so i suppose ive got to give the AI 
 some credit, all in all i give it a 5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicidedragon12
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 11:10 am PT
Review:  I love the AOE series. i own every single one. AOE III , is really good, graphics, and sound awesome. 
 what i didnt like was that there was a limit on how much of the same buildings you can build ex. 
 outposts. and on how much of the same ships you can build. Other than that i love it, however if 
 you want to build the same buildings alot like outposts, get AOE II Expansion, it is really good. 
 AOE III is once again a great game. but if you dont have a good video card or sound fx card, dont 
 buy this game unless you like lag. Get AOE II. its a classic and really fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fijas
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:22 am PT
Review:  Dont mistake the tone of this review, the game is good. But it lacks ummm... emotion. It lacks 
 that certain something which made me play aoe2 late into the night and miss classes the next day. 
 The timeline is rather inadequate and the game is broken into chunks of missions which have to 
 be completed with each such mission having smaller sub-missions which you may or may not complete. 
 But on the positive side, the graphics is amazing and the story is not all that bad\ - in fact 
 it is quite good and is spread over 3 generations. The combat is also innovative with some new 
 techniques incorporated. But overall, it is easy to get bored with the game and move on to other 
 interesting strategy games that are popping up with increasing frequency. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bac_Alexander
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 2, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion AOE 3 is a great game. Ensemble Studios did a great job.
  Has some new and original features.
  
  AOE 3 game engine is the best or one of the best for 
 strategy games engines, its has amazing graphics, physics and uses a lot of new graphic features 
 that are only available on graphics cards g-force 6600 and higher. It is fun to see units fly away 
 from cannon fire and watch buildings fall apart. But to enjoy the game fully you will need a power 
 computer.
  
  AOE 3 has great sound effects, still has good music and all civilization units sounds different. 
 Russian units speak in russian, German units speak german and on that note all civilization building 
 look different and have unique units. But a down side is that there are only 8 civilization.
  
  Interesting feature in the game and that adds more interest and value to the game is that you 
 have a home city. When start playing your city is level 1, faster you gain levels, with new levels 
 you can buy new cards, you are only allowed to have 20 cards in your deck so you must choose wisely 
 and create strategies with your cards (have economic strategy or military or defensive or offencive, 
 some cards have team effect ) . You use this cards to send shipments of resources or military units 
 to new world (to the map) Each civilization has some unique cards. And also with each level you 
 get a chance to change how your city looks like, with each level you gain can unlock new stuff 
 for your city, so your city will always look different compare to others.
  
  AI is great, so it can be fun to play with computer, but playing on moderate or below, is just 
 for learning has computer does not do much, but on harder is where the challenge starts and in 
 you are confident in your skills than try expert. AI, expends, makes bases, sends shipments from 
 home city. Orders can be given to your computer players, you can ask him for resource, also computer 
 can ask you as well. Tells you if he is going to attack, build new base or needs help and if you 
 are under attack than he sends troops to help you. But on island maps computer is not very good 
 as it does not use ships properly and does not send workers to island with trade routes (build 
 a trade route to receive experience, food, wood or coin)
  
  AOE 2 is a great game especially with expansion pack but AOE 3 is very different to AOE 2. AOE 
 3 provides great value, graphics and fun. All 8 civilizations are different and unique and balanced. 
 UI is very easy to use and everything you need is there. There are only 3 resources (food, wood 
 and coin) and first part of the game concentrates on economy more but towards the end, big battles 
 begin. Definitely must have and should be under a christmas tree.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethe_Demon19
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 21, 2005 10:02 am PT
Review:  The game usually starts to go into this great intensifying mode after you get in age 5 and with 
 the use of forts and cannon balls you literally will blow away anybody or civilization that gets 
 in the way.
  
  There is an all new physics engine, by Havok, anf that allows your villagers or soldiers to be 
 a sort of ragdoll. 
  
  With the cannon balls they actually blow of parts of buildings and the classic fire will arise.
 
  
  This game is kinda difficult if your not sure what to do, so watch out.
  
  Even though the original games had about 17 different civilizations you could play as this one 
 only has 8. But with all the new graphics what time would they have to put in all the classics.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:13 am PT
Review:  Familiarity breeds contentment. That seems to be the message from Ensemble Studios, the creators 
 of strategy games whose successes are measured in millions of copies.
  
  This is the fourth Age game, and still its fundamental structure is the same: build structures, 
 collect resources, churn out soldiers, attack the enemy.
  
  "We wanted it to be familiar but not the same," admits Bruce Shelley, Age senior designer. "It's 
 the Age of Empires II gameplay that'll keep you coming back." It's surprisingly honest stuff from 
 the creator of a sequel, but it's also slightly disingenuous. 
  
  While many developers deny any resemblance of their game to its prequel because there are hardly 
 any differences, Ensemble freely admit they're building on the monumental success of the series 
 so far. But they're not telling the whole truth.
  
  Experience points? Home cities? Trading routes? Elite native units? A deck of 'cards' enabling 
 you to formulate and implement cunning strategies? There are plenty of new features lurking beneath 
 Age of Empires III's shiny facade.
  
  Take the concept of experience points: for every unit of resource you collect, structure you build 
 or enemy you kill, you get a few points. Level up, and you can select an immediate boost to be 
 delivered from your home city: more settlers, a shipment of resources or a military unit.
  
  In this way, you can modify your strategy, whether to quickly develop an economic structure 
 or focus on military strength early in the game.
  
  The home city is a unique and stylised concept. Essentially, it represents the support of your 
 home nation. As you progress through the single-player campaign, your home city will gradually 
 develop, gaining levels and power itself.
  
  With this growth and development through the ages (eras marking technological/cultural leaps: in 
 AoE3 they're Exploration, Colonisation, Fortress, Industrial and Imperial) , you'll have a customised 
 kick-start when founding a new settlement on a new map.
  
  The action takes place throughout the Americas between 1500 and 1850. Taking control of one of 
 the colonising nations, you'll encounter a wide variety of terrain and natives.
  
  Fortunately for the latter, you can neither infect them with killer diseases nor massacre them 
 in their thousands. In fact, you can ally with them, build trading posts on their turf and even 
 encourage them to lend a hand in your armies, as they offer unique units and technologies, such 
 as speedy Apache horses.
  
  The dirty business of fighting only takes place between rival settling nations, and each side has 
 pleasingly distinctive units such as Cuirassiers and Scots Guardsmen.
  
  Scraps are bread-and-butter stuff, lacking unit formations or any of the subtlety we've come to 
 know and love in the Total War games, but they're certainly spectacular, with bodies and buildings 
 sent flying when hit by cannon.
  
  If RTS fans have been starved of multiplayer nutrition since Warcraft III and Rise of Nations, 
 the feast begins soon. Head-to-head and team scraps are again certain to be popular, and we won't 
 bet against Ensemble balancing the nations with aplomb.
  
  You can develop a separate home city for your multiplayer outings, enabling you to hone your strategy 
 down to the last settler.
  
  If polish meant prizes, Ensemble and Age of Empires would win every time. Sun-Tzu probably wouldn't 
 approve of its tactical simplicity, but there's still plenty to win over critics and gamers alike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luism777
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 6:55 am PT
Review:  This game is really good, as it is the same as the old age of empires except it is set in the time 
 when the new worlds were being descovered. the game is very historical and based around true events. 
 the story has 3 parts and the actual story mode of the game is about 3 hours. but after you complete 
 the game you can customise your home city. 
  
  Online is really very good, and can keep you entertained for hours. i personally like the age of 
 mythology series to this, but this is not far off, but maybe the expansion pack that will be released (hopefully) 
 will improve the game better than age of mythology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steven666_928
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 7:08 pm PT
Review:  good:
  
  - some new stuff
  - new graphics are pretty good
  - works on older pcs if you have one
  - good single player part
  - home city thing works and 
 helps
  you alot if you do it right
  
  bad:
  
  - basically the same units on each team 
  except for unique units
  - can get repetitive
  
 - some AI issues
  
  AOE3 is basically a much improved version
  of AOE2 with some new interesting ideas, however
  the lack of AI intelligence when fighting a 
 naval battle
  destroys that aspect of the game. The repetitiveness that
  happens after a while with every AOE game is slightly 
  alleviated because each team has some 
 different units,
  if not many, and in the skirmish mode you have to build up
  your home city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Movieguy152
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 17, 2005 7:59 am PT
Review:  AGE OF EMPIRES IS GOD!!!!!!!!! I have abosolutly loved age of empires ever since i was young and 
 first picked up age of kings. Age of Empires made the strategy game franchise what it is today, 
 and they continue to create incredible games still. Age of Empires three takes the franchise in 
 the new direction of guns and cannons, however it also keeps the archers to back up your army and 
 the pikeman and what not to fight out in front. The graphics are also substantially better in comparison 
 to age of empires two. Anouther really cool thing added to age of empires three is the new trade 
 routes were you build trade posts along it and this train or cart goes back and forth along the 
 trail giving you any resorce you may need. Also the new mother country feature is really cool, 
 especially when you need some kind of soldier protection in the second age, or more resorces in 
 the first age, or house and people. Its also really cool how you can unlock new things that you 
 can get from the mother country. Anouther little cool thing i think is how building boats is alot 
 more useful because now you can get not only food from fish but also gold from wales. Plus if theres 
 no gold around any more towards the end of the level, you can create the new plantation which just 
 brings in the gold. Anouther cool thing is how you can ally yourself with the native americans 
 and they can give you some pretty useful soliers in the beginning. I really dont use them in real 
 battle but to each his own. They just protect my town the whole time. One thing, that makes no 
 difference to me but may to some people as negative or positive, is that the only way to win now 
 is to whipe out your opponents. Also whats cool is when they surrendor to you, you can chose wheather 
 to end it there or to continue to destory everything they have on the map. So if your a fan of 
 age of empires you should deffinitly go out and get this game right now, and if your not a fan, 
 WHAT THE HELL IS WRONG WITH YOU!!!! If you like any kind of real time strategy game then this is 
 totally the game for you, and if you've been wanting to try out real time strategy games, then 
 this is definatly the game to start with, so go out there and conquer!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BruteDux
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 6:44 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires III was a really expected game. It videos at E3, Gamespot, etc. were at the top. 
 In my mind, Age of Empires III would be a game with nothing new, the same thing as Age of Kings 
 and The Conquerors. And when I played Empire Earth II, I really didn't like. It was a repetitive 
 game and too much things were not like the other games, in certain point of view, it was almost 
 a non-strategy game. So I thought AOE3 would be the same thing as EE2. When I first played the 
 game, the tutorial was just incredible, then I saw the real playing. It's just a perfect game; 
 there are quests, about capturing navigation charts in the other enemies base, it's almost an RPG. 
 It's a really good game. That's why I give 9.8 to it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eoeo123
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 16, 2005 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Being a big fan of empire building game, I was yet again not disappointed with age of empires 3. 
 A new addition to the game is the fact that you gain experience point by completing a scenario 
 or a battle. You can then by new cards for your next battle or build your own home town. This is 
 a unique feature in these type of games.
  
  The game play is the same but you will ajoy it better with a top of the line graphic card ( at 
 least 256 pci if possible ) . This will provide with smoother game play experience.. 
  
  Like always, the AI isn't that difficult to beat if you are used to the game, but it's always a 
 better challenge if you celect a harder opponent (s) . I did not try the multi-player function so 
 I will pass on this aspect of the game.
  
  Overall, you will love the game and it's new feature will quickly grow on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperwired
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2005 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Cannon Physics!!! - yes, the major 'cool' upgrade from AOE2 besides home city is the cannon/collision 
 physics. Other than this piece of 'eye candy', and generally improved 3D graphics, it has actually 
 almost the same feel as AOE2. One good thing is that infantry production produces up to 5 units 
 at a time, and this speeds up gameplay, as well as using 'cards' from home city. I'd say Its more 
 fun than AOE2 because its faster to build up. At least its more fun at first.
  
  An improved feature is that you dont need to micromanage resources so much because there are no 
 longer any 'drop-off points' and the villagers just stay there continuously generating resource 
 income until the source runs out.
  
  The feel is not as epic as that of AOE2, since the story runs at a much more personal level, rather 
 than at a 'clash of civilisations' level.
  
  This game can get boring after a while. But if you start getting bored, build some cannons and 
 watch those enemies fly!!! - trust me, that part never gets boring. ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedstough
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 15, 2005 11:55 am PT
Review:  I was a little surprised about the review given on GameSpot. I thought the game was much better 
 than described. The graphics take RTS games to a new level. To see parts of buildings and boats 
 fall apart are incredible. The campaigns are very well put together.
  
  My only two complaints are the AI and the map creation. The map creation is too complicated and 
 there is very little help out there. I would love to be able to create my own scenario, but can't 
 figure it out quite yet.
  
  The AI through very good in detail, seems a little stupid at times. Especially, the boats have 
 a problem. I am hoping this will be smoothed out over a couple patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cclassiter
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 13, 2005 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Ensemble Studios is known well for this RTS series and have consistently produced addictive historic 
 RTS games with wide appeal. 
  
  With the release of AOE 3, ES introduces a new graphics engine and changes to gameplay. Though 
 the basic gameplay of the series remains the same, (resources, construct buildings, raise an army) , 
 ES has add several new features such as the "Home City" and experience points to purchase cards 
 to improve resource gathering, receive additional units, etc. 
  
  Changes include removing the need for settlers (gathers) to return to the town center with their 
 resources or having to build storage units, and the addition of more playable races in Skirmish.
 
  
  Taking place during the discovery of the New World, AOE 3 includes a great story that covers 3 
 ages or approximately 100 years of history.
  
  The graphics engine is great and incorporates the Havok physics engine. ES has included limited 
 zoom feature similar to Dawn of War but doesn't allow to get as close as it does and provides a 
 disappointment. While covering the negatives, though the requirements have been beefed up, today's 
 , machines should be able to handle the game. However, be forwarned that though you may have a 
 gig of ram and a P4 2.0 or higher, setting the graphgics to high will still cause some lag when 
 viewing screens with lots of action. In addition, I noticed some sound lag when viewing the CGI 
 between rounds, with delays sometimes as high as 10 seconds. Something I hope will be fixed with 
 a patch. Finally on the negative side, the game is unusually short. I just finished the game averaging 
 a couple of hours a night off and on for the past 3 weeks. Most of the battles are short.
  
  For experience RTS players, and long -time fans of the AOE series I suggest playing the hard 
 level in order to get a real challenge from the game.
  
  I am sure there will be an expansion pack or two to follow and hopefully ES will provide plenty 
 of content.
  
  Pros: Graphics, storyline, new age, changes to resource gathering, "Home City" feature.
  
  
 Cons: Short, sound delays in CGI, some lag during lots of action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scdenterprises
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 8:15 pm PT
Review:  AOE 2 superior to AOE 3. I am disappointed with the changes in AOE3. I can't tell how much "life" 
 is left in a unit. I don't like that the villagers do not return goods to a camp or the base. The 
 military units are far too costly, which precludes serious fighting. This game tries to be like 
 Civ and AOE, and fails at both. Also, the adventure is banal and follows in the tradition of Age 
 of Mythology. In the end, I much prefer the older AOE's and the likes of empire earth and Rise 
 of Nations. One recommendation -- WAIT until the cost drops to $29.95 before purchasing; otherwise, 
 you're wasting your $$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eskouster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I thought Age of Mythology was the most perfect RTS I've ever played, and I spent hundreds of hours 
 on it. So be aware that I do very much like Ensemble Studio's style of games. 
  
  Multiplayer is outstanding. In terms of gameplay, every civ has several viable strategies, and 
 the metagame is still constantly evolving. So whatever the mood I'm in, either for a quick kill 
 or a long epic game, there's some strategy to make me happy. 
  
  Traditional in-depth Age economies are still here. Pretty much every action you take in the first 
 five minutes affects your economic build for the rest of the game, which offers a lot of flexbility 
 and latitude. Trading posts, upgrades, villager counts, treasures, docks, shipments and herding 
 pens provide many options.
  
  Home City is great and innovative, but not going to become a standard RTS feature like formations 
 or control-grouping. It's definitely addictive to get new cards and send shipments, but it doesn't 
 revolutionize gameplay. 
  
  ESO2 is huge step forward from the original ESO and the Zone. Quick Matches are painless, Custom 
 Games are pretty well-organized and busy, plus ladders and clan support finally add some community 
 feel to the system. 
  
  Graphics are superb, if you have a superb computer. Otherwise, they're pretty typical. Music and 
 sound are great, and there's a nice effect where cannon shots can be heard no matter where you 
 are.
  
  There's more focus on combat than in previous Age games - the best economy does not win (sadly 
 for me) . But it's definietly not as micro- and tactics-intense as Warcraft 3, which didn't appeal 
 to me as much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deputey
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:16 pm PT
Review:  As a long time fan of the Age of Empires series, I was very excited when I first heard about the 
 development of the next installment, Age of Empires III. After having now beaten the game, I must 
 say there is a wide scope of pros and cons to consider.
  
  Let me start by saying that if you enjoyed this games predecessors, then you will likely find 
 comfort in knowing that it retains a very traditional feel that is Age of Empires. Having said 
 that, I must say that I actually expected a little more advancement then what was done.
  
  The graphics update was not extensive, although they went about a completely different way of handling 
 them. Long gone are the sprites of yesteryear and in come the 3D models. But given that its a 
 RTS and gameplay is only effective when zoomed out, the overall appearance remains the same. A 
 few very impressive additions lye in special effects, such as water reflections and particle effects, 
 be forewarned however that even with my fairly new PC, those effects create a major lag & drain 
 on your system. So much so that I had to turn them off, which is odd considering the game is an 
 RTS and good performance is not typically a difficult target to reach.
  
  The primary change however was in gameplay. Introducing a home city concept where you can have 
 a constant supply of supplies based on the experience you earn during your active mission. Although 
 it takes a little time to get used to, it becomes an interesting addition to the game. 
  
  Overall, I would recommend this game for the die hard RTS or Age of Empires fans, but dont expect 
 ground breaking innovations, Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War still has the edge in my opinion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonphoenix123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:23 pm PT
Review:  awesome
  
  gets boring after a while
  
  overall good
  
  good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! 
 good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! 
 good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! 
 good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! 
 good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! 
 good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! 
 good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! 
 good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! 
 good! good! good! good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itsmemar1o23
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 12, 2005 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game w/out reading any reviews so I had no expectations other than the fact that it 
 was going to be an improvement the other AOE games... and it was. I have to say that one of th things 
 that I enjoy the most is the way you collect resources. In the past, the villagers would gather 
 resources and then have to take them back to the town center or resource building, in this game 
 however the resources that the villagers gather automatically go to your stockpile. This is just 
 one of the many new features on this game. Another feature is that you can now create up to 5 military 
 units in the time it would take to create one. And since this is based on the colonization period 
 you can ask your "Mother Country" to send you supplies. All together the game shows many improvements 
 over its predecessors and surely if you liked the other AOE games you would have plenty of fun 
 with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CounterBrain
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 10, 2005 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I found this to be a product worth the money. The graphics are much improved comared to the other 
 verisons and you get more movement, controls and such from your units. Overall I believe that this 
 is the best aoe out. Their are still a lot of the same functions, but with added Home cities and 
 such players have more control over how their team will develop. Then the fact that you get lvling 
 home cities, can update how they look and all makes this new feature well worth it. After all who 
 likes building supply depots when your workers direct deposit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frios302004
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  At the beginning it was a great game, i've 1GB of memory, a Pentium D 2.8 and an Intel Graphics 
 Accelerator with 128 MB ...
  
  I think is enough for running the game without troubles , but when 2 ships are fighting the game 
 suddenly slows down , i've tried put the setting at the minimum , but is useless , i don't know 
 if it's normal, despite this , the game is very good , and i love it....
  
  Is true that the game doesn't have a lot of options to choose, but think is the first game with 
 this kind of game-play (because isn+t the same that AOE III) i hope the expansion pack for this 
 game will be better, with more option to choose, new game-types , etc 
  
  About the game speed's decreasing , if it's the game's fault i hope there'll be a patch in order 
 to fix it, thats all GS asks me for at least 100 words and i dont know what else to write.... see 
 ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulessjay
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:21 am PT
Review:  This was the first in the series that I have played but I am officially hooked on it! The game 
 play is simply unreal. I couldnt ask for a better Real time strategy game. The graphics are awesome. 
 I think the soundtrack is definitely top notch. The Campaign is fun but I definitely prefer playing 
 it online. I say it is more than worth buying the collector's edition. Getting the art book, the 
 soundtrack is worth it if you ask me. Just have to find a place for the huge poster! So get out 
 there and go buy this great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacksonfdam
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 8, 2005 8:41 am PT
Review:  A favor 
  
  - Grficos simplesmente inacreditveis para um jogo de estratgia;
  - Uso do engine Havok deu um nvel de realismo inesperado ao game;
  - Possibilidades estratgicas 
 inditas do uma vida nova ao game;
  - Multiplayer continua impecvel;
  - O novo sistema de adquirir recursos das cidades caiu como uma luva na premissa do game;
  - 
 Insero de heris no jogo balanceou alguns aspectos da jogabilidade do game;
  - Misses single player bem variadas, conseguindo prender o jogador at o final;
  
  Contra 
 
  
  - Game pesado para a maioria das mquinas;
  - No houve uma evoluo extremamente notria, alm da parte visual (grande parte das mudanas 
 puderam ser vistas em Age of Mythology) ;
  - Algumas estranhas e repentinas quedas no frame-rate, principalmente na cidade;
  - As vezes 
 as unidades no se comportam de forma inteligente, ficando presas em alguns lugares quando mais 
 so necessrias;
  - Alguns pequenos problemas de coliso entre modelos e cenrio.
  
  Veredito 
  
  Age of Empires 3  a reunio de um conjunto inestimvel de pequenos e importantes 
 detalhes. Esta talvez seja a melhor forma de definir toda a grandiosidade deste ttulo, que acerta 
 at nas mais pequenas coisas. Evoluindo de forma inteligente, a srie alcanou um patamar estratgico 
 sem precedentes, tornando partidas single player e multiplayer experincias inesquecveis e simplesmente 
 viciantes! Recomendado para todos os que esperam por um grande jogo, seja em seu nvel tcnico 
 como na diverso que ele proporciona. Simplesmente incrvel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: human_sim
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 7:31 am PT
Review:  When a series has been around for as long as the Age of Empires has, players begin to expect certain 
 things. At the same time, we dont simply want more of the same. Theres got to be some changes; 
 some innovation there as well. And with so much competition from other great strategy games weve 
 seen over the last couple of years, its no easy task being innovative and remaining true to the 
 spirit of the series. The developers at Ensemble Studio have successfully walked the line. Age 
 of Empires III sports some great additions to the strategy genres, yet still feels as comfortable 
 as an old shoe.
  
  An Age-Old Problem
  
  But first, a little pet peeve. Sure, Age of Empires III is very similar to any other real-time 
 strategy game. But for the love of God, stop making the first mission in the single-player campaign 
 some huge battle with tons of troops and buildings. When youre trying to learn the interface and 
 recognize which buildings and units do what, the last thing you want to deal with is a relentless 
 onslaught of enemy troops. Its not exciting -- its annoying.
  
  Actually, the single-player campaign in general is a bit of a wash. It feels very much like any 
 other with severe limitations on the kinds of units and troops you can build in order to make the 
 canned objectives more challenging. After going through several of these missions, we wanted to 
 completely drop the campaign in favor of skirmish mode.
  
  Scrumptious Skirmish
  
  Heres where youll find the tasty meat of Age of Empires III. Ensemble has lifted some great design 
 choices from other games and added a couple of original ones as well. In general, Age of Empires 
 III sports a more concise design. The historical time period covered has been scaled back covering 
 five ages from the Age of Discovery to the Imperial Age. The number of playable nationalities has 
 been narrowed down to eight and even the number of different units is less than in Age of Kings.
 
  
  Rise of (Unique) Nations
  
  Cutting back on the strategy sprawl has allowed Ensemble to go in and make each playable nationality 
 a unique, interesting, and personalized experience. Players will find that each nationality has 
 access to very specific units and bonuses that will radically change your style of play. For example, 
 weve been having a grand time with the Portuguese who, by the time you reach the third age, gain 
 access to the Organ Gun, a unique artillery unit that can mow down infantry with ease.
  
  Other changes between the nations are much more radical. The Dutch have an economy heavily based 
 on coin, not food or wood. They also have buildings designed to easily generate coin over time. 
 Leave a Dutch player alone for too long and hell accumulate enough resources to wipe you off the 
 map with ease. In fact, the entire game appears to emphasize offense even though there are plenty 
 of turtling options from the get-go. 
  
  The Home City Advantage
  
  Each nation also gets a boost from their home city, a new feature in the game that allows players 
 to receive regular deliveries of units and resources. What your home city contains is based on 
 the nationality you choose to play and the experience level of your home city. Playing skirmish 
 matches generates experience points that are then funneled into the development of your home city. 
 As your home city goes up in level, you can choose new resources and units for it to supply to 
 you. Experience points carry over from game to game, so the more you play, the more you can customize 
 your nationality to your specific style of play.
  
  This holds true for multiplayer games as well. Once signed in to Ensemble Online you choose a nationality 
 to play (you can have multiple nations going at one time) . Each game you play, win or lose, will 
 provide experience for your home city. Of course there is potential for extremely unbalanced games 
 when a person with a level 2 city squares off against someone with a level 20 city, but online 
 sessions can be narrowed to players with similar experience levels. This adds an exciting level 
 of ownership to online matches that goes beyond the traditional ladder setup.
  
  There are lots of other tweaks as well like a revamped trade system and the ability to foster alliances 
 with the natives of the New World (an effective strategy for quickly boosting your troop numbers) . 
 The more you play, the more you discover just how many great things have been added to make this 
 game feel fresh.
  
  One for the Ages
  
  Top it all off with a delicious graphics engine and youve got an Age of Empires game for modern 
 machines that sports daring new design ideas for the modern strategy gamer. Just do yourself a 
 favor. Skip the campaign and head straight to the skirmish mode.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knowledgewizard
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 6:59 am PT
Review:  Ok let's get this straight. Age of Empires is a household name for RTS gamers out there and here 
 is the highly anticipated third sequel to the series. Does it have the quirky fun and depth of 
 the previous two? Not so. Read on to find out.
  
  The 'Age of' series has seen a change when Age of Mythology came out and it proved true to how 
 the Age series played. Now comes the third sequel to the best selling RTS game which turned out 
 flatter than when early scientists thought the earth was flat. Spearheading into gameplay of AOE3, 
 gameplay has somehow become oversimplified and easier than its predecessors. Resources need not 
 be returned to a collection centre (somehow doing that felt right) , gone are the days where you 
 could build large farmlands like in the previous Age games. That change has somehow affected the 
 depth of the gameplay and constructing buildings seem to have become a tad too fast. The inclusion 
 of a Home City doesn't seem to do the game justice neither does it provide a vast improvement. 
 Though the idea seems novel by sending shipments of resources and reinforcements, it falls flat 
 as it plays out as cards in a deck ala Magic: The Gathering. Different factions though plenty don't 
 feel unique from each other, other than voices and architechture. They basically have all the same 
 basic units spanning over all the factions which feels relatively boring. Finally a plus to gameplay 
 are its naval battles. They feel epic with the booming of cannons from the sides and cracking masts 
 of oppossing ships and sprays and splashes of water. It just feels nice. Collection of treasure 
 and inclusion of treasure guardians seem oddly familiar with another RTS game, namely the Battle 
 for Middle-earth. It feels very similar and uninspired. However, the use of a 'chat with the AI' 
 in skirmish works relatively well for what you want like resources and strategies. This is fairly 
 interesting an deserves some credit.
  
  Now comes to AOE3's winning points: It's graphics. It is probably the most beautiful RTS to date 
 with the inclusion of water reflections, high dynamic range lighting effects, great particle effects 
 and its physics-obeying destructions. Ships just look so beautiful and serene against the azure 
 blue waters of the carribean and action on the seas just look fantastic. Point made. The inclusion 
 of HDR lighting brings AOE3's realism up another level with accurate portrayals of building and 
 water specularity. Particles effects, mainly smoke and explosions looks great and destructive which 
 contributes to the feel of power from the cannons and mortars and the peaceful billowing of smoke 
 from houses. Buildings that destruct based on how it's hit isn't new (Black & White 2 had them) 
 however it's still a first for a true RTS game and it sure looks good. Other graphics like the 
 waves and swaying trees look damn good. Not to mention the well modelled units and buildings with 
 its distinct faction architechture.
  
  Sound is great as in all Age games with its accurate portrayals of each nations' factions. British 
 sound like British (duh!) and likewise for the others. Sound effects like cannon blasts, walking, 
 galloping, cutting of trees, fishing, in a nutshell; every sound in the game is accurate and clear. 
 Ambient sounds like bird's chirping and crashing waves just sound great on AOE3. Music has always 
 been a great thing in the Age series (even a soundtrack has supposedly been released) and the orchestra 
 and composer deserves much credit for their effort on a fantastic soundtrack for the game the blends 
 in perfectly for a historic game like AOE3.
  
  All in all, if an interactive history lesson combining great eye candy and some interesting features 
 is your cup of tea, this game is for you. Hardcore RTS gamers and Age fans might be slightly disappointed 
 with this game considering its hype but nonetheless, is worth trying out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PTYG
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 7, 2005 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Being a fanatic of AoE 2, it seems like the only thing that had stepped up from the previous AoE 
 games is the graphics, everything else seemed like a step back. I thought this game was going to 
 be revolutionary but after playing it, i realized that this game is not that good at all. 
  
  
  Pros
  
  -Graphics are amazing
  
  -Havok 3 engine in AoE is interesting
  
  -The 
 new home city idea is a nice one
  
  -Units use fire now to destroy buildings, instead of slashing/shooting at stone or wood
  
  
 -Indians are cool! :)
  
  Cons
  
  -Lack of unit control and commands
  
  -No unit positions/formations
  
  -Unrealistic combat, units spread out when it combat instead 
 of staying in lines as infantry would in that era (one of the things that i was looking forward 
 to was a bunch of lines of infantry going at it, but with this unrealistic combat my dream was 
 crushed)
  
  -Mounted units still have to stop and slash at opponents as opposed to trampling through enemys 
 (personal dissapointment for me because it feels so outdated)
  
  -Ranged units range is too short, should be at least 2x of what it is
  
  -must destroy EVERYTHING 
 of the enemys to win!
  
  Personal Dislikes
  
  -I would've liked a bit more units avaliable to you
  
  -I think the pop cap should've been 
 raised also
  
  WTFs
  
  -Trains that fly onto the land and the ocean!
  
  -Ships that can spontaneously generate infantrymen!
  
  One of the things that i really feel 
 strongly about in RTSs is the is the S in RTS, which stands for STRATEGY. There is hardly any strategy 
 in RTSs like this. Sure there is things like Cavalry   Infantry, Spearmen   Cavalry, and occasional 
 economic strategy, but generally it wont make a difference if cavalry is coming from behind or 
 in front. The only RTS that Ive seen with serious strategy is of course Rome Total War. If you 
 want a game that you really need to think about what your doing and not just take a ton of units 
 and charge at a base, you should get RTW. This game just feels to simple and boring after a while.
 
  
  My final suggestion is if you are willing, to wait for an expansion pack and a gold edition. Youd 
 be getting your money's worth with that deal.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nooby_Loki
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 6, 2005 2:28 am PT
Review:  THIS I thought was a great gameplay but it aint all it cracked up to be the music is 999 if you 
 ever play AOM: TT online . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. 
 . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. 
 . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . 
 .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . 
 . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. 
 . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . 
 . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . 
 . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . 
 . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. 
 . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . 
 . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . 
 . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . 
 .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . 
 .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . 
 . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. 
 . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . 
 . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . 
 . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . 
 .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . 
 .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . 
 . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. 
 . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . 
 . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . 
 . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaalLordofHate
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 10:34 pm PT
Review:  All right it was very good but i do miss the clash and clatter of swords and axes from the original, 
 plus the selection of units is not as great in AOE 3, there just isn't as many. But LOVE the cannons 
 and boats. i like the fact that boats fire cannonballs and can break the enemies ships. But i still 
 liked the original more, it may have poor graphics and gameplay and sound but how can you not like 
 it. the last thing i have to say is that i am extreamly dissapointed in Age of Kings, they tried 
 too hard with the graphics and stuffed it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightwindutz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2005 1:32 am PT
Review:  It's refreshing to see a game that still tries to innovate some gameplay aspects (even though it 
 falls short of succeeding) .
  
  The Bad:
  - economic micromanagement simplified. Personally I loved the part where peasants had to travel 
 between the working place and the resource stockpile building. Beside the fact that it added to 
 the realism, it also offered a tactical option to cut the enemy's supply lines. In an effort to 
 concentrare on the military tactics alone, this was cut ... damn.
  - strange behavior of units (especially naval - watch a passing ship get hit by enemy fire and 
 observe how it turns to respond)
  - the factions aren't different enough, they tried to make them appear different but worked on 
 balancing them by matching unit type for unit type instead of a tactical balance (like Starcraft) . 
 Looks and sounds don't help keeping the appearance that you're playing different factions.
  - the card system just replaces the research tree.
  
  The Good:
  - home city/experience points 
 system. They really give the feel that you're an explorer in the New World, being backed by a hometown 
 and all, not to mention the new vision in strategy.
  - the look & feel of battles. The units arrange themselves in proper formations, the sounds are 
 very cool. 
  - battle micromanagement: it becomes a must, you need grouping by types and getting the grip in 
 a fight.
  - terrains and scenarios offer a lot to the field tactician.
  
  Personally, I love it but I do hope for some better division between nations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azza29
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Since the original Age of Empires first came out in 1997, the Ensemble Studios team have consistently 
 produced addictive historic RTS games with wide appeal. Age III is no exception. The basic gameplay 
 of the series remains the same, with players having to collect resources to build buildings and 
 armies in order to conquer their opponents. This is a good thing, because it is probably the series' 
 strongest point. New to the game is the 'Home City' feature, which gives experienced players in-game 
 bonuses, and provides some level of continuity between separate 'skirmishes'.
  
  The graphics are fantastic, with everything (as with AOM) being fully 3D rendered. Battles are 
 more realistic than ever before, with units flying in all directions when hit by a cannon. Buildings 
 are also more realistically destroyed, with parts gradually falling off before they collapse completely. 
 Note that on older computers large battles may be slowed down somewhat, this can be rectified by 
 lowering the graphics levels.
  
  The sound is also good, and there are many variants of each character's 'lines' which prevent the 
 game from getting old quickly. The music is also different enough that you won't get sick of it 
 and put a CD on instead.
  
  The three-part campaign is disappointingly short, even though it lasts for 24 'episodes'. This 
 might be because I played the 'easy' mode, which is not really all that challenging. The 'moderate' 
 difficulty is winnable, although I would recommend playing the game a bit before trying out the 
 'hard' option.
  
  The game's setting, in the New World, is a lot of fun to play and is different enough from the 
 previous games that you don't feel like you're playing Age II with better graphics. Because guns 
 are available from the word go, researching technologies are not that important, especially when 
 medieval units (longbowmen and pikemen) are very effective (when used with musketeers) even in 
 the later stages of the game.
  
  Age III is well worth the buy, you won't find a better RTS anywhere at the moment, and for the 
 $90 or so (Australian dollars) it costs, you will get a lot of gameplay. Enjoy!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: octoberdeath
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 10:29 pm PT
Review:  this game was fun but it need more game play options like were in Age of Empires II: The Age of 
 Kings there was and Age of Empires II: The Conquerors Expansion ya the real thing that makes it 
 different is the online gaming experience were you play online and get more experience points for 
 your home city. many times its just keep in touch with friends or enemies or just playing a game 
 for fun all and all if you like age of empires games this is not a great game to buy even thought 
 it has been six years sense these last age of empires this is just not the best game to buy for 
 aoe fan unless you like the trial version. then what the hell who cares about what i said then 
 if here its a good game its only good because they liked it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colt-commander
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 5:44 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay for this was very well setup.
  In the game there is many options from choosing a country to upgrading your railroad, the only 
 thing i really disliked about this game was that the servers were constantly being repaired and 
 sometimes it logged you out for no reason at all.
  The graphics for this game is the best graphics i have ever seen for a role playing game.
  If 
 i must say the sound was amazing looking right now at the leader's audio file (like queen Elizabeth 
 talking or Napoleon etc) and there is a total of 3199 sounds and there is only 8 leader's, and the 
 game it self has about a total of 4463 sounds in total.
  Another thing i disliked was that your not able to play custom made maps with other people online. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokuzero
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 3:30 am PT
Review:  I recomand Earth 2160 to play it more breathtakeing!!! It has something that you shouldnt put in 
 a game. You start with your own fammily and advance what crap is that???
  Well if you whant to see for your self try it But Dont Tell Me I Dint Warned You!!! 
  
  Had 
 enough of fighting titanic battles on land, why not fight a titanic battle on sea? This is the 
 intent of Navy Blood however the scenario falls short in quite a few respects. The concept is similar 
 to many other bloods expect this one takes places on water as opposed to land. There is a flame 
 in the centre in which you must have units around in order to acquire resources. The goal is to 
 destroy the other players guardians that are on islands surrounding the centre flame. Accompanying 
 the guardians are auto respawning sons of Osiriss . As you can imagine the centre of the map quickly 
 fills with a tremendous amount of lighting bolts. To spawn units you must place the ship or myth 
 unit in question by some columns at the side of your base.
  
  [Playability]
  
  First of all while playing this scenario I am happy to say that I did not experience a hint of 
 lag. Even when all four players were fighting will full steam at the centre of the map and god 
 powers were going off. The scenario, sadly, has quite a few bugs and other gameplay hindering aspects 
 that make the scenario much less enjoyable then it could have been. Near the end of the game I 
 found that I could no longer spawn any kind of naval unit, this kind of ended the game, as I could 
 no longer fight against my opponents. When I played I was able to get Apollos underground passage 
 power which allowed me to conduct land warfare against my opponents bases. Somehow, I felt that 
 that was not the intention of the game and that problem should be fixed. Another bug that occurred 
 a few times was Sons of Osriss would spawn even though the other one had yet to die. When this 
 happened it gave the other players a tremendous advantage. The biggest problem was attempting to 
 complete the goal of the game. Killing the guardian was almost next to impossible and 2 of the 
 4 people I played with felt the same way I did and they resigned as a result. The placing of the 
 sons of Osriss in the centre of the map was both a blessing and a curse. It was nice to have him 
 when my opponents sent myth units at me because he could easily mop them up. But at the same time 
 it was annoying to be constantly bombarded with lightning bolts.
  
  Improvements
  
  - If the bugs and gameplay problems were cleaned up the score in this area would easily be raised 
 to a 4
  - Having some other naval units besides Triremes and myth units would give the scenario a little 
 more strategy
  
  --Score = 3--
  
  [Balance]
  
  The balance in the scenario was pretty good, but maybe a little to good. Being able to choose different 
 civilizations at the beginning made for a diversified game and gave players several options about 
 how they decided to progress. Some civilizations had huge advantages over others. If the author 
 were to play around a little with the civilizations to make the game more balances it could really 
 help the balance score. The scenario was a little to balanced in the way that it was almost impossible 
 for anybody to win, as the guardians were far too hard to kill.
  
  Improvements
  
  - Balancing out the civilization bonuses would really help in balancing the scenario out
  - Choosing 
 another game winning goal as opposed to killing the guardian would also help
  
  --Score = 3--
  
  [Creativity]
  
  This scenario was able to differentiate itself from other 
 blood style maps by taking place on the water, but the author still needs to do something further 
 with the scenario in order to make it truly different
  
  Improvements
  
  - Try doing something nobody else has ever tried in a blood map before
  
  --Score = 3--
  
 
  [Map Design]
  
  Blood maps are generally designed to minimize lag so you should never expect to find a lot of eye 
 candy on a blood map. This scenario stays to true to that formula and as such the map never experience 
 any lag and the transfer time for the scenario is very short which is also important to a blood 
 map. Though the map design is lag free it does not offer much excitement in the gameplay department 
 as there is only one way into the conflict zone and the conflict zone itself is a little cramped. 
 The starting city could use a little sprucing up, anything other than a block of buildings would 
 look good.
  
  Improvements
  
  - Add just a touch of eye candy, nothing to significant, but something just to spruce the map up 
 a bit
  - Open the centre up and create multiple pathways towards in order to create more interesting battles
 
  
  --Score =3 --
  
  [Instructions/Story]
  
  The scenario does not have any real story, but that is really insignificant in a blood map and 
 should not be counted against the final score. Figuring out what to do was not very difficult but 
 it would help if there were specific instructions given on how to spawn units. The goal of the 
 scenario was clearly laid out.
  
  Improvements
  - Add a simple message explaining how to spawn units
  
  --Score =4 --
  
  If the author of 
 this scenario were to make some of the improvements suggested there is no reason why the scenario 
 should not receive a 4+ rating. If some of the corrections suggested are made I would be happy 
 to re review this scenario. In its current stage I can recommend giving this scenario a try if 
 you are a really blood fanatic and you are looking for something a tad different
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thor17usa
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:30 pm PT
Review:  I have never played all the thru previous releases of this series, but I wish I had now. AOE 3 
 is awesome on many levels. The variety of the different cultures is great and the way in which 
 I can progress through the game is wonderful. it feel like there is a lot to customize using the 
 Cards system and the idea of the Home City is something I have never seen before in previous games.
 
  
  I love the challenge of defending locations for a certain amount of time. I have been playing on 
 monderate difficulty and it has been a pleasure all the way . I have had to restart some levels, 
 but that was just because I did not have a clue as to what was going on at the time. I like the 
 heros as it helps the story and the gameplay. I love this type of combat and this game is addictive. 
 Overall this game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H0T_SH0T_911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This was a very good game except for a couple of major and minor problems like one thing is that 
 the boat battle are cool and all but a little sissy boat can almost destroy the so called "Best 
 War Ship" and also the lag on the multi-player is horrible but that will be expected to get fixed 
 in the next couple of patches. AOE 3 is definitely a lot better than the old AOE games not only 
 graphic wise but also game play wise like now the villagers don't need to back to a "camp" or the 
 town center to delliver resources. There are multiple new unites and technologies not in the other 
 games such as all the different types of cannons that can be an extreme bother if u throw a bunch 
 of infantry like musketeers (who now replace the militia type unite from AOE 2) into a battle with 
 say 10 cannons will get totally slaughtered 4 unites at a time. Theres also a new addition called 
 the home city were as you gain levels for your home city by killing units and winning you can buy 
 "cards" that you can deploy during games to either bring units, boats, resources, and technologies 
 sometimes. So I have to say all in all AOE 3 is a game that everyone should have on there shelf 
 whether there going to just play the campaign or play on-line against others it's a deffinent first 
 class game all around that you can play over and over again and you'll never get bored because 
 you never know what there going to do next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dankarate
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 10:21 am PT
Review:  The best feature in the game has got to be the home city feature, which makes the game have just 
 the right type of rpg in it but without losing the classic age of empires style that we all know 
 and love. The only negative points I have to make of this game is the sounds don't quite keep up 
 with the game eg. u see the characters move as if they are saying something and abput 5-10 seconds 
 later you hear them say what they are supposed to say. Another is that you cant play scenarios 
 online which makes all of xamos new scenarios totally useless! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HrMarsh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:57 am PT
Review:  AoE III is a good combination genres of RTS and history. The graphic is brilliant! For example 
 water polygons, waves, trees, grass and especially buildings are full of details. You can see bricks 
 on buildings, doors, windows, benches in front of them. Ships are also full of details but it is 
 a pity that you cant see people pn them. Characters are good to. Army has a lot of tactics and 
 formations in which can your army gonna march on the enemy. Therefor AI of the NPC is good. They 
 are now going in groups and they are planing the formations. The physics in the game is so good 
 that it looks like a real world.
  
  AoE III is a classic what you need to play if you are a gamer who has played previously sequels. 
 Do you need more?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is not all bad but one can get tired of it pretty soon. The graphics of course are 
 good but not that far off a step from what other games in the past had already achieved. The only 
 cool part of the graphics was parts of buildings flying off as they are gradually destroyed. Even 
 people being struck with explosive forces such as a cannonball had much the same graphics as say 
 C&C Generals. The maps are kind of small, the zoom feature is not satisfactory. It also seems that 
 the attempt to maintain scale was given an earnest effort and then abandoned halfway. The campaign 
 is good but the cinematics and some mission play seems redundant at certain parts. In conclusion, 
 this is a game you don't want to pay full price for - I suggest waiting till its much discounted. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandion
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 10:54 am PT
Review:  Generally I rate games on whether they're worth the price I paid for them? is AoE III worth $50? 
 Definitely... as long as you don't buy it with unreasonable expectations.
  
  The game itself is a great real time strategy addition. If you're into the setting and time period 
 I can't recommend it enough. The graphics are a bit rough around the edges but the animations are 
 great. Cutting down trees with cannon fire makes for great watching!
  
  Basically, if you don't go into this game hoping it'll be the end all-be all of real time strategy 
 games and just enjoy it for what it is then it's worth the price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mienso
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 2, 2005 7:13 am PT
Review:  The minimum the system requirements:
  
  - Microsoft Windows 98, MINE, 2000, XP
  - 128 MB of OF FRAMES
  - Pentium 800 MHz or equivalent
  - 64 MB 3D the video card
  - 1.5 
 GB of free hard disk space
  - 32x compact disc read-only memory drive
  - DirectX 8.0 compatible sound card
  - 56 kbps the Internet connection the handicap on-line play
 
  
  Recommended the system requirements:
  
  - 512 MB of OF FRAMES
  - 2.0 Ghz CPU
  - 128 MB 3D the video card
  
  Age of Empires III is impatiently the waited continuation of 
 one from most celebrated series of strategic games , called the queen of the strategy of the real 
 time (RTS) . The new part will transfer players to times of the colonization both Americas, into 
 years 1500-1850. Their task will be the conquest of the New World and the assurance of the stability 
 to new possessions. Outside the fictional change , Age of Empires III introduces the row of technical 
 novelties: The communication with the capital European, the new system of the fight, new civilizations 
 to the exploration, at random generated maps to the conquest and revolutionary as on standards 
 RTS the graphic art.
  Screenplays which will appear on, embrace events from times described in the enlargement Age of 
 Empires 2: Age of Kings for the era of the intensive industrialization. This means that the possibility 
 of the participation in lasting near three hundred years the process of the colonization. It is 
 connected with organizing of expeditions to the New World and with the exploration of America, 
 not necessarily in tinned goods, and also with the conquest of Africa and with the sightseeing 
 of warm and cold seas.
  Authors of the programme say that they had no choice, that they had to decide just on this period 
 of history. Firstly, they wanted to continue the series impromptu logical, and secondly, did not 
 want to clutch on the turn. Years 1500-1800 in which to go on will be Age of Empires 3, are in 
 fact similar enough to preceding ages. Game begins with almost the same individuals what in Age 
 of Empires 2, eg. with archers or with pikemen. The description eg. the first world war would demand 
 a lot greater changes, in the appearance of units, and in the tactics. Besides with the essential 
 element Age of Empires 3 has to be well-known with Civilization the exploration of the map and 
 establish new cities.
  Of course it will not lack changes. There will be accessible eight civilizations, among other things 
 Spaniard, Italians, the French and Englishmen. Every from the nation will gain specific for himself 
 the individual and certain facilities. Screenplays will lie into the campaign and they will connect 
 historic elements with fictitious. The tournament will become changed, the meaning of the economy, 
 strategy and the realism onfields of battles will increase. Over time new individuals and new curtal-axes 
 will appear, while the artillery - opposed to Age of Mythology - will be used also on the battlefield, 
 not only during sieges.
  The graphic vestment of the programme went over pretty big changes. The engine uses effects DirectX 
 9.0, various lightings and the high grade of the texture. His advantage are also special procedures 
 making real look of water or world physics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reallife_batman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I did not follow Age 3's development, until it was released I wasn't that interested in it. Once 
 it was installed and running however that was a different story. The gameplay captures what makes 
 the Age series great and amps it up even more. The singleplayer campaign is huge, difficult and 
 entertaining.
  Graphically it is like an RTS with FPS graphics, soft shadows, HDR Bloom, full physics... all these 
 qualities are usually only for the FPS genre but not more. This game is a joy to view.
  Sound could be better, battles are nice sounding but for all its FPS throwbacks... where are my 
 men's screams as they die? It would've been a nice touch for the fully zoomed in mode.
  The multiplayer is enjoyable, and competitive. Even without multiplayer this game could easily 
 last half a year on your hard drive before you even consider uninstalling it. This game is one 
 of the better RTS games of recent years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calboa
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 12:11 pm PT
Review:  I would say that Age of Empires 3 lives up to the previous 2 games in the series. The graphics 
 are good when you look at the previous games and there are aspects of it which well surpass 1 & 
 2. The best part of the graphics are the cannons and the ships because when the cannonball hits 
 trees or units it knocks them out of the way. 
  
  The game play is fast and can lag on slower computers but it is vital you keep resources up. The 
 guns add new things to the game as you can't just have one massive unit of guys which go out and 
 obliterate the enemy.
  
  The music is basically 2's but it is improved a lot so it feels more colonial. SFX are great as 
 well.
  
  This game is well worth the money so if I were you I'd go and buy it NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illdanelf
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 10:18 pm PT
Review:  It should be known by now that I've been a fan of the Age games from way back. There's just something 
 about the historical nature of the games that appeals to me. To be fair, I think elves and space 
 marines are neat too, but I think it's more exciting to explore the what ifs of real, historical 
 situations. Though not quite as faithful to "reality" as some strategy games, the first two Age 
 games offered us exciting sojourns into the worlds of "capital A" Ancient and Medieval strategy. 
 The third title, Age of Mythology, proved that the mechanics were just as solid even if the historical 
 inspiration was a little loose. 
  
  Now Ensemble is back on the history train with the third official Age of Empires game. Age of Empires 
 III moves the action to the New World, letting players lead a variety of European nations from 
 the Age of Discovery through the Industrial Age. Eight playable nations battle across a wide variety 
 of geographies -- from the swamps of Florida to the snowy passes of the Rocky Mountains. Players 
 can recruit different Native American tribes and seize control of various trade routes. Material 
 and technological support will be offered by the player's home city back in Europe. 
  
  The 24-mission campaign is very well designed. Divided into three large acts, it tells the story 
 of three generations of the Black family. First Morgan Black, a Knight of St. John races to the 
 New World to stop the Spanish from seizing a powerful natural wonder. Next, Morgan's grandson John 
 and his Native American allies find themselves in the Seven Year's War. The final act shows John's 
 granddaughter Amelia as the head of a railroad company making their way west. 
  
  I won't spoil the particulars of the story here but a common quest and a common enemy unite all 
 three acts. The connections aren't always clear at first, but the associations start to build as 
 the game goes on. Putting the pieces together isn't terribly hard but it gives a nice sense of 
 purpose to the whole game and keeps you invested in the action. 
  
  While we're talking about the game's story, it's refreshing to see a game that covers this era 
 of warfare without referencing either Napoleon or the American Revolution. While both are fertile 
 ground for strategy game developers, it's nice to get something a little different this time around. 
 Meeting Washington and Bolivar and taking part in the Seven Year's War adds a little authenticity 
 as well as variety. On the other hand, some of the choices -- like finding Russians in Colorado 
 -- may leave gamers scratching their heads in wonder. 
  
  The range of missions is pretty broad. There are plenty of defense missions where you have to protect 
 a given structure or a whole town from enemy assault. In other cases you'll have to destroy or 
 capture key structures. Along the way there are plenty of other objectives: rescuing captured settlers, 
 seizing trading posts, liberating Native American settlements and a whole host of other tasks. 
 Better still, many missions combine a variety of these objectives at once. While most of the missions 
 let you build a base and start collecting resources, there are some missions where you have to 
 make do with a set number of troops. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: erlinghm
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 1:36 pm PT
Review:  In this presentation Microsoft show us a good looking game that has a lot of new features in the 
 "age of empires world", a nice scenarios, detailed textures, also nice music, but in a few words 
 , but it seems a lot of age of mythologies too. and its nice to have a town to build up but what 
 about the formations of the troops , etc. its just a cople of things that microsoft had to improve, 
 the rest of the game has its moments. A good thing seems to be the old world supply and the improvements 
 that U can make to your city ( it does not has a very changing aparience when u jump from an age 
 to other 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YSpork
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 28, 2005 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The fact that there are special units for each country is great. I havn't 
 been a fan of Age of Empires until i heard about this, I got it a couple weeks after it came out 
 and I was blown away.
  
  And something amazing is when someone shoots a cannon you see the cannon ball fly down the hill, 
 splash snow, and make a splash in the water is awesome. The Ships are great. A normal game of 1 
 vs 1 might last 10 minutes - 2 hours depending on how well someone does in the game.
  You can make a battle 2 hours longer by having a map with water. Then you have to worry about building 
 ships and having a navy.
  
  Al in all I'm extremely pleased with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dante_spar
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 9:46 am PT
Review:  The was good in a lot of aspects but it really lacked variety. The prevoius AOE's i really enjoyed 
 i think AOE2 is better than this one . But for all fans of AOE this is a must the graphics are 
 great and the sounds is really awesome for this genre. Well the stages lack the lenght and difficulty 
 ,the prevoius ones were tougher and it was totally addictive .This one is good but not as good 
 as teh previous ones. But one thing is that this one is a lot different to play than its before 
 installments. I would say that its a must for fans and those who have not tried any AOE to definitely 
 try this one. So it is not a total disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nealske
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is even more than I thought. When first getting the game, I was looking forward 
 to something much like Age of Empires II, which I spent many hours playing. Age of Empires III 
 does give the edge in graphics, the water is beautiful (I heard they had at least 1 person working 
 on water effects only, which a lot can get done when that's the only factor you are working on.) 
 The physics and effects of cannon fire are brilliant. One of my favorite things about this game 
 is the destructable objects, where cannons actually blow off chunks of buildings directly where 
 they were hit, and trees fall over when artillary hits them.
  
  This game does indeed come from the Age of Empires II perspective of building a small colony, and 
 building it up into a war city. The advancements and upgrades are exactly like Age of Empires II, 
 which many people loved. Age III has even more, though, with the 3D effects, brilliant graphics, 
 and units that are actually scaled to size. Remember in Age II when a villager was taller than 
 a house, and war ships looked as if they would sink when 1 unit jumped on board? Well in Age III, 
 the buildings are to scale, as are the ships too, ( the largest of ships are fairly massive, large 
 enough to transport an entire army in.) One of the best add-on to the series is the Home City, 
 where your city of your race sends shipments to your colony. Ex. German civilization recieves shipments 
 from Berlin, Europe. You name your Home City whatever you want, so your not limited to a single 
 city. Also, gaining experience in the game builds up your Home City, much like an RPG. The more 
 experience you recieve when doing games online or even single player, the better of shipments your 
 Home City you can choose. You also choose customizations for your Home City to make it unique. 
 Overall, the Home City is the most important thing you need for your new colony. And again, shipments 
 are key for strong cities. Whether it's a couple villagers you need for resources, or a fort to 
 be shipped for more defense, your Home City can ship it. 
  
  One of the best things about all of the Age of Empires games are their multiplayer compatibility. 
 Age III delevers exactly what you want in a multiplayer game, as did all of it's predecessors. 
 Online play is difficult though, where versing the computer is very different from playing a real 
 player. You learn a lot in multiplayer, and I say it's the best thing about this game.
  
  All in all, Age Of Empires III contains all of the fun of Age II, and more with graphics, physics, 
 and unique units. You don't even need the best video card to play it (although if you do have the 
 best video card, get this game!) options let you play the game as smooth as your video card goes. 
 I have a GeForce 5200, so I recommend video cards of better quality than that for good in game 
 graphics. This is truly a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: empion
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I love the graphic. It very appealing.
  Gameplay: I like the home city thing. It keep player to keep playing to advance the city level, 
 but the game play have not much to offer it still the same as the old Age of Empire. I when i organize 
 troop to attack they akll move at the same speed as the slowest unit, it suck, i can not catch 
 up to my opponent attacking you towncenter. Also ESO have some problem with playing online so you 
 might not always get to play online anytime you want. (8.5/10)
  
  Graphic: I have nothing to say but the graphic it just to real, so great. (10/10)
  
  Sound: 
 The sound it pretty good. I have no problem with it. Except soemtime it just stop for few minutes 
 and then it start again. Also when you play online you are most likely not going to hear it when 
 you in the lobby. As well as soemeimes playing. (8/10)
  
  Control: I do not like the control system much. When I organize an army it sometimes accidently 
 have citizens in it. There not much strategies in this game. It hard for me to put troop facing 
 the side i want. (8/10)
  
  Story Line: It pretty good. I was in to it, always wondering what going to happen next. Though 
 not that in to it . (9/10)
  
  Overall I give it 8.7 ( Ignore the ATTRIBUTE, I rated this different.)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elaphander89
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III has new graphics but same ole gameplay. I read an article that said AoE 3 will 
 feature a new combat engine in which the AI will attack u based on your formation. well the problem 
 is they dont, especially since when you attack your units fan out thus making it a huge blob of 
 units fighting one another. The era it takes place in is the colonial, in which combat was formation 
 based, as you may have seen in games like Rome: Total War and Cossacks. AoE should have used full 
 formation rather than individual units, thus making this game more realistic and orderly. Ships 
 and artillery are surely the best units. Ships are huge, majestic boats lined with cannons on its 
 sides, and some can even train units. Artillery cause mass damage. Buildings break apart from siege 
 attack. Still the action is very sloppy, so i cannot really recommend it, unless your a huge fan 
 of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halfbloodking
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:22 pm PT
Review:  The game is absolutely horrible. It would have been a great game had it come out the same year 
 as mythology. Don't believe the hype because this game is disheartening. The graphics are terrible 
 compared to games such as Rome Total War. I was expecting at least some improvements in game structure 
 and graphics, but unfortunately there is none. Not only that, but the main characters come across 
 as cartoon characeters that are giants in comparison to other units. This game had so much potential 
 what with the Trilogy, but it was laid to waste. Anyone who wastes there hard earned money on this 
 I seriously pity. Unfortunately I spent one hour on this game, that's one hour I will never get 
 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 921monkey
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 9:46 am PT
Review:  kewlnjfgiufg fdn giu df kjf i dfsoi fofgs ofdoj idfi foif groji dfoi gf oifg ofdjfgoi gfojfd gfilgf 
 fd ofdij fgdoi fdoijeroifd oifdglkfd jgggggggggggggg  
 ggggggggggggggggggggg ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg gggggggggggggg ggggggggg ggg gggg g g g g g 
 g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g f f f f f f f f f f f f fd f f f f f f f f f f 
 f f f f f f f f l k v ojb ovdkbni ufvgbnfi uhgnisdu fjfioujgf fkjgn fdiuhg dfi098t fdijgof djogijgocih 
 pfgoh p0ki gh9fidj gho idfj ogiouj fdo [i tgf idj goi fdj klgo f0digo ifdogifd gj odfijg hoifo igjfihggoijoi 
 hfgiihg jgfijgfijgfiljgofijgp9 gfopiugjofgdgfojgfoi gf jhgoijfd9ui fgjfgoi ugdf hjfgufg hfgjfdi 
 jfgvjkf hfgij fgjugf ifgjn hgfijfg ifgd uifd f mf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VladCatrina
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2005 6:53 am PT
Review:  When I first bought AoE 3, I didn`t like it at all! My settings made the game look awfull and slow. 
 I played a bitt and I was beggining to like it. After my settings were better and I had an upgrade, 
 the game`s graphical issues were minor. Now I was playing the real AoE 3.
  The campaign is very nice. It`s possible, it can be finished on any difficulty (although I didn`t 
 even finish it on moderate because I didn`t like to wait) and the story is interesting. The heroes 
 are interesting figures and when watching cutscenes you`re likely to sit back and admire the show.
 
  Well, Ensemble`s bragging about "the greatest environments ever" is 3/4 true. Every map is unique 
 in it`s own way, but the maps are too few! You will play on every map before you know it! The natives 
 add a bit to skirmish tactics, but they seem more like slaves. You can actually "tame" them with 
 just 250 wood. Lame!
  It is interesting too see all nations and experiment with each one`s advantages and disadvantages. 
 Although they are unbalanced, a good gamer will always play well with all of them. For example, 
 I like playing with the Portugese, the weakest.
  And, finally, the Home City. A farely interesting feature, mainly because it encourages you to 
 play on. You can send shipments made up of upgrades, soldiers, mercenaries, resources, and other 
 things. It is challenging to choose which shipment you send. You gain experience for the Home City 
 like in a RPG.
  I`ve mentioned the main features above. I don`t want to ruin the surprise. If you are a RTS fan 
 and have at least a passing interest in the colonial period, buy it. Believe me, it`s worth it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSL27
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2005 5:41 am PT
Review:  AOE III is about the best RTS on the market right now with the new features of it and the many 
 differences I can see how it could be and is. When I first got this game I was very disappointed. 
 It lacked every thing I hoped it would have, like medieval warfare and unique special units. I 
 soon thought I would never play this game again because I was so disappointed, but I soon saw what 
 this game really had to offer with the campaign and the scenario builder I was soon back on track 
 and playing again. Trust me I won't be stopping anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigbic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:27 am PT
Review:  I must say that I have been partial to the real-time strategy games for a long time but lately 
 have found myself shying away from the genre. I was a bit reluctant to pick up AOE: III but have 
 not regretted it one bit since. AOE: III takes everything I liked about the earlier versions and 
 doesn't mess them up (which is always a good thing) and even adds to them. First of all, I love 
 the time period the game takes place in. The mix of gunpowder and swords and shields during the 
 infancy of the gun makes me very nostalgic for the old SSI title, War Game Construction Set III: 
 Age of Rifles. The addition of a "home city" makes the game feel a bit more realistic. As your 
 game progresses, you earn the ability to receive shipments of good, soldiers, and upgrades from 
 home. As you progress, so to does your home city, graphically any way. Speaking of graphics, they 
 are no slouch here. Everything is rendered quite beautifully although you'll need a powerful PC 
 to appreciate the game at it's fullest. I have a Geforce 6600 GT with an AMD Athlon 64 3000+ and 
 the graphics are awesome and the game runs nicely but the movies seem to skip every now and then 
 (nothing bothersome though) . With the graphics settings cranked up, you'll be hard pressed to find 
 a better looking game in the genre. The water effects, complete with splashing and jumping fish 
 and whales, are terrific. Leaves on trees sway in the wind and cast realistic shadows. Units are 
 destinctive and detailed. Again, graphically, it's a real winner. Gameplay is as it has been. If 
 you like RTS games, and especially if you are a fan of the series, you'll have a lot to love here. 
 The mechanics are the same as any RTS, collect resources, build up a home base so you can build 
 an army and the proceed to wipe the enemy off the map but a few curve balls have been thrown in 
 though. Every RTS has map bonuses but AOE: III has "protected" map bonuses that you'll have to fight 
 for. You can also enlist the help of natives (depending on what campaign and mission your playing) 
 for special units that can be aquired quickly or for special unit upgrades. The AI is tougher then 
 normal for this type of game too. The campaigns are okay to good but of course there is the usual 
 sandbox mode. The game sound is probably the weakest part of the game. The in-game sound effects 
 like explosions and such are just fine as are the ambient sounds. The music is very good too, not 
 to noticable (or memorable for that matter) but the dialog is a bit over the top and canned. All 
 in all, its a terrific outing for a great series that any RTS fan should have in their collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrobunny
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:29 am PT
Review:  it juz plain sux when i cant install on my win2k machine. wtf.... the developers aim too high i 
 say. not everyone's on xp, dun they ever consider dat? xp sux too anyway that's y im on win2k. 
 sad to say that AOE3 is right down there. when it cant even run on older OSes implies what? plain 
 laziness? wats up wif xp anyway? my win2k hd runs far better than my xp hd. i never installed games 
 on xp, bad experience, its oni good for word processing lol. i cant even play the game to get a 
 proper review, darn it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsalas8148
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:20 am PT
Review:  I really like this game. I could not believe the graphics. Very detailed. The sound is also very 
 good. I loved the water effects and the animations of characters. One of my favorite parts is when 
 they chop wood and the tree gets nocked down, the screen kind of trembles from the fallen tree, 
 which gives you an idea of how heavy it is. Not difficult to learn. It took me aprox 30 min to get 
 the hang of it. I Very hard to put down once you start. I have not tried the multiplayer side yet, 
 but I guess it will be very challenging. Loading times are also ver decent. The version I bought 
 came with 3 cd's. I would of preferred a DVD version, that way I do not have to swap out cd's. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stagathe
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 22, 2005 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is an amazing game, somewhat basic but still fun to play. Now those who only played 
 the demo and think it just sucks, don't be fooled by the demo because it sucks. I thought age of 
 empires 3 was going to be boring when I first tried out the demo, but turns out that I got addicted.
 
  
  I don't know why but I feel that this game is concentrated on only 1 guy. Even though the game 
 was made to be a game that you explore the new world. 
  
  Now the thing I hate completely and I thought they would of fixed, Population, only 200 and some 
 units takes up to 4 place. What the hell is that? If you like a strategy game that you have more 
 than 500 units, don't buy this because it is very minimal regarding armies and cities. We have 
 limits of towers and ships, not a good thing....
  
  No random maps which is boring...
  
  At first when I noticed there was only 3 recourses, I was like what is this, but turns out 
 that I don't mind and I like it that way. 
  
  Building decks to recieve packages was unreal. How can you receive so fast things that come from 
 Europe. It was unreal but I like it anyways.
  
  I liked the campaigns, they were a lot of fun but I found them short.
  
  Graphics were amazing, 
 very very good graphics, they really pulled it off.
  
  For people who like STRATEGY and not BASIC STRATEGY games with small armies and small cities, this 
 is not the game for you.
  
  I hope there is an expansion pack, soooo many things to be added and fixed in this game, but it 
 remains a good game that I recommend you to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotplayer220
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2005 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Mircrosoft and Ensemble Studio's bringing you the third installment of the successful Age of Empire's 
 series. This game brings you only the best in fun and action. The game will have you hooked once 
 you watch the opening trailer.
  
  The game in general runs fairly smooth. Graphics are no problem. There is a powerful statistics section 
 that tracks your progress.
  
  Many of the historical events that you work your self through are very believable and keep you 
 fully involved. Once you have conquered the campaign mode you can change the level or difficulty 
 or head over to ESO Online /LAN play.
  
  Online play has to be one of the strongest points of this game. You can create calns, and interact 
 with other members. Stats are fully tracked so you may always compare your progress to others. The 
 two game modes Online are great fun so you will never get bored.
  
  Problems??? ESO has some bugs onve and a while.... No biggie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mminas
Rating: 4.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 1:37 am PT
Review:  This was not what I expected and I am even sorry to try it. AoE I was even much better from this. 
 The ages are not as good as it might be. Empire Earth II was better for me. Making a 3D game is 
 not so important. Units were also not sufficient. Maps are so small.
  In my opinion, Microsoft is preparing to make an expansion pack, because this can not be the real 
 game.
  In addition to these, Ottomans' flag is not true. The flag used in game as Ottoman flag is the 
 Turkeys' flag. Ottoman Empire and Turkish Republic is not same. Shame on Microsoft, they have a 
 huge marketing in Turkey and they do not know their flag (!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christian111
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:56 pm PT
Review:  this game has extreamly good gameplay and is the game for the avid rts player. i got this game 
 bcause i was bored and had some extra cash, the graphics arentgood at all but it is an older game 
 so i guess you cant compare to the games of today. the sound gets really repetitvie, however good 
 it is it has to have some changes in it. the campeighn i found very enjoyable not too hard while 
 not too easy. the freeform aspect (no mission) is a lot of fun but the ai isnt all that great so 
 it can be easy to win at times. i recomned this game to avid rts players only people looking to 
 try it out for the first time should go for starcraft which i may say is by far the best rts i 
 have ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battousai188
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires has been one of my personal favorite of RTS games. Their single player as well as 
 multiplayer never cease to surprise and amaze. Though this age of empires takes place in a more 
 modern era fomr 1600s to 1800s and kind of lost some of it's roots from the previous two it sill 
 keeps a strong value. The game is deffinatly worth a pick up from anyone who was a fan of the previous 
 two, that is if you have a beefy system to run this system hog, which is one of it's only disadvantages... 
 But it seems the only place this game can go is making an almost Empire Earth version of it which 
 runs through all ages or a modern version. None the less the series holds strong and is great fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lockard34
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 3:10 pm PT
Review:  i have played alot of games for the computer but i got to sa that this is one of the best computer 
 games iv ever played the graphics rock and the gameplay action is the best but the only thing bad 
 about the game is that it needs alot of power and a powerful computer i got the game and it gave 
 me a list of stuff i needed for the computer so that it would play properly and i spent about 100$ 
 in upgrades for the game so if you ever play this game then i would suggest reading the needs for 
 the game before you by it don't be like me and wait until you get it to find out that it needs 
 lot of stuff but other then that the graphics are awsome and so is the gameplay and the campian 
 mode is the bomb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: excaliburblade
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 1, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires (AoE) started battling primitive tribes (circa 3000 B. C.) and progressed through 
 the ages from primitive man to colonial America, Age of Empires III (The French and Indian War) . 
 Age of Empires III does not cover as broad a time line as the other games, but it does offer a 
 completely new view on military strategy and colonial management. The predecessors of Age of Empires 
 III offered a large variety of civilizations, maps, a diverse online multiplayer and multiple single 
 player campaigns. Yet the games before this didn't require as much strategic thinking and planning. 
 In the other AoE you could easily just mass produce one or two units and then overrun an entire 
 city by using wave after wave. Age of Mythology attempted to vary this game play and add a little 
 more strategic planning than AoE by incorporating actual unit combat types (myth units, god powers, 
 ect.) and heroes. Some users didn't like that approach because they thought it made the game suck, 
 but that is just because they aren't a hardcore strategy gamer. If they were they would appreciate 
 the realism and combat adaptively allowed by that type of game play (the fact that you actually 
 have to know what you are doing to play the game) . Age of Empires III provides us with a look into 
 colonial America - The New World. I read a bunch of user reviews about Age of Empires III and a 
 lot of users were saying they were disappointed in the game. I took a look at the screen shots 
 and from the sheer visual graphics of the game I was thinking what are they expecting if they are 
 disappointed? I mean honestly, the freaking trees shed leaves!! The graphics are visually stunning 
 and hence require a high graphics card, the only way this game could be less than amazing graphically 
 is if you fail to have an optimal video card (I do not have an optimal video card so the game lags 
 a little, but its still amazing) . The sounds of AoE III are realistic, the music is great (personally, 
 I think Rise of Rome had the best music) , the game play is unique and innovative. Age of Empires 
 III game play was what differed in the user reviews I read. Some users loved it, others hated it. 
 Those who loved it appreciated the new game strategies they would need to adapt. The same strategies 
 that worked in AoE did not work in AoE II (you can't mass produce infantry and swarm towers without 
 massive losses) and the same applies to now. Users complained about tower limitations and naval 
 limitations and some even complained about population limitations (Durrr!!) . If AoE III did not 
 limit towers, which can be increased with the new Home City Deck System - because you are a freaking 
 colony) then attacking another colony would be who could mass the most mortars and take out the 
 most buildings (once again crippling the point of strategy) . Why build troops when you can build 
 a hundred towers? I was caught off-guard at first about the unit limit on certain types and then 
 I realized why you were given a limit. You are a colony of that civilization, not an empire (hence 
 when you lose a battle - You abandon your COLONY) . I have grown to appreciate the unit limit on 
 certain unit types, that way the game will not be a game of mass production of the strongest naval 
 ships or factory siege units, but of strategy superiority and troop management.
  Since you are a colony, you have a Home City. Your home city is what it says - your city of origin. 
 At the start of each game, you have a colony and your home city (which you can customize visually 
 and level up) . Each home city has a deck of supply cards for each age (up to 20) . You can use a 
 deck per game and expand your deck with additional cards and edit each deck accordingly after every 
 battle. The key to victory is a well devised strategy, unit production and resource management. 
 You also must manage your home city shipments carefully because some cards can only be used once 
 or twice while others can be used indefinitely. Colonies can also subjugate the local natives. 
 Depending on the map (unfortunately there aren't as many as the previous games) , determines which 
 tribes will be available for subjugation. Each tribe can provide you with additional units (the 
 number varies depending on the tribal) as well as upgrades for your civilization. The tribes can 
 even give you new naval units (almost all naval units can be used as transports) . It is blatantly 
 obvious that the game play is truly finely detailed and the graphics are very impressive. I recommend 
 it to anyone who loves history and likes to actually strategically plan in a real time strategy 
 game (if you prefer just to mass one really powerful unit then this probably is not the game for 
 you) . Happy Gaming. Adieu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R_Guardian2000
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I am personally a HUGE age of empires fan, I played AOE and AOE II and fell in love with the series, 
 particularly AOE II. AOE III adds a very unique perspective that is amazingly refreshing. The Home 
 City System is a great way to encourage replay value, since you can only get cards when you level 
 the home city up. With my favorite civ, the French, I have gotten to level 26 and have several 
 unique and powerful cards.
  
  Okay now here's the downside, the online play is very buggy, since it goes through ESO Online. 
 I never like ESO Online, very hard to access, when I play AOE II it goes through the Microsoft 
 Zone, the Zone worked well without any huge problems, I could even play online over dial-up! But 
 on ESO it just doesn't work. 
  
  So to summarize
  Offline: Excellent, creative home city system sparks a great new way to play RTS, the series is 
 a masterpiece
  Online: Buggy, Unplayable at times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stogies
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 2:27 pm PT
Review:  After being hooked on the first two AOE titles and after the strong titles being released in this 
 genre, I had high hopes for this title. Ensemble Sutdios has earned a place in many gamers heart, 
 and rightly so. Why is this title so anit-climatic then? Sure it's a beautiful looking game but 
 who needs another bimbo when there are so many titles with looks and brains. Storyline:
  Considering the material they had to work with (the conquest and building of North America) you 
 would think there might be some sort of epic feel to it all. Not only is the single player story 
 line devoid of any historical intrest or battles, it is repetitive. Battlling pikeman on the wild-west 
 is also a little dorky. Combat: The battles are mostly a mess. No advanced controls or formations. 
 Other games are doing it much better, why not another benchmark from Ensemble. 
  Lastly, how about some age apropriate weapons. The native units are lackluster and courier du bois 
 as farmers? How about a friggin canoe? Instead we have long-bows vs. remingtons and pikeman fighting 
 alonside the railroad tracks. 
  From anyone else a nice attempt, coming from Ensemble it's a real lacklustre title. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dahui58
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2005 5:50 am PT
Review:  When I stepped out of GAME with Age of Empires in my hand, i could'nt believe that the thin plastic 
 box in my hand was what i'd been waiting for since Age of Empires 2. When I got to my house, i 
 installed it straight away and started playing. At first I didn't really enjoy it, as I thought 
 it was just the same as the demo i downloaded. But when I got used to it, I had trouble taking 
 my hand off the mouse! In short, this game rocks! It's a great addition to the series and I am 
 now completely hooked! It's just so amazing and addictive. When I first found out about the home 
 city feature i was worried about what it would do to the game. But know I've tried it out I really 
 like it and it makes the game even more addictive as I want to go on the game and level up my home 
 city again and again and again and again...................... and so on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterpapas
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 19, 2005 3:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is not what  expected it to be. Although the graphics and the sound is great overall 
 the game i give it a 7. I expected a few more civilizations and much more maps with open terrain. 
 I dont like the fact of native tribes in every map. You cant build enough towers or ships. The 
 towers dont even do much damage on infantry or artillery. t enough game type options, 
 as in age of empires 2 conqueres. No regicide ect.... I hope their will be an expansion pack that 
 adds alot more to the game than what it is. Its bad enough Age of mythology was terrible but this 
 game please too much hype for nothing. I still say Age of Empires 2 and the conqueres is much better. 
 The campaigns were fun though although historically incorrect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlandcarl
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 12:38 am PT
Review:  This game is yet again a great game, I have played all the other age of empire games even the expansion 
 packs and it has just goteen better and better. The added features in this game like you get somethign 
 for free every time you go into the next age.
  
  The graphics are revbolutionary as well as the gameplay is very nice indeed. The first time I played 
 it and I saw the graphics of thed ships I was amazed at how well detailed it was. Also when you 
 got to the last age you could somethign that I think was called a fortified fort and it looked 
 amazing it shot cannonballs out of it and when the cannonballs hit the floor it made big crater 
 and it could kill all the enemies around it in one hit. So the gameplay is made more realistic 
 then the other bedcause in the other games it would take 5 cannonballs just to kill one man, but 
 now you can kill 5 men with 1 cannonball.
  
  A game that is worth getting because it never starts to bore you even though you finished the story 
 mode.
  
  though if you have not played any of the earlier AOE games then it might be hard to get used to 
 how you play the game, but when you know how to play it, it trully is the best strategy game ever 
 made 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firestroll
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2005 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Is it just me or is this game identical to AOE 2?
  
  Let's skip this right away, the graphics are fine, so is the idea of a home-city, and the physics 
 are a great addition. 
  
  But simply put, there is no difference between AOE 2, Mythology and 3. It's the same dull combat. 
 Don't get me wrong, I was a hardcore AOE fan right up to number 3, but I've had enough. Doesen't 
 it just seem that whoever has the bigger army, or more canons will win the battle. No matter how 
 good a strategist you are, there is no escaping the fact that whether you flank, or rear or break 
 them in two, if they are more, they will win. It's not a question of brains, simply logistics.
 
  
  I can't believe that RTS these days don't pick up where the Total War series is today. Morale and 
 real militairy strategy can make every battle unique. 
  
  AOE 3, no matter how they have changed the civilisations, the maps, the units, the graphics, still 
 remains fundamentaly the same as it's predesessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 2.4
Date: Nov 18, 2005 7:20 pm PT
Review:  mediocre graphic- worse then AoE2, nothing new in game play, sound virtually identical to the previous 
 version, its boring, i rater play AoE2 then this, animations like from years back, units get stuck 
 on each other, they wont get out of the way when needed, even AoE1 this was solved, the ship is 
 moving like it was sliding on ice, even on the highest graphical level the graphic is ugly - its 
 no fun to look at it especially animated, not to talk about the issue that my p4-3.1ghtz 2gig ram 
 and 256mb NVIDIA card it only works acceptable on lower settings - what kind of coding is that?!? 
 The list goes on and on, its a definite downgrade to both previous versions, DONT buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sooske_pa_talay
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 18, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  as i mention above it doesn't work!!! some thing missing.... you know age of empures 3 is good game 
 for strategy players but there is noting new in aoe3? yes i know it has a home city you can send 
 lots of thing from your capital but it cant change what i want to say, age of empires 3 doesnt 
 invovle new thing ... the gameplay is just like an old strategy games.. like age of empires 2 ,there 
 is no revolution in this game. when you play Dawn of War ypu really injoy because it change the 
 method of rts a lot.
  But age of empires 3 has a amazing graphic. great presentation ,so if you are a real time strategy 
 fan you have to play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltimateKilla
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2005 12:31 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard that a new Age of Empires was being released I was thrilled. Having played them 
 since I was 6 I knew I would love the new one. 
  
  First of all the first thing I noticed when I started up the game was the graphics. Wow, defiantly 
 some of the best I've seen for a this type of genre (besides Total War Rome, kickass game) . Also 
 I love the addition of the home tome, it has saved my butt from quite a few close defeats. Also 
 its nice that when you collect supplies you dont need a collection point like a mine or a mill.
 
  
  Speaking of buildings, I love how they made them in actual proportions with the units. One thing 
 you can REALLY notice is the scaling of the ships. No longer is your artillery half 3/4 of the 
 size of the transport ship.
  
  So all in all, it's a great game if you like these types of games. It does require patients and 
 smooth thinking just like any other strategy game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xicomacho
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 10:09 am PT
Review:  A new game strategy with lots of new units and the best sound that i ever eared a "9.7" point ,i 
 think this game is revolutionary not just because is a 3d strategy game but because it teaches 
 the history of the independence of USA!!!!!!!!!!
  I would like to know how many cheats and missions did it have to when i have it i play them all.
 
  Age of Empires III as superate games like empire earth 2 , gta and for me the best game before 
 ao3 ( halo 2 ) .
  My icon will be the hat of the musketeers
  Excellent game Microsoft 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fkutrn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 10:06 am PT
Review:  After long nights with Empire Earth and waitig for the 2nd one to come out I was alittle skeptic 
 about AOE. But glad to say I was wrong, I downloaded the demo and was hooked. The graphics are 
 some of the best I have ever seen for a RTS and the game play is amazing. Although on easy difficulty 
 levels it is nothing but a cake walk, with horrible AI and seemingly quick to give up opponents, 
 the real fun is in the moderate to expert settings. The different styles for the different leaders 
 makes you fee like your really up against the actual world leaders of the time. Though in all its 
 glory the game has it's flaws..
  
  First there is the create a map, overly difficult to navigate and a complete lack of instructions 
 make the tool almost useless. If you do happen to get the map the way you want it, good luck getting 
 any AI response or getting the triggers to work. And far most although the game is very true to 
 history the native american interactions are way off, if it were that easy to make an alliance 
 then our fore fathers would have had a lot easier time. And not just on the American side of it... 
 I mean I don't think that the Carib's would have been very easy to buddy up with considering they 
 were strong cannibals. 
  
  But minor historical errors and random frame rate lag the game is definitely worth the money and 
 if you love RTS like I do then you will be undoubted hooked!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StMalice
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 8:20 am PT
Review:  The game is pretty flexible without needing a big upgrade. Kind difficult getting used to playing 
 on a widescreen monitor, but the game play is superb. It's tough, but not to the point of making 
 people want to quit. 
  
  One thing I'm sort of growing tired of in some games is the feeling that there is more to come. 
 Like Age of Empires III: Dawn of Mediocrity or whatever. However, as weak a downfall this is to 
 the game isn't really saying much. It's that good. 
  
  One thing a lot of game companies can learn from this release. It's not just pretty to look at, 
 it's down right fun. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigmason71
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 18, 2005 2:43 am PT
Review:  I brought this game on the understanding that it was a vast improvement on age of empires 2 but 
 what a dissapointment it was the graphics were good but that was the only good thing about it in 
 my opinion. The gameplay was terrible as you only follow the black family throuout the game unlike 
 age of empires 2 were you follow 4 different cultures througout the game .in my opinion i would 
 give this game a miss as its not worth the money. Why microsoft could not have stuck with age of 
 empires 2 and improved this game i do not no as age of empires 2 was an exellent game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me2u2
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  While the graphics and playability updates are very well and good, halfway into the scenarios, 
 I felt like loading Age of Mythology - The Titans to get my AOE fix.
  
  The graphics are really good, and the naval battles are brutal, but I didn't make it through the 
 scenarios before I began feeling the 'been there, done that' that has cursed my AOE experience.
 
  
  I do really enjoy the Home City deliveries, and the gatherer update that no longer requires the 
 gather to have to return home before their riches can be spent... Very nice updates.
  
  Nice is about all I can say about this title.
  
  Ok, I do have a gripe with online play, and 
 the lack of options and custom map playing. I spent some time researching how to build a good scenario/map, 
 and I got it working great with trade routes, scripts, and triggers... It was only then I realized 
 that I couldn't jump online and start sharing my map.
  
  In this day and Age, the developer should have put more thought into online playability. I do not 
 want to go to a million private run websites to download files to manually plug in, only to find 
 out that I need to host a LAN party to get real interaction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gazillion
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 10:19 am PT
Review:  The age of empires series has me hooked from the beginning. But number III is (apart from the good 
 graphics) a little bit MUCH of the same.
  After 5 hours of play, I all ready seen it all. If you don't look at the campaign, the game is 
 just the old one, with beter graphics and some extra units. I think an expansion pack is the word 
 for this game. 
  
  I hope an expansion pack of this game, will bring some really new gameplay and exiting new features. 
 
  
  Thus, the final conclusion is nice game if you never played, age of empires I or II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loika5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:00 am PT
Review:  RTS games have been my favorite genre. So I have played a lot of them starting back in the good 
 old days when the first Command and Conquer game came out. Age of Empires III is the best RTS game 
 I have ever played. I think that just about everything in this game rocks. Graphics are amazing 
 for an RTS game, the game-play is also great. If I had to buy this game again because I lost mine 
 I think that I would definitely do it. This game is just that great. If you don't believe me, and 
 haven't played the game you should just get the demo and see it for yourself. There is only one 
 complaint in the single-player portion of the game. When you turn the setting on hard or hardest 
 I think that the computer opponent artificially is harder (meaning that they start out with more 
 settlers, can build things faster) , either that or I'm just not that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThatGrungeKid18
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 7:36 am PT
Review:  I recently played AOE 3 after my brother bought it. I figured it would be AOE2 with a few add ons, 
 but was totally blown away by the new upgrade system and the amazing detail this game contains. 
 Destroying buildings now consists of shooting them with cannons and watching huge chunks fall and 
 fall off, shooting infantry with a cannon sends them flying backwards, and having a battle at sea 
 leaves bodies floating in the water. I was amazed and addicted to the new style yet familiar feel 
 of AOE. I've always been a so-so fan of AOE but this game has made me a complete UBER FAN of the 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidudeone27
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Being an age of empire fan I couldn't wait for the third one. Its just as I expected. Great graphics, 
 great gameplay, unique units, and so on. There is really nothing more you could want from an RTS 
 game. 
  
  The best feature is the online play and your home cities. The home cities add quite a touch and 
 makes u want to keep playing to improve your city. 
  
  WARNING!!! 
  This game will cause loss of sleep. 
  Yes this game will get you hooked. I pulled an all nighter 
 already.
  
  Overall Age of Empires 3 is worth the money and is a great game. Just as expected.
  
  Another 
 thing to all the people who think Age of Empires 3 is a letdown. The reason AOE3 is really good 
 is because they didn't change it totally. Mostly games who change in their sequel end up being 
 worst than the 1st so i think the game producers did a good job in keeping the AOE feel to the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atarii
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever played Age of Empires or any of the AOE series, you know what to expect. But with 
 that being said.... that's all you get. Nothing new, nothing innovative (the physics engine doesn't 
 count in my opinion) . I was hoping that for $50 Ensemble Studios and Microsoft would bring something 
 different to the genre. They didn't. In all honesty, the game is fun but it certainly isn't worth 
 $50 if you've played any of the others. I think this might be an end to the series if nothing changes. 
 Sure, now it's set in colonial times with different units and civilizations, but the game is practically 
 the same underneath it all. Just not what I had hoped for. This franchise is becoming somewhat 
 like a sports game, were every year a new one is release for $50 with just a few inprovements.... 
 and that's lame and a rip-off! Com'n Microsoft - kick Ensemble Studios' butt into making a better 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shivan2k
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2005 4:44 am PT
Review:  The RTS games started being more and more hybrid lately, as if mixing genres was like creating 
 a new one. I feel that there is lack of innovative ideas in the videogames insdustry lately, apart 
 from great releases of the same old mythological designers, like Sid Meyer, Molineaux and others.
 
  A fact is that the best games lately are CIV 4, Quake 4, Football Manager 2006 (should be number 
 six) and so on.
  Age of Empires 3 is not and exception, this third installment carries on the tradition of one of 
 the most celebrated series in the RTS history, adding few nice new things.
  This will surely be a hype, not for originality, but for the brand and the lack of real options. 
 The only game that is really NEW is The Movies, that I reviewed somewhere else.
  AGE III brings to the story a few new things:
  - It is set in the New World, and this introduces 
 the factor of the aids coming to the colonies you are building from the mother country
  - astounding new graphics
  - difficulty curve more decently set (the old ones were too difficult 
 in my opinion, for the average player)
  
  there are some other things too, but I'd like to point the attention to the storyline.
  It is 
 organized with a more intriguing story, and funny too.
  Sometimes the "pirates" section reminded me Pirates! from the same old great SID.
  As a final 
 synthesis, I'd buy it, but only if you like a standard RTS, and don't expect innovation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 15, 2005 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I am very surprized with AOE III. This game after AOE II which i can't play at all done many changes 
 to be better. 
  Graphic is wonderfull and well put in strategy game and is not interupting as i expected to be.
 
  I like experience measurement in game cause i like RPG's .
  This is revolutionary for this type of games and in online playing you can see players who were 
 spent much time with game and who have much experince.
  Campaign in game is only mistake for me and for me is disturbing.
  I thaught that Iluminati doesn't 
 exist, and even shortcut on desktop is all seeing eye in shape of helm of inquisition (also illuminati 
 product)
  We are following history of hero illuminati refugees from the Malta Knights to pirates (skull and 
 bones) , only part where you can do something with naval units.
  I don't like patern's of improvement in RTS but here we have cards for buildings and we don't have 
 to build same buildings on and on every time we play game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: karlgauci
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 15, 2005 12:55 pm PT
Review:  disapointing game , it lacks in gameplay , brilliant graphics though - Dissapointing , fans of 
 age of empires will love it though the name does not make it brilliant! This is one failed though 
 graphics are not bad!!!
  
  Age of empires games keep repeating on and on and on!!!
  
  Age of empires 1 - Original
  Age of empires 2 -repetitive
  Age of empires 3 - S. O. S (Same old 
 story)
  
  Conclution - Fun at begining but soon gets repetitive! Better luck next time , and by the way if 
 you want to try this one out - wait till it's on bargain! invest your money in a better game!
 
  
  N. B - Age of empires fans will have limited fun in this game , and the campain is unbelivable when 
 you select easy even a 2 year old will pass it and hard - oh man you must be kidding you must continue 
 playing for at least 3 times - unless you are a pro! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duduong
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 15, 2005 8:00 am PT
Review:  AOE and AOE2 have been my favorite game for many years, but the series lost me at AOM. The essence 
 of real-time strategy game is command and control. Going to 3D adds nothing to the gameplay. Instead, 
 in order to show off the 3D effects, the designers often blow up the scale to the point of making 
 command and control difficult. This is exactly what happened with AOM and now with AOE3.
  
  Maybe I am just too old and cerebral. To me, AOE3 should have been a giant, living chess board. 
 Maybe the new graphics style is perfect for kids who grew up on Doom or Half Life, and who now 
 are looking for another type of click-fest. Rise of Nations remains the best real-time strategy 
 game, however, in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: back2earth
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 15, 2005 4:39 am PT
Review:  I was heighly disappointed after playing age of empires 3 . Its the same as age of empire 2 with 
 just a little bit better graphics. the gameplay just like anyother strategy game , its very easy 
 to finish , not like age of empires 2 which was tough .the graphics are so-so . Eight different 
 European civilizations are at the forefront of Age of Empires III, though mercenaries from other 
 foreign nations sort of make cameo appearances, and various Native American tribes are also included. 
 The usual suspects are here, like the British, the French, the Spanish, and the Dutch. The Russians, 
 the Portuguese, the Germans, and the Ottomans are also available, and each has certain key differences 
 in its economy and military leanings. These differences are significant in practice, such as how 
 the British automatically gain additional workers when they build new houses, or how the Russians 
 may quickly train up large numbers of light infantry. But the eight cultures' personalities don't 
 necessarily come across in combat, because most of the units and structures unique to each side 
 aren't so unique as to be highly distinguishable, and many units and structures are shared in common 
 across most sides. There are certainly exceptions -- the Ottomans, with their heavy emphasis on gunpowder, 
 bring to bear some of the biggest and baddest guns in the game, for instance. And, oddly enough, 
 British longbows seem just as surprisingly deadly here as they did in Age II. It's probably just 
 a necessary consequence of the setting, but don't expect for Age III's factions to blow your mind 
 by how different or unusual they are. Fortunately, each one is complex enough and seems viable 
 enough to where it's easy to find an early favorite and want to stick with it. i would recomend 
 you to play the Demo before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00lambm
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 15, 2005 4:16 am PT
Review:  ok, so the new aoe is a big step up from number 2, but does it really offer more than other strategy 
 games out there? i found the lack of units commands, formations etc meant the combat was nowhere 
 near as good as cossacks, and the economic factor of the game is inferior to that of rise of nations. 
 i cant see what it is this game offers that other games dont.... despite the addition of the new 
 home city feature, this offers very little i think its quite frankly a useless addition.
  
  the campaign mode also dissapointed me, i didnt know what to expect, i was hoping for a rise of 
 nations/rome like 'conquor the new world' but instead there are a succession of tedious linear 
 mission. dissapointing.
  
  my last nag... skirmishes. there should have been so many more custom options, they have limited 
 them so that they become reptitive, despite the addition of AI characteristics. 
  
  granted, the game is ok, but i found it never rose above mediocre. a true let-down.
  
  ps. 
 as for graphics i cant comment... i had to put them all down to bottom... (i need to upgrade my pc) 
 but ive been told there good... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rothey3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 14, 2005 11:49 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: AOE III uses the same basic formula as AOE II and AOM with a few pleasant additions. 
 The Home City elements motivates players to balance their campaign play skirmish and online play 
 and makes the player feel more involved in the process as a whole. Your decisions regarding your 
 Home City will make or break your game, and the periodic shipments from the Home City throw in 
 another captivating facet to your overarching strategy. One of the fallbacks in the gameplay, as 
 mentioned in the actual Gamespot review, is the difference (or somewhat lack thereof) between the 
 cultures. In AOM, which only included four civilizations, the differences between a group strengths 
 and units were greatly pronounced. While AOE III may have more civilizations from which to choose, 
 the depth with which these cultures were created seems a little sparse. The units vary from nation 
 to nation, but not enough to give a distinctive 'feel' or personality when choosing a civilization.
 
  
  Graphics: The visuals in this game are quite bittersweet. Upon inital play, the adjectives stunning 
 and impressive hardly justify the intricacies and nuances of what is shown on the screen. However, 
 if you own a desktop that is older than a year or two or if your laptop is not geared specifically 
 for game play, you will quickly find a huge problem with the frame rate. The problem seemed to 
 be aggravated when too many naval units appeared on the screen, but it still persisted with land 
 battles. If two armies met and their numbers totalled 50 or more, the framerate would noticeably 
 and annoyingly bog down. This setback has actually been enough of a hindrance that as of this writing, 
 I have yet to complete the single player campaign.
  
  Sound: The orchestral soundtrack of the game is soothing and interesting, and the occasional comments 
 from the citizens and soldiers (in the native language no less) add a small amount of depth to 
 the gameplay as a whole. My apologies, I still have not trained my reviewing abilities to the point 
 where I can pinpoint specific things about the sound qualities of a game.
  
  Value: I hesitate to fully recommend the game to laptop users or owners of older computers, but 
 overall a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marksjunk
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 7:29 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty good, especially in the graphics department, but still falls short of my expectations. 
 With AOE II and AOM, I was similarly unsure in the beginning, but I soon warmed to the games, and 
 I hope that will be the case with AOE III, too. With each new game, things get more and more confused, 
 and it becomes harder to work out just which units are doing how much damage to which other units. 
 It may in theory make for a more diverse game, but in reality you just end up amassing large amounts 
 of troops without giving much thought to micromanagement, just like any other RTS.
  
  The Home City is an interesting idea, though in practice it does little to enhance the game. I'm 
 not sure that I like the card system, but I guess it's adequate.
  
  Anyway, it seems a reasonable game despite its faults, and I guess I'll grow to like it more. I 
 hope that the first expansion set will help to improve it, as the Titans expansion set did to AOM. 
 If only you could get those Titans stomping around in the New World, eh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Anguish
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2005 2:31 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Ok so i'm from England so i'm a little bit late with this but i'd say graphicly its the best by 
 far but the gameplay sucks i mean really bad its too quick to complete and the random maps aren't 
 all the best either give my good old AoE 2 to be honest i play tht more then this one i play starcraft 
 more then i play this one. bluntly i'd buy this games just to show off my graphics card i agree 
 with the pro reviewers that Civi 4 is much better for value and has beeng going longer and will 
 probally be going longer when this seires breaks down and dies which by the look off this game 
 wont be that long
  
  Anguish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rishi91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 9:21 am PT
Review:  From what i heard, its not much different than the previous ones, thats y it got a pretty low rating, 
 in my standards. i had mixed feelings but i decided to try it out for the first time through a 
 demo. it actually worked on my horrible computer, which had onboard graphics! i thought that the 
 graphics would be bad on my comp but it was excellent and i could keep it 1100 X 700 resolution 
 and keep some shading on high and some quality stuff on high too. it was not laggy and it turned 
 out to be great. the gameplay was awesome but i heard it was similar to the other games, since 
 i never played the other games, i was ok with it and i liked it. I also liked the graphics and 
 i loved the sound as well. The sound was cool and the graphics were great too, even on my horrible 
 computer. i really liked this game and i soon bought it, it really is worth it if you've never 
 played the aoe series before, but if yu have.... still get it, there are some mechanics that are 
 improved and u'll like better. no longer do the villagers, after getting food, have to go back 
 to the town center to deposit them, which was the case in aom. i definately recomend this game, 
 especially for those who like multiplayer, although tere is only i think skirmish mode for multiplayer, 
 i havent really played it yet. its good value, but it wont last, there isnt enough to do in this 
 game. i need more! lolm :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wlf_tr
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2005 6:22 am PT
Review:  Graphics are great for a stragecy game. Old players (like me) get used to it easily , think. But 
 there are two problems. First of all, maps are rather small. When  play it with my friends, we 
 are too closely. And the second one is that well now we have to say bye bye to big wars because 
 of limit and citizens. Like plantations building we need more citizens for gold and population limit 
 still is 200. Maybe it can be 220 or 250. It would be more amusing. I want more soldiers, certainly 
 janissary, bigger wars and victories! And  have a complainment. Altough civ4 is 9.4, age of 
 is 8.2! It is a big wrong. I am playing civ3 and last one, too but age of is better than civ4. Are 
 you sure that you are playing AGE OF EMPIRES 3? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briancbare
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 13, 2005 5:04 am PT
Review:  An amazing graphically exciting game! The graphics are absolutly amazing. When your cannon shoots 
 on a ship, the ship actually rocks backa and forth! This is just one of many examples of what this 
 game has to offer graphically. The playability not only matches but exceeds the control ability 
 of AOE2. There is no comparison to this game. The ranking system is right on, and finally a clan 
 ability built into the game! This game is great for anyone who has a quick pc and a love of AOE2. 
 
  
  The only thing that could be better is more advanced formation abilitites as we grew to love in 
 AOE2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fxdm
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 12, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  While many of the units in Age Of Empires III are a lot different, many of the buildings and technologys 
 are near AOE II's. Because of this, you'll find yourself researching the same things over and over 
 again, just to have a better army than your opponent. When it comes down to it, its just like any 
 other RTS, where you'll win as long as you have the bigger army. However, with the Home City addition 
 and the distinct civilizations, every army differs greatly from one another. Like, for instance, 
 the Russians' units are cheaper than most other civs, but they do less damage and die quicker. 
 And the civs have other economic bonuses rather than military. Like the Portugese, who get a town 
 center with every age advancement, or the British, who get a settler for every house that is built.
 
  
  Also, since you have to make a different home city for every civ, it creates a sense of ownership 
 and makes you want to work on the HC to level it up and get new upgrades for it. The graphics arent 
 bad in this game, but the campaign cinematics were pretty weak. Overall however, this game lives 
 up to its predecessors and also has a killer online community to fix all the "not so good parts" 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnbexplosive
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 12, 2005 4:03 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 8 
  
  The biggest new feature in this Age of Empires series is the addition on the new Home Cities. These 
 are your civilizations towns where you can customize and gain experience to purchase new cards. 
 The huge variety of cards means you can make decks to suit different styles of play, for example 
 a deck for land maps and another for water. This creates an interesting role-playing game system 
 that fits well with the game. 
  
  To use these in game you just wait till your experience bar fills up then it takes you off screen 
 to your Home City, where you can call in shipments from either economy boosts or a selection of 
 troops to counter the incoming attack as well as many other interesting cards. 
  
  The game features 8 European civilizations and these are the British, French, Germans, Spanish, 
 Portuguese, Dutch, Russians and the Ottoman, each have a unique set of units and various cards 
 that only they can get meaning you have to adapt to each team to beat them as well as make decisions 
 based on what map you are playing. 
  Do you want to make units early to rush your opponent or build a load of settlers to advance quickly?, 
 its these things that make the game interesting. You also have to use the appropriate counter 
 or your army will get slaughtered, meaning scouting to see what the enemy is doing is really important. 
 
  
  Throughout the SP and skirmish maps you will also come across Indian tribes that you can have on 
 your side by building a trading post. These allow you to get special upgrades as well as use their 
 men to give you an advantage. Trading posts can also be placed along train lines to give you a 
 small amount of free resources which gives you something to fight over with the enemy. 
  
  Some aspects of the resource-gathering have been changed for the better, as you no longer have 
 to worry about collecting stone or villager drop off points allowing you to focus a bit more on 
 combat. 
  
  Graphics  9 
  
  The graphics in the game are gorgeous, huge detail on everything from the settlers to the animals 
 in the wilderness. The thing I loved immediately after playing was the excellent destruction of 
 buildings. Each one has a different way of collapsing and you can see the fire burning after your 
 army sets it alight and pieces of wood falling from the roof. 
  The terrain in the game is superb and varies from the Great Plains, to the Amazonian jungle or 
 deserts. 
  
  Sound  8 
  
  Age of Empires 3 has excellent sounds, featuring some nice music which goes well with the game 
 and really gets you in the mood. As mentioned earlier with the buildings collapsing, you can hear 
 the sound of the fire burning and the windows smashing creating a great atmosphere. 
  The sound of the cannons firing is really dramatic, and is always fun to see a man being blown 
 of his horse. 
  
  Value  9 
  
  The only downside I can mention is some of the awkward unit movements and bad combat. The units 
 keep in formation while they are moving in groups but when they get to the enemy it turns to chaos, 
 and each unit just scrapping it out individually and the winner usually the one with the biggest 
 mass of units. 
  That said, its still the same Age of Empires formula and if you enjoyed previous games you should 
 like this. 
  
  Lifespan  9 
  
  The Single player campaign is pretty long and the skirmish mode should keep you busy for a long 
 time, and there is the multiplayer if you think you can handle it. 
  The improved AI makes it more challenging and even the best players will have a hard time on expert. 
 
  
  Positives 
  
  + Excellent graphics & Sound 
  + Innovative Home citys and cards 
  + Good maps and Civilizations 
  
  Negatives 
  
  
 - Bad Combat 
  - Not to different from AoE2 
  - Nothing Revolutionary 
  
  Overall Score: 86% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankjan
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 12, 2005 1:06 am PT
Review:  I don't really now how discrive it in English buth it very good and I like playing it. the only 
 thing I think they let down on are the ships. the smoke from the cannon is good and beautiful. 
 only when you see how big the ship is and how smal the harbor and I have the came thing with the 
 soldiers and there buldings. they are to big and buldings to smal. And I really don't like that 
 you can only make 200 people that is a very big disappointment. I like playing it buth I think 
 that game's like Amerikan Conquest are more better than this game. the graphics are better than 
 american conquest buth that game you can make a army bigger than you can make your village in this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesytaco69
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2005 7:30 pm PT
Review:  cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent cool wow great excellent 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berndane
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 10, 2005 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a huge Age of Empires fan and had been anticipating this release. Initially 
 I was must say I was impressed and just as good as I expected. I spent at least 5 hours playing 
 it and saved my game for later. Although the next time I tried to run the game I ran into several 
 issues. My savegames would freeze as soon as they were loaded and the game would unexpectedly freeze 
 my computer. I think the developers should have spent some more time working out the bugs and fixing 
 compatibly issues. Aside from that I think this game as just as good as all the others in the series. 
 It has excellent catching gameplay and very decent graphics. I would recomend this game to anyone 
 who enjoys this style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo_assasin117
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 9, 2005 7:45 pm PT
Review:  AOE3 is the third installment of the previous two Game of the Year games which let you start your 
 civilization with a town center and had to work your way up by gathering resources and building 
 an army to face the opposing force. In AOE 3 you can play as 8 different civilizations Dutch, French, 
 Russian, Germany, Ottomans (Turks) , British, Spanish, Portaguese. All these civs have unique units 
 and different upgrades that all make strengths and weaknesses for different occasions. The new 
 feature Home City which lets you upgrade your city some what like an RPG, as you gain levels you 
 can get these cards which allow you to call different troops and upgrades to your town center while 
 your playing a game just at a click of a button you can go to your home city and request for different 
 cards. The campaign in AOE3 is a neat campaign which deals with three parts and take place in different 
 times. AOE3 is neat game and anybody who liked the previous AOE games should pick this game up.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kearney
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 9, 2005 2:18 pm PT
Review:  After having played this game for the past few days, I can tell you all that this game is simply 
 a natural continuation of the legendary Age Of Empires series. I have played the previous two and 
 their addons for years, and this game is an improvement in virtually every way.
  
  Graphically this game is beautiful and some of the effects are just wonderful. The weapons feel 
 powerful and the ship -v- ship battles are just stunning. My graphics card is a 256 MB Radeon X600 
 and on any setting this game works well.
  
  Playing the game is very interesting. There are now limits on the number of some things you can 
 build - such as ships. The villages are now much better, and they do a lot with out being told. 
 if they are idle and there is something obvious to do nearby - they will do it.
  
  Home cities are a wonderful advancement in the game giving it a much more satisfying feel. The 
 more you play the game the better the things you can have sent to you after every few minutes in 
 the game. You gain experience for gathering resources etc., and then this allows you to ship in 
 some extra coin, or eventually a mini army!!!
  
  The campaigns are easy to get into and follow a nice family tale where you can somewhat empathise 
 with the leaders you control. The objectives for the missions are no longer - kill everyone - but 
 there are more specific objectives - one mission is simply to gain experience!
  
  Though most of this game is strong, the one futile thing is treasures. Dotted around the map there 
 are small treaures guarded by, say, a pack of wild bears. After using your explorer to kill the 
 guardian, you can take the bounty - this is often a very small amount of coin etc. However, sometimes 
 you get rewarded with a special warrior or some settlers, so its not all bad!
  
  Overall a very good game, bound to provide hours of fun. The effects when blowing stuff up are 
 very satisfying, and the overall style of the game is extremely finished - a wonderful improvement 
 on a wonderful series of games. I thoroughly recommend you purchase this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GEIC0
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 8, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  Hoped for more than that... When I first viewed the screens, I thought that it looks awesome, with 
 all new graphics but when I got to play it I thought that I had already played something of that 
 sort. So I would say this is just the usual, but not bad strategy, that is widely seen through 
 the gaming community. 
  The thing about the game that pisses me off the most is that the screen of view is not too big, 
 and it seems like you are viewing very low to the ground, therefore observing little distance. 
 
  On the other hand, the graphics look awesome, I set the highest settings of the game and it goes 
 pretty smooth on a 2.08 GHz processor, although with a 256 ATI x700 graphics card and 1.25 Gb ram. 
 The developers surely have contributed a lot to get modern graphical effects. Also the water looks 
 so REAL and Awesome!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iciris
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 7, 2005 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Makes the AOE series even stronger!
  
  I have played the whole AOE series and I have to say that Ensemble Studios has pulled another great 
 game out of the hat.
  
  As it is right now I have played a good 2+ hours on campaign and it is kept with historical fact. 
 I plan on enjoying this game for time to come.
  
  Graphics for a RTS have to be the best that I have seen so far, crisp looking characters, tons 
 of detail in everything. The graphics engine used in the game is top notch.
  
  Sound is high quality as well; brining that realism that you are actually in the battlefield. There 
 is no doubt in my mind that with the sound you will start to feel immersed into the game play and 
 that is exactly what a game should do.
  
  As with the last 2 games in the AOE series the game play is great, there are no completes, there 
 is not much new, however if it is not broken, dont fix it.
  
  The price I paid for the game, I feel that it is well worth it. A Must have for an RTS players 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demolisher12
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 7, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  The single player skirmishes are probably where you'll notice that game is most fun. The single 
 player campaigns gets old quick for those of us who just want to get started making a base and 
 building an army and developing some strategy. The game get's laggy fairly early, even on a semi-decent 
 gaming rig. And dropping the detailing for some better performance you'll still be playin' a slide 
 show here and there with ugly graphics. I also wish the peasants would be a little more smarter 
 like in Rise of Nations where they would work on somehting if they were standing around too long. 
 
  
  On the plus side, the gameplay is still fun. The physics are what you wished games would have added 
 long ago. Such as parts of buildings or ships chipping off on the area that's been hit. Cannon 
 balls roll around after contact, units fly back (it's awesome) when their hit by a cannon. The 
 game has added a ton of improvements from AOE2 when back then we didn't think it could get any 
 better. Other than performance and a few downsides on the gameplay end, it's still a good game. 
 Recommended for those who have followed the Age of Empires series, and enjoy Rise of Nations and 
 or StarCraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LadderFace
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 6, 2005 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Many of us can harken back to the days of true RTS glory with titles like TA2, Warcraft, Red Alert, 
 and Tiderium Dawn leading the charts. The AOE team decided that they didn't need to root their 
 basis in fiction, but rather history itself. The best part was, it made a damn fun game. AOE2 improved 
 on everything, but some things, such as the story mode, were a bit unpolished and uninspired. AOE3 
 ties everything together with a fantastic story line, tons of polish, and a fantastically fun game 
 to boot.
  
  You can expect similar gameplay to the others in the series, but fortunately the races are a bit 
 more veried than in AOE2. Each race has a certain perk (or two) , rather than simply a few different 
 technologies and units. The gameplay system is intuitive and easy to get into (unlike other RTS 
 games such as the Total War series. Not necessarily a bad thing.) and is quite easy to get around 
 in.
  
  The graphics are moer than necessary for any RTS, and great to see that people are going that extra 
 mile in a genere that may not necessarily need that extra punch in graphics.
  
  The sound is spectacular, and music is unbelieveable for any piece of media. I continually get 
 sever of the songs stuck in my head, which goes to say a lot.
  
  I've been playing the hell out of this game, and not only is the storyline great, but the multiplay 
 gives it continuing value, much like it's predicessors.
  
  I love this game mor than any other I've played since HL2, but then again AOE will always have 
 a special place in my heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nichocolate
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 6, 2005 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Where's the formation? Limited armies? Limited Colonies? Squarish characters on Cinematics?
  
  Okay, so it's not all THAT great. The customization of the cities was a little fun but the 
 gameplay is not really enough to get into it.
  
  Firstly, where's the formations? I meant like, you group them all, cannons at the back, calvary 
 on the middle and riflemen on the front, they marched gracefully but then when they reached on 
 the enemy's ground, they all scattered all over the place. Where's the formation? Why can't there's 
 isn't a ground point for the cannon to fire, rather than for it to chase around the enemies? WHY 
 do cannons need to chase enemies? 
  
  When I 1st saw the trailer for this game, I saw a huge nations of armies fighting. I was then dissappoint 
 to know that nation of armies is only limited to 200. Cannons cost 4-5 populations, calvary cost 
 2 populations... Dissappointingly it won't statisfy much having little armies rushing towards the 
 enemy's base... it won't matter's much since they are having little armies as well. 
  
  8 colonies is not enough to be explored with. I understand that this game European - based for 
 the campaign mode but why don't make an exception for it in the Skirmish mode and make more colonies? 
 It will be more fun to see what other colonies's cards are like.
  
  About the graphics, I won't say much because I mostly focus more on gameplay and storywise but 
 do please, I do understand that during gameplay polygons are being reduced due to real-time playing 
 but why is gameplayed polygons are still being used in cinematics cuts?
  
  Personally, it may still be fun for playing it to pass time but if you really want a good RTS game 
 with full formations and strategy - wised, this isn't for you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayhays
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 6, 2005 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I have been a huge AOE fan since I was about seven years old. This game has been the biggest dissapointment 
 in probably any RTS I have ever played.
  
  The AI is terrible, infantry do not form into line when preparing for battle, the first line doesn't 
 drop to one knee and prepare to fire. This game completley undervalues the role of cavalry. Generally 
 in reality when 30 horses are sprinting collide with infrantry... they do. The horses just stop 
 as if they lost their legs. LOTR had the right idea, they made it so cavalry could knock over infantry 
 and send them flying. 
  
  Another terrible aspect is the fact that the infantry don't feel fear. You can easily flank them 
 on both sides and they stand their ground and do not pannic. The RTS game Imperial Glory hit figured 
 this out. There are also no formations for infantry to move in nor any specific commands you can 
 give them; such as ambushing, holding fire, crawling, taking cover ect. 
  
  The frame rate isn't as bad as people say, my system is about 2 years old and it ran pretty well 
 on it. 
  
  The biggest dissapointment for me was the fact that you were suppose to CONQUER THE NEW WORLD. 
 You never have actual campaigns against contries to fight over land and control of regions. The 
 single player campaign is a stupid fictional dream. Instead of being lets say the British and trying 
 to beat the french in the French and Indian war you play as 3 boring characters who all search 
 for the same fictional thing, the fountain of youth. You actually do no conquering of land at all 
 which I highly expected that you would because games that came out over 8 years ago accomplished 
 this. Some of the newer games that did this are Rome: Total War or Imperial Glory. 
  
  This game is awful. Unless you have never played a good RTS before you will hate it and if you 
 don't, you should hate it. I highly reccomend other games such as Rome Total War, this game is 
 addicting and keeps you playing for weeks because it is historical and its in game stratagy is 
 amazing. Same with imperial glory, you actually have to try to flank the enemy, spring hidden troops, 
 charge with cavalry ECT to win your battles. I could not have been more dissapointed with this 
 game and I ask you not to waste your money, buy something better like the games I mensioned before, 
 you will not be dissapointed and will thank me. 
  
  Any comments or questions Email me at Andjon9@aol. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReapX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 6, 2005 12:48 pm PT
Review:  It is an awesome game and I love almost everything about it, but I do not really like the campaign. 
 The campaign is kind of boring and slow and for some reason when I finish on mission then it does 
 not do anything and I have to quit so I mostly stick to Custom Battle things. But be sides that 
 it is an awesome game and If the campaign would work (do not know if it is me or the game that 
 is wrong) the game would be one of the best games I played in a while. And I will probably get 
 tons of hours out of it. I hope that there will be some add-ons or even an Age of Empire 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javier13528
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 6, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  great game ... but i just play the demo :D pero bueno como soy espaol lo dire en espaol :p en 
 comparacion con los otros juegos este supera por grafica y sonido y jugabilidad a los otros. sads
 
  dsd
  s
  
  s
  ds
  dsdsds ds ds ds d sd sdsd s d ssd sdd s d sd sd s ds ds ds ds ds ds dsd s ds ds d s ds ds ds ds 
 d sdsd sds d sdsdsdsdsdsds sds ds ds d sd sd s ds ds d sd sd s ds ds ds d sd sd sd s ds ds d sd 
 sd asd a das da da sdad a da dasd s ds s d s ds ds d s ds ds ds ds d s ds ds ds d sd s ds ds d 
 sd s ds ds ds d s ds d sd s ds ds d sd s ds dsdsdsdsdss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AaronClarke
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 6, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  It is a fantastic game. First of all the graphics are one of the best i have seen on any game, 
 period. But you need a powerful computer to play it on. Mine is a Dell dimension 5000, and it play 
 brilliantly on it. Computers much weaker than this need a serious upgrade to play this game. It 
 is so big it needs 3 disc to install it. Well back to the game. It includes 8 civilisations, all 
 with special abilities, strengths and weaknessed. For example, the French strong calavery to the 
 stong british economy. The gameplay has been greatly improved, on of the more noticable changes 
 has been the exclusion of drop points for your resources. To me i love this change, to the hardcore 
 fans, you won't like it as much. The campaign has also been improved, including 20+ scenarios. 
 To me this is the best installment yet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Extelleron
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 6, 2005 4:31 am PT
Review:  To start it off, Age of Empires III really surprised me in just how good it is. I had played Age 
 of Empires II and Age of Mythology and loved both of them, however even though I had fun playing 
 the AoE III Demo, after Gamespot gave it only a 8.2 I got worried. Not that 8.2 is a bad score 
 or anything, but I expected more out of a game I had been so excited about. However I decided to 
 buy AoE III over F. E. A. R., which I was also considering, because F. E. A. R. just ran like crap on 
 my system. Ive only had the game a couple of days now and ive already spent countless hours playing 
 the single player and skirmishes, and when I get a little better I plan to take it online.
  
  The graphics in AoE III are both incredible and disappointing. The actual textures for the 
 units and buildings dont look very good, good for an RTS but not that much better than Age of 
 Mythology. In fact the game as a whole doesnt look MUCH better than AoM. However its the water 
 and shadows that are second to none. When you turn up the Shader settings to High the water is 
 a sight to behold. The shadows are great too with ships in the water. Overall I give the graphics 
 a 9/10, it would get much lower but the water is simply unbelievable. The textures are disappointing 
 however.
  
  The other part of AoE III graphics that are amazing is how interactive the buildings and ships 
 are. In AoE III your units now hurl torches at buildings rather than slash at them with swords 
 (FINALLY! SOMETHING REALISTIC) , and after a bit the buildings will catch on fire, and as you further 
 damage the building chunks will fly off exposing the inner structure. Similar things happen with 
 ships, often if you hit a ship part of it will break off into the sea. 
  
  Despite the high end graphics, AoE III isnt all that demanding. My setup is a Pentium 4 3GHz, 
 1GB of RAM, and a Radeon 9600 Pro and Im playing at 1280x1024, everything at Max except for Anti-Aliasing 
 at Low and Shadows at Low. 
  
  The core gameplay of AoE III hasnt changed much from AoE II, and considering how good the gameplay 
 was thats not necessarily a bad thing. Several new features have been added, such as home cities. 
 During play, you gain experience points by building up, gathering resources, or killing enemy units. 
 Eventually youll get enough XP to receive a shipment from your home city. Shipments can be of 
 units, resources, or upgrades. Some shipments can only be received once per game, while others 
 may be brought infinite times. As you level up your home city, you get more powerful shipments. 
 
  
  The sound of Age of Empires III is also great. The sound effects are amazing, and I believe all 
 the units have voice overs. The music is amazing too, as with previous Age games.
  
  I would tell you more about AoE III but I just bought it 3 days ago, and havent got a chance to 
 play much. However from what ive seen, and ive only scratched the surface, AoE III is a must buy 
 for RTS fans. The graphics, physics, and gameplay are top notch and the game wont bore you quickly 
 with difficult AI and also being able to play online against other players. I would highly recommend 
 AoE III over any other RTS ive ever played.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knut-am
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 6, 2005 2:54 am PT
Review:  It was with quite some anticipation I installed aoe3, but that feeling soon went over to mild embarrassment 
 on the developers be haf. This isn't exactly the great game I had hoped for, sadly this isn't even 
 a good game. In the year 2005 it should not be alowed to make a rts game with the intension of 
 massed battles and conquest with a population limit of 200 units per player, what kind of idiotic 
 thinking is that ?. so who ever want to play this game can forget about large armies and epic battles. 
 With this sort of limitations set on the individual player, one would imagine that the game had 
 a more deep strategy made out for it on the economical side, but no. after about 30 minutes of 
 gameplay the player, if anyone is still playing the game, has moved thrue all the time ages, have 
 all the resources one need, all the technology developed and then find one self ready to start 
 an all out war,, only,, there isn't much of an army to be built. Since a canon takes up 5pops 
 you can not build many if you wish to have some soldiers too, or horsemen. I can not help to wonder 
 what sort of people this game was made for. This look like the game one could develop for people 
 to play in their lunch hour at work. The ships on water looks great, only there is huge limitations 
 on how many ships each player is allowed to have on the sea at any given point, so, in the case 
 of one player facing two or more allied players, the single one will be outnumbered, and totally 
 crushed. the soldiers wont stay in formation, like it was in the tradition of those days, but go 
 of on their own in pursued of nearby enemy units that may come close, so one constantly has to 
 have an eye on ones tiiiny little army in order to keep it intact until the fighting realy start. 
 
  The sound of the game regulary disappears on my system (with all the latest drivers installed) , 
 and the only way to get it back is to save the game (not useful in multi player, as one can imagine) , 
 and quit the game completely for then to restart the entire program all over. The graphics are 
 fine but except for water witch are great looking, even on 1600x1200 with 4x fsa the landscape 
 as a hole is not all that mutch to look at taking into account that the game was initially developed 
 with graphic pleasure in mind.
  To my opinion, this game is a real bummer, a total disappointment and a compleately waste of time. 
 Let the consoles take care of games like this, and let us have games on the PC that take use of 
 the PCs superior capacity in hardware to best use to us all. Aoe 3 sadly does not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DecanSlayer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2005 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is a great game, for Rts fans like me is better.
  the graphics stunned me, I didnt think it was going to be so good, due to its predecesors that 
 are in some way boring.
  
  Terrain and eviroment is great, the texture of the trees, water and even the flat terrain is great. 
 The reflection in the water gives the touch of realism everyone was waiting for, when the trees 
 are chopped they vibrate and when they fall they make a small quake in the surrounding place.
 
  
  Gameplay is exiting with the new idea of introducing a Home City that gives you resources and reinforcements. 
 making almost completely different empires or nations gives a lot of more entertainment to the 
 game.
  The effects of cannon fire on buildings and infantry is realistic. the use of fire instead of normal 
 fire against buildings by the part from infantry is fun.
  
  Combats are just amazing, to form the squads and organize artillery is nothing new but the damage 
 caused and the respond to instructions is new as before to finish an enemy squad was eternal.
 
  
  The campaign is great as you are playing history and seeking secrets.
  
  THE GAME'S REALISTIC FEATURES ARE GREAT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSlater85
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I was a big fan of AOE and AOE 2. I did not like AOM so I was hoping to get something more 
 like AOE original. I'll just say that I was more then pleasently supprised.
  Home Cities, this has to be the coolest feature of the game (well maybe but we will get to that 
 later) . The ability to gain experience and choose different card sets (as many different sets as 
 you want) allows you to have a different advantage for different maps. For instance on a land map 
 a factory that produces cannons might be better then a upgrade to ships. I have a special card 
 set for water maps that gives me better ships and higher limits of ships. While I have a nice land 
 set that gives me two factories and a fort. Pretty good combo for holding off enemies if you ask 
 me and then it can beat them pretty well on a slow advance.
  Graphics also saw a nice improvement, I was pleasently supprised though I was partially expecting 
 it so I cannot really say much about this.
  Physics, wow! If home cities was the coolest feater this is even better. Having a cannon ball hit 
 four guys and then bounce away down the hill... That is cool, as is having a chunk of the building 
 get knocked out or off when it is damaged by something. 
  Pretty much, if you want the same as AOE 1 and 2 with some new features this is for you. If you 
 don't want a larger experience then AOE2 forget it this is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S3o0oDY
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  well as one of the reviewiers said its worth waiting and man the demo is good... have fun everybody 
 with the game well i will be honest :P i didnt download it yet but one of my friends bought it 
 2 days ago and he said its worth it .. i will tell u all what does that mean .. he never says that 
 .. only!! if he means it. anyway guys sorry if i took from u time.. have fun with the game blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alehaas
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 5, 2005 9:03 am PT
Review:  Very good! This game is very good! It's better than Age of Empires 2 or Rise of Nations, but not 
 so good than Stronghold 2! Lets play! Really good! I dont have nothing more to write, ok! Yes, 
 this is it, ok! 
  The game claimed to have great 3d graphics and a great gameplay, and it has them! Except, theyre 
 not as good as they claim to be. The graphics are revolutionary and the weather effects aren't 
 really as good as I thought. Proportion is also annoying in this game as boats are incredibly small.
 
  I absolutely love the graphics, Although there's nothing revolutionary. You'll love the details. 
 For example, If a unit is standing next to the river and get's hit by a cannon, He'll go flying 
 into the water and make a huge splash. And a smile on your face. At times it can be a but pixely 
 but it still holds up to the rest of the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkLord
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 12:22 am PT
Review:  AOE 3 Review
  
  I finally got my copy of Age of Empires 3 and I must say it was worth the wait. The graphics by 
 themselves are a phenomenal update from all the other RTS games on the market. To see your ships 
 at sea reflecting in the water is something I never thought I would see in a video game. Its not 
 just that either. Everything reflects on the water from the big stuff to the small stuff, the fish 
 jumping and the whales swimming and the nets from the fishing boats. Even the birds reflect as 
 they fly over! Its amazing!
  The physics they use when something gets blown all to pieces is pretty impressive too. When Im 
 using my cannons to blow a barracks to smithereens and pieces go flying in all directions from 
 the impact of the cannonballs Im just impressed by the total randomness of it all. Even people 
 go flying when they get hit by cannon fire and, well it is rather sadistic, I laugh and laugh. 
 I think its kind of reminiscent of Half Life 2 and the rag doll physics they used when someone 
 goes flying when they get hit. Sometimes its just plain funny when they get hit too!
  The Home City thing is pretty interesting too. In all the previous games you had to gather and 
 gather resources. But with the new system you can order it instead. Being able to order a big load 
 of food at the beginning of a game can mean the difference between getting to the next age first 
 and starting an army or letting your enemy do it and walking all over you! Being able to bring 
 in troops or structures from the home city is also a useful advantage.
  The explorer is a nice touch too. He is pretty much an indestructible, super unit that can easily 
 be brought back at any time if captured and has a few useful abilities that can be used to take 
 out your enemies in battle. His great limitation is that he is the only one that can pick up treasures. 
 That makes him someone you really want to protect too, since treasures have their uses and can 
 help you out with XP, coin, food, wood, or even livestock.
  One of the things that gave me the most fun was the challenge that was offered by the enemy faction 
 during the campaign. There were some moments here and there that I thought I was totally screwed. 
 In the end I would say the campaign was an interesting look at the past of the Americas even if 
 it was a totally fictional story.
  This is among the best RTS games I have ever played. I had fun and more than once I was afraid 
 I was going to be totally annihilated. The battles at sea were amazing and the ones on land looked 
 far more realistic than any I have ever seen before. This game was worth the wait like I said and 
 it was a damn lot of fun playing!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokojambo
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 3, 2005 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I tried out several professions in an attempt to get a clear perspective of what the game offers. 
 In EVERY profession, I found a very limited and static amount of what many players call "Grinding", 
 where a character must perform a mundane and repetitive task in order to advance. At some point, 
 your character just plateaus, and then must jump through some very boring hoops. Eventually you 
 get through to bigger and better things. Overall, it is an experience that brings you back to the 
 game for more. There are many places to see, static quests to accomplish, creatures to fight. Many 
 try to become a Jedi of some kind, unlocking the elusive Force-Sensitive character. More grinding.
 
  
  The graphics are good, but the polygon count can get quite high. Invest in a nice pixel shader 
 card if you want to play this for very long. Your swap file will get punished unless you have at 
 least a gig of ram. There are great video settings, tho, that let you control MANY aspects of the 
 detail in the game, right down to which pixel shader version you will use.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrianRanger71
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I have allways been a fan of the AOE serries so i just had to get this one. I still don't think 
 any RTS game has beat Age of empires 2 in my book. But age of empire 3 is a great game. I love 
 just massing infentry men and blowing and other army away... even if my army gets pwned.
  When i got the demo my first game was aginst a computer on hard in skirimsh and I killed it outright. 
 The real game is Great though i love the age of empires serries.
  
  
  Please reply to me if you can beet more than 4 HARDEST computers all allied agenst you in Age of 
 Empire 2. I can beet four but no more.
  
  Ps. if you cheat and win you are just a nooblet, noobcake, 
  nubling,  (like a worthless 
 Zergling, for you starcraft player out there) lol
  nubfairy, and just plane NOOB.
  
  Ohh yah they have to be allied agenst you and the teams locked.
  I bow down to anyone who can 
 do this. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaNemesis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2005 9:58 am PT
Review:  My heart races as the smell of gun powder fills the air. I hear the wails of men giving their life 
 for their country. A cannon blast takes out a guard tower while men fly wail in the air. The wall 
 as fallen and we are defeated. This is just some of the action you will experience in the next 
 series of the Age of Empires series, Age of Empires III. The new game from Ensemble Studios has 
 a lot of new features but it lacks the necessary features to make it one of the best RTS to date. 
 But if you love the game of AoE II then you love the game of AoE III. 
  
  The main new feature of the game is the Home City. You choose from the selected civs, choose a 
 name for your city, a name for your explorer, and which game setting you are playing with (Death 
 match or Supremacy) . You get experience points for killing enemy soldier, raiding enemy buildings, 
 and building units. You use this experience points to choose new cards. These cards are used for 
 shipments that you can send from your home city. The strategy for the cards comes into play when 
 you only get to choose twenty cards. The major down side to this is that you cant use your leveled 
 up Home City in online mode. You have to create another Home City and start back at one. So what 
 is the point of playing the game offline then?
  
  Nothing has really changed about the game play of AoE III. You gather resources, you develop your 
 town, and you crush your enemies. There are a lot of little things that ES did that I found to 
 be a great new addition. One is, instead of having to get a villager to repair a building; you 
 can just click on the building then hit the repair button. Thats it! The main that is really missing 
 from AoE III is the formations! During the course of the development of the game ES was really 
 pushing the formations. But THERE ARE NONE IN AOE III!!! You can still group together units but 
 as father as formations go, there is nothing there at all. The new physics engine is really a wonderful 
 add on. I really enjoy hitting my enemies with cannons so I can watch there body fly. 
  
  The sounds in AoE III are something that really adds to the realism of the game. When your army 
 of soldiers wins a battle they throw out a big yea with guns in the air. The soundtrack is typical 
 for that age. There are a lot of screams when there is a big fight going on. You hear people moan 
 and groan as they take a hit and fall dead. I really like how the music picks up when you start 
 to fight, especially when you are defending your town. It makes you rush in order to save your 
 people. 
  
  The real problem with AoE III is that in the manual they really dont cover the basics. I had to 
 ask online or mesh around with the game in order to figure out things that came easier in AoE II. 
 The real let down of the game was the formations. It would have really helped when it comes to 
 battles. Like in AoE II when you can choose a formation that would put your siege weapon in the 
 middle of a square surrounded by soldiers to protect it. There still are a couple of bugs that 
 can be fixed with patches, so that isnt a major problem. The best thing about AoE III is that, 
 you can still run the game if you dont have the Mini. Req. I dont have the mini, but I can still 
 run the game. I dont have the high end graphics but the game does look like AoE II. 
  
  The smell of burning wood fills the air. Ash snow flakes fill the air. You can smell the burning 
 of human flesh as my enemy throws corpses of my allies onto the fire. Im brought to the general 
 and I offer him my surrender. All in all a good game but not a great one. If you love AoE II you 
 will love AoE III. But if you want a RTS game that is going to change the RTS genre then you need 
 to look somewhere else. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannytitus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:52 am PT
Review:  Brilliant game with friends on a weekend of pure plessure. the game it self has very nice graphics 
 and good playing value . And should be fun alone at home .Just Play And See ". This game should 
 be a good break from F. E. A. R and give me a chance to clean my pants. But cant wait to get back 
 to the game to see what happens and what it really is about . I saw it last night actually for 
 the first time and played it a bit and really liked it and got quite far so "again you really just 
 have to play it for yourself to really be able to judge for your self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazzinbrowny
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2005 12:52 pm PT
Review:  i have had age of empires 1 and 2 since they came out and they were amazing. apart from aoe 1 not 
 having a high enough population limit. i have had the age of mythology as well and the titans and 
 i was addicted. i couldt wait for this and its a brillant game.
  A BIG FAN OF THE GAMES. 10/10 easy. please play and give it a world record for the most units sold.
 
  its a must buy and i was worried that it wouldt way to much different to age of empires 3. you 
 got to have alot of spear time to play it but you can always save it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilmc
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  As a huge fan of the age of empires series, i'm pretty disapointed. the game doesn't improve much. 
 the graphics look a lot better now and the home city was a nice touch. many of the aspects in the 
 game really didn't make it feel like an age of empires game to me. i thought it was leaning towards 
 a faster pace RTS. i'm still kinda disapointed of this game, but hey, i was expecting it to recieve 
 a 9.2 at least. gameplay is solid although not perfect, and the graphics make this age of empires 
 more entertaining. the sound it great, but overall, nothing revolutionary. the best way to enjoy 
 this game is lower ur expectations. after spending a couple of hours with the game it all seems 
 to get repetative, sure you have all the different civilizations to play but all of them feel the 
 same with a few new things here and there. i'm really disapointed, the game was suppose to redefine 
 teh RTS genre for me but it just didn't do it. Overall the game came close but it just coud've 
 done better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knppdd
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 1, 2005 9:49 am PT
Review:  I found Age of Empires 3 very disappointing. After playing Empire Earth 2, I felt that Age of Empires 
 3 was very basic. There was not any challenge in the Campaigns section of the game. The Skirmishes 
 section of the game was very limited. I do not feel that there was any improvement over Age of 
 Empires 2. I do not feel that I received value for the money I spent to purchase this game. The 
 game developer could have and should have done more to produce a more exciting and challenging 
 game. If there is an expansion pack or sequel, I will have to think very seriously about purchasing 
 it. I would not recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabriel_aoe7776
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 31, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  Why? That's easy, because it is. AOE III is the best strategic game i've seen in my life. If you 
 don't believe this, then just play a game in Maximum 1-1 in Yucatan and you'll now what I mean 
 here.
  It's simply awesome that Microsoft made a game following the Age of Empires/Mithology interface 
 correctly and STILL made a HUGE game with an amazing campaign, a great level of historical details, 
 and EVEN MORE so, if somebody criticises this game probably is 'cause they can't beat the CPU (Try 
 with Napoleon) .
  
  Anyway, I've got AOE I, AOE II: The Conquerors, and AOE III, so I know everything about what they 
 should have corrected and what not. Bezise, If it's not broke, Why to fix it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marvedii
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 31, 2005 7:15 am PT
Review:  They just added a little to what they already had. The home city improvement is weak. Not a good 
 buy at $49.99. It should be sold for $29.99. This game is severely over rated. The story line is 
 weak. I feel like I expected too much. On-line play is okay accept you have to kill all units to 
 win which is dumb. The rag doll physics is cool, but after you've seen it in action, it does not 
 add any more suspense. What sells video games are good story lines, or the action that is in it. 
 The action in this game is too damn predictable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tintdawg
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 30, 2005 10:07 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun and the designers did a great job with the graphics. While this is fun it is 
 basically the same game as the FIrst 2. The combat is the same, but now you are even more limited 
 on your combat options. The gathering is easier which makes managing your town. The Home city is 
 nice where you can get free stuff for getting XP. The naval combat is very nice and i thought the 
 cannons were realistic from a boat. Also when soldiers attacked a building it actually was believable 
 because instead of poking with a sword or shooting with a musket they threw torches with fire and 
 the when the cannons shot buildings actally looked like they were being hit. But the game still 
 wont go away from hand to hand combat. I mean a group of ten muskets should easily deastroy pikemen 
 but they don't. Overall it is an improvment on RTS but introduces almost nothing new, and the combat 
 is still very unbelievable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralGrey
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 30, 2005 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is a very solid and gratifying game. The gameplay is good, the graphics are 
 excellent, the campaign is well-written and entertaining, and there are enough new concepts to 
 make the game well-worth your money. That having been said, there are problems with the game that 
 are more annoying than anything. The existence of only two modes of play; deathmatch and supremacy, 
 reduce the excitement of skirmish mode and the fact that a home city can only be used for one mode 
 is quite irritating. As always, the lack of large-scale combat in AOE3, while making the game more 
 centered and easy to follow, makes the game feel like it is missing some of the more strategic 
 decisions and scale of games such as the Total War series. This is also shown by the fact that 
 some of the more pwerful units such as cavalry and artillery take up more population spots than 
 infantry and villagers, reducing army sizes and power.
  There are many many good elements to this game that make it a joy to play. Naval combat is simply 
 amazing with wood splinters and masts falling off ships as the ships open up broadsides at one 
 another. The HAVOC engine is awesome and gives AOE3 a chaotic and unique feel that is missing in 
 other RTS games. The lack of drop points and not-having to reseed mills, at least in my opinion, 
 is a very good thing as it reduces micro-management and lets me delve deeper into the game. The 
 music is great and fully-orchestral, but it becomes very repetitive after a while. Each civilization 
 is unique and enjoys certain advantages while also employing several disadvantages giving players 
 the ability to change their strategies for each civilization and adding to the replayability of 
 the game. The multiplayer is also absolutely awesome when you can play it. The ESO servers have 
 tended too go down for certain amounts of time which is a bit irritating but I'm sure Ensemble 
 will fix the problem in good time.
  In conclusion, I forked over 70 dollars for the collector's edition of this game and I am not dissapointed. 
 As has been said, the game is not revolutionary, but it is an absolute joy to play and a worthy 
 succesor in the Age of Empires Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalJoker
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2005 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I've played the whole AOE series since the beginning. But, AOE3 takes the AOE series and the Rise 
 of Nations series, throws them in a blender and hits liquify. They took a few of the best elements 
 from Rise of Nations and combined it with the great gameplay of AOE, plus I loved the gaining of 
 experience to get special "gifts" from your home country. the graphics are beautiful, the sound 
 is just amazing, and gameplay is addictive. If you liked the other AOE games your gonna love this 
 one. I went and bought the collectors edition, I just loved the artbook, but the soundtrack and 
 other extra are all well worth the extra $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliasgames
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 30, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  What is the fascination with 3D RTS? RTS doesn't need 3D it needs good AI, path finding, formations, 
 intricate tech tree, and better unit tactics not just rock-paper-scissors.
  
  The 3D graphics is OK, but nothing special.
  
  The AI is severely lacking. Individual units 
 will wander off to attack a larger force.
  
  The addition of being able to align formations and keep units in formation atleast until engaged 
 by the enemy would have been nice.
  
  Path finding seem like it hasn't improved since Rise of Rome.
  
  The tech tree is in my estimation 
 extremely limited.
  
  Unit tactic is basically pikemen vs calvary, calvary vs infantry, crossbowmen at the back of the 
 pack. Artillery vs buildings.
  
  This game has already bored me. It is another example of dumbed down game design for the console 
 vs using the power and ability of the PC. 
  
  Save your money play Age of Kings instead. Or better Civ IV 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rijorat
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is a very well orchestrated adventure into the New World. Ensemble and Microsoft 
 have collaborated yet again to bring us an outstanding RTS game. In a nutshell they have streamlined 
 the formula for success used in previous AoE games and thrown in a few innovative twists to keep 
 it fresh.
  
  At heart the game follows the same dynamics as its predecessors with the player using settlers 
 to gather resources for constructing buildings and eventually units. One thing that may disappoint 
 returning players is the fact that there seems to be a lot less in variety. Fewer civilizations, 
 fewer units, fewer buildings, fewer improvements,. you get the picture. On the other hand the more 
 limited selection has resulted in a more efficient tech tree and quicker gameplay. Also settlers 
 don't have to return resources to a town center or camp anymore. Your resources are added your 
 your stocks as they are harvested.
  
  There are a ton of innovative ideas that have been put into play here. The home city being the 
 most readily apparent. Each settlement has a home city. The home city acts as a sort of resource 
 depot. As you accomplish tasks in the New World you are given experience. Experience can then be 
 traded in for shipments of supplies from your home city. Shipping does take time, but it does throw 
 a loop in the whole resource gathering cyclewhy mine for gold when you can just ship it to your 
 Town Center and pick it up of the ground? Trade routes are fixed things now. You find an already 
 establish trade route and set up camp next to it, then as traders move past your trade camp you 
 receive your choice of resource (experience first, but then other resources after improvement) . 
 The route itself can be upgraded from wagon to carriage and finally to train (Yesthe iron beast 
 has come to AoE) .
  
  Another innovation is the Indian settlements which you can ally with by setting up trade camps 
 next to their village. This gives you access to Indian warriors and special improvements. As long 
 as the trade camp survivesthe alliance survives. Lose the camp, lose the alliance.
  
  Something of note: your ships can produce military units and mine gold from whales. Naval developments 
 seem to be one area that didn't suffer too much in the streamlining as there are five different 
 classes of ship 2 trade and 3 war. The 3 war have improved versions at later ages.
  
  Victory conditions are pretty simple nowkill or be killed. Well during a skirmish you can also 
 win by establishing 4 trade postsbut apart from that you either concede or conquest. No wonders, 
 relics, time, resource caps... ect.
  
  The graphics in this game while not as realistic as what we are seeing being developed on the next 
 gen consoles, are pretty highly polished. The maps are very nicely done. Variety in graphics abounds 
 and as a result the land does look more real than previous games which had cookie cutter trees 
 and rocks.
  
  The campaign is very well scripted and enjoyable to play. The sound is good quality and meshes 
 nicely with the rest of the game. So far I havent encountered any technical glitches or other 
 problems. Due to the more limited variety in units and such I think replay value might suffer a 
 bit more than predecessors, but Im sure the expansion will take care of that issue when it comes 
 out.
  
  Overall this is a pretty good game with some strong points and only a few minor detractors. Definitely 
 worth picking up next time your at the game shop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kooleman8
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 30, 2005 6:44 am PT
Review:  Let me explain all characteristics in this game:
  
  Graphics: Unique in a strategy real time game, real water, real stuff.
  
  Gameplay: It's easy 
 when you know it to play, good gameplay.
  
  Sound: It's addictive te sound of thi game in the era's and enviroment. This game have nostalgic 
 sounds like the old-school sounds in AOE 2.
  
  Value: I think i say 10! because this is a game that haves the feature to "REPLAY"
  
  Reviewer's 
 Tilt: The fans (like me) wants this game and maybe lthey loves a game of RTS with awesome graphics. 
 The worst option is at the time to advance technology because all the ages are resemble to the 
 past and doesn't changes much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alliedcvil
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 30, 2005 4:40 am PT
Review:  When I purchased Age of Empires 3 I was in mass excitement to load it up and play the game due 
 to the fact that it's based in my favorite era, the Colonial times. To my surprise it exceeded 
 my expectations in many ways and lacked in many others.
  
  As far as the improvements...
  The graphics in this game are great you can see all of the details of war from as far as your like 
 to up close and personal.
  The sounds is perfect everything is clear and the effects were top notch.
  The single player 
 campaign has a great flow to it.
  The new home city feature is a blessing and a curse at the same time as it pans out to be an RPG/RTS 
 hybrid that works in a very dependent way.
  
  As far as the things that were lacking...
  When I play an RTS I want variety, only 8 nations and a very limited unit set makes you strategize 
 but at the same time gets very boring quickly.
  The interface is in no way intuitive and seems overly streamlined.
  
  The game just doesn't 
 seem like it was tuned towards hardcore RTS players whatsoever but maybe that's a good thing. The 
 game is a good game don't get me wrong it just doesn't make any far strides for as long as it was 
 touted to gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charithrac
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 29, 2005 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Age of empires 3 is the bst graphics game u could ever have. Ive played the whole PC series of 
 Age of Empires and this is the best of all. The sounds are okay i cannot comment on that becasue 
 i dontfind any difference with the other versions. But the gamplay and the graphics are so so good.
 
  Most of all its 3d view isthe best. U hardly find a game with that kind of view specially in a 
 strategy game. I guess this a good gaem to spent on bying. Most other reviews are postive except 
 for one or two who dont know the spirit of playing strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azmodan128
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 29, 2005 4:14 pm PT
Review:  The Age of Empires III game aspires to be a step towards remaking the RTS genre into a more interactive 
 affair a significant upgrade from simple RTS games. However Age of Empires falls short of its promise 
 to deliver a memorable and highly re-playable RTS with wondrous graphics and unique game play innovations. 
 It is true that the graphics are rather impressive and the game play is nothing to laugh at, but 
 at the same time it seems that something is fundamentally missing from the game. That something 
 is a fun factor that fades quickly as you discover that many aspects of the game are rather redundant. 
 Take for example a Home City concept, it seems to be an exciting and unique concept but it turns 
 out to be nothing more than an eye candy with some functionality thrown in. This means that the 
 Home City level doesn't confer some exciting advantages, but simply allows you to bring in more 
 troops when you accumulate enough game session experience (you must play the game or the demo to 
 understand) . There are 
  no truly unique units in the game to speak of, so that was a bit of a disappointment. All in all 
 there are not that many differences between the empires to make the strategy change from one side 
 to the other.
  Although the game is fairly standard interpretation of an "Age" game it does have notable differences 
 from the other similar strategy titles. Compared to Empire Earth II it is significantly better 
 at handling the hardware that it is run on. Graphics are definitely something the creators delivered 
 as promised except for the fact that the units tend to go miraculously through the other units 
 such as trains (collision programming was not done quite right) . 
  Story mode definitely lacks any kind of innovation as it is extremely linear 
  unimaginative 
 and contrived (just my opinion, you might like it) . It presents only one story which in itself 
 is complete fiction and is nothing like the storylines of the previous masterpiece Age of Empires 
 III.
  So there you have it boys and girls, a game that is good for someone who has no other historical 
 RTS to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 29, 2005 1:19 pm PT
Review:  If anyone of you people have played the Age of Empires series before, you probably already know 
 what it's about. Economy and military. Alliances and betrayals. Slow passed fun. So, I sat down 
 with my Mountain Dew, started it up and began to play. The graphics are terrific. I love the way 
 the trees fall after been chopped on for a while, the whales and fish move about the ocean, and 
 the way the cannons actually look painful to the little enemy scouts that walk among my town. It's 
 a beautiful game. The set up looked the same too, so the learning curve was almost next to nothing. 
 But they changed some things that I didn't like at all and some things I wonder how I lived without.
 
  The best feature, besides the sounds, graphics, and gameplay is the experience meter. You can 
 actually control what special characteristics your village will have. In the game, when you get 
 enough experience, you'll hear a ding, confirming that you can ship out a special something for 
 your town. You can have a good peasant, special resource/villager upgrades, or even just drop off 
 a few good soldiers. It's amazing how a village under attack can just deploy an army off to defend 
 in a matter of seconds with this feature. Beginners can fend of the experts now. Every time you 
 level up your village (you just play the game a lot and get plenty of experience in the game to 
 level up) , you are able to buy 1 card and 1 town visual. With the cards (explained above) , you 
 can replace a previous card that maybe you never use. The town visuals effect how your main menu 
 will look. You can place some art, statues, and even new villagers around your town, making your 
 town flourish a bit more. The leveling is basically the best feature they added to the Empires 
 series.
  Another feature, yet a little disappointing to me, are the villagers no longer have to travel back 
 to town to drop off their goods. Instead, it just accumulates into your current food/wood/gold 
 resources. I didn't really like this for a game like Age of Empires. I expect that more in Starcraft 
 or an action strategy game. It's one of the few things I didn't care for. I liked that my villagers 
 had to travel a distance to drop off their wood. It was the purpose of lumber mills to take care 
 of that. It does shorten the time it takes to complete a match. 
  The markets are a lot better. The stocks are the same as previous Empires games, lowering or rising 
 depending on what the people have per resource. The improvements are in the way everything about 
 resource upgrades are actually in the market (besides a few miscellaneous farming and such) . The 
 thing that kind of sucked is for multiplayer games. There's no caravan building so you can't really 
 have a real trade route. In replace, you have a few places on the maps to build a drop off point 
 for resources. When a buggy, train, or whatever passes your drop off point, your town center will 
 have a few barrels or crates of food or whatever you choose to have dropped off. For instance, 
 you can have the traders give you gold, food, or even experience for the level up menu. It's a 
 great feature but I wish you could have a trade route through friends.
  I like the way the towers are a lot but I don't like the tower limits. I used to have fun building 
 a wall, building a wall of bombard towers, and the building a wall around that (sandwich look) 
 but you're limited to 7 towers. It was a let down for me. Maybe not to my foes, but for me it was 
 taking away my fun of tower building. There's no option to disable that either. There's also the 
 fact that the town centers are limited as well. It's a let down but oh well. The maps are great, 
 yet the lack the randomizing and the "Huge" options for people whom like to build have a few big 
 cities around the map.
  I believe the AI could have been better. It's good for some but I found the game a bit too easy 
 on certain difficulty levels and extremely hard on others. The allied members you can team with 
 seem to give up really easy as well. It's a bit frustrating to play a single player game at times 
 when you want to actually battle it out with some intelligence. The first multiplayer game I started 
 was with my cousin and two AI opponents. We played the "continent map" to test out the boats. Low 
 and behold, the AI doesn't really use boats. The sent unit after unit over for the first 20 minutes 
 but didn't really try and go to different spots on our land. They just went to the same spot over 
 and over so we eventually just put towers right there and our military units there. Then, they 
 quit coming after I built a wall around the whole island. We went over there and killed them less 
 than an hour later. It was a bit disappointing how easy they were to kill. This is the same reason 
 Age of Empires II was a little easy for me. They never really used boats and, therefore, lost. 
 But the multiplayer is terrific. It's just like old times for me. Nothing really to explain besides 
 the fact that if you want to have a good LAN party, definitely play Age of Empires III.
  
  In my honest opinion, if you think this game is just a hype, you need to at least try it with some 
 friends. If you like to play games like Diablo, you'll love the level up features. If you just 
 are an old skool Risk player, play this game. It's action and strategy combined in perfection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlejandroM
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2005 9:51 am PT
Review:  The only explanations I could come up with for the widespread underappreciation of this game were 
 low frame rate and historical inaccuracy. I have played dozens (maybe even hundreds) of games both 
 offline and online, and never once has frame rate been a problem. In regards to the latter, I play 
 Age of Empires games for the sound gameplay and the epic scale, not historical accuracy.
  
  What impressed me the most about this game was the home city system. The whole concept of leveling 
 up and getting new bonuses is somehow satisfying, and it will keep the game interesting for much 
 longer than it would be otherwise. Beyond that, it provides a depth to the game that makes players 
 of the same nation all the more different. It also allows for people to use the necessary cards 
 to reflect their playing style, and improve it accordingly.
  
  The graphics really are impressive if you want them to be, but I honestly don't really care when 
 I'm playing a strategy game. In fact, I turned most of the graphics settings down to low or medium 
 to improve performance (come to think of it, perhaps this is why I haven't experienced frame rate 
 problems) . The sound is great as well (if you ever actually play without your own music on) , and 
 cannons especially sound appropriately powerful and intimidating. Most importantly, this game actually 
 has a competent online component (at least, now that they fixed an experience problem with it) 
 that makes it easy to find games, chat rooms, and pretty much anything else you may need with ease. 
 It is a gargantuan step up from the web-based (if I recall correctly) online system for Age of 
 Empires II. The game is also very competitive and exhilarating online.
  
  Beyond these, it was the subtle things that really made me enjoy this game. Things like the ability 
 to call minutemen (which helps against rushing just enough to prevent power rushing from being 
 the only option, while still retaining it as a viable strategy) , the huge scale of ships and the 
 entertaining naval combat they are associated with, and the explorer system all make this game 
 truly great. I also noticed some people complaining about the explorer playing too large of a role, 
 which is not the case at all. Use of the explorer is almost optional, actually, and late in the 
 game you often forget about his existence completely.
  
  As a person who plays real time strategy games all the time, believe me when I tell you that you 
 will enjoy this game. I know several people who have bought it, and they were all as pleasantly 
 surprised as I was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowjany
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 29, 2005 1:19 am PT
Review:  uhm, so far just seems like Aoe2 with a graphics upgrade and new unit types. so... if you were addicted 
 to Aoe2 and then forgot about it, well here is your chance to do it all over again. It's kind of 
 like sleeping with an old exgirlfirend that just got some new plastic surgery... what i'd really 
 like to see is an awesome new RedAlert! anyone with me on that.. ;) So, the bottom line is that 
 the value is good if you love this series and want a reason to go back. I have not played it on 
 multiplayer yet so can't really judge there. Oh, a couple notes to mention, well the new home city 
 upgrade is good, the troop formations suck though, the ships are better.. there' you go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 28, 2005 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Skip out on this game, its not as good as previous installments. Somewhere along the way, Ensemble 
 dropped tha ball and made it boring. Maybe its the little bothersome bugs or the fact that you 
 can garrison military troops in outposts, but lots of minor annoyances add up to equal a game that 
 is flawed and does not expand on what it should. The Home City is useless and I can't stress that 
 enough. Its just there for looks and pretty much a waste of development time. This Age of Empires 
 is just the same exact thing but with lots of bugs and beautiful graphics. Me, I'ma graphics whore 
 myself but when a developer like Ensemble puts all its effort on the graphics, the gameplay suffers. 
 This game should have been pushed back. Also, minor things other RTS games are doing like a camera 
 that can zoom into your soldiers 3rd person view would have made a world of difference. Right now 
 all you get is a weak zoom and athats all. You'd think one of the kings of RTS games would include 
 such trivial things but no. Its the end of the Ensemble empire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloader_feni
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 28, 2005 3:11 pm PT
Review:  When i played Age of empres 2 i feld like i did go to war and that my efforts did some change in 
 the big war between kings. When Age of empres 3 was announced i had really high hopes for it and 
 it does it in some areas but not quite.
  
  The single player campaign is somewhat fun, i expected more warcampaigns like in Age of empires 
 2 but you play one character to find tis place in the new world but that is what Age 3 is about, 
 to discover the new world. The campaign have its moments but not to special about it.
  
  So when i was finished with the single player i jumped into the skrimish mode where game is much 
 better. When you battle it out it feels like there is much units that must go into another bunch 
 of units and sometimes i have lost control over my army. When horsemen attacks the infrantry you 
 would hope that they will launch a brutal attack and break trough the lines but it doesnt and 
 that dont feel like too realistic of a game for todays standards. One thing that can be very irritating 
 is that you must not only destroy your opponents buildings but you must also destroy every single 
 unit and sometimes the human opponets is using this to make a game even longer and that can be 
 irritating at times , even when you want to play a quick match.
  
  When you start to play the game you will of course see how beautiful the game really is. When your 
 unit is shot by a cannon it will fly and make it more realistic, to bad that Esemble has not done 
 that in every aspect.
  
  So what does Age 3 do that is new to the genre? 
  Well, you have your home city that you can use during your mission to transport resources to you 
 and every time you win a scenario your city gains a level, the same goes when you play online, 
 as more level your city has the more advanced technology you can use. This adds more random gameplay 
 and sometimes it does not work quite well. If you have a city with lvl 20 and your opponent have 
 a lvl 28 city you can still win but it will be much more difficullt since there is much units battle 
 it out at the same time so you cant micromanage your units as you would to.
  
  So was Age 3 worth the whait? in some point yes and in others, no. Age 3 could have been better 
 by avoiding the city idea and use the normal age system and also make the battles more so you could 
 manage them better and have more control, these would come in handy when you are up against a higher 
 lvl city player tnan you are.
  
  It looks great and sounds well but it could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 99bottles
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2005 9:08 am PT
Review:  this may seem like a fanboys review but no i do love Age of Empires and yea there are better games 
 but i gotta admit this game rules. the history part iss quiet accurate the way they made thee game 
 is beautiful and the graphics well lets say pretty nice for a strategy. 
  
  though i prefer the ancient civilizations better and after years of playing them i realy was inticipating 
 this one. In this game my fave civilization has to be the Ottomans (and its not b/c im arab muslim) 
 they were a challenge when you play with them. and i like challenges. back 2 the topic i say the 
 enviroment is awsome thr new things they included in there make the game more realistic (hidden 
 treasures, natives, i love the animals) But i miss how you can kill the birds in the 1st 1 that 
 was fun. well any ways
  
  i rerecomend this for any strategy gamer and thinking, compititive people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevcompman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2005 8:11 am PT
Review:  After hearing all of the hype about how horrible it was supposed to be, I was very pleasently surprised 
 at how well put together this game was. Granted, it still has flaws in historical context... seriously, 
 Russians in Colorado? Also, I personally was a little disapointed in the fact that it didn't include 
 any battles from the Revolutionary War, however, thats just me. 
  
  Overall, Age of Empires III has done a tremendous job with the graphics, the new Home City/card 
 system, and the XP. Definately recomended for all of the AOE series lovers, and anyone who wants 
 to try out a very well done game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOLIDNSNAKE1227
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 27, 2005 4:50 pm PT
Review:  It's good and all, but don't we want to play the battles that changed the face of North America?
 
  
  The game is based more on legends of North America rather then the contextual history! Age of Empires 
 seems to be lacking off compared to Sierra's Empire Earth series... Microsoft better lighten up! 
 The previews gave a fake image to the game. As a Canadian, I like playing games that talk about 
 North American history so I would of preferred playing revolutionary battles like the ones of the 
 War of Independence, the Civil War, the Alamo, the war of 1812, the battle for the province of 
 Quebec, etc. The setting in Malta was very smart and all but they should of focused also on the 
 battles not only in the New World but also across Europe and Asia. As a final note, the sea battles 
 are amazing, but there's just not enough of them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimihendrix2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 27, 2005 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be the greatest rts ever made closely followed by age of mythology, age of empires2 
 and rise of rome the graphics are the best ive ever seen, the gameplay is pretty much the same 
 as the older age of empires which is perfect. Fans of the other age of empires games will love 
 it so will everyone else probably. I dont see how anyone could seriously say this is a bad game 
 its just so good. If your thinking of gettin a rts then this is the one, the only downside is you 
 need a super computer to run it perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattbohn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2005 3:18 am PT
Review:  This game isn't going to set any new benchmarks. Yes, it's pretty. Yes, it has an interesting story. 
 Yes, it's objectives seem different and interesting, especially the side quests. But it doesn't 
 feel like anything new. The same ol' tried and true RTS strategies still work. One doesn't ever 
 feel challenged by this game, it's still just all about learning the maps. After the first couple 
 battles it's all c&c red alert. SSDG. Same S**t Different Game. I'm not saying that I didn't enjoy 
 it. It looks very good, and the added physics effects are very cool. But a new game, it is not. 
 Pick it up if you've got the extra 50 bucks laying around and you are just waiting for Earth 2160 
 or Star Wars: Empire at War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spyke2005
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I have never played Age of Empires but now i make question of play it i have never seen such amusing 
 graphics in my life in a strategic game. 
  The gameplay stays the same whick makes the people who have played Age of Empire feel comfortable 
 with this usual gameplay .
  The sound too is amusing you can even hear a single bird singing in a tree, the sound of a ball 
 of canoon fired anything.
  Take control of every single soldier and ships every battalion is your to control.
  If you never 
 played Age 0f Empires you should stop wasting your time and at least downlaod the demo to see how 
 amusing this game is!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n99127
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  It has been a few years since the last Age of Empires game, and in that time, the expectations 
 for strategy games have increased dramatically. 
  
  Age of Empires III definitely meets some expectations of what today's strategy game should be. 
 AOE3 features excellent graphics, including detailed units, buildings, and the water definitely 
 looks nice (provided your video card can handle it) . The gameplay is also quite good, and the home 
 city and trade route concepts definitely add a nice twist to the game. Any AOE veteran should find 
 the game to be quite fun to play.
  
  That being said, Age of Empires III does disappoint in some areas. First of all, unlike the previous 
 Age of Empires games, the campaigns are now fictional rather than historical. While that might 
 be an insignificant quibble, it does somewhat diminish AOE3's quality as a historical strategy. 
 Another disappointment about the campaign is that its rather short, and most people can probably 
 get through it in a matter of days at most (my friend finished it in a few hours) . Also, unit control 
 can be cumbersome, as all the units move as fast as the slowest unit.
  
  Overall, Age of Empires III is a decent addition to the Age of Empires line, featuring the winning 
 gameplay that has characterized all previous Age of Empires games. The game does have some minor 
 faults, but generally, the game is an excellent choice for all who enjoy a good strategy game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razashan
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:34 am PT
Review:  Age-Of Empires II was a 2-D Game. And the Graphics Was Not Very Good... Now Age Of Empires 3 is 3-D 
 and i think i can win The 2006 Best Stragtegy&RPG Game Award ... Amazing Graphics... Buy& Enjoy This 
 Game... Its Released OR NOT... And Age Of Empires Heaven is Realesed..
  
  I say it Again
  
  Age-Of Empires II was a 2-D Game. And the Graphics Was Not Very Good... Now Age Of Empires 3 
 is 3-D and i think i can win The 2006 Best Stragtegy&RPG Game Award ... Amazing Graphics... Buy& 
 Enjoy This Game... Its Released OR NOT... And Age Of Empires Heaven is Realesed.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrautava
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:18 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3
  
  I must say that I expect more than this, but I was not disappointed.
  This is great game to play with your friends. But that camping was too easy.
  
  If you like 
 strategy, then you will buy Empire Earth 2 and not this, but if you are professional player like 
 me and like to own all strategy games rhis is for you.
  
  Short description:
  There is no new cool ideas what we have not seen before this game.
  Well there is that "home 
 city" thing but it was nothing to praise about...
  It is lame if you compare this to Empire Earth.
  
  One thing I like was that new red monster 
 car. It was much better that thet old blue car in old AoE.
  
  Age of Empires 3 is still an impressive game but I have to give only 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krusher222
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:14 am PT
Review:  The game has the potential of being great; however getting use to the little quirks in the game 
 play is difficult. I like the home city aspect, however managing the trade when you are in the 
 heat of battle can be crappy. I understand where the developers are going with the concept but 
 it still needs tweaking. The units seem to have a mind of there own (meaning youre never quite 
 sure whose going to attack who and which unit is better for fighting individual units) . Sure the 
 destruction of buildings, ships and walls is great except for the fact that I feel is takes away 
 the AI. You can never seem to be able to collect enough gold, silver and wood when you need it 
 most. The mines and woods seem to run out quick especially when playing on the island maps. There 
 are many glitches too, such as landscapes that seem to be passable only to find out they arent 
 (not to mention workers getting stuck between walls) . While I was really expecting a breakthrough 
 in game play i. e. controls and movement and better use of ranged cannons, walls, units, heros and 
 forts like most RTSs Im still hooked. In time, I know Microsoft will put the right mix together 
 and continue down the path of cutting age gaming For this chapter I still like the game, however 
 lets spend a little more time on the game and not the hype!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crozeak
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 26, 2005 3:03 am PT
Review:  AOE has come to define the real time genre, and this is no disapointment. I really like the ability 
 to bring new cards to each game and level up you civilization. The game play is excellent and graphics 
 are superb, I love the footprints in the snow from all the people, and the flying debris from the 
 explosions. I think this will really add to the overall experiance of playing AOE3 and I look forward 
 to any expansion packs that will come out. I do think that I might just go out and buy this game, 
 as I have playing a free copy of the full version. I really like trying the entire game for free 
 first before deciding to pay the $50 for retail copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsertNmaeHere
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 25, 2005 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Let me come out and say that this game doesn't make good first impressions. It as isnt romantic 
 like the first two in the series, or as flashy as Warcraft, or as epic as the Civ clones like RoN. 
 It kinda just feels ok. But it is an incredibly tight and well-balanced game, with a central concept, 
 the Home City, that is deceptively deep and far more interesting in the long run than some of the 
 more recent "revolutions" in RTS gaming. After about two or three games, the immensity of the different 
 options the Home City allows hit me hard.
  
  The gameplay is very similar to the RTS model (maybe because AoE is the RTS model?) . A couple new 
 tactical stances are added, and older useless ones were excised or combined (for those complaining 
 about the lack of stand ground/defensive/patrol/guard, take a closer look at the defend formation. 
 Its an all in one) . The game does seem rough around the edges in some parts, though, and there 
 are some annoying wiggles and restrictions that detriment ease and freedom for greater balance. 
 But the balance and depth are far greater than any other RTS out there. Unlike even its vaunted 
 predecessor, there are absolutely no useless units or underpowered civs. This is the section of 
 the game that recieved the most attention and it shows. There are so many little bits and pieces 
 in the game's balance that you know the devs dotted every i and crossed every t. This, combined 
 with the Home City and the quite unique civs, opens the door completely to a wide range options 
 and strategies
  
  The graphics and music are out of this world. Anyone who gave either of these below a 9 is lying 
 (or upset that the game doesn't look like the back of the box on their Pentium 1) . I have a mid-level 
 computer, and, although I can't access all the graphical bells and whistles, I am consistently 
 blown away by the level of the graphics. Literally every game I notice some thing new in the graphics 
 that blows my mind. There are occasionally some little errors that break the illusion, but this 
 is to be expected in all video games as they approach the level of reality. I also had some slow 
 down problems, especially in naval battles (which are better and worse than those of the previous 
 games, BTW) , but nothing on the magnitude that others have alleged. The game's music is incredible. 
 It is easily the best part of the game. It is the definition of epic. I am now regretting not getting 
 the collector's edition just for the soundtrack. The voice work is superb as well.
  
  The long of the short of it is, if you want a "revolutionary" RTS thats a mile wide but an inch 
 deep go spring for RoN or EE2. But if you want an RTS that stays true to the gerne's roots but 
 brings them to a level of finesse and depth unsurpassed by any other game, AoE3 is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coreyb42
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Ahhh, Age of Empires. One of the original and most beloved RTS series to date. Past AoE's have 
 attracted gamers of all shapes and sizes, with an epic feel that, at the time, was unmatched. 
 
  
  Now Microshaft has gone and mussed that up. No longer does it feel as if you're controlling an 
 empire, but merely a single colony led by some cartoonish swashbuckler that belongs more in Pirates 
 than anywhere else. This game seems almost like it's trying to ride the wave of Pirate fame, and 
 seems to focus in on a single character, rather than a whole empire. 
  
  Gone is the rock, paper, scissors formula of the olden days. Now, the units are kind of muddled 
 together, some with questionable usefulness (what exactly are those swordsman-scouts used for?) . 
 This game really isn't very hard, it's just a lot of work. There are three basic steps:
  
  1) Churn out a bunch of units
  2) Attack enemy
  3) Churn out more units, repeat
  
  This 
 game makes absolutely no attempt to rewrite the RTS formula. It actually manages to dumb down the 
 genre, rather than innovate. Never have I seen more rave fanboy reviews for a game so deserving 
 of the bargain bin. Gamers would be much better served getting another RTS, such as EE2 or RoN. 
 AoE, RIP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The graphics for this game were quite good and the gameplay was quite realistic as far as deaths 
 and things go. For example if your man got hit with a cannon two cannons shots hes dead (depending 
 on the cannon it could be quicker or longer) but then he would go flying because he just got nailed 
 with a cannon ball and if there was a lake nearby his body would fly back splash in the lake along 
 with the cannon ball that rolls in the lake also. 
  
  Honestly the whole time ive had the game never played campaign because of the cool leveling system 
 in this AOE kept me hooked on skirmish. It starts you off by making a town and when you make a 
 town you gain experience through gameplay (no matter if you win or lose) and the experience allows 
 you to buy bonus upgrade cards that allow you to make your armys stronger or your citizens faster 
 to gather or practically anything. 
  
  Then you were given customization points which allowed you to customize the city you chose when 
 you first began you can add characters, flags, street lamps, and change the color of your buildings 
 and other things. This game was very unique in that way and I was quite impressed when I played 
 this game I highly recommend it to all AOE or RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhlkoho
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 25, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  Great game. Awesome graphics. Awesome sound. That's all you need to know. Now go out and buy this 
 game. If you remember how much fun the older age of empire games were, this one is 100 times more 
 fun. If you have never played an age of empires game before it may take a while to get the hang 
 of this game. Hell, even if you have been playing the older ones it will take you a while. There 
 are so many new features to this game its hard to keep track of all of them. Go buy this game now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sc4n
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 25, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  The thing that i like from AoEIII is the Xp system, this was introduced that Essemble Studios on 
 the first time for RTS (which i think it is) , I like this features because it's new to me, and 
 the Cards system are also new, other than that it's like any other RTS games, Overall this game 
 for me is great but not that great, if there's another better game coming up, better safe for those 
 upcoming games, But this game is worth your money if you ask me, and if you got some spare money 
 that you dont know on which game you should spend, this game maybe the answer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enesjusufi
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 8:24 am PT
Review:  NO MATTER WHO YOU ARE.... 
  NO MATTER WHAT GAMES YOU LIKE...
  YOU WILL...... OH YES YOU WILL.... YOU WILL LOVE THIS GAME....
  the best the best the best the 
 best the best the best the best the best
  the best the best the best the best the best the bestthe best the best the bestthe bestthe bestthe 
 bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe 
 bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe 
 bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe 
 bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe bestthe best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firehammster
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 25, 2005 8:19 am PT
Review:  Many will say it's the same ol' thing. The thing to remember is that it's a series, and the best 
 so far. I love the way the game allows you to chose new cards from your home city. This way you 
 can tailor your upgrades to your own style of play. The single player campaign is a great way to 
 hone your skills and discover your style, but the skirmsh levels are where this game butters it's 
 bread. The re-play-ability in the skirmish section will have you playing this game for the next 
 year or so. Pretty good graphics and added features make this another winner in Microsoft's best 
 line of game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neumans81
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 25, 2005 6:57 am PT
Review:  This game is awsome, by far best strategy games released to date. i have been waiting for this 
 for months, and i have to say im not disappointed. Ensemble have done all they have said they would 
 do, this game is brilliant, indepth graphics, gameplay can be very difficult as the missions go 
 on, but thats what makes this style of game entertaining. the background graphics are phenominal, 
 the water looks brilliant, the ragdoll effects of the troops and damage to all surrounding buildings 
 and ground damage is brilliant. all i can say is i cant wait for the expansion :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disguise_111
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 5:55 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is perhaps one of the most anticipated RTS games of the year. However, it fails 
 to deliver. True, it does have it's innovations, but the series hasn't moved with the times. As 
 a result, the combat feels sterile and boring after playing games such as Dawn of War and Rome: 
 Total War. 
  
  The graphical improvments do live up to the hype though, bloom effects, damage effects and water 
 shading all add up to make for a very immersive game. One graphical gripe I do have is that the 
 ships look stupidly wide and that throws off the sense of proportion.
  
  It is good to see that there were SOME improvements made to the AOE formula. For example, the lack 
 of drop off points for gatherers is greatly appreciated as is the innovative home city and trade 
 route system. Still, the biggest let down is the combat, which is just... dull.
  
  By the way, the multiplayer in AOE III is absolutely horrible. The amount of bugs in both Online 
 and LAN play is terrible. If you're an online person, skip this game until it's been patched. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mamad_raiss
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 25, 2005 4:24 am PT
Review:  when you see the list of new games you ll find many new games that made by microsoft .
  some like dungeon seige ,fable, age of empire III and ...
  they all have many new and amazing 
 things and they have all parameters that a game should have . like graphic very good story and 
 amazig game play . in fact microsoft making us happier and happier and try to make us thik and 
 then play and then we will enjoy our games.
  age of empire III is the best in its genere and it brings you too many new things that you havent 
 seen before .
  I like american compagn because its similar to cowboy movies and thats remember me those movies 
 .
  anyway I dont write review its just an advertisement to these game and microsoft . lets buy these 
 games and later XBOX 360   
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradoo16
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 2:59 am PT
Review:  I couldnt belive the difference that there was between Age of Empires 2 and Age of Empires 3, There 
 is so much more to do, and the environments with the maps are much more realistic. Talking of realistic, 
 how many games have building where they slowly destruct with parts of the building flying off when 
 you shoot a cannon ball at it or attack it with your armies??
  
  Not too many have that cool feature, none that i have heard of anyway... I would reccomend this 
 for anyone that is willing to pay for the game, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haybengal
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 25, 2005 12:43 am PT
Review:  I think this game should of had like the old one had u can create a map and start from havin a 
 big forest bunch of water, and so one. Its takes to much time to be putin in them trees and makin 
 mountains look real. another flaw short not to many stories in the campaign. what im saying is 
 all u get to play wit in the campaign is 3 different kinds of ppl. when theres like 8 different 
 teams. Like all the other AOE games it always has resources sometimes hard to find, some maps had 
 very lil, gold, or food, or even wood, givin u a challenge, having spend ur resources smart, and 
 geting what u need and not to waste it. Also has great graphics, like then home city play where 
 u can make ur city look nice, and where u choose what kinds of shipments will be available for 
 u in the mission. Takes a lot from the AOE 2, so makes it good, even know i liked AOE because of 
 it being back in time with swords and very lil guns (more of artillery) , i think it was better because 
 it had musketeers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentle_stormtoo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 24, 2005 11:45 pm PT
Review:  AoE III is being treated unfairly by many, because it failed to revolutionize the world of gaming. 
 I get the feeling people are not rating the game for what it is but for what it should have been. 
 Expectation was just too high by many. ES is partially to blame, because they led people to believe 
 that AoE III would change RTS for ever. 
  
  If you have never played AoE series before and love RTS games then your in for a real treat. If 
 you have played the series before and enjoyed it , this is only better. Providing you don't expect 
 the game to be perfect.
  
  Gameplay and value is high. The interface is better refined and easier to play. They taken some 
 of the micromangement away. Home City feature give the game more strategy and interest. It seems 
 an all round a better game then ever. If previous series were rated high this one should only be 
 rated higher, because it plays better. Period. 
  
  The game looks real great in a high end machine. Though in a lower end you got to turn of many 
 of the graphics nifty features making it appear rather dull. It also not as brilliant coloured 
 as the previous series, but I believe it's because of the 3D graphics rendering rather then spirits 
 graphic I was use to before. I find this to be the games weakest point.
  
  I must admit when I first started playing, I felt dissappointed too. Giving it a chance and putting 
 aside my expectation, found it to be a very enjoyable game. More so then the previous AoE, which 
 at this point would be unplayable because of the more cleaner feel and better stratigic points.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: waikit25
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 24, 2005 8:40 pm PT
Review:  
  
  I had bought this game recently and i tried it. The gameplay was quite good with good ingame physics. 
 It feels satisfying when i use mortars and cannons to blow up buildings and see them break up pieces 
 by pieces and enemies being blown away. The music and sound effects were great too though unit 
 acknowledgments may get irritating after a while of playing. The "Home City" function also adds 
 fun and tactical options to the gameplay as you decide what reinforcements or supplies will be 
 sent to you in the middle of the game. How it helps when i get into a tight situation. hahahahaha. 
 Other than that , the other aspects of the game felt similar to other strategy games. Though it 
 may not redefine the standards of the genre, but it is certainly worth to play even for those not 
 into strategy games. :P Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bountydoom
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 24, 2005 7:42 pm PT
Review:  When you first start to see the game and the menu, it looks great! With the nice city and people 
 walk around. But as you start to play, thats a diffirent story.
  
  The learning curve seems to come right to you in this game. The aspect of the home city and shiping 
 things and items to your settlement is a great idea. After awhile it that proudness of the game 
 ends. because the sound effort is great on some standards but its all the same, the guns firing 
 and cannons shooting gets old real-quick. 
  
  The gameplay of the home cities is great, the fact that you can build decks of cards and customize 
 your city is great to. But the gameplay on the battlefield is a little old, for one thing, they 
 took out the territories aspect in AOE2 which was a fun and great idea. Althought it does get over 
 you quick and you dont start to care. The building is quick and easy, but it doesnt really have 
 alot of buildings for you to choose from at all. And whatever nation you pick, to the spanish to 
 the dutch they do give you special units, but it doesnt matter. You dont really use them becuase 
 they pretty much suck, you end up useing a musketeer and a skrimisher (Not sure if I got the last 
 worn right "skrimisher") unit through-out the game. Not to mention cannons. The Cavalry in the 
 game is good for one thing... killing the enemy cannons, and well... killing a retreating army, 
 but really the only good use for Cavalry is killing the cannons and dodging them. There are really 
 no other use but could come in handy but for the most part no. 
  
  Getting the gold in game is a pesk, you mine from gold mines but you kinda run out fast. And you 
 really run out fast if your playing on the island maps. Then one the only ways is selling, tradepost, 
 and plantions. The money problem for most part aquires in the island maps. For one theres a few 
 gold mines, theres no tracks for tradingpost, which leaves you with one thing:
  "Plantions." Plantions cant get alot of gold at once. Which forces you to make more plantions. 
 Which in that case in some cases leave you in a wood problem, you run out of wood, and then you 
 buy wood, which comes back with a money problem.
  
  Walls in the games begin to have really no use, really its only a use for minor attacks on you. 
 Big attacks can really tear those walls down. And the gates will be open all the time if you make 
 the wall tight to your city. Because a unit will always be by it with a tight space. And theres 
 no "Lock or unlock gates" icon. In some cases you settle very near a road. Which in some wall forms 
 causes a big FAT gap in your wall becuase a gate cant be made over the road. Giving big problems.
 
  
  I could make this review longer, but i must go. 
  But if you ask me, dont buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xguild
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:54 pm PT
Review:  RTS games have come a long way in terms of design and in the expectations of players since the 
 early days of gaming. Many of those standards were set by AOE 2, which is why it's a suprise to 
 me that so much was left out of this sequal.
  
  Let's start with the positive, certainly the game's graphical eye candy, musical score and sound 
 effects were very well done. It's obvious that the focus of this game was to be attractive and 
 it acomplishes this with great success. None the less I lowered the graphics score slightly due 
 to it's poor performance even on a top quality Alien Ware like my PC. In my humble opinion releasing 
 a game that performs poorly on high end machines is really poor form, it would have been far wiser 
 for Microsoft to spend it's developing dollar on including more gameplay features.
  
  Speaking of gameplay, this is were the game is a real let down. Many standard RTS features were 
 completetly excluded like formations of units for example. Even it's predesesor had them and in 
 a game that is built around the Revolutionary war era, it's actually historically inacurate to 
 exclude military formations. Another thing left out was "stance" choices making the units far harder 
 to control because they simply act on their own. You can't place units on patrols, or set them 
 to defend an area. I haven't seen a game exclude these types of options since the early Warcraft 
 II days.
  
  There are almost no choices at all in terms of the game itself. It's either the campaign which 
 is only fair at best, or skirmish mode which offers only two choices, deathmatch and Supremecy.
 
  
  Some features like leveling up the city are interesting, but I haven't found it all that inspiring 
 or fun. It's mostly a useless treadmill that gives you an even bigger advantage over the computer 
 which offers almost no challenge at all. Unlike AOE 2, I'm able to defeat 3-4 opponents even on 
 hard mode with little effort. The AI just does the typical "clone RTS" rush with units with no 
 actual strategy, in fact if they attack one area then it's the only area they will attack so you 
 know exactly where they are going to be attacking you from for the rest of the game.
  
  Multiplayer mode offers some decent gameplay thanks to a moderatly interested online community, 
 but unfortunatly their are so many unit based and strategy based exploits that every multiplayer 
 game is for the most part the same unless you are lucky to find an opponent who has not discovered 
 the design flaws.
  
  In conclusion, short of a graphically intersting game this is one game you'll probobly want to 
 borrow from a friend or wait for it to hit the bargain bin which is exactly where this title is 
 heading and certainly where it belongs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reggy15
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  This game lets you do so much and every game is different its hard to believe that we are already 
 at this point in gaming . From the Great graphics to the Fantastic Battles and the sence of the 
 past Age of empires its just plain fun and a great experience . I encourage all that like RTS games 
 and especially encourage all who like past Age of empires 3 games to play it . 
  
  + The home city aspect makes this a long term investment
  + Good Graphics ( just look at the 
 water and you see what i mean)
  + I like how every Building can be destroyed differently 
  + The fighting in the game is fun 
  + They have things from the past games that bring back good 
 memorys
  + Single player is fun and captures the feelings of going to the new World
  
  - If you are level 1 stay away from level 25`s you will be destroyed
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aragornjer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2005 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Ive played all the aoe games. i wasnt as pleased with the first, the second really caught my eye, 
 and now this with a whole different campain.
  
  i dont know why people dont like this game but they can say whatever.
  i say they cant be humans 
 if they dont like this game.
  it is crazy.
  my cousian and my uncle and friends love the games and this one also.
  it is hard game if you 
 dont know tactics.
  im going to play lazer gun games and i need tactics to beat another friend of mine that is at the 
 army in high school, so therefore it need tactics.
  
  but on this game its history game and people can learn from it and be amazed by it!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 SO TELL YOUR  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tk42i
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2005 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that AOE III was a fair bit of a disappointment to me. It had a tremendous amount 
 of hype and press coverage on how it was going to revitalize the classic series. The Good: The 
 visuals and sound are gorgeous. The Bad: The gameplay seems like a generic rehash of the previous 
 versions of this series. The Ugly: After such ground breaking titles such as Rome: Total War and 
 Rise of Nations raised the bar for this genre I feel the designers of AOE III were too conservative 
 with combat and in-game strategy. Also, the home city feature seems almost like an add-on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pageman
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 24, 2005 12:42 pm PT
Review:  After a few years wait, I was excited and enthusiastic about AOE3 new release. But like mama used 
 to say "Don't get your hopes up too high or you might get dissapointed." Don't get me wrong the 
 game is far from terrible. But this is what my picky butt noticed
  
  Graphics: Doesn't look like the pictures on the box. 
  
  Performances: Kind of glitchy between 
 campaigns
  
  Game play: Its Age of empires its still fun.
  
  Replayability - Good
  
  Overall: 7 
  
  Pageman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 24, 2005 11:09 am PT
Review:  It's been a long time, but finally Microsoft's award-winning franchise is strikes again! Unfortunately, 
 a good game and a perfect game are so different, to say the least.
  
  The graphics in the game are so spectacular and articulate. It seems most games are following the 
 theory of "higher resolution does matter!". What a shame, it seems that the crystal clear water, 
 realistic shadows, and breath-taking environments will never substitute for the perfect gameplay 
 experience...
  
  Sound-wise, the game delivers a nice score, akin to AOE II's original theme. Throughout the game, 
 the SFX is decent and on the level.
  
  The game play is simplified compared to previous releases. One major difference is peasants never 
 need to return to a dropout for resources, they will collect them on the spot.
  
  Overall, AOE III is AOE II revisited... A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artcwolf
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 24, 2005 9:52 am PT
Review:  Well the home cities are a nice feature. The ability to ship items to your colony in a pinch helps 
 out a lot, but its not lived up to all the hype for me. The graphics are great, but the zoom sucks, 
 its way to close, and even at the farthest setting its still to close. 
  
  The game play is the same; the campaigns get old real fast. The music gets repetitive, so as with 
 most games Ive turned it off. I do like the skirmish matches though, and while the AI is still 
 a bit dim, they dont do the same thing over and over again. If anything I should have waited for 
 the price to drop before I bought it. If you are thinking of getting it, wait for the price to 
 drop.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thylife99
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 8:15 am PT
Review:  Well , the AOE series has provided for ' the ' best in strategy gaming. AOC is still a classic 
 with thousands of fans playing world wide. Multiplayer strategy gaming means AOE. But, it is disappointing 
 to se that one of the games in the series not to live up to the expectations ..... . This was the 
 talk in all the AOE cycles till now ....... but has not lived up to the thrill and excitement given 
 by AOC. 
  
  But, for anyone new to the series it is a great game. One of the must plays for the year. One awesome 
 feature is the physics and the graphics. Both has seen a lot of improvement. And the game is still 
 playable at lowest quality is P4 2.4 ghz with intel extreme machines. But dont expexct high frame 
 rates. 
  
  Gameplay is something that likes the excitement of the previous ones but that doesn, t mean that 
 ist is awful. It is still tghe best strategy game available now.
  And the game also has interesting gameply as anyone who wanna try out might like to know. A good 
 option to lauch into tha world of AOE.
  
  mEtAl_~@"^^^"__ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandy322
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 23, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing AOE for years and have loved it. I was so exicited to hear about the release 
 of AOE III . I bought the game Thursday when it was released and I am already bored with it. It 
 fails in comparison to AOE II. There are so many things I hate about it. The main one is no unit 
 commands ,only attack . no ability to make formations. I cant even set a unit to patrol. No ability 
 to set pop. level or resource level. Besides campaigns you can only play Supremacy and Deathmatch. 
 What a huge disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nazgul55
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 4:21 pm PT
Review:  overall this game is great, good graphics good gameplay lots of verying civilizations. thoguh the 
 game's campaign is fun it fits aom much more then an aoe game. the graphics are amazing even on 
 low quality setting. the best part of the game comes in multiplayer especially if u play with frineds, 
 the AI is much smarter this time around so be prepared for a fun and challenging fight on higher 
 difficulty settings ( escpessially fun wen u and a frined vs multipl comps) . some bad things about 
 the game are that the online it takes up to 12 hours for you to recive experince points for your 
 home city ( so you cant upgrade it right away after winning a match) . some other minor glitches 
 dont make this game as good as it can possibly be. But overall aoe 3 is a great game for anyone 
 who likes startegy games (thoguh a bit too expensive) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rubencunha
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 4:27 am PT
Review:  I was a fan of the age of empires series and when i got this game i was very ansious to see what 
 Ensemble Studios had for us... After the first 5 minutes of pure delightment with the graphics 
 and animations i started to realize that this game hasn't much more to offer... There aren't no 
 new improvements besides the graphics and you may say "ye but that formula is still a great one" 
 yes its a great one but in nowadays i think people start to seek for more and the imersion in this 
 game is not that great.
  After a few hours of play (and other few bugs) we start to realize that the sound in not that great 
 (specially the voices that dont seem real) the units arent that smart and all your army refuses 
 to act at same time (limited number of units control) , sometimes even the camera seems too close 
 to the "action", all this things dont kill a good game experience but they hurt for sure.
  For all that i think Age of Empires III is a good game, but not a great one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwarfism
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 22, 2005 11:10 pm PT
Review:  AOE III is a good game with good old classic rts style of build up an army and attack. To the guy 
 who says that Rome total was SOOO.. Much better he needs to realize that most gamers out there 
 who are true RTS fans do not necessarily love the rome total war layout, though it is a good game 
 they like to be able to mass and customize the army their own way. Myself I'm a big AOE I and II 
 fan along with Warcraft III. They really need to focus in and figure out exactly the point of the 
 explorer either make it so they can die and revive or so you have to revive them, because otherwise 
 it seems liek they are on vacation in the other persons area. The cards I feel are a great new 
 way to play but this shouldn't be called aoe it shoudl be called age of expansion or colonization, 
 not Empires because though England and France etc did technically have empires I'm more a fan of 
 hte ottoman/roman empire games we were so used to seeing in the past wiht mideavel weapons and 
 units. all in all good game but microsoft really could have picked their brains or done some more 
 research on the AOE Following. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kabals
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say that after playing this game non-stop for a few days, I really do enjoy it. I 
 just completed the game on the hard setting and have played a few online games as well.
  
  First off, the good: The visuals are stunning, but you need a whale of a machine (and a really 
 good video card) to run this game at the highest settings. The sound is smooth, the gameplay is 
 solid, and the effects, such as infantry getting blasted by artillery, is simply a pleasure to 
 watch.
  
  The bad? I'm not sure how to put this really. The campaign seemed disjointed to me; sure it covered 
 three completely different ages, so it was supposed to be disjointed, but I never really felt a 
 sense of urgency to stop the Circle or felt them as a viable threat because, well, I never was 
 truly sure what they were doing. After all, the first act ends with the destruction of the Fountain 
 of Youth, and the rest of the campaign the Circle is still trying to get it and it's water. The 
 player knows that it's hopeless, so we're left to fight battles that really, we know don't really 
 matter.
  
  The crusade/swashbuckling campaign seemed to fall on it's face too. In AOM, you followed around 
 a group of heroes in their attempt to stop, basically, the end of the world. The story telling 
 was compelling and outstanding, and you simpathized with the heroes. Not so in AOE3. Amelia, Cooper, 
 Morgan, John, etc don't hold your attention, nor do you care for them or like them as virtual people 
 like you did with Arkantos, Kastor, Amanra, Ajax, etc.
  
  Comparing this game to Age of Mythology seems to fit very well. AOE3 has the same forumla, sadly 
 enough, as AOE2: Build up your army and rush the other person's Town Center. And it's the same 
 each time. Run up with some basic infantry, a few artillery units, and watch the fur fly. Everytime. 
 No exception. The beautiful job that Ensemble did in AOM to have counter units for everything is 
 completely void in AOE3. Sure, your pikemen will do better against horses, but musketmen are on 
 par with everything. They don't seem to lose to any one unit more than another, likewise with beating 
 them. AOM had a rude awakening for you if you relied to heavily on heroes or myth units or just 
 human units. In AOE3, you can get away with doing the same thing everytime and you'll never pay 
 for it.
  
  Cavalry are a joke (IMO) in this game. I never used them and never had a problem by not using them. 
 Water based units are nice, but I was never sure of their importance, seeing how the campaign only 
 uses them for a few missions and they are almost non-existant in multiplayer games. 
  
  This is a lot of negativity, but I still enjoyed the game, though I thought it was much too short 
 (the campaign) for a game that retails for $49.99. The online replay is very high because of the 
 human element, but if online isn't your fortay, then you might want to wait for the price to drop 
 because spending 50 dollars on this game for single player alone is not worth it. Hopefully, Ensemble 
 has an expansion pack up its sleeve that will add much more depth to this great, albeit shallow 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 22, 2005 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of the previous Age Of Empires games, I couldn't wait until the release date. Seeing 
 the screenshots on Gamespot, I saw some pretty impressive visuals. With this, I expected very high 
 system requirements, but they are generally low. All the shadowing, the fog, all look great, and 
 the character models have been well done too. I have one complaint about the graphics, that damn 
 interface, it's huge. Annoying huge. Even on a low res it still felt awkward.
  
  I was disapointed to find besides the graphics, and push of 300 years forward, the game is identical 
 to AOE 2. Now there are some pretty unique features, like befriending a native tribe, and those 
 experience points you collect. But the style fighting, and fairly dumb AI are present in this game, 
 just like in its predecessors.
  
  There are also only 8 factions now, which isn't bad because they all seem to be in an overall good 
 balance. But there needs to be more units, and more variety in between them, kinda like in Warcraft 
 3.
  
  Besides these faults, Age Of Empires 3 is still a worthwhile purchase, and will be one of the better 
 RTS games you'll see in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legolas167
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 8:21 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting something amazing out of this game after witnessing the graphics on the screenshots 
 but in actuality it's one of those same old RTS games. I find Rome Total War far superior to this 
 game. And even though this game has great graphics and physics, it does not make up for its lack 
 of originality. There is no intense thrill and excite which is evident in Rome, and neither is 
 there any realism in the battles. 
  
  Age of Empires 3 is bland and fails to emmerse the player into the gameplay no matter how great 
 the graphics are; it's not just the visuals that make a game great. I was quite disappointed in 
 this game. Personally, i think that the coming RTS games should look upon the TW series as examples. 
 I'm not saying that the TW games are perfect but they should make games of that sort and enhance 
 them, for i think that they are the RTS games of the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahram90
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 22, 2005 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks, there are some really cool quests, and the graphics are out of this world. Altough 
 there aren't that many nations to choose from and there are and equal amount of units to choose 
 from. But the really good part is that you can call for help from your home city. But it doesn't 
 seem to be that different from age of kings, i would have expected more units too chose from. But 
 a plus side is you can find treasure and join an alliance with the natives on the map. And there 
 are some very immpresive ships they are huge ships which can shot at the soldiers on land do great 
 damage and lots of other little things which make the game amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ntoremi
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 22, 2005 7:03 pm PT
Review:  
  I have played all the strategy titles of Microsoft. The most I like is the AOK TC.
  
  The ONLY think which I like 100% in this game is the water.
  
  I think Microsoft try to sell 
 the brand name now and latter in an expansion will give us a real game (for an extra fee) . I 
 hope
  
  I recommend you to buy it for support this pure company, maybe then they will make a really revolutionary 
 game like we except from them :)
  
  Ps: Sorry for my English. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WNxUSA
Rating: 4.7
Date: Oct 22, 2005 5:59 pm PT
Review:  This games ok, Many problems and still one of the LONGEST times to try and play a single game, 
 If you like games that take 8hours to play just one round this is for you. The game ballanceing 
 could use a little work. Graphics i must say are verry nice tho. I was verry supprised. Game play 
 takes a little whyle to play but not to much. Ballanceing the teams can use some work. Game takes 
 a whyle to play tho and the fun rateing isent verry high. None this less this is a ok game but 
 i wouldent belive its one of the best AOE's out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: __qubert__
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 22, 2005 5:32 pm PT
Review:  when i first heard that the new age of empires was comming out, i was kindda surprized. i thought 
 that sence they haven't made a new one in over 6 year, that they had just given up., but then i 
 read this and, well, their i go. i downloaded it as soon as i could, witch was kinda hard because, 
 i have dile up, i fell so poor... any ways. when i played it at first, i didn't get it at all it 
 totaly changed, but after about 30 min. to 1 hour, i totaly got it : - ) every one is saying they 
 dont like the change, but personly, i love it
  
  __Qubert__ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h0thead2
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 22, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires 3 is the long over due sequel to the great strategy game Age of Empires 2. Taking 
 place in the empire building times from roughly 1500 to the post industrial age around 1700. 
 
  
  The game has gotten a nice graphical overhaul, and is now visually impressive. Sadly though Microsoft 
 did not optimize the game to the point of a Valve creation (for example Half-Life 2) so if you 
 are going to play this game on a older computer then you will be suffering through a painfully 
 low frames per second. 
  
  The single player is enjoyable to go through once, and the games artificial intelligence give the 
 player a challenge. What really makes this game worth while how ever is the mulitplayer. With support 
 for up to eight players, many memorable games will be taking place. 
  
  With each of the civilizations having a unique set of bonuses they truly feel individual. Each 
 is played in a different manner, and are remarkably well balanced. With no clear cut winner players 
 are free to choose the civilization that they enjoy playing the most. This leads to a better gameplay 
 experience, and more diverse strategies playing against friends online. 
  
  Some of the flaws of the game is that this game favors those people who have money to buy a great 
 computer. In contrast those with frame rate problems will have a hard time competing online. Another 
 is the lack of unit formations in the final version of the game. This leads to a chaotic, and unorganized 
 battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berijim
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 10:14 am PT
Review:  Ensemble Studios has done it again with the third installment of the Age of Empires series. Brilliant 
 Visuals, great battles, and imaginative campaign make this third installment an amazing real time 
 strategy experience.
  The game is definitely worth the wait. Cannons are quite amazing, each civilization a masterpiece, 
 and the units spectacular. Multi-player is quite good as well. Ensemble Studios On-line make it 
 quite easy to join a game by allowing you to do a quick search, or look through a list of created 
 games in the multi-player.
  The only thing that I was kinda down about was that it lacked the amount of different game types 
 that the others in the series have. It only features 2 game types Supremacy and Death Match. Other 
 than that it is a great example of an RTS game and is definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafarsadik
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 8:13 am PT
Review:  I've started last week by playing the demo of the game I've downloaded from Gamespot and I've actually 
 enjoyed it a lot which made looking forward to the realize of the game this week, so obviously 
 enough I couldn't wait to get my had on the full thing.
  
  Well to start I wasn't really disappointed it's a very good game but...
  humm well but I've been 
 expecting more of the series. I mean AOE revolutionized the RTS experience and I've had somewhat 
 more riding on the 3rd installment. 
  
  Sure it's a good game and yeah who wouldn't love the colonial era but I mean that's it? Well in 
 that case AOE 3 will have to explain to us why shouldn't we play Empire Earth 2 then? I mean the 
 later does expand from prehistoric era to the future era (although AOE 3 graphics are somewhat 
 better) but still I would have expected AOE 3 to kick EE 2's ass which didn't happen so I would 
 have to say the 2 kinda are on the same level.
  
  I love the new stuff in AOE3 (like the home cities and all) and I'm sure i will keep on playing 
 it for a long time but the main title here would be "Almost but not quite".
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRBottom
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 22, 2005 7:54 am PT
Review:  Now, I was a huge fan of the original AOEs, and I think that is the majority of the people that 
 will find this game appealing.
  
  Gameplay (9)
  The gameplay is what you expect from an Age game, fantastic. The units are well balanced and their 
 are a variety of maps available to play. So why did I give it only a 9? Framrate. Even on the best 
 of computers, and on the lowest of settings, a huge gun battle can get a little choppy. I would 
 not worry about it though, for it takes little away from the great gameplay the Age series has 
 mastered.
  
  Graphics (9)
  Perhaps not as flashy as the first screenshots posted, but still fantastic. The terrain, water, 
 gunfire, explosions, and building destruction are all great. However, the ships behave very awkwardly 
 in the water, leaving no wake behind them and making incredibly strange turns. Also, in an intense 
 battle, it is sometimes difficult to differentiate units.
  
  Sound (9)
  The guns sounds perfect, and the music is top notch and always perfect for the moment. However, 
 in the campaign mode the voice acting is sub par and there are a lot of repeats when clicking on 
 a unit, however, this has always been common in RTS games.
  
  Value (10)
  Tons of maps and great multiplayer will have you playing this game for ages. Don't expect the campaign 
 to fill up your time, but concentrate on skirmishes and multiplayer, building up your home city. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nozholden
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 1:38 am PT
Review:  At first, i found this game rather hard to get into, but soon the vast gameplay and rich scenery 
 won me over. Attention to detail is sublime, so those looking for an RTS with spunk should definitely 
 go for it. This game is not one that may appeal to all, and it's not easy to play until you really 
 get into it, although it was easier to play than i first anticipated. Variety and new features merged 
 with classic RTS gameplay make for a brilliantly playable game. This game has also triggered my 
 search for a new computer, hoping that i can squeeze more out of this game than i have already. 
 HAPPY GAMING : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Fat_Zebra
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 21, 2005 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Actually the title says it all. The game has some sound gameplay and can be quite entertaining. 
 However I found the campaign up to now somewhat disappointing and repetitive. 
  
  The Multiplayer is what I have done most up to now and is quite fun. It seems that players using 
 the Russian civ are somewhat priviliged though and I somewhat feel that the balance with other 
 factions is not very even.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Obviously are nice looking, but I did see some units do strange things. Especially naval units 
 can act strangely taking away some of the real world charm the game otherwise does have to some 
 extent.
  
  Bugs:
  
  This gets a seperate heading because the game just isn't finished in some respects. Really the 
 multiplayer part is just so buggy and I feel like I'm running a beta version not something that 
 I payed $55 for.
  
  Overall fun but well, I just can't get excited over this game. Maybe I was just expecting too much, 
 I was probably looking for some more innovation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desertdback
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2005 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Age of Empires III since I got it a couple days ago. The game is really lacking 
 what I expected from it. I was expecting something new and something different to the old Age of 
 Empires games. I am definitely not saying that this game is bad in any sense, but it is definitely 
 not something breakthrough. 
  
  Also I have been playing the campaign and I am through Act 1 and I am sorry to say but it is definitely 
 lacking something. I was expecting a game somewhat like Sid Meirs old Colonization game which I 
 still to this day is one of my favorite computer games, it was also along with Xcom one of my first 
 games that I ever played. I wanted to Colonize the new world. I wanted to do something beyond following 
 do this do that campaign. Which I guess you can do in the skirmish but I beat an 8 player skirmish 
 in a little under two hours. I want a game that is going to last some time and a game that will 
 keep me enthralled with it until I am done with it. 
  
  After Playing through Act 1 there is nothing that really stands out at me and says HEY YOU keep 
 playing this game rocks. No its more like an update of the first game just in a new setting. Given 
 a setting that I love and really enjoy but a game that is anything but overally exciting. 
  
  Well I guess if you love the other Age of Empire games this one would be for you as well, but 
 if you are looking for something that is really going to blow you away, don't look here, because 
 you won't find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMaul135
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 21, 2005 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is yes, a good LOOKING game. the graphics engine for it is revolutionary, you 
 get to see birds flying, and alot of great graphics that make it look pretty realistic. but most 
 people dont play a game for the graphics now do they?
  
  I played the demo for a couple of hours to try and get the feel for it. I just couldn't find my 
 heart accepting it. Nothing revolutionary, I would rather play Age of Empires II or Age of Mythology. 
 I mean it was fun having all your little farms together and having different ores and things to 
 collect and drop off buildings.. but now it seems like you can have an Infinite farm with infinite 
 gold farm, and the wood is ofcourse all over the place as usual (nothing wrong with wood) . It's 
 just to easy how you gather supplies now, there is no point in venturing out for more resources 
 because of the inifnite food farm and gold farm.
  
  and the Trading post seems kinda.. stupid.. they are like control points from WH40k (I read that 
 from another review, and also found it myself to be true) .
  Most of the time its send out infantry to attack each other and artillery to take down the buildings.. yes 
 the same as AoEII but there is nothing special about it. kinda gets repetative.
  
  Personally I dont like it how its all european civilizations. I liked having the Arabs (saracens) , 
 Persians, Japanese, chinese, Etc. More variety in buildings and units, etc.
  
  Microsoft totally disappointed me by this game.. And I thought they would get it right like they 
 did the other AoEs and AoM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenAlpha
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 21, 2005 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Not too long ago, nearly every person with a computer in their possesion played either Age of Empires 
 or Age of Empires II. Now, with the coming of Age of Empires III, you can bet that everyone with 
 a computer will be playing this game.
  
  Age of Empires is one of the most popular franchises ever to hit the gaming industry. with stunning 
 good looks and innovative gameplay, Age of Empires is a franchise that will continue to amaze us. 
 With the coming of Age of Empires III, a single question rises out of the dust. Does the game live 
 up to it's name?
  
  The answer is simple and very understandable... YES
  
  When starting the game, AOE III feels different... in a good sort of way. You will feel a new age 
 for the franchise, an age of stunning graphics and gameplay that will keep any gamer playing for 
 months to come. 
  
  The graphics in AOE III are a HUGE leap from the graphics from AOE II. Everything is 3D and there 
 various technologies that improve the graphics such as anti-aliasing, physics, and dynamic lighting. 
 The developers at Ensemble Studios makes good use of these technologies by creating a game that 
 is very life-like. The only problem is that if you're someone with a mid to low end PC, you're 
 out of luck. AOE III's stunning looks are reserved for those with enough money (Or enough smarts) 
 to buy a high-end PC or overclock their mid end PC. Other than that little problem, the graphics 
 look great. With a low end PC, you'll still get some great graphics (Not to mention the physics) , 
 but they look and feel like a modern version of AOE II.
  
  The gameplay in AOE III have some new features not available in other AOE games. First of all, 
 the game takes place in the 16th through 18th centuries when Europe started to become interested 
 in the new world. So, you can play as European countries wanting to get a piece of the new world. 
 Countries such as France, Britain, Spain, Russia, and Germany. So, with the concept of the new 
 world in mind, Ensemble added another concept. The home city. The home city is a place where you 
 can purchase upgrades and support using experience points you gain during gameplay. For instance, 
 a player eliminates another player and gets 50,000 experience points; that player will then receive 
 several points to "buy" support and upgrades such as villagers, troops, technologies, and supplies 
 from their home city. The player can also purchase "cards" so that their home city may offer different 
 things. 
  
  Overall, Age of Empires III is a game with the latest in graphic technology, as well as many new 
 concepts never used before in RTS gameplay. Age of Empires III is a game worth spending the 50 
 or so dollars needed to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moosemoney
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 29, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, and i enjoy it a lot, but there are some things i was disapointed with. It 
 was a lot different than AOEII and some good new ideas, like the home city and native settelments. 
 But i think that it lost some of the building an empire aspect, it seems that in AOEII you end 
 up with a bigger town, more different buildings. I really liked the boats, there more actuall size 
 in comparison to the people, but, unfortuanlty, I think theres too much detail in the water and 
 in boats, it lags on internet play. But overall i think it is a good game. Anyone who has liked 
 the other games in the series has to buy this game. It is Fabulous!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exon17
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing the first Age of Empires  I was so impressed. The graphics were amazing, the 
 sound was great and the whole feel of the game was awesome. Then Age of Empires II came out, and 
 it was a great improvement on all counts.
  
  The old magic of those games is now gone.
  First of all the story is extremely boring, the characters' speech is bad and the music, although 
 it may seem beautiful at first, gets repetitive and annoying. The units are ok to say the least 
 and the missions will make you yawn.
  
  There are some good things like the home city management, physics of the bodies, beautiful destruction 
 of buildings and ships, all combined with amazing graphics, but those things don't help the game 
 at all. Every mission is like the last one and the game lacks battles on epic proportions. After 
 playing The Lord of The Rings: Battle for Middle Earth and Rome Total War, you just want the feel 
 of great epic battles. This game will not give you that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 21, 2005 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is really advanced and cool maked game. Everybody can play it. It has perfect "how to 
 play" tutorial and in game the easiest difficulty is well for newbies, but when you advanced, it 
 can be really hard. If you're not enough quick, computer can crush you. From game to game you learn 
 different skills of your strategy for gaming. Multi player is superb. Campaingn's are very well 
 maked. And there are so good maked short movies and super stories.
  
  But maps aren't very big. They could make larger maps but ok, is just a comment. 
  
  If you 
 are planing tu buy this game (ofcourse) I think, it would be better to wait few months and then 
 buy the newest patch with less bugs
  
  Wish good gaming and lots of fun in AGE OF EMPIRES 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentghost
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 21, 2005 11:19 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this so much and look what they gave me. Poor interface, where did all 
 the hotkeys go? Does Ensemble expect me to play most of the game with badly placed buttons? Do 
 I need to buy a Zboard to make my gaming experience as worth while as AOEII?
  
  Graphic is very good, one of the best looking in the genre today and the physic is quite superb. 
 However, come on Ensemble, this is RTS, not FPS. I could careless about how my units fall or building 
 explode. The only fool who watch these things admiringly in the midst of battle is a losing fool. 
 It makes for great screenshots but does nothing for gameplay. After a while, these eye-candy get 
 old.
  
  Compare to the 2 year old Rise of Nations and Ensemble's well-executed Age of Empire II: Age of 
 Kings, AOEIII just doesn't cut it, especially it is a newer game.
  
  I return my copy for store credit. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carrottopcolt
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 21, 2005 9:47 am PT
Review:  A good game overall. It has poor gameplay because you can't use the mouse or arrows to scroll. 
 Also the treasure guardians don't always function properly. Some guardians will simply run away 
 from you, while others will attack with an impressive 0 attack strength and 0 range (melee) on 
 guns. The AI is not always the best competition. On the bright side, the game includes a new card 
 system that is very beneficial in the beginning of the game. It also includes a surrender option 
 on the AI opponents. I would say that this is a very good game, though it is VERY different from 
 the previous Age of Empires titles. If you're a fan of strategy games, I would suggest trying the 
 game or at least the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_nacond_a
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 21, 2005 7:43 am PT
Review:  I loved Age of Empires from the first moment i played the game a few years back , so this release 
 will definitely keep me busy for a while. Enjoy games while they last!! The multiplayer is also 
 great as usual and that is always a plus point. The ocean battles are very very good and the water 
 is done very good! Love the way little soldiers pull out bombs and fire arrows when attaking buildings. 
 The diffrent ages looks as good and plays as good like always. The mother city is also a great 
 idee. Maybe the computer could have been a bit more difficult but that is always a less important 
 thing. Great classic. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avi_66
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 21, 2005 6:55 am PT
Review:  i have played the game and finished it. the graphics are really amazing. it takes the graphics to 
 the extreme end. the story mode is especially good. but the opponents are not that effective. the 
 AI is weak. on the whole the game is good. the maps are good. but the game can be much more big. the 
 no. of civilizations can also be more. but the multiplayer is really good. it has many civilization. but 
 after playing the age of empires 2 was good. but the graphics level is really good. but the gameplay 
 time is very less. amazing graphics. on the whole i give it a 9 on 10. Its one of the best game in 
 the age of empires series from the microsoft games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtizio
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  The game play in Age of Empires III is a strong detailed game, which has its ups and downs, but 
 overall, it is constantly good. The graphics are unbelievable for a real time strategic game. Very 
 precise in that department. The sound is strong but the main theme gets annoying after a while 
 which you probably will here the most often. It also lacks the variety of tracks that are in this 
 game that may get boring after a while. You may just want to shut your music option off after a 
 short period of time. The value is great overall with many more pros than cons in my personal view. 
 I would recommend this game to almost anybody who liked any of the other Age of Empire games. Also 
 to anybody who enjoys a quick realistic game and a great war with many smooth explosions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilscallmedad
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 11:35 pm PT
Review:  One of the most awaited games of the year is finally here and has been worth the wait. The game 
 has great graphics and good gameplay (quite similar to AOE2) but lacks in some areas.
  The game has great graphics but you will need a powerful machine to see them to thier full extent. The 
 gameplay has not been changed much and the feel is similar to AOE2 with some new additions inspired 
 by warcraft3. The swords and catapults get replaced by guns and bombards which are quite fun. The 
 game has great details and is quite amazing to view the ships bombarding each other and soldiers 
 throwing fire bombs on buildings.
  The game does has shortcomings the histrocial campaign gets replaced by one made by the developers 
 themselves and is not very good. The story of the campaign is not up to the mark and the cutscenes 
 are quite clumsy and the voice acting is horrid. The missions are quite reptitve and can get boring 
 at the later stages.
  All in all this is a great game and every AOE and RTS gaming fans should get this title as soon 
 as they can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atrobasinnu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 20, 2005 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I like how complex the game is, but also how it sticks to it's origins. Very good graphics. Improvement 
 on a LOT of factors (units don't get stuck behind buildings/trees, etc) . The one thing I didn't 
 like too much is the population cap and how it's so low. Meh, can't hagve everything. I really 
 like the RPG factor (how the city can be upgraded with more and more experience) . Puts that little 
 extra-value that this game was lacking in Age of Empire I and II. Another thing I didn't like is 
 how quickly I seem to get to the last age and in the first two games it was nice, it took an hour 
 or more. This game takes a lot less (it might be different in campaign or online, I only played 
 skirmish) .
  
  Overall, I'd say this is the best of the 3 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigE_mustang
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 20, 2005 7:21 pm PT
Review:  my cousins and i used to always play age of empires 2 the age of kings.... he still does cuz his 
 pc cant run this baby... lol but we always wanted an age of empires 3 rather than mythology and 
 boy this turned out it looks amazing and has minor online bugs that eso will fix... at first i was 
 sceptical about the home city but now dont hesitate it is a great add on and will keep u playin 
 this game for a long time.. it is like your own rpg character with many different civilizations 
 and possibilitys ther is no reason not to git this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leifegreens
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 20, 2005 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I love this game!!!! it is so addicting, this game was one of the best stratagy games i have ever 
 played. It is so intense, and i will never stop playing this game... unless my computer blows up 
 some how. LOL. I'll put it plain and simple, if you like stratagy games, this is the way to go. 
 Best game in the world. The graphic are awesome and the sound is good. The best thing about this 
 game is getting to have trains as trading posts, it wasn't that kool in age of empires 2 when the 
 trade cart didn't have any upgrades and had no actual trail to go on. This is the best game of 
 the year. If i could give you a prize for best game in world i would. Here's to you AOE3!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picass
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 3:06 pm PT
Review:  
  Well, here we have a fine game, but one was expecting a bit more from this sequel.
  Graphics are excellent, very good indeed, sound is enough for the game itself, with room to improve, 
 and game play is great. Game play is much better than the older versions of the game.
  It continues to provide lots os immersion, and demands lots of concentration, but its not difficult 
 to play, its just right.
  Filled with new stuff, like the shipments that can be ordered during the game. Resuming, a game 
 to spend quite a few hours playing and enjoying, and it brings some joy to the world of the RTS 
 games. I Recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolhotshotKJ
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 20, 2005 1:57 pm PT
Review:  It's a good game with very good graphics. Not as awsome as everybody said it was. I think it's 
 the best Age Of Empire game yet. It's a "just plain fun" game. The last mission of each part is 
 hard. So get it and have 
  The name KJ, 15/M/AL send me emails if you are a big Resindent Evil fan and if your a hot chick, 
 email me too at hotshotkj@netzero. com. Don't give me trash. See Ya. :-) a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo_monge
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 12:12 pm PT
Review:  In spite of being evaluating the version demo that I diffused in the internet I am sure that now 
 the loves this practically without defect and it innovates once again in front of your competitors 
 (if it i that exists competitive) , the improvement in the graphs was impressive pleasing until 
 the most demanding, it goes me he i the it loves of the year in the platform of PC. 
  The larger prominence mine to see they were also the newRacesand the system of capital and 
 colonies, where for you to develop practically has there to be a good relationship capital/colnia 
 .
  
  PS.: Well existerem defective in the text i because I am Brazilian and I am using the translator 
 to convert the text goes English ^ ^ 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ogiwan
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 11:26 am PT
Review:  Are you an Age of Empires fan??? If so, AoE III doesn't disappoint. It has a few imperfections. 
 It also has some nice new features like experience based advancements, home cities, and explorer/heros. 
 It's the game that I wish Age of Mythology had been.
  
  I've been a long-time fan of the work at Ensemble Studios. The Age of Empires games have always 
 been well suited to my personal style of play in an RTS game. When Lucas Arts decided to make an 
 RTS game that had a chance of success (lest we forget 'Rebellion' and 'Force Commander') they used 
 the AoE engine. The result was the combination of two of my most beloved franchises. I still play 
 Galactic Battlegrounds and Aoe II with the exspansion pack on a regular basis. I like PC and console 
 games, but in general, I play them till I get bored. Once I've lost interest, I don't usually go 
 back later. AoE has always been a CD that I carry with me in my lap-top bag. My best friend, and 
 I have spent days playing in games where we'd exhausted every resource on the map.
  
  Age of Mythology was an interesting change. When it was introduced, I showed up on the street date 
 and got my copy like a loyal fan. After playing with it, I could tell that I enjoyed the internet 
 play better, and the graphics were really nice. HOWEVER, there were flaws that I was very disappointed 
 with. There were only 3 civilizations. The map size was small, compared to AoE II, and town centers 
 could only be placed in specific areas. I played it with friends and bought the Titans expansion 
 pack. But it didn't feel like Age of Empires to me. We tried Rise of Nations, but lost interest... 
 
  
  Age of Empires III feels much more like the previous versions. The basic game play is there, but 
 in many areas is still an advancement from the Age of Mythologies model. They've included more 
 civilizations, but reduced the complexity of the overall management of resource collection. No 
 container buildings are needed, resource types have been reduced to a combination of stone and 
 gold, and the map sizes are not nearly large enough. I liked having room to explore and more resources 
 available. I think the demo is a very reasonable way to sample the game. It gives enough of the 
 game mechanics to make it a real demonstration of the basics. 
  
  The graphics are great and the environmental impact system is pretty cool. Watching buildings sustain 
 cannon strikes, tall ships lose masts or decking during a naval slug-fest, or infantry go flying 
 as the artilary hits... pretty impessive. It's not perfect, but to me, the most important thing 
 is that it's fun. ES did what I had hoped in providing me a new, pretty, fun game that advances 
 the line from the previous games. It just makes me more hopeful for the future games. I expect 
 great games from them as they advance into the world wars. I still want bigger maps, bigger armies, 
 and the freedom to place buildings anywhere I like. AoE III has some pre-defined placements for 
 things like trading posts. But I also want millions of dollars and my own private jet. I'm learning 
 to cope with not getting everything I want... The home city concept is new and pretty cool, as 
 well. It allows you to build experience and customize the options for how your technology advances. 
 It should also allow for better matching for web-managed games on their servers. It could save 
 you the embarassment of having a 10 year old extinctify your civilization in 30 minutes or less!!! 
 
  
  I'd recommend this game to anyone that enjoys RTS and specifically the AoE series. I've tried many 
 others, and still find these to be the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakahmet
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2005 9:47 am PT
Review:  Oyun tek kelime ile mukemmel. Her yonuyle basarili bir oyun. Ben ozellikle oyunun yeni grafiklerinden 
 hoslandim. Simdiye kadar gordugum strateji oyunlarina ait en iyi grafiklere sahip. Sadece onlari 
 gormek icin bile oynanir. Oyunun sesleri de harika. Oynanisda bir degisiklik yapilmamis. Bu da 
 bizim alismis oldugumuz Age of Empires 2 deki oynanis sayesinde 3 de oyunda kontrol bakimindan 
 pek bir zorluk cekmiyoruz. Oyunda Turkleri biraz kotuluyorlar ve cogu yerde Turklere kars 
 savasyoruz. Her ne kadar sonradan onlarla dost olarak omuz omuza savassak da Turkleri oldurmek 
 benim gibi Turklerin morallerini bozuyor. Bir de etkileyici grafiklere ragmen gerekli sistemin 
 dusuk olmas da daha da sevindirici bir haber. Ama son kalite grafiklerin etkisi her zaman 
 bambaska olmustur. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furious5k
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:12 am PT
Review:  I agree that this game is good, it has sweet graphics and it has all the features of the previous 
 games in a perfected sense.. but then again, that's about it, there are pretty much no new features 
 other then the home city upgrades/shipments and some other small things (eg. villigers don't have 
 to return to base anymore to store the resources, which is nice, i admit) .
  
  The Dissapointment is that it lacks originality and if your a fan of these games you might like 
 it, but i really don't care much for games that are updated versions of older games that have been 
 published and re-published so much that if you have played a fourth of them you'l get sick pretty 
 quickly.
  
  Delivers solid fun for those who like the old type of strategies and can now play it with smoothened 
 creases and better graphics, but for those who are already sick of these games, don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarge777
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 5:50 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires III would be a fine RTS if it came out five years ago. Instead, it's some impressive 
 modern technology and bold gameplay ideas unfortunately saddled by an outdated take on the genre. 
 Hardcore Age players? You'll like it. Everyone else? Wait for AoE 4. I really wanted to like this 
 game, especially since I pre-ordered it months ago. I no longer buy into the "Designer's Diaries" 
 and interviews. It's just sales hype. 
  Well, the good news is that there are plenty of other excellently designed real-time strategy games 
 out there. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mambo13
Rating: 4.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Seriously now, Ensemble Studios, do you guys even look at the RTS games available now? There is 
 no realism, and that is the fire of the new strategy games. That realism which brings the game 
 to life...
  
  Take an example, Rome Total War : wow such great battles, or Dawn of war: so much battle gore that 
 numbers don't even matter. I cannot even wait for Company of Heroes, wow they have a 1500 animations 
 for every soldier depending on the situation he is in. 
  
  Now I played this game, seriously, after 15 minutes , I got so bored that I left the game. This 
 game is like Age of Empires 2, but with less combat modes (ex, king of the hill, wonder, assasination) , 
 and crazy grafics. But who cares about the grafix if the game is soo dull. Home city, who come 
 up with these stupid ideas, its like those AOM powers but infinite. Then that trading things that 
 you capture, wow makes a difference when you have one, pfff.
  
  Innovate guys, I have always been a fan, but there is an end to that if you don't put some more 
 realism and creativity in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tdt55533
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 9:24 pm PT
Review:  waste the money, the game can't even rotate aroung , if you compare the game and total war, this 
 game is not near 6, while total war most reviews 9 and obove. i believe the game project don't 
 have the talent people to do the good game like total war. don't buy this game, wait for lord of 
 the ring 2.
  i still don't understand M. S have a lot of money and resource but they can't make good game like 
 some game made in europe or other company. when i look at this game, it look better than the first 
 game but compare to nowaday game play, i expect more than that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldazn
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2005 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Before I go on with the review, let me tell you I been playing AOE from the start. Through MSN 
 Gaming Zone, multiplayer was one of my favorite joys with AOE, ROR, AOK, and AOC. 
  
  AOEIII is everything I enjoyed and more. Sounds will immerse you as if you were in the battlefield, 
 and you can hear cannons in the distance if you happen to move out of the battle to check on your 
 economy. Graphics is another central key role in the AOE series, and this one takes the cake. Last 
 but not least, ESO2. Much improved over AOM's multiplayer service, this allows clan chatting, message 
 board, general chat, home city viewing, quick service matches, and much more. 
  
  All the games I had were much fun. Currently a LVL9 French, I can't wait to get to 10 because I 
 will unlock more cards for my matches.
  
  ES knows they want this game to last. And has already made dedications to do so, including more 
 maps (California, NW Territory, and more maps has been announced) . 
  
  If you have been lingering for a RTS, AOEIII is this year's game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielson
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  other then the beautiful graphics the physics this game has not lived up to what i thought and 
 i was right in only sticking to the demo once i seen all the reviews from all the other sites out 
 there they all say the same thing and i agree its pretty to look at but its the same gameplay as 
 last years mythology the AI of your units is down right offensive , no formation schemes or shooting 
 schemes sort of let down that becomes irritating because alot of RTS are hyping there AI and arn't 
 really delivering 
  hopefully the new warhammer by namco will
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 343TheFlood
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 6:55 pm PT
Review:  In this day and age it's hard to find a game that keeps you hooked and happy. This age of empires 
 3 delivers fast and exciting gameplay except for the time it takes for shipments to coem from the 
 homecity. It immproves on all things from the age series and expands it with the hoemcity shipments. 
 Yes the home city shipments are nice but it's annoying when your blastign away at an ennemy and 
 suddenly a shipment of troops apear and start blastign away at you. There's also the fact that 
 there's only one real game type which is blast away your ennemy. Aside from those, AOE3 is a great 
 game that i hope to spend countless hours playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnicolae
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I compared this game with AOE II and Age of Mythology and everything is so much better!! There 
 are so many more effects and things work so much better, like villagers not having to go back to 
 a place to store resources, and no more stone. Coin, food and wood only. There are so many civilizations 
 and each are unique which I think is awesome. The game relies more on strategy than on building 
 farms and doing resources. This is where the mills work on forever and coin plantation is an awesome 
 feature. Things just got better for this game and I cant wait for AOE III expansion!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smackman
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2005 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game goes back to some basics but basically is one of the best Strategy games out. It has 
 amazing visuals and is fun at a fast pace. The missions are great and the cutscenes are well done. 
 Overall, several people are whinning but I don't see the issues. Most of them just want multi-unit 
 spawns and other niceities that are not part of a good strategy. Does require a good card, but 
 well worth it. 
  
  This game goes back to some basics but basically is one of the best Strategy games out. It has 
 amazing visuals and is fun at a fast pace. The missions are great and the cutscenes are well done. 
 Overall, several people are whinning but I don't see the issues. Most of them just want multi-unit 
 spawns and other niceities that are not part of a good strategy. Does require a good card, but 
 well worth it. 
  
  I LOVE IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonik
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 19, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  First Impressions: WHY IS THE ZOOM SO CLOSE!!!
  All these new RTS have a really bad camera that is zoomed in way to close, e. g. Warhammer 40k...
 
  
  What's the point in using 1024x768 resolution when u play these new RTS and it looks disgustingly 
 close like 800x600 or less.
  With 1 whole screen on AOE3 (1024x768) i could see a mill, a few houses, and 2 more buildings. 
 The most annoying thing to me, is not being able to see my own base in 1 screen, letalone needing 
 2-3 screens to amass a "regular" assualt. The old AOE's were good because you had a big filed of 
 view and more aware of whats going on, instead of being forced 2 read the minimap so often
  
  The singleplayer campaign was so badly written and acted, that it made me skip them.. and the 
 audio seems to come out at the wrong time, and delays the game further. The game even crashed when 
 the audio never materialized.
  
  I must say the graphics in this game are exceeding in todays standards of graphical level, but 
 there is something about the colour scheme or the lighting that tends to make it look worse than 
 it should be.
  
  Do not buy this game, you will be ashamed to own it, big waste of money, I would have more fun 
 going waterskiing or go karting for an hour, or even going back to AOE2 or AoM to remind me what 
 a good RTS is like 
::::::

::::::
UserName: user_name89
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 19, 2005 10:00 am PT
Review:  well this game its no very very impressive at all but its entertainment
  
  graphics are great ,sound effects yeah!!!, game play its not very impressive like AoE2.
  
  
 in my opinion its a great game some people its seen to be mad just because u cant put lumbercamps 
 or make a lot of farms or put a mill for the animals u cought, its the same thing if u put a lumbercamps 
 and then the settlers go to put the wood in there, always they r going to put ur resources in there, 
 theres no difference between there r no lumbercamps.
  
  the maps r really (for me n thats in something that they fails) its they r very small, in another 
 thing its u have to put a lot of workers to make ur resources grow up, when i say a lot its a lot.
 
  
  that's all that i had to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MBATH
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 9:59 am PT
Review:  Excellent sequel to an already great game. The best of the series so far. The length of this point 
 of time seems to be better than Age of Empire in the past, but I am certainly looking forward to 
 an even more modern time period. The graphics are diffinitely improved and the new interface is 
 excellent. Sound track is slightly better. Any old fans will be pleased with the upgrades and newbies 
 will find it very easy to get up to speed. The gameplay is once again captivating and should cost 
 me many late nights behind the computer monitor. The value of the game is equal to any other top 
 of the line game out today. I always think they charge too much, but who am I to critize - - I 
 still play the money, because I love the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 9:04 am PT
Review:  By now you should have been pretty much aware of AOE3s main attraction, which is the improved graphics 
 combined with an all new physics engine.
  
  If your system can take it, expect the game to look pretty shiny in every aspect. I really like 
 the attention to details, like birds flying in flocks and the waves rolling toward the shores.
 
  
  However, the new level of details is not all joy. I found the graphics to be quite messy in places, 
 not clean and pure like their previous game Age of Mythology. Lots of noisy details can be distracting, 
 and makes the game less pleasing for the eye in a way. Having the grass full of multicolored leaves 
 is quite realistic for example, but just looks kind of messed up.
  
  The biggest lowdown is the audio. Normally I do not care so much about sound, but It is really 
 very disappointing. First of all it is quite bugged on my system, so the sounds are delayed and 
 does not follow the camera properly. But even worse are the choice of sounds. The Alert sound is 
 particularily annoying, and the repetetive comments from the units as you click on them is also 
 quite lame for a game with this level of polishing in other areas.
  
  I would say the sound has dramatically lowered in quality and taste since Age of Mythology.
  
 
  One of the much talked about aspects of the game is the home town. Your home town can basicallly 
 send supplies to you, based on what level your current city has reached, and how many experience 
 points you gained so far. So, for example after you killed a few enemies, you might have gained 
 anough experience to have the home town ship you a crate of gold.
  
  There are lots of different items that can be shipped from the home town, ranging from simple supplies 
 like food or wood, to more complex things like forts or increased abilities. You can manage what 
 kind of supplies you can have access to before playing each level, which is kind of a game in the 
 game.
  
  A good idea, but sadly does not really add much. It can in a way be compared to the God powers 
 in Age of Mythology, except you have many more but less powerful upgrades. I enjoyed the more powerful 
 but less options approach far more though, as a vast amount of small supplies just gives a pretty 
 insignificant impact.
  
  Unlike all the other games in the series, this one seems pretty unbalanced in comparison. For example, 
 if you spend time to discover the map, you might find some bonus supplies. You usually have to 
 kill some guardians, like wolves or pirates, to get to them. But, too often these rewards are just 
 minimal and a total waste of time compared to spending your time gaining resources and building 
 units in the normal way.
  
  Again, I liked Age of Mythology's relics system much more. Fewer, but relatively powerful relics 
 could be collected and stored for a permanent bonus. Making it worthwile to spend time discovering 
 the map.
  
  The artificial intelligence seems ok, but I found no surprises here compared to other games in 
 the same genre. Nothing more, nothing less.
  
  When it comes to the story mode, I found it pretty boring and uninspiring. I watched the first 
 few story sequences, then just clicked through them. It's like poorly directed soap operas at the 
 best. They might be historically accurate for all I know, but who cares? We want some action and 
 excitement...
  
  I have not yet completed the game, it is in fact just a bit boring. I found it nowhere near as 
 entertaining as Age of Mythology. In fact, I booted up that old game again just now to see if I 
 was really judging AOE3 unfair, and I found myself hooked on Age of Mythology instantly again. 
 It was in fact more interesting to replay that game than the new one I just got.
  
  Sad really, I had high hopes for this one, but under the nice wrapping there is a pretty disappointing 
 game that in no way lives up to their previous titles.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: destrucarum666
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 3:55 am PT
Review:  well,
  this game is just like RTW,
  you hate it or you love it...
  anyway i truely love it ;-)
  but they realy could have done something to the gameplay,
  it's 
 still the same as the old, 
  the home city is realy intresting,
  but it realy could have more action like using your homecity...
  
  
  anyway,
  for people 
 who like the first AoE (and AoM) will love this game, not only the beautifull graphics, but the 
 new campaign and the MP mode,
  making scenario's and sending them world wide for other players to play i allways love that in 
 AoM :D
  
  it's realy hard to describe,
  cause everyone gots another opinion of this game.
  but it still is a great RTS game :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: home1986
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 1:10 am PT
Review:  i admit that AoE series is one of the most famous RTS among us. But, this time i really feel disappointed. 
 Below are the things that i am disappointed with.
  
  -The combat animation is too smooth compare to warcraft 3 of warhammer 40k.
  -Building can be 
 repaired without any settler to do it. All you need is to press a button then the building will 
 be repaired. Since when human have this kind of technology?
  -Voice acting sounds fake and flat
  -Storyline s*cks, I don't really know what they are doing.
 
  
  However, aoe 3 also has something nice with it
  - Graphic is good when everything set to the maximum
  -detailed 3d models
  -physics engine
 
  
  that is all i can think of =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cadaov
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2005 9:03 pm PT
Review:  after 6 years, and comparing with others RTS, it left me some sort of bittersweet taste... looks 
 nice, but doesn't bring any new stuff, and lacks some of others great games, such as Rise of Nations 
 (worse graffics, better playgame) and Rome Total War (just fabulous) .
  they could have done much better, still fun game though
  the campaign is as easy as RoN, not 
 much fun, very similar to Age of Mythology, which I thought it was of the worst games ever, considering 
 what Ensemble acomplished with AoE 2. Visually a great game, even fast with an old GeForce 4 64mb, 
 though can't appreciate much.
  bottom line: a game you gotta play if you like the AoE saga, but don't expect too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirkmy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is a large step up from AOE2. They really outdid themelfs with the graphics of this game. 
 Especially the buildings and when you attack the building pieces fall of and all of those kinds 
 of things. It just looks great. The single player campaign isnt all that great though, but is worth 
 playing just for the history and the fun moments that they put into it. The funnest thing for me 
 is doing three on three matches with the computer, these games just get so crazy and fun but you 
 still have to use a lot of strategy in ordor to win it. I havent had time yet to try online and 
 i never tried it for AOE2 so i cant really say haw good or bad that might be. Put all in all this 
 is a grea game that is definately worth the $50 if you like strategy games and like the AOE series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homein_Sugo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 18, 2005 6:52 pm PT
Review:  It is a fine game, whit some improvements made in playable chapter, whit a fine and fluid movements 
 of the characters.
  The game focusses one of the biggest campains ever made by the humans, the colonialism of the American 
 country.
  It has some nice dettails like the capital city, who sent you some bonus, like troops or some mantiments, 
 when you won some XP, and has many other things, like creatures in the middle of the forests to 
 gain more XP and to earn more mantiments. It as also one thing which was alrealdy tried in other 
 games like Warcraft III, you can have an hero who as some abbilities to improve the game.
  The game is perfect to everyone who loved the other empires, or people who love this tipe of game.
 
  It only has one major SIn, the campain is very short and only provides 3 Acts, whit 7 or 8 maps 
 each Act.
  I guess i dont spend more than 5/6 hours playng this game.
  The only method to grown this game lifetime, is the multiplayer option, playng whit someone on 
 a LAN or on INTERNET provides a great challenge and fun to everyone.
  It also has one thing that the others didn't provided to me, It has the portuguese civilization, 
 and on the images of the capital city, it apears the main monuments who are on reality in Lisbon, 
 ad the chapters have also Portuguese sounds, PERFECT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halobuffy2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 18, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Overall I give the game a 9.0. The game stuck to it preticesors by keeping the basics of combat. 
 Ragdolls cange the game. With the ragdolls in place, your stratigies are endless. You could do 
 anything with the cannons. Now I realise that the game doesnt have actual "ragdolls" Per se but 
 it does have physics, not up to par of Half-life 2 but this is a revolutionary stride for the RTS 
 series.
  
  As for the graphics, they are the best I have seen in a RTS. They run so smooth on all computers 
 to, very little frame lag even on a FX 5200 with all settings on medium and 2 players playing.
 
  
  Sounds are amazing, just like in Call of Duty, the farther the sound was away, the more muffled 
 it sounded. There is nothing like hearing cannons of in the distance of your screen. Just a beutiful 
 thing to hear! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkyfarts333
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2005 4:56 pm PT
Review:  WOW! nice game. NOt the best, but a strong competition amongst other RTS. It will be famous just 
 like previous Age games. I'm getting it. MAny similarities with the previous ones but still packs 
 a punch. But I hate to say it that it just doesn't meet that perfection compared to Age 2. It will 
 still be remarkable. Still, one of the best games I've ever played. It has all the graphics and 
 all the needs but still something is keeping it away from sheer perfection.
  I would give probably either from low 90's to a 10 depending on how much it satisfies me.
  Ashwin 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 481989
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I used to love Age of Kings when I was younger. So when I heard they were making a third Age of 
 Empires, I was enthralled. It has been a full six years since AoE III's predecessor was first released, 
 and after having played Rome: Total War I was expecting something truly outstanding. How was Ensemble 
 going to make use of the current technology? Were they going to increase the size of battles? Make 
 them more complex and tactical? Considering the time period they're trying to represent here, tactical 
 battles with in-depth controls and unit formations seemed immediately obvious to me, and from the 
 screenshots and early movies that looked like exactly the direction they were taking.
  But how did Ensemble capitalize on current PC technology? By adding realistic water. That's about 
 it; that's the only remotely groundbreaking thing that AoE III brings to bear. And after having 
 played fresh new takes on the age-old RTS formula like Dawn of War and approaches so radically 
 different that they nearly transcend the genre like Rome: Total War, that leaves me thoroughly 
 unimpressed.
  There are only 3 major ways in which AoE III breaks from Age of Kings, and one of them was the 
 aforementioned graphics, which although nice, as we all know do not make the game. The second one 
 is the new over-arching card game which you use as a supplement to the main game, and each card 
 can be exchanged for things like extra food, villagers, towers, and a fort, which is the AoE III 
 equivalent of a castle from AoK. All these things are provided by your "home city," which is actually 
 just the personification of your deck of cards; your home city is not actually a strategic target 
 for the enemy that, if lost, deprives you of your cards. This is all well and good, but it feels 
 more intentionally tacked on to make AoE III seem somehow unique without actually adding any sort 
 of value. The game would not suffer one bit if the whole system were removed entirely. Hell, in 
 many situations you can play the game just fine without even using a single card. 
  The third one is the use of tradings posts to interact with the Native American settlements dotted 
 across the map. Depending on the location, you can either trade for a steady income of a certain 
 resource or you can train mercenary Indian units for your cause. And while this is admittedly a 
 nifty design quirk, it's not really enough to make the game unique nor stand out, and it draws 
 on elements such as control points from Dawn of War and trading between markets from the other 
 Age games.
  Everything else is the same. Except for those 3 things (which in my view are relatively minor) , 
 nothing has changed at all since the other two Age games except the setting. Actually I take that 
 back; Ensemble apparently thought the game would profit from a clunky and poorly-designed interface 
 that displays surprisingly little considering how much space it takes up. But anyway, besides that, 
 nothing has changed. There is still significant emphasis on resource gathering, despite attempts 
 to simplify it, and battles still devolve into confusing clusters, which is an accurate representation 
 of battles in the 18th century. Unit models are still uniform across factions, so you will have 
 musketeers with tri-cornered hats fighting Mexicans across the American West. It's worth noting 
 that Rome: Total War had over to correct the AI and pathfinding issues that were in AoK 6 damn 
 years ago. What have they been doing all this time? The same strategies that held true in AoK hold 
 true in AoE III; namely, memorize hotkeys and build as many villagers as possible so you can rush 
 the enemy early on. The campaign has gotten exponentially worse. Why didn't they just stick to 
 the historical campaigns of Age of Kings? As one person so eloquently put it; "the 100% PC introduction 
 of a Dr. Quinn Medicine Broad protagonist combined with contrasting caveman-ignorant 'Then you 
 can go fight Mexicans or whatever it is you do' comments comes off as contrived and distracting 
 dreck of the worst sort. Get better writers." 
  As many here before have said, if you want a game that plays exactly like AoK did six years ago, 
 then you should buy this game. But if that's what you want, then you're probably gullible and easy 
 to please. Technology has progressed significantly since then, and the hardware limitations of 
 the mid to late '90s that really gave birth to the traditional style of RTS games that Ensemble 
 is seeking to emulate here no longer exist. But instead of using this increased capacity towards 
 any meaningful end, they go and employ someone full time to [i [render water [/i] , as if somehow 
 that's an efficient use of resources. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarrovlissingen
Rating: 3.2
Date: Oct 18, 2005 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Like I sed before: It Sucks !!!. 
  I
  t look's and plays like a cheap version of Empire Earth 1, 
  I miss the difficulty of having 
 to build lumbercamps, farms etc., the different ores. 
  The treasures (oh joy, what big treasures!!) take up to much space and are no improvement to the 
 game as far as I am concerned
  Only improvement I see is the XP 
  
  I hope somebody makes a XP mod for Age of Empires II, cause thats what I'll be playing when a want 
 to play a strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamepolice2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 18, 2005 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting 6 years for Microsoft to release the sequel and now it has come. The graphics 
 of the game are pretty good for a RTS. The sound is pretty good. The sounds for the muskets firing 
 cannon noise, and the Music is good. I definitely can't wait for the expansion too. At first there 
 were bugs but since a patch has come out things have smoothed out. I would recommend to anyone 
 interested. Since I just got the game I have nothing much to say. But I have too say this game 
 has great potential, especially in a couple of months when user content and mods come out the game 
 will really become interesting and addicting. However with Civilization IV around the corner, this 
 game may become old too fast. I rate this game a 9.6 because it is a Masterpiece and an Instant 
 Classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Age 3 isn't something you really want to play in 2005.
  And thats mainly because of the weak gameplay and the promised but not realized features.
  
 
  The strongest part of the game, like in so many other games today, lies in the graphics.
  The engine does a excellent job with all the nice eye candy like shaders and little details but 
 at the same time it feels like the old age games with the static touch to it.
  
  But it's the gameplay where the game just can't succed.
  To keep it short. If you liked AoE2 
 and you just want more of that with better graphics then this is the game you've waited for.
  Because AoE 3 feels like a little altered clone of AoE2.
  
  But if you wanted better gameplay, 
 unit controls, formations and a gameplay that doesn't force you to slap yourself every 30 minutes 
 to keep youself from falling asleep, well in that case stay the hell away from it.
  
  If this game would've come out 5 years ago it would have rocked.
  But today it feels like a huge 
 step backwards.
  
  If you want some good RTS games get yourself some Warhammer 40K or Generals Zero Hour.
  
  AoE3 
 is just aged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrbje
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 30, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  Well tried this with much anticipatian as ever for a game and was brutally dissapointed, atleast 
 based on the demo.
  
  Now i have tested the full game, things did not change for the better, it got worze
  
  Through 
 my life i have spendt alot of hours on the previous age of empires titles, so it was with great 
 joy to read that finally a new one was comming along. Developers went on and on about cool features 
 on interactivity, physics, 3D graphics and so on. And yes, the game has some new features that 
 are nifty,,,, for about 10 minuttes. Then you start to ask your selvf about the gameplay,, The world 
 has moved on since the last major AOE release,, new AOE release has NOT. The base of the game is 
 still just about chopping stuff as fast as you can and building stuff as fast as you can only to 
 unlesh it at a surtain point in an uncontrollable mess of soldiers and hope you have enough and 
 win. Then it just eeks on,,, pouring out more soldiers and walking em of to knife and shoot down 
 enemy houses, BOOOOORING!!. I realy expected more interactivity, proper tactical/strategical combat, 
 a dash of realism to the combat, proper functions for formations. Building fortificatiuons, mounting 
 walls and towers. As it is now its just a mess and the highest number of strongest units wins it,, 
 simple as that.
  
  So sorry devs, this just dont cut it in my book, its half assed, very little inventive and ridiculesly 
 litle entertaining.
  
  All in all this game is mostly the same 10 year old game with new wrapping that looks good at first 
 but doesnt hold up for a closer peek. If you are new to the series and are 10 years old this game 
 will give you many hours of play, all other look else where or be boored to death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbjunior92
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 7:44 am PT
Review:  You feel a sense of power when you see physical damage done to enemy buildings, and bodies flying 
 all over the place. It's a bit exaggerated, I'll admit, in some respects, but it's a VERY welcome 
 innovation to RTS gaming. This game is not at ALL revolutionary in the RTS sense, but it's a step 
 forward in its original franchise, leaving where the other ages have left off, and offering us 
 players the delight of doing very real damage to our enemies, and griding them to powder.
  
  There are a lot of nuances that come with this game that the others didn't have that offer 
 a great deal of charm to this chapter in the series, which, in my opinion, was WAY overdue, but 
 that's another review. The implementation of the home city is a welcome one, and deserves merit 
 as far as originality goes. The trading posts, and subsequent upgrades are a neat innovation as 
 well, and whilst I played the living daylights out of the trial version, and have only played this 
 one for about 20 hours, I can say with some degree of authority that it's a superior product overall, 
 but it DOES crash on my system. Much to my dismay. 
  
  I've had a lot of fun with this offering so far, and look forward to my continuing adventures after 
 I've had time to rest, and even MORE interested in having this thing run rock-solid on my system. 
 Having a blast so far, and my first impression is a mostly good one.
  
  One last thing that I will say is, though, that it is ridiculous to queue experience points. I 
 distaste how slow it is to advance my cities. Until this is fixed, I am going to drop this rating 
 down some.
  Cheerio,
  
  Daniel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 18, 2005 11:57 am PT
Review:  As like in the first 2 games in this series, you God not in Europe this time, but in the New 
 World. This time you will have to conquer warriors in the Mid West, instead of England.
  The game plays pretty much like the original series, anyone thats familiar with those, will stop 
 right into this one. You do have some new features, like your Home Town, but all in all, this game 
 is pretty much the same as AOE, and AOE 2.
  One thing I really do enjoy is the graphic and the sound of the game, they are both incredible 
 and you will enjoy some spectator battles, in awesome details. One thing I really have a problems 
 with the game isometric view is that you cant zoom out very much, and I felt almost cramped in 
 a little spot the whole game. I was force to bounce around as quickly as I can from battle to battle, 
 because you are left only a few hundred feet over the battle. Its very hard to be a commander, 
 when you can see so little of the battle at a time. 
  The campaigns are very well done, but didnt really bring that much new to it, but I did enjoy 
 seeing the Native Americans do battle on my behalf. 
  There is nothing at all wrong with this game, it really brings a lot to the table, but I just felt 
 that I was in need of something a little more....... innovative. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 18, 2005 5:54 am PT
Review:  I had waited so long for this game. I had waited so long to play with the amazing graffic and the 
 big effects that is in no other game i know about (For example shoot peaple, and they will fall 
 in the water, and the buildings will be down part by part) But when i playd this game, it diden't 
 work. I could not have this beatuiful graffic effects, becouse you have to have a extreme good 
 pc to handle that. But then this game was pointless. Its was like the others game i had played, 
 not spesial different. And it will be almost the same if i had the graffic, but yust i little funnier 
 to play. This game is a big disepointning, its pointless to play it. I got sick of it after 5 minutes. 
 Notthing spesial.
  
  If you don't have an extreme good PC, i would not recommend that you buy this game. Then it's not 
 worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 5:48 am PT
Review:  Age of empires and age of empires 2 were huge success for it's charming and interesting game play 
 and the element of developing a nation and leading it through the ages.
  
  Age of empires 3 is not different it has all the glamour the previous AOE's had while introducing 
 some new cool and interesting features. 
  Age of empires 3 introduces new civilizations, new game play, great graphics, great sound, it's 
 just all there. The game features the standard skirmish, multiplayer and very interesting campaign.
 
  
  First lets start with the campaign. There are three "ACTS" you can play but only act 1 is available 
 from the beginning, each act has 8 missions you need to play.
  Aside from AOE 2 the campaign is AOE 3 is carefully developed and it's worth playing it. In every 
 act you play, there is one or more persons that are the main characters in the story. The missions 
 are very interesting and the maps you play are full with details. The campaign concentrates on 
 the fountain of youth, at least the first act, while the two other have the great lake to be implemented 
 in the story. The campaign is great for learning age of empires 3 and even on the most difficult 
 setting it's not so hard to win the missions.
  
  The multiplayer is the main thing though as when you finish the campaign and when you develop your 
 skill's in the skirmish you'll want to play in multiplayer. There are quite a lot maps in the multiplayer 
 and in the skirmish. You can choose from 8 civilizations as the British, Dutch, French, German, 
 Ottomans, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish and in the game you'll have the Native Americans if you 
 bulid a trading post in a Native American village.
  
  The game play is good, but the main thing that will take your attention is the graphics, who look 
 astonishing. The buildings suffer damage and you'll see parts of the building falling apart, the 
 building burning in flames, trees shake when they are being cut down, the water in the game is 
 "REAL", for all this to be happening there is the Havok engine and the first 3D iteration of the 
 series uses bump- and tone-mapping to render realistic water and shadows. On all of this the the 
 sound adds it's flavor taking you in the game. There are birds sounds, animal sounds and good animations 
 on everything.
  
  All who played the AOE and AOE 2 will know what the basics are in the game play. There are many 
 buildings in the game to build and few that stand out from the previous AOE's like the Coin plantation. 
 In this game you dont need to build storages because the settlers (villagers) gather coins, wood 
 as they work and there is no need to bring it back to storage, this is good and effective way to 
 gather resources. All the buildings vary from one civilization to another and every civilization 
 has it's own unique unit's, although these arent much they certainly make a difference. The all 
 new feature in AOE 3 is the feature "Home Cities". This revolutionary new feature to the RTS landscape 
 is incorporated into all aspects of Age of Empires III -- from Campaign to Multiplayer -- and is 
 unlike anything you've experienced before.
  Much like the persistent character from a role-playing game that encourages you to keep playing, 
 your Home City is an important support system to your efforts in the New World. During a game, 
 your Home City can regularly send you supplies or military reinforcements.
  You can upgrade your city by unlocking new improvements as soldiers or buildings or improving those 
 you have. To unlock new improvements your city need's to be to a certain level, like level 10, 
 20 and so on... For each level you get a new card which is required to unlock the improvements.
 
  
  Overall the game has it's bad things as Id expect something completely new 
  and unusual but things are not like that and it might be for better as if the game changed that 
 that all liked AOE 3 may have been a total disaster.
  This is a game that will satisfy not only the fans of the AOE series and the RTS fans but a whole 
 lot of more gamers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienlord
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 18, 2005 4:02 am PT
Review:  Graphics 9/10 it sets a new standard in RTS Games, but still some more Special Effects would make 
 it supreme, this game doesnt push current high end graphic systems
  
  Sound 8.0/10 Excellent Ambient, Sound Effects & Music Tracks. But still they could add a lot more! 
 For an example a loud marching sound for the musketeers, some extra options for Surround systems. 
 And new audio Cards
  
  Physics 10/10: no question about it, just try the game or the Demo and you will understand.
  
 
  Game Play in detail: 
  Single player: is made out of two parts:
  The Campaign: I cant give a score here because I just started it, but even though the beginning 
 as a story- didnt impress me much. And it didnt get me attached to it.
  
  The Skirmish: Age Of Empires 3 should have the best skirmish modes out there! But I must say it 
 is disappointing!! 
  When you start a skirmish, you cant really customize a match, it is very limited!
  Which make 
 the game disappointing even if we compare it to older games like rise of nations?
  Adding more game types (Wonders, King of the Hill, Hot Spots etc)
  Adding Custom AI (Defender, 
 Rushers, Big Boom types etc)
  More settings like size of the map, starting resources, lighting, elimination etc)
  Could it 
 be that they missed these stuff! Or maybe they want to realize them as an expansion 
  
  Multiplayer & Game life 
  I didnt test the Multiplayer part of the game. But here age of 
 empires should shine again. Simply because playing against a human its like having a computer 
 game with the ultimate AI. And I am sure the communities will be releasing maps and mods all the 
 time.
  But my fear is how limited the game setup will be? I hope its not going to be just like the skirmish
 
  
  General Game plays (AOE3 V1.0) :
  
  I think the game still needs patching before I can give it a score in this segment. Because units 
 formations are still not functioning well when different groups of army units grouped together.
 
  The AI is quite good in the game. But I must say its still predictable after many games.
  The game lacks some key in game futures like, a seek and destroy function, hold ground or caution 
 and auto activate bottoms.
  I fear that the game at some point is limited to one strategy which is gathering and throwing your 
 armies at the enemies!
  Even though with all the above I think that the game plays is still considered good.
  
  So 
 the Total Score I give this game:
  8.5/10 Very Good/ Excellent
  How do I feel about this game?
  It is a must for RTS fans. And yes it is an awesome game to play.
 
  
  I am sure that one heavy future patch for this game will take it all the way to superb if it addresses 
 all the issues I raised! But I hope its not going to be an expansion thing.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: khaledmr2005
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2005 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Well, the next great AoE III are the explorer, natives and treasures. You start every game with 
 an explorer (well some civilizations also get extra scouts) . Your explorer is one of the most important 
 units throughout the game. Early on he will be used for exploring, getting treasures and building 
 trade posts. Trade posts serve two purposes  (1) they can be built on a trade route to generate 
 XP and then upgraded later to deliver resources and (2) Build them in a native village and ally 
 with the natives. Allying with natives is a big advantage as they dont cost pop. Also, native 
 units are strong and available to be produced as soon as you reach the Colonial age. Natives also 
 provide various improvements that may benefit you like more cavalry hit points or faster training. 
 They are strong enough for someone to execute a strategy based on natives. They also prove an excellent 
 addition to your army. Treasures also become quite important early on and getting some of them 
 gives your start a major boost. When you reach Age4 your explorer gets the ability to kill any 
 unit with one hit (it takes some time to recharge though) . Use your deck cards rightly and you 
 explorer could be a super unit in the later ages. Oh yeah, he is also the only unit with the ability 
 to build more Town Centers. 
  
  so ilove this game and ihope u too .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoofer4ever
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 18, 2005 3:25 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires III is a great game in every aspect. It's the perfect Strategy game wich will be 
 LOVED by those who follow Age of empires.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is similar to the previouse games. It's definetly it's strongest point. You can easily 
 get right into it and know what your doing in a matter of seconds. One aspect I love is the strenghs 
 and weaknesses. You need to learn these in order to be a strong player. Such things like, Spearman 
 can easily defeat cavalry. And cavalry can easily defeat artillary. As all units have strenghs 
 they have weaknesses. I find in this AOE the game speed is much faster. Making it quite more enjoyable.
 
  Graphics: 
  I absolutely love the graphics, Although there's nothing revolutionary. You'll love the details. 
 For example, If a unit is standing next to the river and get's hit by a cannon, He'll go flying 
 into the water and make a huge splash. And a smile on your face. At times it can be a but pixely 
 but it still holds up to the rest of the game.
  Sound: The sound effects are just great, The clanking of footsteps of steel boots and sound of 
 horse steps. The music probably won't stick with you forever but you will enjoy it wh ile you play.
 
  Replayability:
  A very very strong point. Skirmish is just plain fun and the campaign is one you'd want to finish 
 over and over again. I can easily see myself installing this game over and over again in the future.
 
  
  Overall: 8.9 Great
  Rent\Buy: If you loved the previouse AOE games. They buy buy buy! Any lover or RTS game will love 
 this. Want my opinion? Of coarse you do. That's why you read my review. YES! BUY BUY BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrkenji
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 18, 2005 2:45 am PT
Review:  Everyone loved Age of Empires 1 and 2. Everyone loved Age of Mythology too. I myself have been 
 playing AOE games for quite some time now, and when i realized that AOE 3 was coming out i was 
 excited. 
  
  Age of Empires 3 is based on countries colonizing the New World. You will be happy to see natives, 
 mercenaries and yes, musketeers. Join the black family in the campaign and destroy each other for 
 the right to own the New World.
  
  The game claimed to have great 3d graphics and a great gameplay, and it has them! Except, theyre 
 not as good as they claim to be. The graphics are revolutionary and the weather effects aren't 
 really as good as I thought. Proportion is also annoying in this game as boats are incredibly small.
 
  
  On the other hand, the graphics have been sacrificed for incredibly addictive gameplay. Building 
 your own village is quick and easy and you will be into the action in no time. The hometown feature 
 is also quite fun as you can request food or wood or even units to help on your expansion. There 
 are nice reward items which can be recieved by killing a treasure "Guardian" The reward can be 
 resources or they can be a native that will help you.
  
  The Campaign is great fun but is quite repedditive. You have to create a new town center from scracth 
 on most missions and they are mostly based around elimination and exploration.
  
  Gameplay is fun and intresting, you can ally yourself with the natives and you can build trading 
 posts allowing locomotives to bring you supplies. The unit movement is smooth and the civlian gathering 
 etc. is good too.
  
  The best bit of the game is the destruction and havoc. Yes, killing. Units die faster than before 
 and the battles can be messy. No longer do longbow men have to shoot at enemies that are close 
 fruitlessly... they take out short swords and start stabbing them, which is more effective than 
 shooting at them at close range. When infantry are made to attack buildings, instead of the buildings 
 magically getting destroyed by swords/lances/arrows they are burnt down by molotovs. It is very 
 cool to see natives weild these as well. Cannons are also tactically useful and are a pleasure 
 to see in battle. They can blast away one person, or they can destroy a group of infantry. They 
 are very good against buildings and once in the forest, the cannon can shoot down trees, these 
 are a pleasure to see as the forest protects infantry from cannon attacks.
  
  The physics engine is great, cannons can shoot people off cliffs and little bits of building rebounds 
 off other buildings due to the impact location of the cannon/ molotovs.
  
  This game is great... there was obviously alot of effort put into this game, but the graphics and 
 the sound aren't much to boast about. The gameplay on the other hand, is. Addictive and memorable. 
 There are definetly lots of charming moments in the game and I hope to see the physics engine used 
 in future games.
  
  VERDICT: This game is worth a whirl if you are into this stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dpweir
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 2:27 am PT
Review:  An overall super game from Ensemble. Graphics and gameplay top notch, just gorgorous looking. A 
 pity about the formations not making it into the retail version though. A loyal AOE fan since the 
 first game. A little dissapointed with gamespot review on the games, I feel there wasn't enough 
 feedback and that the review was not fair enough with the game.
  Single player campaign and skirmish mode on rm will keep the playability for years to come while 
 multiplayer is where AOE 3 will come to life on ESO 2. Anyway time will tell with this game and 
 I have not doubt that AOE 3 will set the bar even higher for the RTS genre.
  I will be getting it asap.
  AOE 3 rocks. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
