-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Airborne Assault: Highway to the Reich
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/aahighwaytothereich/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.7, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 59 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Matrix Games
Developer: Panther Games
Genre: Real-Time Wargame
Date:     Dec 10, 2003

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Highway to the Reich is a rich, rewarding game and a great example of how the designers are using 
 the PC to push wargaming into new and exciting directions. 

  Panther Games delivered an innovative new kind of wargame last year with Airborne Assault: Red 
 Devils Over Arnhem. Doing away with the conventional hex-based, turn-based paradigm prevalent in 
 most computer wargames, Panther Games created an exciting new gameplay system that's the closest 
 we've come to experiencing what it's like to be a real general. As much as we liked it, though, 
 the game was a bit thin on content. Highway to the Reich doesn't have that problem -- it's an expanded 
 and improved Red Devils Over Arnhem, so much so that it's an entirely new product.  

          The 101st Airborne is stretched thin in order to defend key bridges against German counterattacks. 
     

  Whereas Red Devils Over Arnhem focused only on the experience of the British 1st Airborne during 
 Operation Market Garden, Highway to the Reich covers the entire campaign from start to finish. 
 Immortalized in the film  A Bridge Too Far , Market Garden was Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery's 
 daring attempt to open a route into Germany's industrial heartland. The Allies dropped three airborne 
 divisions into Nazi-held Holland to seize a series of strategically vital bridges. At the same 
 time, armored divisions began rolling up the highway that linked the bridges in order to relieve 
 the airborne troops. Unfortunately, due to stiffer-than-expected German resistance and the unexpected 
 presence of two crack SS Panzer divisions, the Allies were stopped short of the final bridge at 
 Arnhem. As a result, the British 1st Airborne, tasked with seizing the last bridge, was decimated. 
 Only a quarter of the division's 10,000 men made it back to Allied lines, and Market Garden was 
 a dismal failure.  

  Highway to the Reich features more than 30 scenarios, split into the four distinct theaters of 
 the operation: the British 1st Airborne at Arnhem, the 101st at Eindhoven, the 82nd at Nijmegen, 
 and XXX Corps' drive up the highway. All the scenarios can be played as either the Allies or the 
 Axis, though some are designed to be played from a certain side. Given that Market Garden involved 
 both lightly armed paratroop units and heavily mechanized armored divisions, there's a challenging 
 mix of scenarios. In the airborne campaigns, you'll spread your paratroops desperately thin as 
 you try to seize and then hold your bridges against waves of German counterattacks. In XXX Corps' 
 scenarios, you have the challenge of trying to funnel two tank divisions up a long, narrow highway 
 with Germans constantly nipping at your flanks. Even though you have an overwhelming advantage 
 in artillery and armor, you'll find it hard slogging to keep up with the almost insane timetable. 
 In real life, the Allies expected XXX Corps to reach its first objective in three hours. It ended 
 up taking three days, and the airborne troops waiting for reinforcements found themselves holding 
 out for far longer than expected. The innovative and elegant gameplay system that debuted in Red 
 Devils Over Arnhem remains pretty much intact. It's a real-time system that can be paused to give 
 orders and accelerated to speed the lulls between battles. But the beauty of the system is that 
 it features a historically accurate order of battle that re-creates the chain of command; in other 
 words, if you want something done, all you have to do is tell a unit to do it, and that unit will 
 run with the task, issuing orders to its subordinate units to get the job done.  

          The 82nd Airborne breaks out of its landing zone, but a battalion of Germans holds the 
 town of Groesbeek nearby.     

  It may sound a bit confusing, so for an example we'll use Easy Company, which was featured in  
 Band of Brothers  and is an actual unit in the game. Easy is part of the 2nd Battalion, 506th Parachute 
 Infantry Regiment. There are two other companies in 2nd Battalion, Dog and Fox, and two other battalions 
 in the regiment. That means Easy is one of nine airborne companies that make up the 506th. Now 
 let's say that there's a town that needs to be seized. If you know the town is undefended, you 
 can order Easy Company to do the job, and Easy will organize a company-sized attack. If the town 
 is lightly defended, you can give the order to 2nd Battalion headquarters, and it will organize 
 a battalion-sized attack using all three companies under its command: Dog, Easy, and Fox. If the 
 town is heavily defended, you can give the order to 506th headquarters, and it will organize a 
 regimental-sized attack using all three battalions, and all nine airborne companies, under its 
 command.     

  It's hard to convey just how cool this system is, because not only does it eliminate the massive 
 amount of micromanagement inherent in most wargames, but it does so in a way that makes it feel 
 like you're really commanding forces in the field. The AI does a marvelous job of interpreting 
 and carrying out your orders. Tell a battalion to seize a bridge five kilometers away, and the 
 battalion will utilize proper tactics and doctrine; companies will march in road formation before 
 stopping short of the objective to organize into attack formation. Mortar platoons stay back to 
 provide fire support, and companies advance in line to the objective. You have the option to micromanage 
 all the details, but it's usually better to let the AI do all the dirty work. And while the AI 
 can make mistakes from time to time, humans do as well, so it's all part of the fortunes of war. 
 The AI also does a competent job as your adversary, but there is the ability to play against a 
 fellow human being over a TCP/IP connection. However, the game lacks a server browser, so you need 
 to know someone who has a copy of the game and is willing to invest the time in a match.  

          XXX Corps drives up the highway, but the narrow road limits maneuver options, and the Germans 
 nip at the flanks.     

  There's also an option to delay orders in the game to realistically model the lag between when 
 an order is issued and when it is actually carried out. It can take quite a while for orders to 
 filter down to units in the field; when a unit receives an order, it has to organize a plan and 
 then pass instructions down to lower-level units. The more levels an order has to pass through, 
 the more time is required to execute the order. Tell a division to shift locations, and it could 
 take hours before the first units start to move out. This makes it all the more important to plan 
 wisely. While your subordinates are busy carrying out your orders, you have time to analyze the 
 battlefield, devise a plan, and then adjust the plan in reaction to developments.  

  Highway to the Reich does an excellent job of taking a staggering amount of data and presenting 
 it in a way that's virtually transparent to the player. Each unit is modeled to historically accurate 
 detail. The airborne divisions dropped into Holland are elite troops, better trained and equipped 
 than the garrison units they first encounter. However, unit performance is based on a number of 
 factors, including morale, cohesion, fatigue, and supply. So the longer your parachute units are 
 in action and the more losses they incur, the less combat effective they become. The game even 
 keeps track of the number of bullets in the game, so when a unit runs out of a certain type of 
 ammunition, its combat capability drops accordingly.  

  Keeping in mind that the graphics consist of nothing more than unit counters on a map, Highway 
 to the Reich is a beautiful game and a marked upgrade from Red Devils Over Arnhem. Maps now have 
 a hand-drawn look, along with better textures and an antialiasing option that sharpens the lines 
 and text. Zoomed out, it feels like you're looking at the same sort of high-quality paper maps 
 used by the military. Panther Games also included map and scenario editors, along with detailed 
 PDF documentation on how to use them, so you can create your own settings and campaigns.  

          The Germans launch a counterattack against the 82nd Airborne, which holds the high ground. 
     

  The game has a somewhat steep learning curve, and it takes an hour or two to pick up the basics. 
 Thankfully, there's an informative 122-page manual that features a comprehensive two-step tutorial, 
 along with tables, charts, and a glossary. We only wish that the text weren't so small, because 
 you really have to squint to read it.  

  Highway to the Reich is a rich, rewarding game and a great example of how the designers are using 
 the PC to push wargaming into new and exciting directions. The elegant gameplay system makes it 
 one of the most accessible operational-level wargames we've ever played, and it's worth your time 
 if you're a veteran wargame fan or if you've been thinking about jumping into wargaming.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 21, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  HTTR is for wargamers, not ADD kiddies that like Age of Empires 3. Gen_Rommel who posted a worthless 
 review below and slanted the games manual is a perfect indication of who this game is NOT meant 
 for
  
  It uses a brand new type of gameplay to take the player OUT of the HEXAGON age and into a more 
 fluid combat situation environment
  
  The HTTR mini-guides are now available in offline format (PDF) for download. http://www. matrixgames. com/forums/tm. asp? m=554121
 
  
  Panther has introduced a flexible multi-level chain of command structure into the game. The player 
 may interact with units/sub-units at any level within the chain of command. Thus, it is very adaptable 
 to individual style and needs. One can both micro/macro manage within even a single gaming session. 
 A critical road block can be created by tasking individual companies while some place else an entire 
 brigade can be given very open ended orders to make an attack. 
  
  Some games have a natural level at which the player should interact with the game. As long as scenarios 
 and forces are constructed around that natural limit, they play very well. Panther's engine is 
 much more open ended. The ability to command at any level makes the game highly scalable. In many 
 games, if you double the forces, the complexity for the player will quadruple (exponential scaling) . 
 In Panther's engine, the scaling is more of a logarithmic function. So, doubling the forces may 
 increase the complexity for the player by a factor of 1.2 or so.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 16, 2005 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Most wargames are either the grand-strategic type (like World at War - G. Grigsby) or company sized 
 (like Combat Mission) . This game allows you to command your troops in battles of Battalion size 
 and larger in Operation Market Garden. You'll manage infantry, armor, artillery and air strikes. 
 This includes factors such as quality of units, weapons, range, moral, fatigue, terrain, time of 
 day, weather, command structure, reinforcements, ammo, attrition, and much more. It comes with 
 many scenarios from small. This scenarios are based on the historical battles and are well balanced.
 
  
  An excellent tutorial is included. If you don't complete the tutorial you probably won't be able 
 to understand the game. The tutorial is quick and easy and The games is very easy to understand 
 and play once you've completed the tutorial.
  
  I don't consider myself to be an outstanding writer and don't normally write reviews of games here. 
 I was surprised to see the low average of reviews here. I felt the low score listed here by the 
 members was undeserved for such a great game. After looking at the breakdown I discovered that 
 approx. 85% gave a good rating score and 15% of the readers rated the game with a really bad score. 
 This 15% low scores really hurt the average. I suspect these users who gave low ratings did not 
 complete the tutorial and were completely lost and frustrated. Therefore, I don't feel this average 
 of the member ratings accurately represents the high quality of this game.
  
  Bottom line, if you're a wargammer or enjoy strategy games then get this game. It's fun!
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanker
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 7, 2005 3:04 am PT
Review:  Airborne Assault: Highway to the Reich (AA: HttR) is the follow-up game to AA: Red Devils Over Arnhem 
 (AA: RDOA) . I only played the demo of AA: RDOA so I cannot comment on the similarities or differences 
 to that game but those who played that game will certainly find AA: HttR a quick learn. Those who 
 passed on AA: RDOA will find AA: HttR to have a much grander scale as the game now covers all of 
 Operation Market-Garden. Thus the replay value is vastly greater.
  
  AA: Highway to the Reich is a historical conflict simulation (aka a wargame) in all respects. If 
 you are new to wargames AA: HttR is not an impossible place to begin but, as with all wargames, 
 it requires a few hours of work to learn before one can truly enjoy the game (knowledge of the 
 historical situation and military operations helps as well) . The reward for the effort is a rich, 
 intellectually challenging and historically accurate game with considerable replay value. Traditional 
 board wargamers will find much familiar and much to appreciate. There are two tutorials with an 
 88 page guide (mostly screen shots) and a well done 120 page manual. Playing through the two tutorials 
 is almost mandatory (unless you are an AA: RDOA veteran) to learn the game and will take at least 
 a couple of hours. 
  
  AA: HttR covers Operation Market-Garden from bottom to top (with 34 scenarios) . Unit scale is from 
 platoon to battalion with company being the most common. The game uses a realistic TO&E and unit 
 subordination is key to the game. The map has six levels of zoom and, at the highest video resolution 
 (of three) of 1280x1024, an area of 4 sq/km up to more than 45 sq/km is viewable on screen. The 
 map is vector art and thus looks good at all resolutions and zoom levels. The map is easily manipulated 
 with the mouse including dragging the map around, zooming, selecting units/objectives as well as 
 right-clicking to see the terrain type at a particular spot. In may respects AA: HttR is closer 
 to a traditional miniatures game than a board wargame except for its operational scale. One could 
 say it is the best of both worlds. There is also a small strategic-scale map with the units shown 
 as dots. The map even gets darker as night falls. The map and unit art could certainly be more 
 attractive but they are nice and very functional.
  
  The game interface is extremely well done with the majority of the screen being taken up with the 
 map and a small left hand border containing various information and control panels. There is an 
 immense amount of information and control provided in the panels in a very easy-to-read format 
 (it even provides historical info on the various units and commanders) but there is a fair amount 
 to learn to use them effectively.
  
  The unit icons contain a lot of information. No matter what zoom level you are in the units remain 
 the same size. This is good and bad and one wish is that there was an option to have the units 
 scale with the zoom. The advantage to having them not scale is that they remain readable at all 
 times. There is a lot of information packed on them and at max video resolution some may have a 
 hard time reading them easily. One can choose between NATO style unit symbols and icons but these 
 take up only the small upper left corner of the unit. The upper right of the unit is a dynamic 
 spot that uses various colors and icons to display all kinds of various bits of information such 
 as fatigue, morale, facing, strength, and more. This is a wonderful interface idea but, for some 
 of the options, the area is a bit small for some of the icons and thus a tad hard to read (again, 
 at high resolution) .
  
  The display of the units has been wonderfully thought out. As soon as you click on any unit its 
 facing indicator appears along with command lines to its immediate superior and/or subordinate 
 units. Hitting the arrow keys cycles you through the senior/subordinate formations. This all makes 
 it very easy to see unit organizations and deployments. In addition, drag selecting units gives 
 you some overall stats as well as displaying the facing of all the selected units, great for quickly 
 checking unit deployments. Once you see this display method youll wonder why no one has done it 
 before.
  
  Sound and animation is minimal at best. There are some good combat sounds but animations are 
 limited to small explosions and colored lines shooting back and forth representing gunfire. This 
 is all functional for sure but underwhelming at best. There is no music or background noise.
  
  Game play is real-time but the action can be paused at any moment (and sped up) and orders 
 given at any time. In this respect it is similar to TacOps or the Combat Mission games (although 
 without the 'turns' of those games) . The game can also be minimized so you can easily view the 
 PDF manual or do other things while playing.
  
  Play proceeds simply with giving orders to units and then hitting go and watching the action unfold. 
 You can give orders to units in real-time or pause the action and give orders and check out other 
 things. There is an almost bewildering array of order options including various actions, formation 
 types, aggressiveness, fire frequency and a whole lot more. You can also speed-up play if you are 
 just moving to contact. Note that you are not playing with turns with a planning phase and then 
 an actions phase. You can stop time but it always moves forward. You cannot rewind to watch other 
 events unfold. This is one of my few quibbles with the game. With larger scenarios it is hard to 
 see all the action that is going on. You can rely on your AI but this also takes some of the fun 
 out of the game as you may miss some great fights occurring on the other side of the map while 
 you are otherwise occupied. There are alerts and unit logs so if you find your force ravaged you 
 can decipher what happened but this is a poor substitute for seeing the action first hand.
  
  The line-of-site tool is a thing of beauty and deserves comment. You can check LOS between 
 any two points on the map. With a simple click and drag you get not only the LOS between the two 
 end points but to every point in between including dead zones AND elevations! You have to see it 
 to really appreciate it and again one wonders why we have never seen such a thing before. You can 
 also instantly see all of the enemy units in LOS of a selected unit.
  
  While you can micro-manage every unit if you wish, the design intent, and real beauty, of the game 
 is to use proper military chain-of-command. Thus you can just give orders to higher level units 
 (say at division level) and the AI will take care of handling all of the subordinate units. You 
 can mix and match this and have the AI worry about less important attacks/defenses while you apply 
 a more hands-on approach to more important areas. The AI is certainly respectable in this regard 
 but of course, as with any computer wargame, the AI can always use some improvement. On the other 
 hand, times when I thought the AI was making a poor choice it in fact was not or was reacting in 
 accordance with unit settings I had made. This is a very elegant system and combined with the concept 
 of orders delay probably presents the most realistic portrayal of WW2 operational combat seen 
 in any wargame (board or computer) to date. It is far from perfect but as close as anyone has come 
 yet.
  
  Overall Airborne Assault: Highway to the Reich is a fantastic operational level wargame that puts 
 you in the seat of an operational-level commander better than any other wargame to date. It DOES 
 take some time and effort to learn the game -- and you will not appreciate it as much until you 
 do because you will find all kinds of goodies as you learn  but it rewards your efforts in spades 
 with a rich wargaming experience.
  
  Quibbles I hope to see addressed in the future: Ability for units to scale with zoom; ability to 
 rewind to watch (although perhaps not intervene) other events; ability to see a regular TO&E diagram 
 view for formations (both ideal and as currently implemented) ; better graphics, sounds, and animation; 
 improved AI.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 9, 2004 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Let me start with tutorial there is no jumping into the game you have to do the tutorial to understand 
 one problem though its in the manual! And the size of this thing could break somebodys toe if you 
 dropped it on it the tutorial is LONG! REALLY LONG and CONFUSING you just really wanna skip it 
 just move on to the action instead they pos your troops all over the place first and then you attack 
 which is about and hour after you set evertything up like it said this game just isnt fun because 
 if you send 5 units against two and you blitz them and attack they arent gonna stand a chance but 
 in this game its horrible units are routed QUICKLY! and gameplay is just isnt fun with pixilated 
 bullets going by on screen this game was most definatly not worth 50.00 dollars more like 20.00 
 the game is just so time consuming and boring that you might not even keep the game for a day I 
 keep mine just to see if I can somehow make the game fun one by actually winning a battle as the 
 AI is a camper if you like people who camp this is the game for you because all it is is camp getting 
 shot well lets run where no one can hit you! this game is just a dullard I played the tutorial 
 and figured well the game is better Im shore tried to over run pos no chance! the enemy was loading 
 caps into my units before 45 sec into the game most of the time if you want to be germany you start 
 in the middle of open while allies start in well covered trees now how do you suppose they land 
 airborne troops in to a small circle in the middle of a fricken swamp and forest and where talking 
 battlations here not squads this game is only for those hardcore map strategy gamers who just enjoy 
 planning there action than exucuting it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
