-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Air Battles: Sky Defender
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/airbattlesskydefender/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Nicely geared for flight-sim newbies.
 wide range of training assignments and mission types.
 nice visual engine and battle sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lacks a few features like campaigns and multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 60 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Wild Hare Entertainment
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Mar 15, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Air Battles: Sky Defender makes for a solid introduction to the flight combat genre for newer players, 
 and the price is right too. 

  Average Joes looking for the chance to fly the unfriendly skies of Europe during World War II should 
 enlist with Air Battles: Sky Defender. While this Pilot Entertainment game screams low budget at 
 times and takes a casual approach to aerial combat that won't please hardcore simulation fans, 
 its great looks and easy, breezy design make it a treat for those looking for something relatively 
 light. Only the lack of proper campaigns and online multiplayer keep it from ace status.  

          Heading out for a little trip to London.     

  Despite the goofy name that would be 
 more appropriate for an old movie serial than a combat flight sim, Sky Defender is actually a dry 
 look at the European air war during WWII. There are no flights of fancy or Crimson Skies-style 
 wackiness here, just a collection of one-off missions where you hop into the cockpits of such famous 
 British and German aircraft as the Spitfire, Stuka, and Me-109 to shoot it out over English farmland, 
 the English Channel, and the rural countryside of occupied France. Rookie pilots can earn their 
 wings before taking on the enemy, thanks to suites of basic, advanced, and military training assignments. 
 These assignments get you up and running with all the basic concepts of flying and fighting, including 
 everything from making a controlled turn and stall recovery to taking off as part of a squadron. 

  If you get into a real furball, it will feel just about as scripted as the training missions. All 
 of the assignments are purely fictional, and each is geared to illustrate a stereotypical WWII 
 aerial scrap, focusing on a single iconic style of battle. You take part in dive bombing, low-level 
 attacks on airfields, raids on merchant shipping convoys, and dogfighting against everything from 
 a single British aircraft to huge waves of German fighters and bombers blitzing London at dawn. 
 Mission parameters can also be changed, which lets you custom-rig missions in a limited way by 
 flipping back and forth between Axis and Allies. You can choose your plane, as well as set the 
 time of day and weather conditions.  

  One thing that can't be altered is the pace. Even though Sky Defender is a casual flight sim, missions 
 share very little with action-first arcade fliers. Most battles start with you close to the action, 
 but you can't just race forward and start blasting everything in sight. Engagements are generally 
 drawn out, and a fair amount of time is spent simply turning, chasing, and stalking enemy fighters 
 and bombers. As in real WWII dogfights, tracking the enemy and striking precisely is the goal here. 
 Flying headlong at waves of aircraft or even an airfield will only get you a quick trip to terra 
 firma.  

  Still, you've got a good chance of staying aloft. In keeping with the "My First Flight Sim" theme, 
 flight characteristics are extremely forgiving. Although the game has novice and realistic settings, 
 neither is very punishing. Bumping up the difficulty to realistic just seems to result in more 
 stalls and more problems with such things as causing self-inflicted damage by cranking up your 
 speed too high for too long. This will seem a bit like flyboy romper room for experienced flight 
 sim fans, but that appears to be the point. The lack of a demanding flight model lets newbies gain 
 Battle of Britain skills in mere minutes. Controls are also fairly simplified, while the keyboard 
 is responsive and easy to use. You're not gaining much, if anything, by going to a stick, which 
 is an impressive accomplishment because so many casual flight sims get grounded by unwieldy keyboard 
 commands.  

          Preparing for a Stuka dive-bomb attack on a British shipping convoy.     

  Visuals 
 are another plus. Unlike so many budget games, Sky Defender looks and sounds good. The menus are 
 hideous, and the air battles online option on the main screen is a fake-out that takes you to the 
 game's official Web site, but the in-game graphics are just shy of gorgeous. Planes look great 
 and are loaded with colorful details, such as pilot insignias. Bullets also create a nifty trail 
 as they cut through the air. The only drawback is static, slightly blurry terrain that makes it 
 tough to tell how high you are above the ground when strafing or dive-bombing airfields. The engine 
 balances beauty and speed in the way it handles battles that feature 100 or more fighters and bombers 
 without a hitch in the frame rate. Audio effects are also impressive, unless you're a music buff 
 because there are no tunes in the game at all. Pilots shout "Shoot! Shoot!" a little too often, 
 but they also have a wide range of comments that make you believe you're in the midst of an actual 
 dogfight. Cries for help and boasts about victories do a lot to increase the tension when things 
 get hairy. The sound of clipped British accents, propellers, bullets whistling through the air, 
 and the wind blowing past your open cockpit also enhance the atmosphere.  

  It won't win any awards, but Air Battles: Sky Defender does exactly what it intends to do. This 
 is a budget game with some of the issues common to such releases, but it also provides great bang 
 for your buck and serves as a good, solid flight-sim primer for anyone looking to become a virtual 
 aerial ace.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Air Battles: Sky Defender is a very bare bones combat flight simulation.
  
  The gameplay feels pretty good. There are no bugs. It executes the way it is supposed to.
  
 
  There is no main campaign, just a bunch of generic missions, where you select whether you want 
 to be German, or Britain or the U. S., depending upon the mission.
  
  The graphics are not impressive by any means. No matter high the resolution, the game isn't pretty. 
 That's not saying it's too ugly, it just doesn't look that realistic.
  
  The flying can be easy if you want it to be. You just enter it in the settings before you fly, 
 so if you crash into the ground, you just pop back up into the air.
  
  If you are new to flight simulations, and don't want to spend a lot of money on one, or have to 
 learn a bunch of complex controls, Air Battles: Sky Defender is an okay game. If you are new and 
 want to just try it out, it should be pretty cool for you. Simulating flying can be pretty fun. 
 It's only $10. You should have a joystick, though, it makes it better. I have a Logitech 3D Extreme 
 Pro joystick, and that is the best cheap joystick, because it twists, and you need that in pretty 
 much all flight sims. The 3D Extreme Pro is $29.99 The $20 Logitech model, I think it's called 
 the Attack Wingman, doesn't have the twist rudder, so it isn't worth getting.
  
  However, if you've played other flying combat simulations, or are more into the genre, this game 
 is not for you. The $10 is not worth it by any means. It's very generic. Any other flight simulation 
 would be more interesting and would have better graphics as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shugo32
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  When I was a kid I played my dad's copy of Jane's WWII Fighters tirelessly. And ever since 1998, 
 I've been looking for something similar, but came up empty handed. So, at the mall I found Air 
 Battles: Sky Defender, for the low cost of about $10, and decided to give it a try.
  
  After installation, I dusted off my Sidewinder brand joystick, and went to work. At first, the 
 game seemed almost too geared for the first time flier, and by first time, I mean a three year 
 old. The plane didn't crash when it hit the ground, the controls were unresponsive, there were 
 no mid air collisions, (for when you just can't seem to shoot em') , and you had an infinite amount 
 of ammo and bombs, which, admittedly, can be good, but not when you're looking for a flashback 
 to WWII.
  
  So, about 10 minutes of tweaking the options menu, and you had, what feels to be a pretty good 
 simulator, but, it can get too real, with the engine sputtering out every time you take a high 
 G turn, prop wash throwing you out of the air, etc.
  (Which can be good if that's what you're looking for.) What I guess I'm trying to say, is that 
 there is a healthy variety of realism for fliers. Now, as far as sound goes, it's a little unbalanced. 
 The radio seems quite soft at times, such as when the tower gives you important directions, and 
 at other times it's the only thing you can hear, such as when you hear the endless screams of your 
 comrades spiraling to the ground, or telling you to fire at an airplane that isn't in front of 
 you, etc. (But once again you can adjust this in the fantastic options menu. Combat can be frustrating 
 at times, and it seems to ID a plane as your own, or foe, you have to turn on labels which is basically 
 text hovering over the plane. But I do not recommend buying this game, or any flying game for that 
 matter, if you do not have a joystick, it makes ALL the difference people. Aside from that, the 
 game makes up for it's lack of a story mode with the extensive training missions. You think of 
 it, they have it: Landing with motor dead, landing with damage, aileron training, rudder, elevator, 
 dive bombing, etc. Now, the only things I don't like about the game, besides there is no multi 
 player, is that there is an extremely limited number of aircraft in the game, a total of 3 German 
 aircraft, and basically 2 British, (two variations of the hurricane, and 2 variations of the hurricane) , 
 and there are no other allied aircraft, such as the P-51D, P-38, B-17, etc. Also, you can't make 
 custom games, (such as setting the exact number of aircraft, and which kinds) although some missions 
 can customize time of day, starting altitude, etc.
  
  Other than a few limitations, and a few minutes of tweaking, you have a decent flier game. Still 
 not as great as Jane's WWII fighters, but it decently has come much closer than the others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomkares
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 27, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Even someone who has never played a sim can quickly rack up some kills. The game also has a convenient 
 u key for upping your altitude by 1000 feet each time you press it. This is great for practicing 
 dives on enemy aircraft over and over again without having to wait to climb. If you put the settings 
 to Realistic it starts to act more like a true sim, although if you want a true sim you should 
 just stick to IL-2, Lock On, or FSX. The graphics are acceptable. Ground terrain isnt very good 
 compared to the high end flight sims but the aircraft models are realistic and you can have alot 
 on the screen with acceptable frame rates. The built in Trackir support is great for looking around. 
 This is an accessory that many flight sim enthusiasts have but not many casual players will have. 
 For the casual gamer the mouse is just as useful for looking around.
  
  If you dont want to play as a pilot you can play as a turret gunner and quickly hop from station 
 to station defending the plane in a group of over 50 ( estimated) other bombers with about 100 fighters (estimated) 
 coming in from all angles. This is alot of fun and actually very challenging even on Novice. On 
 the whole I would recommend this game to anyone who doesnt have the time to really learn how to 
 fly and fight in a real sim but wants the thrill of looking out the windshield of your fighter 
 plane and watching that enemy fighter or bomber shred apart under your cannon fire and tracer rounds. 
 Its well worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malevy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is about having fun. It delivers. Its not intended to be a true sim, like flight simulator 
 X. However, the same people who make air combat for flight simulator X, Wild Hare, also make this 
 game and it shows. When flying in cockpit view you really feel like your flying a fighter plane. 
 The game has built in Trackir support and mouse support for looking around the cockpit, just like 
 in a real sim. With the difficulty settings on Novice, you can quickly get into some very large 
 scale dogfights. 150 planes in the air, both bombers and fighters, is not uncommon. Even someone 
 who has never played a sim can quickly rack up some kills. The game also has a convenient u key 
 for upping your altitude by 1000 feet each time you press it. This is great for practicing dives 
 on enemy aircraft over and over again without having to wait to climb. If you put the settings 
 to Realistic it starts to act more like a true sim, although if you want a true sim you should 
 just stick to IL-2, Lock On, or FSX. The graphics are acceptable. Ground terrain isnt very good 
 compared to the high end flight sims but the aircraft models are realistic and you can have alot 
 on the screen with acceptable frame rates. The built in Trackir support is great for looking around. 
 This is an accessory that many flight sim enthusiasts have but not many casual players will have. 
 For the casual gamer the mouse is just as useful for looking around.
  
  If you dont want to play as a pilot you can play as a turret gunner and quickly hop from station 
 to station defending the plane in a group of over 50 ( estimated) other bombers with about 100 fighters (estimated) 
 coming in from all angles. This is alot of fun and actually very challenging even on Novice. On 
 the whole I would recommend this game to anyone who doesnt have the time to really learn how to 
 fly and fight in a real sim but wants the thrill of looking out the windshield of your fighter 
 plane and watching that enemy fighter or bomber shred apart under your cannon fire and tracer rounds. 
 Its well worth the price. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
