-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Airfix Dogfighter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/airfixdogfighter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  8, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.5, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 154 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EON Digital Entertainment
Developer: Paradox Inter.
Genre: Jet Sim
Date:     Jan 14, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though traditional flight simulation fans may be turned off by its unrealistic design, there's no 
 denying that Airfix Dogfighter delivers a fun gaming experience. 

 When you first see the list of planes featured in Airfix Dogfighter, you might think that it's a 
 dedicated flight simulation that focuses on various aerial combat missions from World War II - 
 but nothing could be farther from the truth. Instead, Airfix Dogfighter lets you take control of 
 miniature model airplanes (based on Airfix's plastic kits) in a rather unique setting, where larger-than-life 
 bedrooms, bathrooms, kitchens, and backyards are theaters of war. The game's graphics, weapons, 
 and flight physics have all been appropriately modified to fit with the lighthearted theme of the 
 game. Though traditional flight simulation fans may be turned off by this unrealistic design, there's 
 no denying that Airfix Dogfighter delivers a fun gaming experience.   

  Airfix Dogfighter isn't the most graphically outstanding game, but you'll appreciate the degree 
 to which attention was paid to properly scaling the planes to the environments. Also, from the 
 North American P-51 Mustang to the Japanese Zero, every plane in Airfix Dogfighter is modeled accurately 
 after its real-life counterpart, complete with transparent cockpit windows, miniature pilots, and 
 clearly visible panels, bolts, and flaps. These details may not seem all that spectacular in a 
 typical flight simulation that tries to accurately model these craft, but when you consider the 
 small scale of the planes in Airfix Dogfighter, these extra details are actually quite impressive. 
 Individual rooms in the house aren't quite as detailed as they could be, and, in fact, many of 
 the textures used are fairly bland and overused in different parts of the house. Airfix Dogfighter 
 tries to make up for the lack of ornate detail in the environments by placing numerous miscellaneous 
 objects in them, and sometimes it works. For example, in one of the early Axis missions (which 
 takes place in the kitchen) , you'll find glasses, vases, and other breakables scattered about, 
 which give the room a less sterile look. Likewise, the multiplayer map that features the backyard 
 of the house has chairs, desks, and other objects piled on top of each other to give it a more 
 realistic appearance. If Airfix Dogfighter is lacking anything visually, it's in the special effects. 
 Aside from a few transparent color streams that follow the planes (and the resulting colored lighting 
 that illuminates walls) , there aren't any special graphic effects that immediately catch your eye. 
   

  Airfix Dogfighter's gameplay centers on a campaign mode in which initially you select to fly for 
 either the Axis or Allied forces, each of which have ten successive missions. Both campaigns start 
 off with a training mission, which simply requires you to fly around your base and gather various 
 items that are scattered across the room, such as missiles and tech medallions that upgrade your 
 weapons if you collect enough of them. After the training flight, the mission objectives will begin 
 to take a more familiar form to traditional flight simulations. You'll be required to attack the 
 enemy base at different points in the house or outside in the backyard, and, on some occasions, 
 protect your own base from enemy raids. The weapons available with which to accomplish your task 
 also fall within the overall theme of the game. The Axis and the Allies both have access to dumbfire 
 and heat-seeking missiles that take the form of colored pencils and crayons. You can leave long 
 trails of parachuting proximity mine packages that are composed of explosive material and matches, 
 which can easily take out slow-moving enemy tanks and bombers. There are other, more high-tech 
 weapons that are just as interesting to use, including the tesla coil, a particle beam, and even 
 an atomic bomb.    

 Airfix Dogfighter has an interesting premise, and it's generally easy and enjoyable to play. Unfortunately, 
 the occasionally frustrating controls combined with some awkward camera angles and poor collision 
 detection can make the game lose some of its appeal. Flying in open areas is not difficult at all. 
 Depending on their individual characteristics, your planes are predictably responsive as you change 
 direction and speed - bombers tend to have more armor so that they move much slower, while small 
 fighters have less armor but are more maneuverable. However, oftentimes you have to take your plane 
 into small areas, like bookshelves or chimneys, to retrieve items. Once you move inside these small 
 places, you'll find that your plane will literally bounce around in every direction, which forces 
 the camera to compensate by constantly switching positions. This is more of a nuisance rather than 
 a serious problem with the game since colliding with objects does very little damage to your plane; 
 but if your plane somehow manages to hit the corner of a wall or a shelf, it'll automatically explode, 
 and you'll have to start the mission over.   

  The increasing difficulty of the missions in Airfix Dogfighter may also prove to be an issue. The 
 first five or six missions are relatively easy, as you only need to go directly for your primary 
 and secondary objectives rather than worry about the status of tertiary enemy units. Since there 
 are only ten missions per campaign, you can easily get through a good portion of the game in less 
 than a few hours - but around the sixth mission, the difficulty significantly increases. Instead 
 of just selecting the default plane for the mission, you actually have to take each available plane's 
 unique attributes into consideration. In one particular mission, you must fly your way into a child's 
 bedroom to retrieve a key that opens the bathroom door. The room is moderately protected with tanks 
 and antiaircraft weaponry. But inside the bathroom, there's a barrage of antiaircraft artillery 
 waiting for you, and it is practically unavoidable, as the antiaircraft weapons are strategically 
 placed in areas above the main flight area and below it. Therefore, you'll need to select a plane 
 that can take a substantial amount of damage but that is also maneuverable in the small bathroom 
 space. You'll only pick up on these sorts of details after some trial and error.   

  In addition to the single-player campaigns, Airfix Dogfighter has an excellent multiplayer mode. 
 You and seven other players can dogfight in several different areas, or you can opt to make your 
 own maps in the game's house editor mode. The house editor mode lets you edit rooms in the house 
 by adding items or different environmental conditions, like flooding. While it's fairly easy to 
 use the editor, the interface is a little simplistic, and it doesn't really give you much in the 
 way of customization other than item placement. If you're having difficulty in finding opponents, 
 the multiplayer mode essentially just turns into a skirmish mode in which you can fight against 
 computer-controlled planes and tanks. Customization doesn't stop at the house editing feature - 
 since the Airfix brand deals with model airplanes, Airfix Dogfighter also includes a sticker editor 
 mode, which lets you edit logos that appear on the wings, nose, and tail of a plane. There are 
 more than ten stickers included, all of which you can edit, or you can create an entirely new sticker 
 from scratch. Both customized maps and stickers can be used in the multiplayer mode.   

  Essentially, Airfix Dogfighter is a fun and uniquely themed action game inspired by World War II 
 model airplanes. What other PC game lets you pilot actual planes from World War II within a suburban 
 house? The premise and the mechanics of the game might not appeal to fans of typical flight simulators, 
 since your Airfix planes can bounce off objects and even hover in midair as they go about their 
 missions. But the game's only real serious drawback is the lack of a diverse campaign mode, which 
 would give a real incentive for playing through both factions other than seeing different areas 
 of the house. Then again, just one of the two campaigns along with the multiplayer mode and customization 
 features should be enough to keep you busy with Airfix Dogfighter for a while.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 21, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  This is a good game for its time and its graphics. the graphics are not good but when this game 
 first came out the graphics were good. this game is just fun, flying a model plane around a house 
 shooting model tanks that shoot at you and you can destroy airbases so that your enemy don't have 
 any planes. the sound is good and the nosie of the engine when you start it up and fly around are 
 real, the sounds when you shoot with your guns are quite good as well well i say that this game 
 is worth playing and that it is good but with the lates computers i think the graphics could be 
 a lot better if this game was updated for the lates computer operating system such as vista. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hynnin
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Airfix Dogfighter its a simple game, the tasks are at hand and you must focus on your objectives 
 so you can accomplish the game effectively, however it is difficult to progress as the missions 
 get even more challenging. The airplanes are very easy to pilot, but they all have its weak points 
 that can be used against you, not by the computer player, but by the own player if he carelessly 
 fire at a fortified barricade without a proper attack plan.
  
  The game is divided into two campaigns, the Axis, and the Alliance, the Axis are the German, with 
 Italian and Japanese help as you progress in the game, the Alliance are the others as you may have 
 read in the story books, with its help as the Axis, its fun to see both campaigns that look alike, 
 but are different because you play in one said on one, and in the other side on another! Thats 
 not the only difference, Axis have different special weapons and so do the Alliance, that means 
 more fun.
  
  It also has the campaign editor, and the multi-player system, in the campaign editor you can create 
 your own terrain with different obstacles, power ups, and computer controlled aircrafts or submarines, 
 while in the multi-player you play these custom made areas or use the default ones.
  
  Reading this, you may think we are talking about real aircrafts, with big and fortified bases to 
 destroy or huge zepellins to avoid, but youre wrong, Airfix Dogfighter is a game that uses plane 
 models and your own house as a battlefield! Try fighting incoming airplanes in the kitchen, anti-aircraft 
 turrets in the living room, spies in the dinning room and zeppelins in the yard with plane models 
 armed with crayons, paint missiles, battery rail weapons and much more! Thats the differential 
 in this game, that really is worth a try. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
