-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Airport Tycoon 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/airporttycoon3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 13, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 4.5, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 5.7, 327 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Global Star Software
Developer: InterActive Vision
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Oct 30, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's unfortunate that the execution in the game is so disappointing in virtually every respect. 
 

  As its name suggests, Airport Tycoon 3 is the latest build-it-and-planes-will-come airport strategy 
 game from developer InterActive Vision. So after three iterations, it'd be reasonable to expect 
 that the developers would have honed the gameplay in Airport Tycoon 3 to a razor's edge. Unfortunately, 
 this couldn't be further from reality. That's because for whatever progress that the series makes 
 in this third installment, it's undone by lackluster gameplay and poor execution.  

          In theory, there should be a couple of dozen flights a day at this airport, but it always 
 feels empty.     

  Airports are certainly an interesting subject to build a tycoon game around, and they're definitely 
 a change from the glut of zoo/wild park/theme park games on the market. As with most tycoon games, 
 in Airport Tycoon 3 you start off with a big plot of land and a large amount of capital. After 
 building a runway, a terminal, and all the support structures, you open the airport for business. 
 Airlines negotiate master contracts for landing and takeoff rights, as well as for contracts for 
 individual flights. As air traffic grows, you need to upgrade facilities, build new ones, negotiate 
 contracts, and make business deals with hotel and retail chains. There's an amazing amount of depth 
 and detail to explore. In this aspect, Airport Tycoon 3 is certainly well researched, and you can 
 learn volumes about the intricacies and economics of the airport business.  

  It's just so unfortunate that the execution in the game is so disappointing in virtually every 
 respect. For example, the game touts two gameplay modes: scenario and sandbox. There are, however, 
 a whopping  two  scenarios in the game, both of which are incredibly easy. It's almost as if the 
 developers had planned for more but called it a day after the first two. The sandbox mode that 
 allows you to build an airport from scratch is, for all intents and purposes, the whole of the 
 game. It has the potential to be fun and interesting, but it's crippled by bad pacing. After you 
 set up your airport, you have to sit around and wait for the contracts to trickle in. Contracts 
 roll in at about one per game month, or in gameplay terms, about one every couple of minutes. There's 
 not much to do while you're waiting, but you can't just leave the game running in the background 
 because a contract offer will expire if you don't act on it promptly. So there are whole stretches 
 of the game where you're doing nothing but waiting for the contract buzzer to sound. And, often 
 times, you spend so much money building and upgrading facilities that it can easily throw you in 
 debt, which means that you'll sit around even longer waiting to run up enough revenue to put you 
 back in the black.  

  Furthermore, it doesn't help that there's a frustrating lack of information in the game. The in-game 
 tutorial is nothing more than a blurry, noninteractive slide show. It basically reiterates the 
 points made in the manual, and neither the tutorial nor the manual explains things that you should 
 know, like what all the numbers and statistics mean, how the contract system works, or how to demolish 
 an old runway to make room for a bigger one.  

          The plane from Smurfland has arrived. Notice how out-of-scale the plane is when compared 
 to the environment.     

  The RenderWare-based graphics engine allows for much more detailed buildings and airplanes than 
 in earlier Airport Tycoon games. However, it still suffers from relatively bland textures, as well 
 as the fact that there's just not much to look at. Occasionally a plane lands and takes off, and 
 some cars mill about on the roads, but there's no sense of energy or busyness that you expect at 
 an airport. When you accelerate the game to the fastest setting, the sun rises and sets so quickly 
 that it's like watching time-lapse photography. However, the illusion is shattered by the fact 
 that the planes remain in real time. Instead of watching dozens of flights land and take off over 
 the course of a day, you're lucky to see a single flight come in every week or so. Moreover, the 
 game has a peculiar problem with scale. For instance, refueling trucks are sometimes 10 times larger 
 than the planes they refuel. If a developer is going to bother with a 3D engine, there's no excuse 
 for not keeping things relatively scaled.  

  Considering that this series has survived to Airport Tycoon 3, we can only imagine that there'll 
 eventually be an Airport Tycoon 4 one day. Hopefully, the developers will finally figure out the 
 game that they're trying to make by then. There's a lot of potential in Airport Tycoon 3, and it's 
 frustrating to see it wasted.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jsonting
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 9, 2009 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I bought this because of the previous version. The fun of building your own airport and sign contract 
 with other airlines from around the world. It actually gave me some inside details about how an 
 airport actually works. 
  
  And after years from the 2nd version, finally comes the 3rd one. I was expecting a better visual 
 and gaming experience on the new one. And guess what, when i start playing it, it just took me 
 5 seconds to say "crap, I shouldn't have bought this." . I Bought this for 10++, and what i get 
 was like a cheap PS1 game. How horrible can that be? 
  
  Ok, first of all, the visual has no improvement at all, but what more is the game, control, camera, 
 and etc, they all crap. Constructing part was a joke. And when you speed up the time, your clock 
 runs but not the planes, cars, and people, what the heck is that? Trust me, playing for an hour 
 could get you crazy and start throwing your keyboard soon. Sigh..... I hope they could make it 
 better next time... if there would ever be one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgr8one
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  An awesome genre to build a game on that had probably prompted most of the people to buy it. Two 
 words for it: TOTAL CRAP. Period.
  nothing good in it be it graphics, realism, gameplay, audio or even the games' stability.
  No 
 relation to anything like an airport, no realism AT ALL combined with stupid graphics, an audio 
 track that makes you break your PC after a while, and a really boring gameplay. Absolutely ALL 
 of the options aren't in anyway related to what they say they do even and to top it off, the game 
 keeps crashing on a modern PC with millions of "bugs". You have nothing to do for the most part 
 of the game with that irritating soundtrack rattling your nerves and the longer you play, the more 
 bugs you keep getting.
  
  This game only deserves to be shelved at the bottom of a trashcan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceyintel
Rating: 2
Date: May 13, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Sad Sad Sad, don't know where to start. I love the idea, but it just fails me, i tried and tried 
 to like this game, it just isn't worth the time. I did not listen to the reviews, and i bought it 
 anyways, and i regret it.
  
  First of all, it takes friken FOREVER to get a contract, and if you don't agree with them (they 
 are usually rip-offs) then you have to wait another 2 week ( i would say gametime, but it feels 
 like real life in this) to get another contract. The AI is the dumbest ever. The game is soooooooooo 
 unstable. The tutorial is worthless, just a bunch of blurry words with pictures. and the words are 
 even helpful. And want to know what is sad, THEY GAME DEVELOPERS CAN'T EVEN SPELL!!! There are many 
 spelling errors in this game, talk about these people going to a university.
  
  The Graphics are very sad. The scaling is soo bad, the fuel trunk is bigger than the airplanes!!! How 
 sad is that!! The textures are very very poor.
  
  You fail bankruptcy very fast, so it is , impossible to win, i mean mall tycoon 2 deluxe, i said 
 that you got to think and use your knowledge and planning skills to do good, but in this game, 
 the AI and game setup is soo bad it is impossible.
  
  There was just not enough time in this game, it was a quickly, thrown together game. Although the 
 game is very moddable and you can change the data all you want, but there is a high chance of rune 
 time error, and to make this game the way the average person wants, it will take so long to edit 
 the data, you might as well make a whole new game.
  
  I could bring up more detail, but this should tell you do not buy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynamiteking40
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  this is a very unique pitch for a tycoon game and works well initially. 
  BUT as you get into it and open your airport for business and expect a slow influx of business 
 deals and aircraft, well forget it, i watied 10mins for my 1ST plane to land, and even then it 
 just went from bad to worse for timing, AI, planning, game design, scaling (major let down) . Im 
 glad i played the trial 1st this is a huge disappointment of a game. The basic functions are managable 
 and easy to get the hang of, but even then things like aircraft timing, working with slots, costs, 
 and airport planning (which is very un-forgiving for 1st timers, as you can't delete old runways 
 or even alter them!!!!) this game gets me frustrated at how good it could actually be, if somebody 
 had tested it before shipping!!! And if you think you'll solve your scaling problem by waiting 
 for larger aircraft forget it the small ones don't even come nevermind the big ones!!! Don't bother 
 with this.
  
  Although if they made a number 4 and solved timing, AI and scaling i would buy it without a 2nd 
 thought. but don't hold ya breath 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daackpack
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  I was extremely disappointed in the quality of this game, especially since it was the third iteration. 
 The play is obnoxiously slow and lacks the interest and variables I enjoy in Roller-Coaster Tycoon 
 and Sim City. You must wait weeks for contract offers and even when offered, a simple Accept 
 or Decline is your only decision. The flight arrivals and departure could not be more unrealistic 
 on a screen that does not even offer a realistic radar dial.
  The company missed a great opportunity here to create a Tycoon type game that would give a player 
 an idea of the complexity involved in running a commercial airport. Bottom line, DO NOT waste your 
 time or money on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexlips
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  The concept for this was brilliant and the previous 2 were brilliant but this is pathetic. Its 
 all due to this the fact that you have to wait and wait, i left the game on for a whole day to 
 see if the next stage would come and it didnt. You sometimes have to wait for ages for 1 plane 
 to come.. boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, 
 boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, 
 boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, 
 boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, 
 boring, boring, boring, boringv 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
