-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Albion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/albion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 19, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.5, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 134 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Blue Byte
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Aug 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In Blue Byte's hybrid role-playing game Albion, nothing is as it first appears. 

 In Blue Byte's hybrid role-playing game Albion, nothing is as it first appears. On the surface, 
 the game has a look and feel that eager RPGers will take to at once, despite the fact that the 
 story unfolds in deep space, instead of the familiar caverns that most other role-playing games 
 call home. Casting yourself in the role of the game's youthful and handsome space jock, Tom Driscoll, 
 is a pleasure. The opener: A scouting mission gone afoul finds you crash-landing on what you thought 
 was a desert planet, in the company of a peaceful, alien race a-revel in a flora and fauna world 
 that's anything but dried up. The danger - and the game's fair-enough premise - is out there and 
 approaching fast, in the shape of your own mother ship, whose hazardous aim is to land on the planet 
 and set up shop. Its arrival will spell disaster for the newfound habitat. Hey, Tom, you can't 
 let this happen. And so you begin.  

 Performing all things ordinarily role-playing - examining objects, conversing with bit players, 
 and equipping yourself and acquaintances along for the ride - is routine and straightforward, like 
 easing into a good time with old friends. Some things you expect, others surprise you. The game's 
 graphics, for instance, are robustly detailed and colored, drawing their style from somewhere between 
 Johnny Quest comic books and the more "serious" essence of Origin's Ultima worlds. The same is 
 true of both the game's plot and its supporting cast of human and alien characters. Indeed, Albion's 
 idea of the future is a multi-hued one, and communicating with your multinational peers and the 
 exotic, catlike aliens instills a cross-cultural empathy that few games have managed to successfully 
 convey.  

 It's not until you venture beneath the surface, however, that Albion turns disagreeable. Down here, 
 everything jarringly shifts into 3-D. The colors are muted, the level of detail weakened, when 
 compared to today's best-of-the-breed 3-D worlds. While Albion's designers obviously hope to draw 
 two gaming camps into its dual-purpose RPG, fans of the top-down 2-D variety come out the clear 
 winners. There you were, pleasantly clicking your way over space age tiles and rolling extraterrestrial 
 greens, when all of the sudden the plot sinks you down below. What is upsetting is the game's method 
 of depicting 3-D motion - the periphery, fast-blur whizzing-by of crystalline cave or hard-wired 
 corridor wall that in no time brings you closer to nausea than escape or direction. The rendering 
 is at times so hard to stomach that once you're up out of it, the thought of having to go under 
 again induces a feeling of dread.  

 What's ultimately most unsettling about Albion is that the bottom-dwelling sections of the game 
 didn't have to be so unsettling. For instance, despite its less than perfect sum of parts, Interplay's 
 Stonekeep portrayed its 3-D RPG realm quite convincingly. And don't forget Origin's Ultima Underworld 
 games, which succeeded in both interface and playability. Such is Albion's dichotomy: a wholly 
 compelling plot whose unfolding appeals to the senses only half of the time. Nevertheless, unstoppable 
 role-playing gamers will determinedly press on, chalking it all up to hard-fought experience. For 
 the rest of us, however, Albion's disturbing subsurface parts must be taken slowly, gradually, 
 with frequent breaks from the game's otherwise refreshing otherworldliness, to come back up for 
 air. And that's too bad, because just as you get deep into the story again, things take yet another 
 turn for the worse.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Joker_Wylde
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  This is one of the first PC games I ever bought, and it wasn't even that new when I got it. Naturally, 
 I suspect I will be biased towards it, but there was something about it that clicked with me. Its 
 only on one CD, but the game play seemed to go on for hours. You could pick up practically everything 
 ( a bonus for someone that belongs to Facebook's "Kleptomaniacs of Morrowind") , although most of 
 it was worthless, and it had a plot and fairly detailed speech interface that let you type in words. 
 There is a level of detail in the pointless plot enrichment I have only seen in the books of Morrowind. 
 The design is like nothing I have seen before or since too, with tile based third person turn-based 
 combat, first person real time city interaction and top down third person map views. The design 
 is lush, music and sound effects believable. cut scenes are all in game (except for his dream) 
 and everyone feels like a character (except for Siobhan) . The story is genuinely exciting, and 
 so good its like it was written by Azimov, although the dialogue is clunky, so it must have been 
 a collaboration with David Eddings. Everything about it I loved, and one day I hope to finish it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikaelGrizzly
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 15, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Released in 1996 by Blue Byte, Albion is an RPG game that drags you down into it's fleshed out, 
 beautiful world only to face you with an unfriendly interface, long journeys and counterintuitive 
 gameplay.
  
  First, let's start with the major advantages of the game: setting and plot. You are Thomas Driscoll, 
 a pilot in the employment of the Doilmr-Toyota-Thompson corporation and a member of the DTT Toronto 
 mining vessel crew, whose target is a desert planet rich in minerals and ripe for harvest. You 
 are to perform a routine survey flight to the planet with a xenobiologist, Rainer. However, when 
 approaching the planet, it turns out it's not quite a desert and not by far deserted. Suddenly, 
 your shuttle malfunctions and you are forced to make emergency planetfall...
  
  From the very first moment of the game, you know you are in for quite an adventure. The begining 
 plays out in the Toronto's crew section and you get to taste just how complex the backstory and 
 setting of the game is, done simply by accessing an information pylon in the hallway, or asking 
 any of the more important characters by typing in a keyword. The game designers present you with 
 their concept of how the world would evolve in the future, an example of which is the militarization 
 of the environmentalist, who surrounded the Galapagos island with a minefield to prevent interference 
 from the outside. Asking characters provides the gamer with even more insight, as they can tell 
 you about the history of the world prior to the game's beginning. After planetfall, the amount 
 of available information to the player grows considerably, as the alien culture of the Iskai (cat-like 
 felinoids) is quite developed in-game, complemented by a similiar, keyword-based question system 
 available for major characters in the game, made even more expansive by the fact that certain characters 
 have much different and more elaborate answers to your questions. And this is only the beginning, 
 as each culture you meet later will have it's own issues the gamer can learn about and understand. 
 Another area in which the game shines is the plot. It is well developed, easy to follow and, most 
 importantly, logical and understandable. In order to avoid spoiling the pleasure of discovering 
 it, let me just say, that not everything is as it seems and friends are not necessarily your friends. 
 Characters are what further distinguishes the game. You will be able to have six additional humans 
 and Iskai on your team in the game to experience the adventure with you, and each of them will 
 have a story to tell and some will not tell all about themselves at the beginning of your camaraderie...
 
  
  However, the excellent writing, character development and plot are marred by a single thing - gameplay. 
 While ambitious, Albion falls short of providing gameplay of equal quality to writing. Basically 
 it's a hybrid, with 2D top-down navigation in areas where no fighting is required (except in outdoor 
 areas) and pseudo-3D navigation in dungeons and cities (imagine Wolfenstein 3D in a fantasy setting) . 
 While graphics are excellent in 2D mode, the low resolution and lack of point'n'click movement 
 mean you have to guide your character all the way to the point you want him to get, and the short 
 range of the mouse (which only moves the character or affects the environment in a relatively short 
 range around him) make this a chore until you get used to it.
  
  The 3D dungeons are one of the worst I've seen. While completeable, they suffer from the lack of 
 intuitive controls and and dungeon crawling mechanics. You will spend quite a lot of time crawling 
 through them and they will become a pain after the first completed one. These gameplay disadvantages 
 are countered a bit by an intricate turn-based combat system, where positioning of your characters 
 means a lot, as do their statistics and equipment. Sadly, you cannot directly affect your character's 
 statistics, except for critical hit propability and fighting skills. The difficulty of the game 
 is also a big letdown - while the first island, the land of the Iskai is easy to complete and leave, 
 the slow level progression of characters due to small XP rewards and high level XP requirements 
 coupled with the much, much higher difficulty of the next island mean that you can finish the first 
 island completely unprepared for what lies ahead. Both these flaws and advantages are veiled in 
 beatiful, detailed 2D graphics, which both charm and immerse the player, as well as make the land 
 of Albion a place that looks convincing, real and inviting. To sum it all up, if you can ignore 
 below average gameplay and tedious 3D dungeons, you will be gifted with a game with an unusual 
 level of depth, particularly when the game touches upon the subject of philosophy and human nature 
 in a certain part, something not many games dare to do in the 21st century. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greatwasabi
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  Albion is a unde RPG from the makers of two Thalion hits Amberstar and Ambermoon, which became 
 instant hits on the Amiga but unknown on the PC. The game shines with a richly detailed story, 
 a huge and well-realized gameworld, a novel use of both 2D and 3D views, and some unique puzzles 
 that are a far cry from the normal find-a-button-to-open-door puzzles found in most RPGs. As Tom 
 Driscoll, a pilot who crash-landed on the exotic planet of Albion, you will make many friends and 
 foes in your quest to find the mothership Toronto. The game is an epic adventure that spans vast 
 areas and cities, all of which are teeming with colorful characters who always seem to have something 
 to say. Puzzles are adventure-game style (i. e. use items from your inventory) mixed with standard 
  puzzles. None of them is dull, however, because each building 
 and dungeon you enter is so well detailed and differentiated from each other, that exploration 
 is never boring. With great graphics, fun 3D combat sequences, and a truly epic and captivating 
 plot that could make a real novel, Albion is simply a must-have for all scifi &amp; fantasy RPG 
 fans. Highly recommended, especially to fans of Wizardry games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketaros
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 24, 2006 1:10 am PT
Review:  You are the commander of a small space shuttle which is making a reconnaissance flight for a big 
 factory ship, but suddenly all your systems crash, you lose control and are forced to land on a 
 wild and unknown planet. I know the story doesn't seem very original so far, but it will get better 
 very soon. 
  
  You are the pilot Tom Driscoll, and you have to prepare yourself for the space shuttle flight. 
 The short prologue will introduce you to the character of Tom, and you'll also find out useful 
 facts about your mission. 
  
  However, something happened while your character was asleep. A crew member committed suicide. Since 
 the officers and the captain want to find out what happened, a whole section of the ship has been 
 cordoned off by the security guards. Now you have to make your first decision: Will you go to your 
 shuttle and leave the ship, or will you snoop around, find out something about the murder, and 
 discover some useful items? Your decision isn't crucial for the rest of the game, but you will 
 learn more about the controls and how to solve problems in the game if you stay on the ship. Also, 
 some items on the ship will make later adventures much easier. 
  
  Anyway, when you embark on the shuttle, you will get to know Rainer, a scientist who should help 
 you with any problems you might have on the flight. He is also a very important and helpful character. 
 After you crash, your first overwhelming impressions of this strange jungle world will soon be 
 crushed as your shuttle explodes. 
  
  After you regain consciousness, you are surrounded by strange but beautiful Iskai (cat creatures) , 
 who won't eat you - for now. Through skilful negotiations and good manners you will quickly earn 
 the trust of the Iskai and a fantastic journey begins. 
  
  Albion is one of those RPGs for which I can only say the following: if you've never got round to 
 playing it, then you don't know what a good RPG is! It doesn't have realistic 3D graphics or a 
 big character menu like modern games, but Albion does have its own charm. The graphics are good 
 (2D bird-eye perspective AND 3D first person perspective) , the sounds are various and convey a 
 great atmosphere, and the controls are simple and easy to learn. 
  
  Fights are round-based (don't scream) , but nevertheless very exciting. As on a chessboard, you 
 will have to move your characters and bring them into position. Also, you will have to react to 
 the movements of the enemy. There is a large selection of weapons you can use. First of all, there 
 are short-range weapons like swords, axes and staves, and also long-range weapons like bows, pistols (!) 
 and crossbows. Since it's an RPG, there are of course also spells at your disposal. You can also 
 choose among many types of armour. 
  
  Another very positive point is the quantity of items in the game. Every item has a function and 
 a value. Always try out items that you find in your adventures. Be sure to take them with you if 
 you think they could be important, or sell them at the next dealer. With the gold you receive, 
 you can buy new equipment for your characters. (I'll give you one tip. It doesn't help you if you 
 store all your gold, because the total mass of items your characters can carry is limited, and 
 so is the space in cupboards and chests. Make money and buy new and better equipment for your characters. 
 This makes the game easier.) 
  
  Apart from armour and weapons, you will have to buy food. Because your characters become tired 
 after a few fights or long walks, let them rest periodically. 
  
  However, all these great things are nothing compared to the story itself. It features many (and 
 I mean MANY) surprises and is very gripping. After a few hours' playing and getting immersed in 
 the storyline, you simply can't stop! But be careful. The game is long, and you won't finish it 
 in a few hours (it took me 2 weeks) . There are also some new surprises and things to discover if 
 you play it several times. 
  
  All in all, Albion is one of the best RPGs ever. A gripping story, a wonderful world, interesting 
 characters, very good sounds and good graphics make this game a must-have for any RPG-fan, as well 
 as any other player. It deserves a clear 5, though I would give Albion a 10 if I could. 
  
  If you liked this game, you should also try:
  Champions of Krynn ; Keys to Maramon, The ; MegaTraveller 
 1 - The Zhodani Conspiracy
  
  Credits to: Lars J
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtreusGS
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2004 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Albion is a unde RPG from the makers of two Thalion hits Amberstar and Ambermoon, which became 
 instant hits on the Amiga but unknown on the PC. The game shines with a richly detailed story, 
 a huge and well-realized gameworld, a novel use of both 2D and 3D views, and some unique puzzles 
 that are a far cry from the normal find-a-button-to-open-door puzzles found in most RPGs. As Tom 
 Driscoll, a pilot who crash-landed on the exotic planet of Albion, you will make many friends and 
 foes in your quest to find the mothership Toronto. The game is an epic adventure that spans vast 
 areas and cities, all of which are teeming with colorful characters who always seem to have something 
 to say. Puzzles are adventure-game style (i. e. use items from your inventory) mixed with standard 
  puzzles. None of them is dull, however, because each building 
 and dungeon you enter is so well detailed and differentiated from each other, that exploration 
 is never boring. With great graphics, fun 3D combat sequences, and a truly epic and captivating 
 plot that could make a real novel, Albion is simply a must-have for all scifi & fantasy RPG fans. 
 Highly recommended, especially to fans of Wizardry games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
