-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Alexander
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/alexander/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Large battles give you a realistic feel of warfare.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Poor controls.
 Poor programming.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  6, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 5.6, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 400 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: GSC Game World
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Nov 23, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Alexander had the potential to be a quality strategy title, but poor execution makes the game not 
 so great. 

  In this day and age, it's inevitable that a game will be created based on a high-profile action 
 adventure movie. History tells us that these games stink for the most part, and Alexander, which 
 ties in with Oliver Stone's movie of the same name, unfortunately falls into this majority. This 
 conventional real-time strategy game attempts to follow Alexander the Great's campaign of conquest, 
 but it is marred by sloppy development, factual inaccuracies, and a general failure to capture 
 the scope of what made Alexander so interesting and unique to historians. The game does have the 
 foundation to be a good strategy title, but this doesn't save it from the aforementioned problems. 

          Thousands of units will fight and die in Alexander.     

  As you can guess, the game takes place during Alexander's lifetime (356 to 323 BC) . There is actually 
 quite a bit of content here. The single-player campaign starts with the Macedonian viewpoint, which 
 is Alexander's conquest, and then it lets you play as the other three factions of Persia, Egypt, 
 and India. Their missions are varied and they can keep you occupied for quite a long time. Mission 
 objectives are highlighted on the minimap and the goals are clear, which is desirable in any strategy 
 game. There is also a skirmish mode for single- and multiplayer games against computer and human 
 opponents.  

  The problem is that quantity doesn't make up for a lack of quality. Even if you disregard the historical 
 inaccuracies (for example, the game places Parmenio in India, even though historians like Arrian 
 tell us that Alexander had Parmenio executed well before then) , the actual storytelling and gameplay 
 are still poor. There are numerous spelling errors, shoddy writing (some archers are described 
 as being the "same as the other archers") , technical issues, and occasionally horrible controls. 
 All this seems to indicate that the game was rushed to meet a deadline that would coincide with 
 the movie's release, which is unfortunate because the developer, GSC Game World, has produced good 
 strategy titles in the past.  

  Since the game uses GSC Game World's engine, it looks and operates similarly to the company's Cossacks 
 series. Real-time strategy basics apply where peasants construct buildings and harvest resources, 
 which are then used to create military units. However, GSC games are rather unique in that there 
 is a very high population limit and units are created quickly. This makes battles more intense 
 because there can be literally thousands of units fighting on the map. Fortunately, you can arrange 
 units into brigades, which can be controlled as a single unit. Brigades also confer stat bonuses 
 and can be arranged into preset formations based on their behavior. The large amount of units are 
 nice, because the scale of warfare feels more realistic than the average strategy game, which usually 
 only has dozens of units onscreen. However, it's not always so nice when the units are difficult 
 to control.  

  The inherent problem with the game is that units often disregard orders. Units will gleefully run 
 into battle on the aggressive behavior setting as you'd expect, but oftentimes they will ignore 
 your order to retreat. You can sometimes get them to retreat if you change their behavior to defend; 
 but even if it does work, it's annoying to have to do this. It's especially frustrating when hero 
 units run into battle, won't retreat when you give the order, and subsequently die, forcing you 
 to restart. Another issue is that cavalry and infantry will move at the same speed when grouped, 
 but siege equipment will not. Somehow siege equipment will move faster than foot soldiers. However, 
 looking past that issue, it's troublesome when siege units get ahead of your army and are then 
 destroyed. That's assuming the units move in the first place, as your units often won't move at 
 all. You may tell a large group of units to move, yet a few of the brigades will mysteriously sit 
 there and do nothing. All of these glitches make it very difficult to control the flow of the game, 
 which is obviously important in a strategy game where you need to quickly order units to key locations. 

  For what it's worth, there are some good qualities here. Idle peasants will automatically find 
 work if left alone, and the game will tell you how many peasants are working on each resource. 
 Pathfinding is generally decent, although sometimes units will go the wrong way and get stuck. 
 The computer opponents will put up a tough fight in both campaign and skirmish modes. And as already 
 mentioned, it can be awesome to throw thousands of units against an opposing army numbering in 
 the thousands. It's unfortunate that basic control problems ruin the rest of the game.  

  Multiplayer is available on LAN and the Internet through GSC's game browser. The browser is functional, 
 but it doesn't have any advanced player-matching abilities. There is some statistical tracking 
 that shows people have been playing, but only a few players were online when we logged in during 
 a week of testing, so don't expect a bustling community. The multiplayer action itself is typical 
 of the genre. You'll build your base and your army and then attack the enemy, and the victor will 
 be the one that managed his economy and/or made better strategic decisions along the way. You can 
 build hero units in multiplayer as well, and unlike in the single-player game, they can die and 
 be rebuilt like any other unit. Again, though, control problems fundamentally undermine what could 
 have been a much more entertaining, full-scale RTS experience.  

          Even Alexander's legendary ability to motivate troops won't get these guys to move.    

  The game may not have cutting-edge technology, but it still looks nice. The terrain and environments 
 are pleasant to look at, though water appears a little too reflective. The fog of war also looks 
 good (it appears as a swirling gray fog outside your field of vision) . There are some other fine 
 effects, such as walls that crumble as they take damage. Animations are simplistic, but since you'll 
 mostly be playing from a zoomed-out perspective, this really doesn't detract from the gameplay. 
 On the other hand, extreme issues with the frame rate during some of the larger battles can definitely 
 get in the way of the action. The sound leaves something to be desired, too. The sounds of battle 
 are OK, but there are no unit acknowledgments and the voice acting during campaign missions is 
 poor.  

  It's too bad that the game has these numerous shortcomings. The thought of commanding Alexander's 
 army in his famous battles is exciting. But the game doesn't even get this right. Part of what 
 made Alexander so great was his military genius and his ability to achieve victory against all 
 odds. You never get this feeling in the game, though. Even in the battle of Gaugamela, where Alexander's 
 army was vastly outnumbered by the Persians, the game has you and the Persians on practically equal 
 footing. All you need to do is order your army forward and you win; there is no strategy involved. 
 As such, it's unfortunate that the developer couldn't spend more time with the game to truly make 
 it fit its namesake. The game's poor execution means that real-time strategy fans would be much 
 better off playing any number of other, similar games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ng1294
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I think we all remember the year 2004 when Oliver Stone's box office failure Alexander came out. 
 Personally I loved the movie. I saw this game had very bad reviews and I decided I'd download the 
 demo and try it out. BIGGEST MISTAKE OF MY LIFE! The game would have been awesome if it had a little 
 better graphics, and didn't have as many bugs!! Ugh there was a mission where they told me to keep 
 Crateros alive and he looked exactly the same as all my other units and once I realised that he 
 was fighting I got into a spaz attack of clicking to get him away and he wouldn't do it! I swear 
 the units never obey the retreat order! The buildings are very well detailed and the water is pure 
 eye candy but all of this amounts to nothing if you can't even give your soldiers orders. The population 
 limit is 64,000. Yeah I know wow. Once you get over 300 units though the game turns into an unplayable 
 slog. The song on the menu is good because it comes from the soundtrack of the movie. I'm a big 
 fan of Alexander the Great but this game shouldn't even have been made. The missions are boring 
 and all the characters have terrible voice over. My 6 year old little brother could have made a 
 better game. The sounds are just stupid too all the battle noises you ever hear are fake sounding 
 grunts and a few swords clinging. Not very pleasing. If you want a game with formations and real 
 battle tactics give Rome Total War a try. That game was superb as was it's sequel Medieval 2 Total 
 War. The menu has the motto of the game on it "Fortune favors the bold" Well sometimes bold can 
 be taking a $#!@% in the toilet and sticking your head in it. Don't even try this game it's horrid. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flavius_Aetius
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I did'nt see the Alexander Movie until after it came out on DVD so I can't say much about that. 
 Though I will say as boring as it was Rosario Dawson certainly makes one scene worth watching.
 
  
  I admit I love RTS games, and sometimes I can be quite harsh in reviewing them. Perhaps if I had 
 paid $50 dollars for this I wouldn't be so forgiving. But ultimately it's still fun. Oh and about 
 the RTW: Alexander, while it is quite good... Man, it's hard!
  
  One more thing to the post talking about bad grammer.... Some of us really are a lot older, and 
 have a lifetime of bad grammer habits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 31, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  I admire Alexander the Great so much. In just a few years, he conquered the greatest empire in the 
 world, Persia, than Egypt &amp; battled deep in India, thanks to his incredible intellingence &amp; 
 tactics. But the game Alexander is a poor RTS, not even worthy of the great general's name.
  
  Graphics:6/10 Not very bad,&amp; a lot of units battle on the battlefield. The graphics don't 
 look good, not even OK, but the requirements are high.
  
  Sound:5/10 Poor sound effects, ok music but poor voice-acting. It ain't a good chapter.
  
  Gameplay:5/10 
 In the Cossaks style, but very badly implemented. Production ques that never finish, stupid objectives 
 &amp; badly-used units. In an Alexander game, I would have wanted to use his tactics: but no result 
 in this game.
  
  Value:10/10 Why? Because it's about Alexander the Great,&amp; the missions are according to history. There 
 are a lot of missions, starting with the ones where you aid your father, King Philip the 2nd, the 
 ones where you battle Persians as the king &amp; ending with some in India.
  
  Tilt:5/10 But it didn't impress me,&amp; it doesen't have a specific atmosphere.
  
  As a piece 
 of advice, if you're a fan of Alexander &amp; want a real game with him, try Rome Total War-Alexander. It 
 has problems, but it's the best one featuring the great conqueror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 8, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I went to see Alexander during Thanksgiving 2004, fully expecting a Gladiator/Troy-esque war movie 
 with massive pitched battles involving Colin Farrel killing a lot of people. Conversely, I was 
 greeted with numerous man love, boring monologues, and in 3 hours of movie, only 10 minutes of 
 confusing, preposterous battle. I walked out angry at wasting $17 (myself and the significant other...) 
 and three hours on yet another unfollowable Oliver Stone epic. But the more I thought about it, 
 the more I realized it wasn't that bad; the production values were astounding with the sheer amount 
 of sets and color baffling, and while there was far too much homosexuality to make for a comfortable 
 family outing, the acting was pretty good. So the game arrives and I ignore it. ... Until last week, 
 when I see if for $6 at Half Price Books and I pick it up. While I own Cossacks, I have yet to 
 play it (the life of a so-called video games collector ) and I did not know what to expect. I was 
 hoping for a bloody RTS with 64,000 units maiming each other at my command and an overall immersive 
 game. Initially, I didn't understand the mechanics, including the rapid unit production and the 
 need for equally-rapid resources gathering. But then, it began to make sense and I began to have 
 real fun.
  
  I still have yet to understand why the game is rated M, excepting some slight blood in the cutscenes 
 drawn from the movie. I would have liked to see at least minimal sprite-based splashes of blood 
 in order to create a gory, realistic landscape. While it's not essential, it would've been better 
 to the environment.
  
  The graphics are straight from 2001, but they work on high settings on an old computer. The sound 
 is okay, but no unit acknowledgements is somewhat frustrating. In summation, Alexander is a worthwhile 
 RTS game very reminiscent of Age of Empires 1 with 64,000 units. I am playing through the campaigns 
 while taking some breaks for skirmishing, and I'm having loads of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lonelynight
Rating: 2.6
Date: Aug 5, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I actually thought it would be a great game as Alexander was a great person. 
 But when I started to play it, it was the WORSE game I played in my life. I wanted to throw this 
 game away just after playing 10 min. Buy Rome Total War instead because ALEXANDER is not a strategy 
 game at all. 
  
  ITS A 
  
 
  DO NOT BUY THIS GAMEDO NOT BUY THIS GAMEDO NOT BUY THIS GAMEDO NOT BUY THIS GAMEDO NOT BUY THIS 
 GAMEDO NOT BUY THIS GAMEDO NOT BUY THIS GAMEDO NOT BUY THIS GAMEDO NOT BUY THIS GAMEDO NOT BUY 
 THIS GAMEDO NOT BUY THIS GAMEDO NOT BUY THIS GAMEDO NOT BUY THIS GAMEDO NOT BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 6, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  Unlike every "professional" review I've read on Websites or in magazines (one gave it a score of 
 2) , I and other gamers as well, see much more in this game than they obviously can. I'll tackle 
 each highlighted aspect by these reviewers as being negative, seperately.
  PRESENTATION: "Alexander" ("A") comes with a highly detailed manual, historically flavoured map, 
 and thorough tutorial to get budding conquerors all set to go. You'll need them.
  GAMEPLAY: "A" eases the player into what will eventually be highly challenging scenarios, exposing 
 the player to each aspect of the game with helpful hints as you go. The maps are richly detailed, 
 as are your units (if you squint) . The Campaign historically follows Alexander's trek through Asia 
 and the Middle East to India, including the large scale battles he fought and is famous for, such 
 as Guagamela and Pella. Here at Pella you can attempt to re-enact Alexander's great gamble when 
 he rode his cavalry to the left flank, hooked inward and charged the Persian centre head on. This 
 bold attack, now seen as a 'brilliant' manouever was unheard of in contemporary warfare, and was 
 not to be repeated for several hundred years. Then it was used by Hannibal Barca when he defeated 
 (massacred) the Romans at Cannae (the long term effect of which finally leading to the slaughter 
 of the Carthaginians at Zama and the total destruction of Carthage in retribution and cold revenge) . 
 Ahem, back to "A". You have the troop numbers and the ensuing clash of armies is confusing; but 
 then imagine the view at eye level. The naval aspect (slammed by critics as under-realized) is 
 actually properly presented here. Large navies really would not exist again until Carthage ruled 
 the seas, and the Persian fleet had declined dramatically since its' glory days when it aided Sparta 
 in destroying Athens. It is not a RPG so you don't have to be Colin Farrell (phew) , it's all RTS. 
 So really, the movie has only a small bearing on the game itself. Apart from the music, which I'll 
 get to.
  GRAPHICS: Serviceable and detailed. May use the "Cossacks" engine, but it leaves that title for 
 dead. The handling of large armies is still a task, but they are quite beautiful to behold. The 
 oceans reflect coastlines, clouds, and ships beautifully, and overall I think they're fine, not 
 ground-breaking, but better than many others.
  SOUND: The big complaint from many is the score by Vangelis. Okay, some hate it for its' early 
 '80's synthesized form, but there are many of us out there who remember the scores of "The Bounty", 
 "Bladerunner", "Antarctica", etc with great fondness. This score is no exception. Listen to the 
 track "Young Alexander" if you have the Soundtrack, and you feel the heady rush the soldiers and 
 generals must have felt as they vanquished impossible foes. I think it's great. 'nuff said.
  CONCLUSION: "A" is a must for gamers who love their Ancient History, particularly getting to take 
 part in it and trying to best or equal this great man. I cannot think of any way this game could 
 have been improved upon, that would have given more justice to its' subject matter nor made it 
 more 'playable'. As Pharoah Ptolemy says at the end of the film, 
  "... known as Megos Alexandros. The greatest Alexander of them all." This isn't the greatest period 
 RTS, but it works very hard at trying to come close. And that's what gamers appreciate.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  This is an AOE clone. I like the game though. It has all you want in an RTS. So what's there to 
 argue? The graphics are way better than AOE. So that's a plus. When I picked this game up I didn't 
 think that I would enjoy it. I surely didn't think it was this type of game. Yeah well sometimes 
 I don't read the back cover. Having an army of 64k is unbelievable. They claim you can have 8k 
 on screen at one time. Actually thats awesome! I don't see any other game that does that. It's 
 funny they based Alexander game after the movie. They should have created something without Hollywood 
 behind it. I'm sure the game would even better yet! I'd buy this game though I trust Ubisoft. I 
 actually have many games from them, and haven't been disappointed yet. I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1994_soldier
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  i saw what people rate this game why is it because of the movie 
  i think it is great 5.2 no way it's a 10 the graphics and the gameplay
  is great 
  
  IT'S 
 SUPER! SUPER SUUUUUPER!
  the sound effects rule and as the value for me it's more valuble than any other game for me it's 
 just AMAZING!
  ITS BETTER than games i played like rome total war and Age of Empires III
  and cossacs naplionec wars and Blitzkrieg 2
  NOW IM TALKING TRUE
  alexander is the best it 
 deservs more
  and the people that chose 4.4 for it DON'T KNOW HOW TO CHOOSE GAMES! no offence
  so if you really 
 want a good game chose alexander (made by ubisoft) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 4.4
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  So youre no doubt aware of the awfulness that was the movie AlexanderOliver Stones bomb of a 
 biography on one of historys greatest warrior kings. What you may not have been aware of is the 
 fact that they made a game of it. At first, I didnt think it was possible for any public media 
 to sink lower than the film, but at that time I had never played the game. Alexander is a great 
 example on how to take an awful movie, and make an even worse game.
  
  Alexander is billed as a strategy title, what youll get in the box though is a grand package of 
 frustration, with clips of the movie thrown in to boot. From the very beginning the mediocrity 
 of the game seethes through the edges of your monitor. Youll start off as Alexander, son of the 
 king of Macedonia. Eventually youll rise to power as king and conquer the land of Syriaif you 
 bother to make it that far. The storyline is trivial however and overshadowed by the average gameplay 
 and boring missions.
  
  Alexanders gameplay can be broken up into two branches: missions where you have to kill anything 
 in sight, and missions where you have to build a base and kill anything in sight. Like any standard 
 RTS, Alexander has you start a base with typical civilian building units. By using your five resource 
 materials: food, wood, stone, iron, and gold, youll carve out different buildings which can be 
 used for a variety of functions. These functions include, but are not limited to: gathering resources, 
 training soldiers, upgrading your troops, and bolstering your defenses.
  
  One of the first things youll notice is that when making units, its not really a case of how 
 many you want to make, its how many you want to limit yourself to. When starting the production 
 of any unit, that immediately starts an infinite creation loop of said unit until the time you 
 manually stop production. This may seem like an easy way to create a surplus of civilians and troops 
 but it wreaks absolute hell on your resources and trying to keep track of which buildings are creating 
 an infinite amount of denizens for your bases. You wont really notice this until youre distracted 
 by an enemy attack or go on the offensive.
  
  With your soldiers and cavalry, its the same thing. Once production is started you will constantly 
 make new troops until you hit the off switch on the building. As far as your military units go, 
 youll have the standard array of melee and ranged ground troops, and assorted versions of cavalry. 
 On certain maps, youll get to command large naval vessels as well. Only ranged units may attack 
 buildings though and while the game wants to push some melee units as distinct from others, in 
 battle it really doesnt matter.
  
  A big part of Alexanders combat system is formations. Any type of offensive military unit such 
 as foot soldiers and cavalry can be grouped into formations. These formations differ in size from 
 32 all the way up to 100. If your soldiers arent in a formation then they are basically stragglers 
 used to reinforce existing groups of troops. The formations themselves can be set in different 
 stances which will let you pack them tight, stand normal or spread out to cover more territory 
 when your lines are thin. In addition, you can modify the formations behavior from defensive, normal, 
 and offensive. What these three behaviors do is really simple; your units will engage enemy units 
 at certain distances depending on what you have selected. At the offensive selection, your soldiers 
 will chase anything and everything in their line of sight. Youll see that distance of attack nearly 
 halve on the normal setting and on defensive your units wont really engage until point blank range. 
 
  
  At the forefront of the battles are your hero units, each hero has to stay alive for the duration 
 of a mission for you to be successful. In addition to having powerful attack or healing properties, 
 heroes possess a number of different abilities that can be bought with experience points. Attributes 
 such as increasing attack power against heavy infantry, increasing troop morale, or decreasing 
 the power of enemy attacks can all be purchased and will affect any troops your heroes are near. 
 You gain experience at the end of every mission based on the total time spent on the mission, the 
 effectiveness of your troop command, and the number of primary and secondary objectives you completed.
 
  
  One of the main problems with the battles is the steam roll effect. On a normal difficulty setting, 
 no one should have any problem hording units and demolishing anything the computer throws at them. 
 Its almost a joke to even fathom the possibility of failure. Not to mention that game pulls off 
 what I like to call, the looney toons effect. No matter how large your force is, they will all 
 converge onto a single point in the map and duke it out. Its reminiscent of Yosemite Sam getting 
 into a fist fight where all you see is a cloud of smoke and the occasional fist and leg popping 
 out. Alexanders battles made me laugh when they really werent supposed to.
  
  Add the fact that some of your heroes ignore your commands and throw in a clunky selection interface 
 and youve got a recipe for disaster. If you group your hero units with your regular troops, whenever 
 you give an attack order your heroes will rush right to the front of the battle, often much faster 
 than your standard troops can get there. This makes keeping your heroes alive, a basic mission 
 requirement, difficult at times. Simple micro-management would normally suffice but once you give 
 an attack order its not easy to cancel. Dozens of times after seeing hero units charge to the 
 front I frantically clicked away from the enemy so they wouldnt get hurt. I was ignored and forced 
 to watch hero units die no matter how many times I clicked for them to retreat.
  
  Selecting individual units is an additional lesson in frustration. Clicking on straggling units 
 sometimes doesnt select them. Youll have to try two or three times before getting any response 
 from the game. Its very irritating in the heat of battle when you cant get your reinforcements 
 in because they simply wont select. It seems like huge details like unit response and the selection 
 interface were seemingly ignored. Whether this was from a quick development schedule to coincide 
 with a movie release is anyones guess but it should have been something that was addressed before 
 release.
  
  One of the very few decent points of Alexander is how the game looks. The buildings and maps are 
 richly detailed with generous portions of wild life and vegetation spread throughout the maps. 
 Youll see individual waves crash against the shoreline in a beautiful display. Alexander does 
 possess one of the more pleasing designs for oceans and water that Ive seen.
  
  To the positives, there are a lot of negatives. The first seems to be the games ignoring of the 
 basic earth laws of day and night. One of the very first missions youll be ordered to carry out 
 a night time attack. The only problem is that the map is fully lit and looks no different than 
 any daytime missions. In addition, there are some major clipping issues with certain buildings. 
 Youll see roman-style temples and small building spread throughout the maps; youll also see your 
 troops walk right through them as if by some divine intervention. 
  
  All the details on the map and the sheer number of troops on screen come at a terrible cost to 
 your computer as well. Even Command & Conquer Generals didnt demand this much of a computer and 
 its graphics were vastly superior. Where the computers resources are going to, I dont know. What 
 I do know is that even on a machine with 512mb of DDR ram, I was still getting windows memory warnings 
 indicating I was almost at full capacity with all other programs shut down. And in another brilliant 
 moment of making me laugh when I wasnt supposed to, some of the loading screens look like terrible 
 Photoshop jobs. Youll see the same face super-imposed onto different warriors and it looks absolutely 
 ridiculous.
  
  From a sound perspective, Alexander cant really boast much. The soundtrack is an average effort 
 and you really wont remember or pay attention to the battle music. The voice overs for the characters 
 are fairly awful as well, often times sounding forced and broken. The ferocity of battle is characterized 
 by a few pitiful grunts and other noises. One of the selling points of the game is the fact that 
 it includes over ten minutes of film footage never used in the theatrical release but its just 
 a gimmick and adds absolutely nothing to the game.
  
  Broken gameplay, shoddy graphical and sound work, and terrible combat all combine to make this 
 title a little more than bearable. There is some fun to be found in the different missions but 
 the majority of them are long and unnecessarily drawn out. As far as strategy games go, this one 
 falls way below anything weve seen in recent history and cant be recommended to anyone except 
 those who wish to waste their time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarles7
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Well im getting crazy! Why this great game is rated so low! It really deserves better!
  I mean 5.2?!?!?!??! It really deserves a 8!!!
  I have played many great strategic games like Cossaks 
 series, Rome Total War, Age of Empires3, but none of them was as cool as Alexander for me!
  Alexander has truly great battles, soundtrack (i personally like it) , voice acting (yes a lttle bit 
 artifical but still good) and of course amagzing graphics! In my opinion the gamespot review for 
 Alexander is not right! Im sure about that ok? This is my opinion and i dont care if many others 
 dont like it! IMany dont like cuz of movie! Man if you play this game this game in multiplayer mode 
 you will get astonished!!! I must say that this game is not the best strategic game of the world 
 But its for sure a unique game! Its a game which deserves a chance to play it!
  So if you want to play a good strategic game with your friends go and buy Alexander without fear...
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
