-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Alias
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/alias/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 25, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.1, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 173 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Acclaim
Developer: Acclaim
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Jun 14, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There are too many unpolished aspects and simply not enough challenge to make the game appealing 
 to anyone outside of the most devout  Alias  audience. 

  When it comes to games based on popular movie or TV licenses, there is an exceedingly fine line 
 between making a game that your typical gaming audience can appreciate and making a game a casual 
 fan of your chosen license will be able to grasp. All too often, developers will simply abandon 
 any sort of challenge or interesting gameplay mechanics in order to make these games more accessible 
 to the casual audience, and usually the end result is a product so dumbed down that it borders 
 on unplayable. For Acclaim's licensing of ABC's hit TV series  Alias , the developers have made 
 somewhat of an effort to walk the line a bit closer to the middle, drawing upon tried-and-true 
 stealth action conventions while still making the game easily playable to those unfamiliar with 
 the genre. In the few instances where Alias is successful in this regard, it actually works quite 
 well. Unfortunately, there are still too many unpolished aspects and simply not enough challenge 
 to make the game appealing to anyone outside of the most devout  Alias  audience.  

          For everyone who's been absolutely dying to experience the world of Sydney Bristow, Acclaim 
 brings you Alias for the PC.     

  Fans of the  Alias  show will likely recognize the game's plot as fitting in toward the end of 
 the second season. In the game, you play exclusively as the show's oft-disguised heroine, Sydney 
 Bristow. The plot has Sydney and her CIA cohorts hot on the trail of another Rambaldi artifact, 
 which several of her archenemies -- including the likes of Arvin Sloane, Anna Espinosa, and Mr. Sark -- are 
 also on the hunt for. If none of these characters sound at all familiar to you, and you don't know 
 what a Rambaldi artifact is, you might as well just stop reading right now, because Alias is most 
 definitely not for you. The game's plot, while fairly intriguing and at times entertaining, is 
 completely inaccessible to anyone who hasn't been watching the show from at least the beginning 
 of the second season.  

  All of the show's primary protagonists make an appearance in the game, such as Jack Bristow, Sydney's 
 father; Michael Vaughn, Sydney's frequent partner and occasional love interest; and Marshall Flinkman, 
 the perpetually uncomfortable tech geek. For the most part, Sydney's associates only pop up in 
 radio communication form during a mission and spout off bits of information to you as you reach 
 certain objectives. While their information is always useful, these characters are actually chatty 
 to a fault and pretty much take any of the guesswork out of the plot and mission structure. You 
 can barely go five minutes in the game without getting some sort of snippet of information, leaving 
 you with very little to figure out on your own. However, a far more irritating problem than just 
 the simple deluge of help during these pop-up communiqus is the fact that the PC version's 
 communiqus are frequently broken. For some strange reason, some of them will take an obscene 
 amount of time to load up, and most times when this happens you can't skip past them, meaning you 
 have to wait in one spot for the dialogue to play itself out before you can move onto the next 
 objective. This was not an issue in the console versions of the game, which likely means this is 
 just a side effect of this version being a lazy port.  

  Alias is, at its core, a simplistic take on the stealth action genre. As you make your way through 
 the game's levels, you can toggle on and off a specific stealth mode that allows Sydney to creep 
 along at a slower, more methodical pace. You can also crouch to duck behind objects as well as 
 press yourself up against a wall and peer around corners. When in stealth mode, you also have the 
 option of performing stealth attacks on enemies. For instance, sneaking up behind an unwitting 
 foe and pressing the stealth kill button performs a unique move, depending on the enemy and what 
 kind of weapon you happen to be holding at the time. There isn't an especially wide variety of 
 these moves, but they're cool nonetheless.  

  The trouble is that the game's artificial intelligence is all over the place in terms of how well 
 you can actually sneak past them. Sometimes you can be standing 20 feet away in a brightly lit 
 room with an enemy staring straight at you, and he'll simply walk off on his merry way. Other times, 
 you'll be crouched while in stealth mode, hiding in the black shadows of a dark room, and suddenly 
 three enemies will be on you nearly instantly. Certain other stealth mechanics, like climbing along 
 pipes and such, just don't seem to work at all, period. Of course, all of this would only really 
 matter if stealth were actually necessary to complete any objectives, which, as it happens, it 
 isn't. Alias is an immensely easier game when you just throw stealth by the wayside and run-and-gun 
 it the whole way through. Sounding off alarms only alerts the moderate number of guards that happen 
 to be occupying that specific room, so, while you'll be dealing with more enemies at once, it ultimately 
 saves you time. Sure, your propensity toward dying increases when playing with this method, but 
 only by a small margin.  

  Why is it so easy to simply blaze past Alias' enemies? Aside from the fact that Sydney's health 
 automatically replenishes itself for some unknown reason, it is mostly because the game's enemies 
 are just plain dimwitted and can barely put up a fight to save their own lives. Enemies don't really 
 attack you so much as they'll run in for one strike, then kind of wander around aimlessly, backing 
 off as you run at them. Even if they're carrying semiautomatic weaponry, they'll just fire off 
 a few short bursts, then start backing off as you charge at them with a broom handle or an equally 
 less-threatening weapon. The only real challenge with the game's combat is trying to control Sydney's 
 moves, which is a near impossibility. Whether you're pressing the "weak" or "strong" attack buttons, 
 you never quite know what you're going to get, which makes trying to keep Sydney under control 
 and attacking the right enemy rather tough, to say the least. Every move of Sydney's seems to be 
 completely random, save for a few context-sensitive attacks, such as a wicked-looking clothesline 
 and a rather brutal head smash. These only occur when she's near certain objects, however, and 
 even then, they're still fairly fluky in nature.  

  The PC version of Alias plays pretty similarly to the console versions, but there are definitely 
 a few quirks. While Sydney handles just about as well using a keyboard and mouse as she does with 
 a peripheral controller, there are some fundamental differences. Running, for instance, is handled 
 via a toggle button on a keyboard rather than just by pressure sensitivity via an analog or directional 
 pad on a controller. While this is generally fine, when you're in the midst of a bad situation 
 and trying to get away, the extra step of having to hit a run-toggle button in order to make that 
 happen is a little annoying. Additionally, camera control appears to be something you can't assign 
 to a controller, so if you want to move the camera around you basically have to go mouse-and-keyboard 
 style.  

  Much like in the TV show, the missions in Alias are often centered on collecting or using high-tech 
 gadgetry. As you go, you'll scan fingerprints, scan DNA, hack computers, and blow up security systems 
 with laser beams, and, of course, as in any self-respecting stealth action game, you'll pick locks. 
 While the game does provide you with a nicely varied array of fun trinkets to play around with, 
 the puzzles and objectives associated with these tools are idiotically simple. When picking locks, 
 all you are presented with are a series of latches within the lock. Simply press the control stick 
 in the direction of the highlighted latch, press a button, repeat through each latch, and you're 
 done. It's just that simple. As for the computer-hacking puzzles, all you have to do at any given 
 time is guess the correct order of letters between A and D to solve a passcode. Sometimes there 
 will be a time limit to this, but whenever you put a letter in a correct slot, it will tell you 
 that you have guessed one or two correctly. It's such a ridiculously easy process of elimination 
 that no one should have any trouble with it, even with only 30 seconds to do it. A couple of puzzles 
 here and there do present a modicum of challenge, but nothing substantial enough to give the game's 
 missions any real level of depth.  

  From a presentational standpoint, Alias does an adequate job of re-creating the visual style of 
 the show, albeit with modest technology. The in-game character models are decent enough, though 
 Sydney doesn't really resemble Jennifer Garner all that much, and most of the grunt enemies are 
 repetitively designed. Most of the animation is fluid and decently put together, save for a few 
 specific animations that just don't look good at all (like Sydney's running animation, which is 
 the dumbest looking running animation this side of Enter the Matrix) . Environments are equally 
 OK, in that they're all fairly pleasant to look at, though they're not without their problems. 
 There are a few key lighting problems as well as some rather obvious instances of texture seams 
 showing through. Alias also features a healthy dose of computer-generated cutscenes, which is where 
 the majority of the side characters make their most substantial appearances. These characters look 
 good, but the facial mapping and animation appear a little strange. The PC version of the game 
 looks like it was badly ported from the Xbox version of the game. Aliasing issues (no pun intended) 
 are prevalent throughout the game, regardless of resolution settings; on the whole, it just seems 
 like very little effort, if any at all, went into polishing up the game's visuals for its trip 
 to the PC.  

          The PC version of the game suffers from a few bugs and some rather lackluster visuals, 
 giving you the impression that Acclaim didn't care much about this particular iteration of Alias. 
     

  As has been the trend as of late, Alias features nearly the entire main cast of the TV show providing 
 voice talent for their respective characters. On the whole, the actors manage to carry over their 
 roles into a voice-acting capacity quite well, though there are some occasional dead reads of certain 
 lines that seem more the fault of whoever was directing the recording session than the actors or 
 actresses themselves. The only major complaint revolves around Kevin Weisman's Marshall Flinkman 
 character, which, inexplicably, is given significantly more lines and more to do here than he tends 
 to get on the show. Weisman's voice acting isn't exactly bad so much as it is just extremely overwrought. 
 The character's neurotic nature is funny in small doses, but there's just so much of him in the 
 game that it can't help but become irritating. The soundtrack features the typical theme music 
 and score from the TV show, as well as a couple of fight sequences where you can brawl while enjoying 
 a popular licensed song playing in the background. There aren't any standout sound effects, but 
 what the game does provide is mostly good. The only irritation here is the enemy dialogue, which 
 consists, quite literally, of roughly three voice samples that appear over and over and over again, 
 ad nauseam.  

  On the PC, Alias is just a lost cause. The core concepts found within the game are of a proven 
 ilk, but the devil's in the details, as they say, and the sloppy execution of said concepts can't 
 keep the game enjoyable for very long. Also, the fact that Acclaim clearly made no real effort 
 at porting over one of the console versions for PC consumption makes this version of the game far 
 less appealing than its console counterparts. If you're a huge fan of the TV show, and you own 
 either a PS2 or an Xbox, stick with renting one of those versions. And if you don't own either 
 of those systems, then just bypass Alias altogether, as the PC version is just not worth it.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Naturally, this is a game meant for hardcore Alias fans cos it really is a flop of a game for any 
 other action adventure gamer out there. Bad camera angles spoil the whole espionage thing. Stick 
 with Splinter Cell. During cut-scenes, downright lousy audiovisual sync-up screws up my appetite. 
 It is so bad it made me miss my episodes of Alias fifth (or is it fourth?) season for scaring it 
 will make me remind of the game and puke.
  
  But, if you can really bear with the flaws, it can be a great game for truly hardcore Jennifer 
 Garner fans who just wants to watch her kick butt (and twist her own butt!) . Talking about the 
 game model here, the developers really spent a lot of efforts in making her move like Sydney. Therefore, 
 being a fan of Sydney Bristow herself, I give you my honest ratings.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DERBEST
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  A friend recommended me this game because he knew I liked the Alias TV Show... Although it is from 
 2004 I found it very enjoyable and interesting... The type of this game is  
 It left me a good feeling playing it and it was a great experience... I really think that the Gamespot 
 reviewer didn't like the game, due to its type, and from the fact that the fighting plan is not 
 the most important part of the game... The game is more about infiltrating certain building and 
 recovering stolen objects, and not getting caught... Tough I did saw Sydney make some fighting 
 moves... It was impressive... Game of this type are scarce... I had the luck to find another like 
 it.... It's called Th3 Plan and I'm playing it right now... A negative aspect of this game is that 
 some of the levels can be a little difficult, thus making the player a little frustrated...
  I consider this game as excellent... 9/10. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
