-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Aliens Versus Predator 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/aliensversuspredator2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  9, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.5, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 3,539 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Fox Interactive
Developer: Monolith
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Oct 31, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's better than the original Aliens vs. Predator, and it's one of the best action games released 
 so far this year. 

 In lieu of the traditional review preamble, here's the answer to the question you're probably wondering 
 about: Yes, Aliens vs. Predator 2 lets you save anywhere. In fact, the first game is so notorious 
 for its end-of-level-only save system that the sequel has become the first shooter to proudly list 
 its unrestricted save feature right on the box. Monolith, taking over the series from UK-based 
 developer Rebellion, has also added a few other things that the first game lacked, such as a compelling 
 campaign structure, an in-game server browser, some interesting multiplayer modes, and the ability 
 to play all the various Alien life stages. About the only thing it managed to screw up was the 
 unimpressive single-player demo released a couple of months ago. So in answer to your second question: 
 Yes, Aliens vs. Predator 2 is better than its demo. It's better than the demo, it's better than 
 the original Aliens vs. Predator, and it's one of the best action games released so far this year. 
   

  The original Aliens vs. Predator was essentially a series of unrelated levels. It concentrated 
 on creating a mood of relentless dread while relying on the well-developed and well-known Alien 
 and Predator universes to provide an implicit story. For the sequel, however, Monolith has made 
 a complete turnaround. Aliens vs. Predator 2 not only has a plot, but also has one of the most 
 cleverly constructed plots ever attempted in a shooter.           Aliens vs. Predator 2 is better 
 than the first in every respect.    

  Each of the three seven-level single-player campaigns takes place simultaneously. The events that 
 are made up of one especially bad day for the humans manning a research station on planet LV-1201 
 are presented from three different perspectives: an alien research subject, a member of a predator 
 hunting party, and a colonial marine who is part of a squad sent in response to a distress beacon. 
 Though each story is self-contained, all three intersect at certain points, and the results of 
 actions in one campaign can be seen in the others. For instance, as the marine, you'll encounter 
 a predator trapped in a cryogenic stasis pod, which you must move so that it can fit down a ventilation 
 shaft. During the predator campaign, it's you in stasis watching as the marine works the pod controls, 
 inadvertently freeing you. The game is filled with little crossovers like these, and it becomes 
 almost like a minigame in itself just keeping track of them, if for no other reason than to appreciate 
 the impressive level of thought that went into creating the story's complex underlying structure. 
   

  Each of the three campaigns takes about four to five hours to complete, but what each lacks in 
 length more than makes up for in density. A lot of content has been packed into these levels; every 
 one is rich with scripted sequences and little unexpected play elements. As in Monolith's No One 
 Lives Forever, virtually every set of human characters that you encounter can be found engaged 
 in some sort of idle chatter, often about some chaos that you caused while playing as one of the 
 other species. This chatter is especially evident in the Alien and Predator campaigns, which both 
 involve a lot more fights against human opponents and a lot more sneaking around.   

  Unlike in the original, large portions of Aliens vs. Predator 2 take place outside. The graphics 
 are powered by the latest iteration of Monolith's Lithtech engine, and, while it has a reputation 
 for being technologically somewhat behind the curve, it certainly gets the job done here. If objects 
 occasionally appear a little blocky, the overall art direction -- both in terms of its faithfulness 
 to the films and the otherworldly look of the outdoors environments -- is beyond reproach. As you 
 stand on a high cliff and watch two perfectly rendered colonial dropships fly by you, bank left, 
 and continue off into the distance, you'll quickly forgive a few too many squared-off desk chairs. 
           Playing as the Alien is a unique experience.    

  The first game relied almost exclusively on moody lighting to support its somewhat simple-looking 
 environments. The sequel, while not needing it so much as a crutch, continues the trend of fear-inducing 
 lighting schemes. Red security lamps, strobe lights, and pitch-blackness are all put to excellent 
 use. The shoulder-mounted lamps worn by most human soldiers are the game's best lighting effect. 
 The lamps cast a cone of white light that points in whichever direction a soldier is looking. The 
 effect is especially good when several guards are creeping around a murky environment, their lamp 
 cones intersecting as they cross paths.   

  The soundtrack is also excellent. It's a moody mix of ambient clanks and hisses, low bass hums, 
 and screeching strings. The score dynamically changes to a more dramatic composition when you enter 
 a battle. Strangely, it often switches before you're even aware that enemies have detected you, 
 occasionally making the soundtrack a more effective danger signal than the marine's motion detector. 
    

 The basic play mechanics of the original remain largely unchanged, with a few important exceptions. 
 The marine is still the most familiar and the most fragile of the three species. He's been beefed 
 up a little, however. Unprotected, he'll now last somewhat longer against an alien attack. His 
 weapons are essentially the same satisfying mix of armaments from the movies, with the pulse rifle 
 and the auto-tracking smart-gun being his standbys. A sniper rifle is the most notable addition 
 to his arsenal. Unfortunately, it's basically unused in the single-player campaign; sort of absurdly, 
 you pick it up literally about five seconds before the end of the last level.           The sequel's 
 big outdoor areas are a departure from the original game.    

  Since he's clearly meant to be part of a team, the marine's campaign suffers somewhat from a total 
 lack of squad combat. The game teases you with the possibility that you might eventually fight 
 shoulder to shoulder with your fellow marines, but they all tend to get killed just before or just 
 after you come across them. The plot ends up relying on a lot of contrived circumstances to keep 
 you alone, some more ludicrous than others. At one point, you have to open of series of doors for 
 the rest of the squad, who all wait for you in the safety of the APC. You're told that one man 
 "just might be able to make it through," though there's absolutely no evidence that three or four 
 wouldn't have been a much safer plan.   

  The predator has a few new weapons, most notably a net gun for trapping enemies and a remotely 
 detonated mine launcher. Along with the original's medicomp, which transfers energy to health, 
 the predator now has a device that also recharges his energy. This permits him to fully charge 
 both his energy and health in between fights, and it ends up making him potentially more unstoppable 
 than he was before. To counterbalance this, he's somewhat weaker now -- just barely sturdier than 
 the marine, in fact.   

  The alien has undergone the biggest overhaul. Along with its standard tail and claw attacks, it 
 now has a pounce attack that's essentially a superlong jump that causes hapless humans to explode 
 on contact. To help line up jumps, the alien's heads-up display now includes a small aiming reticle. 
 This reticle also helps in the successful execution of the alien's health-replenishing head bite, 
 which is a lot easier to pull off now.   

  Perhaps the biggest change to the alien game is the new ability to play as all of the various alien 
 life stages. In the campaign's first level, you're a relatively defenseless face hugger scurrying 
 through the shadows while looking for a host. Both the low perspective and the sneaking mechanic 
 are handled perfectly, and the transition to the next stage is surprising, funny, and really satisfying. 
           Despite a few problems, AVP2 is one of the year's best shooters.    

  Multiplayer now includes an in-game server browser and a few new modes of play. Deathmatch and 
 team deathmatch are still supported, as are last man standing and predator/alien tag, though their 
 names have been changed to survivor and hunt, respectively. The new modes are evac, a team game 
 in which one side must prevent the other from reaching a predetermined spot and surviving there 
 for 10 seconds, and overrun, which is a team game in which one side must defend a position against 
 an enemy assault. Except for the scoring system, the two new modes are pretty similar. The co-op 
 skirmish mode that was included in the original is now gone, and bots have not been implemented. 
 The networking code also appears to need some work, and games are choppy even on low-ping servers -- both 
 of which could be due to the paucity of decent servers at this point. However, it's possible that 
 this will be fixed in a patch. Either way, if you're planning on buying the game strictly for multiplayer 
 over the Internet, you may want to wait for a patch or two.   

  Laggy multiplayer matches, however, don't mitigate the excellence of the single-player game. Aliens 
 vs. Predator 2 takes everything that was good about the first iteration and expands on it. It's 
 more complex, it's scarier, it's funnier, it's more action-packed -- it's quite simply more all over. 
 Another year, another great shooter by Monolith. Who could have predicted it? And for hard-core 
 purists, you can even turn off the save-anywhere feature if you want.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (114 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cathad
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2009 8:23 am PT
Review:  well I could start with the single player, with the stories but I wont, why?... because I have played 
 the game first time in multiplayer, and only after a few months of multiplayer have decided to 
 try the single player modes
  great game... nice way to lose time... with your friends... nice graphic changes from avp1 to avp2, 
 I hate the fact that they didn't keep the skirmish mode... but I do like the pounce attack that 
 they have brought new to the game (alien attack) , nice way to finish your opponents real fast
  and to complete the review, the atmosfere is the same in avp1, nice stories in single player, nice 
 music, u could say that it's avp1 with a few changes, but that is wrong in all the ways...
  I could say that I wait avp3, but since the game is very old and my review is a little late :D, 
 I'm dissapointed to think that it won't be an avp3, as for the avp2 primal hunt, didn't played 
 it why, dunno.... I just enjoyed lots of avp2 multiplayer hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pc4ever
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  Fortunately this is not the movie, but a game base on my opinion the two best fearsome creatures 
 Hollywood has given the world on the silver screen. This time around it on the Win/PC with Monolith 
 using the Lithtech engine to showcase the characters and environment. There are three main protagonist 
 in this game, Marines, Predators and Aliens, all of which you can play separate missions. The level 
 designs and the game play for this game was well done and the story for each protagonist were also 
 great.
  
  The Marines missions you play the part of Corporal Andrew "Frosty" Harrison, you are sent investigate 
 a research facility and why there has been no contact for six weeks?
  
  The Predator missions you are together with two other Predators who are then captured by marines 
 general Rykov who had dealing with a Predator 20 yrs ago.
  
  Finally the Alien your mission here is basically starts from a facehugger until you reach adulthood.
 
  
  Both Marines and Predators weapons are accurately done with the sounds and physics.
  
  Graphics = 9.0
  Audio = 8.0
  Gameplay = 9.0
  Final Score = Awsome!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorvos
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let me tell you that I am a big, I mean very big fan of the Alien and Predator franchises. 
 Ever since I was a kid I was always impressed and always loved the sneaky Alien, with its nimble 
 body, fearsome appearance and vicious behaviour. A perfect killer, with no remorse. Nevertheless, 
 I also loved and had a huge amount of respect for the perfect hunter, the stealthy, highly intelligent 
 and well equipped Predator.
  
  I was always asking myself what would it be if this two outlaws faced each other. Which one would 
 prevail? And then I discovered Aliens vs Predator 2 ( sadly, I never played the original ) . Surprisingly, 
 I didn't find my answers in this masterpiece. And that's a good thing because I could never decide 
 which one I like best. I prefer to not pick one because they are both so cool and I like them so 
 much.
  
  When I first installed Aliens vs Predator 2, I knew it would change my opinion on games big time. 
 And I was so right! Because every time I play a new game, I always compare the two and none of 
 the games I played so far, none of them offers an experience like Aliens vs Predator 2! There are 
 other games that I like just a little, really little tiny bit more, but none of them gives you 
 such a big satisfaction like AVP 2 does!
  
  The plot of the game is among the best ever created. The level of details that are given to every 
 campaign and to the overall story is just astonishing. Nothing is left out, except the parts you 
 must figure out yourself. And it's really cool trying to add them all up and see what you've come 
 up with. For a fan like me, every letter or number is very important. When you play it, you'll 
 always try to find the essence and the main subject of the story. And that my friends, is not only 
 very cool, but extremely addicting as well.
  
  The singleplayer offers three well built campaigns, one for each class: Marine, Predator and Alien. 
 Every campaign has 7 missions to complete. They all take place on LV-1201, a planet from an unspecified 
 galaxy. Also, the campaigns have their own different endings, that take place before the main ending 
 of the game. Like I said, there are packed up very well and give significant details if you pay 
 attention to the story.
  In the story of the game, the campaigns take place simultaneously and you'll find out that some 
 actions of yours from a campaign can be seen in another and viceversa. That adds even more perfection 
 to the story. The campaigns can be played in any order you want. That is something you would expect, 
 since they take place simultaneously. So if you can't wait to tear people apart as an Alien, you 
 can jump straight to it. But my suggestion is that you should play in this order: Marine, Predator 
 and Alien. You should let the best at last. But that is just my opinion. Feel free to start which 
 one you want.
  
  The Marine campaign is the hardest in my opinion because as a marine you are the most vulnerable. 
 Still, nothing to worry. If you play on lower levels of difficulty you won't have problems in any 
 of the campaigns. If you raise the level ( I played easy and hard ) , things get trickier. Enemies 
 are a lot smarter and have bigger damage.
  So as a marine, your name is Andrew, but everybody calls you Frosty. You are normal guy with a 
 lot of fighting experience, so you could still be described as a badass, given the amount of Aliens 
 you slay ( including a Queen ) and even a Heavy Predator. You are trained in using every kind of 
 weapons, from pistol to minigun and sniper and you can also hack a lot of security systems via 
 a hacking device. Sadly, you won't get to fight along side with other marines. You're more like 
 a one man job, a bad boy that gets all the objectives accomplished. My favourite quote about you 
 belongs to General McCain: "You've got more b*lls than brains son. And that's exactly what this 
 mission assigns for". 
  In the last level, you'll get to fight from an pilot exo-suit. It's some kind of robot you get 
 in and move with it. You are far more protected from attacks this way and have weapons incorporated 
 in your exo-suit ( a minigun, flamethrower, rocket launcher and some kind of laser weapon that 
 recharges after you have depleted its rounds ) .
  If you are looking for dread and scares, you'll only find them in the Marine campaign ( it's natural, 
 because you have nothing to be afraid of when you are a Predator or Alien ) . And they are not only 
 intense and cool, but also very well placed. If you play for the first time, the first levels can 
 get a bit scary because the light effects are really working in creating a permanent feeling of 
 incertitude and scare. For me, it wan't necessarily the Aliens that were scary, but their sudden 
 attacks when I wasn't even expecting. However, you'll get used to them by the end of the game.
 
  
  The second campaign is the Predator's one. You are a standard Predator and your primarily objective 
 on LV-1201 is to do what you do best: hunt all the other beings and collect trophies. You start 
 your first mission very well by hunting helpless humans. You also get to slay a Praetorian at the 
 end of the level. But then the main plot starts: your fellow Predators are captured by the humans 
 and your new objective is to rescue them. So you pursue the ones that abducted your mates and try 
 to save them, but not all things go as you planned. In the middle of the campaign, you are trapped 
 in a small room and gassed. General Rykov, the guy who was responsible for all this steals your 
 mask. Then you'll find your final main objective: kill the one who did this to you and recover 
 your mask and by that, your honor.
  As a Predator you get all the guns and technical devices you see in the movie, giving you a big 
 advantage over the others. Also, you can jump very high and sustain much less damage from a high 
 fall. You can cloak, making you invisible ( but only to humans, because Aliens can see you ) , you 
 can change your vision mode ( normal, thermal-detecting humans, Alien detecting mode-based on their 
 pheromones and Predator detecting mode, which also acts like nightvision ) . Also, you can charge 
 your suit with the energy generating device and can use the medicomp when you are injured. Note 
 that cloaking and using the medicomp will drain your energy, although they don't use to much of 
 it. Cloaking however will eventually but slowly deplete it. And another useful thing is the charge 
 emitter, similar to the Marine's hacking device.
  The Predator experience is great, especially when you hunt for heads, making a very powerful sound 
 to express you satisfaction. Another awesome thing is seeing helpless humans, with no guns, crouching 
 down, crying and being scared to death of you. I for instance, never killed them, not only because 
 they pose no threat, but it is a great superior feeling, standing there and looking at them as 
 they say their prays and eventually letting them live.
  
  In my opinion, the best campaign and with the most intense and great moments is the Alien campaign. 
 It is such an overwhelming experience, second to none. There is absolutely nothing to compare it 
 to and it is one of the most addicting feeling ever. Climbing walls will soon become second nature.
 
  You start your life as a Facehugger that emerged from an unwatched egg, thus your primarily objective 
 is facehugging a victim in order to advance to a superior life stage. You must silently sneak to 
 a room where an isolated victim is and then ruin his life. If you choose a victim and others hear 
 or see you, you're good as dead because the security guards will find you and kill you. So you 
 must pick only isolated victims. Fortunately, there are no complications. There is only one right 
 victim. Your job is to find him.
  After you've successfully facehugged the right victim, you will continue the campaign as a Chestburster. 
 Unlike a Facehugger, the Chestburster can't walk on walls, but can bite. Even so, you want to be 
 very stealthy and careful not to be seen because you are very weak. You must find small animals 
 to feed on and then grow into the main character.
  When you find the animal shelter, a cinematic is shown and although you don't see what's really 
 happening, the cats violent hissing and snorting lets you know what the Chestburster is doing...
 
  After these two short life stages, you become a powerful Drone ( standard Alien ) . You can walk 
 on walls, never sustain damage from falls, pounce on your enemies leaving them virtually no time 
 to response and generally inflicting terror. Your first primarily objective is to return to the 
 hive and be with others like you. At the end of the game, you must save your Empress from being 
 abducted.
  As an alien, you have two vision modes. Normal and nightvision. While in normal mode, other beings 
 are seen by detecting the pheromones they generate. Since there are different pheromones, depending 
 on the species, they are colored different. Blue for humans, green for Predators and red for other 
 Aliens. This is extremely useful, being quickly able to know what you are looking at.
  In the campaign, you'll quickly make your way through the levels, not having any real challenge 
 other than some Predator battles, that are still easy to handle when on a low skill level. When 
 hurt, an Alien must feed to regain its health. You have two possibilities: either disembowel your 
 dead victims with your claws or head-bite them, which will get your life meter up much faster. 
 My suggestion is that you head-bite first and then disembowel them to get the maximum life points.
 
  Like I already said, the Alien campaign is the most awesome and with the most memorable moments.
 
  
  The weapons from the game are well designed and have quite powerful effects on your enemies. They 
 also sound great and are fun to use, the Predator ones in particular.
  As a Marine, you will get a knife, pistol, shotgun, pulse rifle, grenade launcher, flamethrower, 
 smart gun, rocket launcher, minigun and sniper rifle. They all work pretty standard, with alternative 
 fire modes, except for the smart gun, which aims at the Aliens by itself, making it a very good 
 choice when multiple Aliens attack.
  The Predator's weapons are wristblades, combistick, pistol, speargun, plasmacaster, disc, netgun 
 and the remote bomb. They are more powerful than regular Marine weapons. The wristblades and combistick 
 are melee only, making them ideal for close quarter combats. The netgun is used for catching you 
 enemies and holding them until you take their head off, the pistol has an immense power, quickly 
 draining the life of even the toughest enemy. The speargun is a sort of sniper rifle and it can 
 launch one spear at a time or multiple if you use alternate fire. The best thing about it is that 
 you can recollect you spears after you have killed the threat. Another great thing is this: every 
 time you hit a human with a headshot from the speargun, his head is reaped off and tied to the 
 nearest wall, while hearing the Predator having a sadistic laugh. The disc can also be used against 
 targets at a distance and it can be retrieved by pressing F (default) . Retrieving it drains energy. 
 My personal favourite Predator weapon is the plasmacaster, which is in fact the plasma cannon from 
 the Predator's back that is aimed with the typical red crosshair. The best thing about this is 
 that it aims on its own. But you must use the correct vision modes in order to do it correctly. 
 For instance if you want to kill humans, use the thermal mode and the plasmacaster will aim at 
 the humans. If you're after Aliens, use the pheromone-detecting mode and the plasmacaster will 
 aim at them. This weapon can also be charged by holding your fire button, which works perfectly 
 against tougher foes. It also drains the energy after each shot.
  The Alien itself is a formidable weapon, using no more than claws, teeth and tail to attack. Claws 
 are the main attack mode, quickly reaping apart your enemies. The tail is used for stunning enemies. 
 Perfect when multiple enemies attack. Stun one or two, deal with the others and then return to 
 the ones you stunned and tear them to pieces. You can also head-bite directly if your aim is good 
 enough. Another great attack is the pouncing (default E) which is a powerful jump. It will break 
 a human to pieces, but you will not be able to feed from him.
  
  The AI is also very good. Enemies react normally and aggressively as well. Their intelligence and 
 the damage they inflict grows once you increase the skill level. While they are not much of a problem 
 on lower skill levels, they become really hard to defeat on higher levels.
  
  The graphics are quite good given the game's realease date. As for the sounds, they are really 
 great, especially the ones made by Predators and Aliens. The music is also good.
  
  If you feel like playing other Alien or Predator classes too, go to the multiplayer, where you 
 can play as a Runner, Praetorian, Predalien (Aliens) , Heavy Predator, Light Predator and Assault 
 Predator as well.
  
  In the end, my opinion is that every gamer should play this perfect game, no mater what kind of 
 games he likes. This experience will definitely change his opinion about games, because there really 
 is nothing else to compare it to. It is a masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warthog259
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Hello this is my review for the Alien vs Predator 2 gamei feel that this game is great how ever 
 i give it a 9.5 because i feel that if you do not have good interent or none at all this game isnt 
 as great as it would be if you did... I love it i still play for 6 years this game is great if 
 there is any thing to improve on is the graphics but this game is so great and deserves more then 
 what it already haves... the best thing in this game is lan parties if u have about 10 pple or 
 even 16 u will have so much fun i think this game can be better then counterstrike lan... but depends 
 who u are.. This game is great if u have internet for the game its a must buy...
  
  Gameplay=Great, exciting, fear, and addicting... Most balanced game, better then any other
  
 
  Graphics=Horrible but doesnt bother u there are some upgrades for them in the filefront website..
 
  
  Sound= It scares you because you walk around and u hear like.. alien sounds and stuff or predator... 
 then they come down and eat ur head..
  
  Value= the price now... is good because its old not many pple play but its still worth the money.. 
 if the graphics were like doom 3 or even crysis... this game would be unbeatable... this is the 
 best game it deserves game of the year in my opinion of 2001 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  when you play the predator or the marine.. the game is pretty scary
  you need to watch out from the thing that come for you from the dark
  one of the sceriest things 
 in the game are the ugly facehuggers
  that jump on your face when you arent ready... thats creppy
  
  sounds: great sounds, shooting 
 effects explosions effect, just perfect sounds the ALIEN sounds are the greatest, makes you feel 
 so scared in the game
  
  graphics: well today this is 2008 so the graphics for now is.. mm... ugly but in 2001 this is really 
 not that bad graphics, and even in 2008 the graphics doesnt bother you while playing this amazing 
 game
  
  gameplay: same first person shooter controles, not meter with who your playing in the game... great 
 and easy gameplay lots of blood awesome gameplay!!
  
  so let me finish by saying that this is amazing game worth playing!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: predwarrior09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing this game I knew it was going to be amazing. The graphics are great for 
 a game that was made in the year 2001 and the weapons and species types are very well done. It's 
 good that this game is based on the movies because people that have seen the Alien and Predator 
 movies maybe want to play some bits of the film in a game. For example in the third marine level 
 you can go in air-shafts with those circle doors that close to make a circle with a little hole 
 in it like in 'Alien', the first alien movie. I think the level locations and plots could be a 
 bit better but they are good enough. Sometimes when you're a marine you have to kill other marines 
 to survive, that's good because you don't have to just kill aliens and predators all the time. 
 There are a lot of weapons to be used, marine and predator. Being a predator is amazing. You have 
 all those different views and weapons like in the movies, and you can cloak. Water is a bit annoying 
 though because it disables your cloaking device when you go in it. I haven't played the first AVP 
 game so I don't know if it's better than AVP2 or not. But everyone says AVP2 is much better than 
 the first one anyway. Playing as an alien is fun and it's a great experience. You can headbite 
 , wall-crawl and everything else an alien can do. Not to forget breath underwater. You go underwater 
 in some parts in this game but you people that think that you're going to go underwater when you're 
 a marine and shoot aliens you'll be disappointed. You won't be able to do that. In all the parts 
 you go underwater in the game (all species) you won't be attacking anything which is quite sad. 
 After seeing the underwater bit in Alien: Resurrection you would think you could go underwater 
 and kill aliens. But that's only the real bad thing about the game really. If you're an AVP fan 
 you have to buy this game. Even if you've never heard of AVP before and you buy this game you'll 
 be interested in it straight away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAL0030
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Aliens vs. Predator 2 is an example of brillince when it comes to using a gaming engine the right 
 way that has in the past been given flak. The visuals, sound and bodies were excellent (meaning 
 you could slice off specific parts of bodies) . The music cues for this game are absolutely amazing. 
 It really brings to life the fighting all the running and hiding. Also, when ever you enter a combat 
 zone the music will change to a tune that will make you want to to just start shooting your weapon 
 at the first thing you see (animal, human, alien) .
  
  The weapons for the Marines and Predators are great, plus the Alien is awesome with its tongue 
 bite, tail whip, claws and pounce. And the story was written very well, it all locks into place 
 nicely and you are not kept out of the loop (although your character might be) . There are smart 
 remarks by Marines, great daytime and night-time fights, as well as an awesome ending to further 
 add to the conspiracy.
  
  There are 7 hard pumping missions for all three species and you are not let down. The cut-scenes 
 are great and there are areas to explore (not that you need to) which may give you more health, 
 armour or ammo. The big bonus with this game is the fact that it has a great multi-player. Although 
 there is no fighting computer players, it is great fun sneaking up behind a friend and giving a 
 loud taunt and then ending their existance.
  
  The Marine missions are based around Harrison, the Alien is based around a standard alien drone 
 (from humans with no mutations or abnormal characteristics) and the Predator you fight as is either 
 a Prince or very rich. This game has got great action and adrenaline pumping missions. It is most 
 certainly a credit to the Aliens and Predator Series (do not forget it also makes the Marines awesome 
 as well) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carnage1995
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  Aliens versus Predator 2 is a sequel to the 1st AvP game made in 1999.
  
  Let's start with its graphics. I'm really impressive by the graphics for a 2001 game using the 
 LithTech engine. It's even better than the first Halo IMO. Take a look at the screenshots on this 
 site.
  
  Now, sound. The sound in the game is from both Alien and Predator movies not including AvP movies. 
 They did a great job putting the sounds into this game. I really like the sound of Predator roaring 
 when you collect skulls and Alien screech when its shot.
  
  The gameplay is really good too. Being able to play as all three species, Marine, Predator, and 
 the Alien. All three have their special abilities. For example Marines have the hacking device 
 which is used to get through lock doors, the Predator can cloak itself so that prey can't see them 
 from far, Aliens can wall-walk and have very fast speed. I personally think that playing as the 
 Marines for the first time really can make you wet your underwear. The others aren't really that 
 scary, they just startle you. The story of the game is great, cut-scenes are done nicely.
  
  Single-player is very addicting... and so is Multi-player! There are still many people who 
 are playing Multi-player so you won't be alone!
  
  Overall, I say that Monolith has done a great job with Aliens versus Predator bringing justice 
 to both Alien and Predator fantasies. Hope that there will be a AvP3 with the same stuff as AvP2. 
 This game is very rare and if you find it buy it right away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombiepanda13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing this at a young age. I LOVED pretending like I was actually a marine investigating 
 I disaster. It was so fun to go through dark rooms filled with severed limbs and blood. This game 
 may have horrible graphics, but it is a very fun game. It's basicly a cross between alien movies 
 and predator movies. You play as "Frosty", a marine who gets caught up in a horible situation involving 
 aliens, predators, and guys in orange jumpsuits that shoot at you. The gameplay is pretty simple 
 but fun. All you do is shoot and jump around. One thing I don't like is that aliens are almost 
 as, if not faster than you. Also, sometimes objectives are hard to follow. I could never get past 
 the marine part where you are in the mech suit for the first time. i never knew exactly what to 
 do. So although I haven't beat this game, I can tell you that it provides a great FPS expirience 
 for fans of the alien series, the predator series, or just people into FPS's.
  Note: The AVP movies are NOTHING like the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodledum
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Alien vs. Predator 2 is one of the best games ever if your a fan of the avp series.. Or
  even alien, or the predator series. Its a small bit like halo you have to make a profile and save 
 games go on to hat profile.
  I offers a wide variety of gameplay. Eg, To begin wih you have to choose from alien predator or 
 marine to play. I wont tell you all about the game,
  so i suggest you download the demo.
  It also offers, muliplayer LAN and online its great for when youve finished the game a couple of 
 times,
  or you could mess around with cheats... When starting off this game i recommend using the alien.
 
  I recommend playing this game ALOT.
  
  The game offers many differen weapons for each classes, except the alien of course.
  *The predator 
 has most of his abilities as in its movies as well as a variety of weaponry.
  *The marine has a big variety of guns that ive never seen before.
  *And the alien has only Headbibte, 
 Tail strike/whip and of course his claws.
  A fun way to play multi player is to have the alien lifecycle on like in the first level of the 
 alien campaign.
  So if you choose to be an alien you have to start out a a face-hugger and face-hug people!
  That 
 was my review for AVP2 thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pret1
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This is truly the best game ever. I haven't played the first AVP game but everyone says that this 
 is better. It lets you save anywhere, the graphics are very good for a game made in 2001 and the 
 online multiplayer is AMAZING!!. The single-player rocks! You can play as the three species like 
 in every AVP game. It is scary as hell. Forget Quake, DOOM and even F. E. A. R.! A first person shooter 
 game where creatures from an unknown planet jump at you when you lest expect it= a very scary game 
 and intense game. If AVP3 comes out i doubt that it will be better than this! This is as good as 
 an AVP game can get. Aliens versus Predator Extinction is pretty good but I wouldn't like Fox Interactive 
 and Monolith or Sierra to make another AVP strategy game. A really good AVP game is a first person 
 shooter. Let me tell you about what you can do when you are a marine, then alien then predator. 
 The marine campaign is the best. You can use loads of weapons, hack and break locks when you can't 
 go through a door but not always though which is quite sad. When you're an alien you can climb 
 walls and ceilings and bite people's heads off with your double jaw like in the movies. Being the 
 predator is good too as you can switch from four views and a lot of weapons including the wristblades, 
 spear gun and the returning disc. If don't have this game get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  Aliens VS predator 2 
  
  Aliens VS predator2 is a very good game but watch your back 
  
  The game play 
  
  You are a soldier and you are sent to a planet with a lot of aliens and 
 you have to kill them before they reach the surface and control the whole planet. 
  
  The graphics 
  
  The graphics are amazing very well detailed backgrounds, other soldiers and 
 the aliens, also the blood from the aliens well acid I should say is very good 
  
  The sound 
  
  The sound I amazing the noises from the guns firing and the screams form the 
 aliens as you shoot them a die and also you can hear the foot steps of your feet and the soilders 
 around you 
  
  So if you really like to kill aliens and her them die in pain then you should buy this game but 
 I would think it is really cheap now. 
  
  So if you do buy this game watch you back you don't know what is behind you until it is too late.. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  Back in the day, when I was but a tiny infant noobie, wandering around the PC gaming world getting 
 pwnd in every game I tried.. I saw a friend playing Alien Vs Predator 2 and thought "Wow! That 
 looks cool!". So there I sat.. For hours on end watching him play this game, and the urge to play 
 it myself became too overpowering. I ran to the store without even bothering to put on my shoes 
 (bad idea, blisters like you wouldn't believe) and picked up a copy for myself. I ran inside, threw 
 it in the disc tray and booted it up. I was immediately engulfed by the physical form of awesome. 
 I played and played, it was such fun and I got better, and better.. Top kills, No deaths. I was 
 so proud of myself.
  It was then I realized.. I LOVE FPS.
  
  Now.. Onto the realistic review part of the.. review.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  Well, for it's 
 time.. Very nice. All the models looked good, the maps were awesome looking (and very well designed 
 I might add) , the weapons fit the theme.. It all fit together for me.
  
  Controls - 8.5/10
  Fantastic controls in this game. The usual FPS control scheme is used, and 
 it works great. W-A-S-D for movement, mouse clicks to shoot/lunge, 1-9 for weapon selection. As 
 an alien, climbing around was always fun, and not hard to control once you got used to it.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  As a marine, you use guns. You have the pistol, rifle, shotgun etc.
  They 
 are just like your average FPS, not much fancy going on.
  Marines in my opinion, were never much fun. It's way better to be aliens and predators ^_^
  
 
  As an alien, it was first-person but without a weapon. You ran much faster and could climb up 
 walls. Your main attack was lunging and biting your enemies and attacking your claws. You also 
 had a secondary attack to use your tail with certain species. That is another neat thing about 
 the aliens. There are the different species, (I forgot most of the names so bear with me..) one 
 was your very base little guy, who couldn't do much. He was real weak and tiny. He was the Face-Hugger. 
 Your goal as one of these was to lunge onto a human or predator and.. Well, hug their face with 
 a tube attached to your lower body. This would then implant an alien egg into them, you would die. 
 But then you would be reborn by bursting from the chest of your enemy, as a new, more powerful 
 alien! Aliens also have the power to see in the dark with a switch of your vision.
  
  The second phase is the one I forgot the name of, but it's still fairly small, but not as small.. 
 Later down the line, you will grow into a Drone. This is the base alien that you see all over the 
 box art, in the movies etc. One step higher, the Praetorian (Spelling?) . This was like the princess 
 alien, and quite powerful.. Then.. There was the Queen. It's been a while, so I don't remember 
 fully. But I think the queen was multi-player only? Sorry if I'm wrong on that, feel free to flame 
 me.
  
  And lastly.. The predator. These humanoid hunters are the bad asses of the game. Fancy gadgetry 
 was the game for predators. You get a staff for a base weapon, quite powerful melee. Then you had 
 a disc, which you could throw to decapitate enemies, and then it would soar back to you. There 
 was a spear-gun which was very fun, because if you got a head-shot, the spear would stick the head 
 into a wall behind the target, wherever that may have been. There are a few other weapons, that 
 are quite as kick ass as the first few, but my memory is a little blank, as it has been some time 
 since I played. Predators also get vision modes. One normal, one for sensing marines and one for 
 sensing aliens. All are of course, useful. Predators were also able to use a makeshift sort of 
 med-kit. You could press (H I think it was?) and you would pull out a blade and push a few fancy 
 buttons on your arm pad then.. Bam, stab yourself in the gut and be healed. Was quite weird honestly, 
 but still really cool :D
  
  Sound - 10/10
  The sound in this game was great. I can recall the creepy hissing of the aliens, the screams of 
 marines, the clicking sound the predators make (and of course their cry of victory when they collected 
 a skull) . The voice overs during the campaign (from what I can remember of it) were really good. 
 At least I can say, I never once thought "wow.. these voice overs suck". And I'm usually pretty 
 picky about that. The music.. I cannot recall.
  
  Overall - 8.5/10
  I would only give it a 9, but it deserves a 9.5 to me because it was the first FPS I played and 
 it really got me into the whole gaming community, and I'm sure it has for others. Bravo to the 
 dev's at monolith for a classic gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romanmoga15
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  In the year of 2008 not worth buying but While by no means a bad game, you can't help but feel 
 like somethings missing. Oh wait, that's right. It's the single player experience. The single player 
 portion of the game itself is its downfall. It's repetitive, and boring. Sometimes it will be easy, 
 and the next frustratingly hard. The story is mediocre, and doesn't make you feel as if your in 
 the game yourself. It's almost like watching a bad movie. However even though the single player 
 lacks, the Multi player portion no longer shines. You'll spend most of your time with this game 
 online only if it had anyone on it hahaha. Online play is fast paced and exciting, and the ability 
 to play as either alien, predator, marine, or corporal (each with unique abilities) , makes it even 
 more rewarding. If your looking for an immersive single player experience, look elsewhere. If you 
 want to battle your friends online, this is the game for you.
  
  
  Final thoughts: don't frigin buy this game ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  The aliens - simply kill and kill. Along with its standard tail and claw attacks, it now has a 
 pounce attack that's essentially a superlong jump that causes hapless humans to explode on contact. 
 - nothing to be fearsome cos u know u are a aliens simply kill and kill.
  
  The Predators - simply hunt and kill with all the power and weapon equipped on the predator. most 
 notably a net gun for trapping enemies and a remotely detonated mine launcher. Along with the original's 
 medicomp, which transfers energy to health, the predator now has a device that also recharges his 
 energy. This permits him to fully charge both his energy and health in between fights, and it ends 
 up making him potentially more unstoppable than he was before.
  
  The Marine - the weakest link of all yet the most frightening scarie i ever played especially the 
 beep scanner, beep beep beep beep beep..... The sound track is amazing boiling your adeline.
  
  AVP3? I hand up for that if it is as a good as AVP2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supergodzilla1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Despite being made seven years ago it's rather obvious that the ensuing dust and crushing qualities 
 of the next gen games should have utterly destroyed this game. However when I sat down with it 
 and started one of the three campaigns (Pred, who else? :D) I instantly fell in love with it. The 
 weapons of the Pred, Marine, and Aliens are all intact with different playing styles for each of 
 them. For the Marine you have to pay attention to your motion tracker while looking for your next 
 objective. The Alien gets its signature headbite, wall crawling, and far reaching leaps to slaughter 
 its enemies. While the Predator gets to make use of its many visions and its weapons. Everything 
 you would want to do in an Alien Vs. Predator game is there. The three campaigns are connected 
 to one another believe it or not. Storywise this is a game that is played from three perspectives 
 and it does very well is tieing them together. The game progression is fairly linear. Usually you 
 won't get lost as the next doorway is above you, to your right, or your other right. But when you 
 do get lost it can be fairly frustrating as you sometimes find yourself running through the same 
 corridor over and over. 
  Overall this game will not fail to entertain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshBGosh
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  This game lacks the same moody, creepy feeling as first (Rebellion) AVP 1. 
  Butt, It does have a certain uniqueness to the levels, as does the other Monolith game (FEAR) . 
 But, on to AVP2. This game has an okay Multi Player game/maps/weps, etc... But , the one thing 
 that is even better : The Single Player Maps. Which are easily the most "Creepiest.... Spookiest 
... and just like the first Alien movie, give you a sense of foreboding , that something BAD is 
 about to happen, and It DOES alright..... But in a Good way... 
  The one thing that would make this game even better, aside from the usual request of more MAPS. 
 Would have been the abilty to drive that Troop Transport (Like a Hummer or ATV) just like in ALIENS. 
 WHooooweeee! And CRASH it thru the walls into another MAP  NOW, Wouldnt That have added Much more 
 Bang to youre experience. That and a couple more things. Maybe added: driveable vehicles, and ability 
 to pick up a dead Preds Disc and Throw it. Just like Danny Glover did in Predator 2.  
 Destruct)
  And one more thing, the Self Destruct in the Multi Player doesnt work either , which is a little 
 disappointing. 
  Well, thats all . Just go get the game if youre into an uneasy, and darkly foreboding single player 
 experience. There are Maps that are supported by die hard fans, but you have to generally try a 
 lot before you find the good ones. 
  One Map pack has over several hundred alone, but is a massive download if youre patient enough 
 , and Youre a die hard fan, shouldnt be too long a wait. 
  Overall, A Good Solid Game, and All the Creepy Aliens , Preds and Face (Huggers) you can Kill Kill 
 and Mount on your wall. Haa.. ha....
  Hey , that wouldve been another cool thing : A trophy wall with your kills of the day......; P
 
  
  P. S. For all you ALIEN fans: The words FACE HUGGER and PREDS are also confused with other words 
 in SPELL CHECKER::::::::::::
  
  Highers, Hughes, Hugger, Hugues, Hungers, Buggers, Luggers, Muggers, Hughie's, Hugged, Hugs, Hikers, 
 Huger, and how bout some Chiggers, Hagglers, Hunger's, Fugger's (THIS ONE IS R-RATED!) , Bugger's, 
 Lugger's, and Mugger's, Rugger's, Hugues's, Hogger, Augers, Hodges, Hugo's, Haggis, Hedges, Huggins, 
 Huygens, Hangers, Hedgers, Hunkers, Huskers, Hague's, Hodge's, Hedge's, Hiker's, Chigger's, Haggler's, 
 Huber's, Luger's, Auger's, Hagar's, Hanger's, Hedger's, and Husker's (What! No Huggies)
  
  Preds Pr eds, Pr-eds, Pre ds, Pre-ds, Prods, Prides, Prudes, Press, Pres, Reds, Parades, Preys, 
 Preps, Prats, Periods, Pride's, Prude's, Premeds, Prates, Pared, Pares, Peres, Pored, Pores, Pried, 
 Pries, Pured, Pures, Pyres, Reads, Red's, Reeds, Perts, Spreads, Prue's, Prey's, Pyre's, Fred's, 
 Prado's, Pren's, Prudi's, Prudy's, Ypres, Prep's, Pr's, Prut's, Prat's, Parade's, Period's, Read's, 
 Redd's, Reed's, Reid's, Pd's, Peri's, Peru's, Rd's, & Perot's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzat30
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  In lieu of the traditional review preamble, here's the answer to the question you're probably wondering 
 about: Yes, Aliens vs. Predator 2 lets you save anywhere. In fact, the first game is so notorious 
 for its end-of-level-only save system that the sequel has become the first shooter to proudly list 
 its unrestricted save feature right on the box. Monolith, taking over the series from UK-based 
 developer Rebellion, has also added a few other things that the first game lacked, such as a compelling 
 campaign structure, an in-game server browser, some interesting multiplayer modes, and the ability 
 to play all the various Alien life stages. About the only thing it managed to screw up was the 
 unimpressive single-player demo released a couple of months ago. So in answer to your second question: 
 Yes, Aliens vs. Predator 2 is better than its demo. It's better than the demo, it's better than 
 the original Aliens vs. Predator, and it's one of the best action games released so far this year. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  AVP 2's gameplay is the best aspect of the game. Its fun and nice. All three races are balanced 
 though you may find that the Alien or Marrines have the hardest missions. Some missions are either 
 frustrating, boring, or you may notice that some of the missions of the three races aren't well 
 designed. Graphics are outdated though the games age is the reason so its just ok. Frame rate here 
 though isn't much of a problem this days so the game can be more enjoyable. There are a few problems 
 in the game like some clipping issues or certain characters getting stuck at some points. Some 
 lighting in the game aren't also corrected that much. The sound and music on the game are better. 
 The sounds like gunfire, explosions, or voice acting are nice. The music is also great and will 
 change depending on the situation.
  
  AVP 2 may have some problems or bugs but its still fun and enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffdevries
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Aliens vs. Predators (vs. Marines, too) is a subject just waiting for a good game to come to it. 
 AVP2 comes along and improves over every aspect of the previous game. The graphics are better, 
 the story is better, the gameplay is better, the multiplayer is excellent, and the ways the different 
 species work is very intriguing. I could spend weeks just seeing what it's like in the life of 
 an Alien or the most efficient way to get skulls as Predator. That brings me to another point: 
 all the little details. As a Predator, you can get skulls and switch visions and when you cloak 
 and go into water, it uncloaks you and shocks you. When you are Alien, you get health whenever 
 eat corpses. As a Marine, you get radar and hackers and other cool gadgets. There are plenty more 
 of these features and they are really what makes AVP2 pop out from other games. The multiplayer 
 is excellent. All the races are balanced out so that no race is left behind. The Aliens have their 
 pouncing and wall-walking which makes up for not having the Predator's plasma caster or spear. 
 The marines get movement radar and flamethrowers which makes up for not having acidic blood or 
 the ability shoot your inner-mouth out and eat people's heads off. Everything works quite swell 
 and it's the greatest demonstration of asymmetrical symmetry I have ever seen. I think all these 
 next-gen games should take a hint from this one: it's not about bump-mapping or god-rays, it's 
 about having flavorful races that liven up the game and let you have fun and experiment. The only 
 flaw I can find is that it can make you not be aware that you have been playing for a day and a 
 half. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynicoren
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Well, as much as I'll tackle this game's problems, I must say that it does give you a good fun 
 experience, but it could've been better.
  The single player campaign is made from 3 separate parts, that intertwine in some places, and that 
 is a nice concept, but is not enough to make it feel whole.
  Each part of the game (Marine, Predator, Alien) is a different concept, and each episode (of every 
 part) is built upon the previous one. The meaning of this is that if you don't find your weapons 
 on a certain levels, you can't use them later. It is disappointing for the fun side of the game 
 (imagine the Predator without the disc) , but difficulty wise it is meaningless, since all other 
 weapons that you hold (like the auto-plasma cannon) are powerful enough.
  I found the Predator part the most intriguing, but the other parts has their charm too :
  As 
 a marine, well, nothing so special about the marine, and the flamethrower+smart gun are the most 
 efficient weapons, while the sniper riffle has a little use, because the mostly engages in close 
 combat.
  The Alien gives you another perspective on life... Because you shall use its characteristic abilities 
 of climbing walls and ceiling walking. Another special (but obvious) feature of the Alien is that 
 you can use no other weapon other than your claws, teeth, and wits.
  Predator is a living legend... The most fun to play with because of it's signature weapons and ability 
 to self heal and energize. The Alien heals by biting human heads (!) , while the marine heals with 
 the help of run-of-the-mill health packs. The different visions contribute to game-play, and actually 
 changing vision mods is a must on some levels.
  On the downside, these benefits that make the Pred-boy fun to play, also makes his campaign the 
 easiest. The boss battle for the Pred is a joke.
  The problems of the game are mainly two :
  1. Too many upsetting , mostly regarding character 
 movement issues. More than once my foes got stuck in some imaginary point in the midst of a battle, 
 and that of course enables to grind their butts without a problem, and vice versa - playing with 
 the Alien, towards the end the game wants you to feel as fighting with a team of Aliens, but they 
 are so scripted that after they attack their scripted targets, they freeze, even if another enemy 
 gets into their zone (and ignores them too) .
  2. The game is simply easy on the Normal level. As a matter of fact (SPOILER --&gt;) , except of 
 the last part of the Alien campaign, where you need to fight 2 Predators (one at a time) , one can 
 pass most levels of the game without dying. That leads to another issue - the single player campaigns 
 are too short and take about 15-20 hours to complete.
  Technicals : The game has no music, it tries to be scary with ambient dark voices, and it's OK, 
 but just about it. Voice acting is near perfect, but the most successful part of the sound department 
 are the natural voices of the Predator and the Alien that are done precisely as in the movies. 
 The graphics is OK too, no complaints here either. Controls are adjustable. To sum it up, I'll 
 say this game is fun, could have been better, and that Predator deserves a full game of it's own. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RIDDIK72
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 23, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  The game is amazing but has no replay value unless you just want to run around killing things for 
 no reason. The marines had some great weapons but leaves you at a little bit of a disadvantage 
 given that you have a predator hunting you and do battle with waves of aliens. The Aliens storyline 
 was nice. Its cool they start you off as a face hugger then move to a chestbuster then go onto 
 being a drone. the use of the tail and second mouth is amazing if you get a rythme down. The Predator 
 to me was a little disappointing being as I love the Predators. You spend most of the story line 
 trying to find your fallen comrades who have been captured as do you and you must go through the 
 human base and find new weapons and cloak. The areas can get hard to travel since their so big 
 and they dont quite tell you about where you need to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat1913
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  A terrifying single player campaign you never know what the heck is gonna pop out the floor (lol) . 
 Anyway you can play as alien, predator and human online or in the singleplayer campaign the online 
 play is great incredibly fun however the graphics are not that great these days. The weapons you 
 get as humans and predators are cool theres a lot of variety as alien though you only get your 
 claws and tail which is kinda boring but atleast you can crawl up walls to be sneaky and make up 
 for that. The singleplayer campaigns are cool and have an linked connection to each of the campaigns 
 as there are three. In conclusion get this game if you really like alien or predator movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irishgi
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  Played single player through about 30 times in the 1'st 3 years it was out - 7 years later - just 
 reinstalled it - and I'm amazed how even modern games pale in comparison to a game from 2001. AvP 
 3 - where are you?? - for PC - not next-gen systems.
  
  The graffics - best DX8 can do
  Sound - perfect - a bit redundant - but exactly what it should be
  Story - 3 charachters in an 
 intertwining plot - makes replay even better than the 1'st time around
  Violence - a bit extreem - what what else can you expect from a predator and an alien
  
  overall 
 - I still to this day base even Half-Life standards off this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ie_specter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Back in the day, when I was but a tiny infant noobie, wandering around the PC gaming world getting 
 pwnd in every game I tried.. I saw a friend playing Alien Vs Predator 2 and thought Wow! That looks 
 cool! . So there I sat.. For hours on end watching him play this game, and the urge to play it 
 myself became too overpowering. I ran to the store without even bothering to put on my shoes (bad 
 idea, blisters like you wouldn't believe) and picked up a copy for myself. I ran inside, threw 
 it in the disc tray and booted it up. I was immediately engulfed by the physical form of awesome. 
 I played and played, it was such fun and I got better, and better.. Top kills, No deaths. I was 
 so proud of myself.
  It was then I realized.. I LOVE FPS.
  
  Now.. Onto the realistic review part of the.. review.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  Well, for it's 
 time.. Very nice. All the models looked good, the maps were awesome looking (and very well designed 
 I might add) , the weapons fit the theme.. It all fit together for me.
  
  Controls - 10/10
  Fantastic controls in this game. The usual FPS control scheme is used, and 
 it works great. W-A-S-D for movement, mouse clicks to shoot/lunge, 1-9 for weapon selection. As 
 an alien, climbing around was always fun, and not hard to control once you got used to it.
  
  Game-play - 9/10
  As a marine, you use guns. You have the pistol, rifle, shotgun etc.
  
 They are just like your average FPS, not much fancy going on.
  Marines in my opinion, were never much fun. It's way better to be aliens and predators ^_^
  
 
  As an alien, it was first-person but without a weapon. You ran much faster and could climb up 
 walls. Your main attack was lunging and biting your enemies and attacking your claws. You also 
 had a secondary attack to use your tail with certain species. That is another neat thing about 
 the aliens. There are the different species, (I forgot most of the names so bear with me..) one 
 was your very base little guy, who couldn't do much. He was real weak and tiny. He was the Face-Hugger. 
 Your goal as one of these was to lunge onto a human or predator and.. Well, hug their face with 
 a tube attached to your lower body. This would then implant an alien egg into them, you would die. 
 But then you would be reborn by bursting from the chest of your enemy, as a new, more powerful 
 alien! Aliens also have the power to see in the dark with a switch of your vision.
  
  The second phase is the one I forgot the name of, but it's still fairly small, but not as small.. 
 Later down the line, you will grow into a Drone. This is the base alien that you see all over the 
 box art, in the movies etc. One step higher, the Praetorian (Spelling?) . This was like the princess 
 alien, and quite powerful.. Then.. There was the Queen. It's been a while, so I don't remember 
 fully. But I think the queen was multi-player only? Sorry if I'm wrong on that, feel free to flame 
 me.
  
  And lastly.. The predator. These humanoid hunters are the bad asses of the game. Fancy gadgetry 
 was the game for predators. You get a staff for a base weapon, quite powerful melee. Then you had 
 a disc, which you could throw to decapitate enemies, and then it would soar back to you. There 
 was a spear-gun which was very fun, because if you got a head-shot, the spear would stick the head 
 into a wall behind the target, wherever that may have been. There are a few other weapons, that 
 are quite as kick ass as the first few, but my memory is a little blank, as it has been some time 
 since I played. Predators also get vision modes. One normal, one for sensing marines and one for 
 sensing aliens. All are of course, useful. Predators were also able to use a makeshift sort of 
 med-kit. You could press (H I think it was?) and you would pull out a blade and push a few fancy 
 buttons on your arm pad then.. Bam, stab yourself in the gut and be healed. Was quite weird honestly, 
 but still really cool :D
  
  Sound - 10/10
  The sound in this game was great. I can recall the creepy hissing of the aliens, the screams of 
 marines, the clicking sound the predators make (and of course their cry of victory when they collected 
 a skull) . The voice overs during the campaign (from what I can remember of it) were really good. 
 At least I can say, I never once thought wow.. these voice overs suck . And I'm usually pretty 
 picky about that. The music.. I cannot recall.
  
  Overall - 9.5/10
  I would only give it a 9, but it deserves a 9.5 to me because it was the first FPS I played and 
 it really got me into the whole gaming community, and I'm sure it has for others. Bravo to the 
 dev's at monolith for a classic gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrCuttell
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  The best part for me about this game is the fact i feel like a predator or alien when playing as 
 them. Some of the levels reminds me of key areas from Aliens, which i believe is a key part of 
 making any sort of game. And the marines have some kick ass weapons to use. The multiplayer mode 
 adds more fun and chaos with intense gameplay. Thanks to this game and others like it, Aliens vs 
 Predator the movie was conceived. The only problem for me is how the predators handle their weapons. 
 Other then that this is a must have game for any alien or predator fan or hard-core gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  The original Aliens vs. Predator was so scary that even my fearless father couldnt summon the 
 tenacity to complete it. Of course, the game also lacked an in-mission save option, which caused 
 lots of people to abandon it, and that issues addressed here  you can save your progress anywhere. 
 Indeed, developer Monolith (creator of the excellent No One Lives Forever) has taken over the sequel 
 and produced a game that is better than the original in just about every respect.
  
  The gameplay in Aliens vs. Predator 2 is nearly identical to that in its predecessor. There are 
 three different species (the titular characters plus the space marines from the Aliens film) , each 
 with a unique storyline and campaign orbiting around a central plot. It doesnt matter which order 
 you play them in, as each one provides a different take on the same core story.
  
  The setting is a research facility on planet LV1201. One of the corporations brilliant scientists 
 has been cross-breeding Aliens with Predators, and the results arewell, lets just say theyre 
 not cuddly. As a marine, youve got to clean up the mess, and as a Predator or Alien, youve just 
 got to clean house.
  
  Theres good variety to motivate playing as the different races. The marines have loads of cool 
 weapons and the ominous bleep of their motion sensor. The Predator has all the weapons from the 
 movies, and can leap 20 feet in the air. And the Aliens are fast and vicious  as a facehugger, 
 you even get to experience eating your way out of a human chest.
  
  AvP2 uses the LithTech 2.5 engine, a slightly more advanced version of the engine that powered 
 NOLF. While 32-bit textures and nicer bump-mapping are welcome additions, the simple fact is that 
 LithTech cannot compete with the Quake III or Unreal engines. Everything has a sort of boxy look.
 
  
  But it still does a fantastic job of creating a tense atmosphere. Theres nothing quite like having 
 the lights go out in a maintenance tunnel, tossing down a couple of flares, and seeing a horde 
 of Aliens flowing toward you like black water.
  
  Unfortunately, Monolith didnt include EAX or DirectSound 3D support, which is a real letdown for 
 a game that relies so much on positional awareness. Equally disappointing is the wooden nature 
 of some of the AI. But these are really the only weak points in an incredibly gripping single-player 
 story.
  
  Likewise, the multiplay extends the unique feeling of each of the three species. In deathmatch, 
 most players are naturally going to gravitate to the Predator, thanks to his ability to cloak and 
 see in different light spectrums. But a smart marine and a fast Alien both stand a chance against 
 him.
  
  In addition to deathmatch and team deathmatch, you get an excellent multiplayer mode called Evac, 
 in which teams of marines have the simple goal of getting the hell out of a bug-infested hive to 
 a safe zone. The emphasis here is on teamplay. Some may not enjoy playing as the Aliens because 
 of the constant rush tactics, but seeing those marines scream in terror as you pounce on them is 
 pretty damn satisfying.
  
  AvP2 proves that gameplay is king over eye-candy. The different types of action and the overall 
 stylishness more than make up for the games few weaknesses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainBlaze
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  In a word... FUN!
  
  Play as Marines, Aliens, or Predators - what more could you want!
  
  This is a great game people - good story plot and plenty of multiplayer potential.
  
  Preds 
 offer advanced weapons, optic camo, and are themselves powerful beings, go invisible and whip out 
 ya wrist blades or the ever popular plasma-caster and get huntin.
  
  Aliens offer faced paced, gravity defiying play aswell as being unmatch in close quaters combat, 
 be sure to use any and every crawl space to your advantage, mmmmmmm heads are yummy.
  
  Marines..... now your first notion might be - why bother.... dont be fooled, choosing the marines 
 WILL offer the most exiting game play of all the races aswell at the most powerful weapons, a scared 
 marine the a Flamethrower or a Minigun and an itchy trigger finger is a powerful combination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Okay the movies Alien and Predator have great concepts and ideas but the actual film isn't that 
 great. This though takes them great concepts and mixes them together and lets you play the final 
 product. The final product is a scary, cool, unique game.
  
  Gameplay:::Three unique races each with their own gadgets and fighting techniques. This is stuff 
 most games don't get are only have a part of but never all in one. Marines have a tough time as 
 they play like the standard first person shooter, getting assault rifles and blasting their way 
 through aliens and predators alike. But unlike other FPS your enemeis aren't cloaked, bleed acid, 
 pounce at you and try to disembowl you or take your head as a trophey. So yeah playing Marines 
 is the scariest experience. Aliens though are different. You start as a facehugger, avoiding groups 
 of soldiers until you find an isolated victime. From crawling through tiny vents as a facehugger 
 and bitting your way out of a victim to becoming a Drone and hacking your way through everything. 
 Did I mention Aliens can crawl along walls, upside down and all, and have night vision??? Predators 
 are equipped with melee weapons and other strange stuff. They have four different types of vision, 
 most famous is the heat one, and can go invisible which is really fun.
  
  Graphics::: The graphics aren't the best . It is kinda PS2 graphics but liveable
  
  Sound::: 
 Exactly like the movies. Great!
  
  Value::: Three campagnes and totally different experience for each. Lots of custom maps as well 
 but multi ain't much of a wow and at this date I doubt much ppl will be on.
  
  Tilt::: Very very cool game with lots of things to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aristonrr
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  Out of nostalgia, I recently installed the game again and was instantly captivated. Even though 
 the graphics are by now heavily dated, the level design, scripting, story-telling and gameplay 
 are well-nigh peerless. Playing as either a marine, predator or alien (and enjoying the benefit 
 of playing that species' entire life cycle) is never less than taut or immersive. Although either 
 campaign takes about 5-6 hours to complete and is therefore rather short, the intersecting storylines 
 and completely different feel to each character make AVP2 an experience that no FPS fan should 
 miss. It's kind of ironic (and speaks volumes about the entire genre) that its game design is, 
 even today, very innovative and seems ahead of its time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: padda_scorcher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  Before I begin, let me tell you..... this is one of those games that suck you in and never let you 
 go. It's probably one of the greatest games ever made for the PC. Definitely a must play for any 
 FPS fan. If you really liked the Predator movie (1985, starring Arnold Schwarzenegger) , then you 
 will love this game for its originality and realistic action. There are 3 characters, Marine, Predator 
 and Alien, each with unique abilities. Though the marine is the most vulnerable one, his arsenal 
 of weapons won't let you down. Playing as the vicious Alien is also a lot of fun. However, the 
 real deal is the stealthy Predator. With thermal vision, ability to become invisible, health and 
 energy regeneration ability and a dreadful array of weapons, he is definitely unstoppable. Thegame's 
 single player campaign is seriously intense. Play the Predator campaign and you'll know what I 
 mean. The multiplayer mode is unique due to presence of three distinct characters which are further 
 available in distinc types (such as the Assault Predator and Heavy Predator for the Predator) . 
 The story is nicely told and one of the unique features is that all the 3 campaigns are interlinked. 
 The environments, the sound, the gameplay and the graphics, everything is nicely done. I highly 
 recommend this game for fans of the action genre. If you haven't played this game yet, rush and 
 grab a copy! THIS GAME IS WORTH IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marco1402
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 26, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that came out 4 years ago, but you don't get the feeling of playing an old game. 
 The reason for that is because this game has some unique features you will never meet in other 
 shooters. This game is inspired on the movies Alien and Predator and the influence of the style 
 of especially the movie Alien is hard to miss.
  
  First of all the music and sound effects are of a rare quality. They are a vital part of the game 
 play because they constantly let you know when you're going to be in deep trouble and when you 
 can relax. You could think that would give away the surprise of sneak attacks of the monsters luring 
 in the dark. But it results in something different. Like in a good horror movie it creates the 
 atmosphere, accompanies you and fires up the emotion the makers wanted to have you feel during 
 the scenes. The music almost tells the story by itself sometimes. For instance when you play the 
 alien hatchling an eerie, creepy theme is played, being exactly what you would feel if you realize 
 that you have become a slimy snakelike monster.
  
  The graphics are the best a directx 8.1 engine can give us. There is terrific light effects and 
 the surroundings are diverse and believable. The overall story is somewhat clich&eacute;. But who 
 needs a complicated story-line in a shooter anyways. The details are nevertheless worked out neatly. 
 A general that has a grudge against the predator; a creepy scientist that is driven by nightmares 
 about the Alien and turns out to make his own nightmare come true (hardly a spoiler) And the good 
 old space marine on duty that has come to save the world from a disaster. And he tends to get emotional 
 quickly when it comes to girls...
  
  On top of that you play the alien, the predator and the marine during separate scenarios, and get 
 engaged in three different ways into the plot of the story. This is as I mentioned a pretty unique 
 feature in a game, especially when one of the characters is an out of the world creepy alien monster.
 
  
  So why not a perfect score? That's just because it's a bit short and sci-fi shooters always have 
 the trouble with believability. It misses the flirting with reality that half-life and return to 
 castle wolfenstein have.
  
  Anyways definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 25, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  I played the original Aliens Vs. Predator a few months ago after reading how critically acclaimed 
 it was and how many fans still play it to this day. To put it simply, I was not impressed. Nothing 
 in that game really popped out at me. It just failed to spark my interest and keep me playing. 
 I did finish the main story missions for each character, but I didn't bother with the bonus missions 
 and I highly doubt that I'll ever go back and play it again. Despite all of the deceptive accolades 
 and my huge disappointment with the first game, I still thought I'd give this game a shot. I am 
 so happy I did. This game surprised me in many ways.
  
  There are 3 characters you can play as. Just like in the first game, you can play as the Marine, 
 the Predator, or the Alien. Each of them have 7 levels to play through, some of which have multiple 
 parts to them. So with 21 levels, some more expanded than others, this game has a little meat to 
 it. Sure, it won't take you all that long to blast through it, but it's long enough to make it 
 noteworthy.
  
  The Marine is the most basic of the 3. If you've ever played a first person shooter on a PC, then 
 you should have no problem playing as the Marine. Throughout the game, you'll be bombarded by enemies 
 of all types. You'll fight a lot of humans, a Predator or two, and a whole bunch of Aliens. Fighting 
 the Aliens is easily the trickiest because 1) they're super quick and you'll be dead fast if you 
 get surrounded and 2) a lot of the environments are very dark making it much harder to see the 
 quick moving species. Luckily, you'll be fitted with flares, night vision, and a shoulder lamp. 
 All of these help make your fights a bit easier, but the fun is figuring out how to utilize them. 
 Should you use the shoulder lamp since it drains less batteries, use the night vision knowing full 
 well that it eats up batteries quick, or throw one of your few flares in the room ahead to light 
 it up? Most of the time it really won't matter, but there are some instances where one is easily 
 better than the other which adds a little strategy to the game. Besides this, you'll also have 
 your usual gunplay. You'll run around, shoot some enemies, proceed forward, and repeat. It's not 
 that it's not fun, but it's exactly the same as other shooters and not any better.
  
  The Predator is the most versatile of the 3. You'll have 3 different vision modes besides your 
 normal one. These are what make up the strategy for the Predator. In the normal mode, you'll automatically 
 see an aura around living creatures which clues you in to where they are without them having to 
 see you. However, in your other vision modes, you'll be able to lock on to the humans or Aliens 
 and shoot them with your shoulder cannon. So you'll have to ask yourself which one you find more 
 useful. The Predator also has a cloaking ability which anybody that has seen the movies should 
 know is the coolest asset of the Predator. Sadly, it just doesn't seem to work properly. There 
 are times where it will work perfectly and you'll be able to sneak past or stealth kill your enemy, 
 but other times they'll see you from a considerable distance and start shooting. Yes, I know movement 
 can still be seen while cloaked, but that doesn't change the fact that it's highly inconsistent.
 
  
  One of the other things that disappointed me about the Predator are the platforming segments. In 
 the movies, the Predator is running everywhere and jumping through trees and it looks awesome. 
 In this game, the platforming segments are just terrible. You'll usually just have to jump up to 
 a higher area or cross some platforms. But the problem is that it just isn't fun and sometimes 
 it's frustratingly difficult. An improved platforming engine for the Predator would have been greatly 
 appreciated and even having whole levels where you just sneak around and spy with a lot of platforming 
 would have been nice to break up the repetition that starts to settle in. Besides this, the Predator 
 is nothing more than another FPS with some different weapons thrown in. You'll have your shoulder 
 cannon, a spear gun, a weapon that can only be described as a ninja star boomerang (you throw it, 
 it kills its target, and it returns to you) , and others. They're cool to use, but you'll quickly 
 find that they work exactly like regular guns and the difference is minimal.
  
  The Alien is the biggest departure from the tried and true first person perspective. The Alien's 
 abilities are severely limited and because of that, it actually makes these areas the most engaging. 
 Playing as the Marine is clich&eacute; so you won't think much of it and playing as the Predator 
 is no different. You'll still feel like a soldier. But the Alien segments actually make you feel 
 like this character. You'll only have 4 attacks: a swipe with your tail, a swipe with your claws, 
 a head bite, and a lunge. The thing that makes these areas the most engaging however are the ways 
 you can sneak up on your prey and take them out. The Alien can wall walk and there is nothing more 
 satisfying than cunningly advancing to the spot on the ceiling right above where your prey is, 
 jumping down in front of him, and biting his head off. It's just something that you have to do 
 to truly appreciate. The greatest improvement in the Alien section of the game from the first one 
 is that the sight of the Alien in the first game was skewed on each side. It made everything look 
 sort of curved and it did nothing more than give the player a headache. There were even times when 
 I felt nauseated playing it. Thankfully, the sequel rights these wrongs and does away with the 
 nauseating and headache inducing first person perspective from the first game and replaces it with 
 the standard view.
  
  During the first level or two of the Alien, you'll be able to do something that you couldn't in 
 the first game (if my memory serves me well) but always wanted to. You'll get to grow into the 
 Alien that we all know and love. You'll start as a facehugger that has just hatched onboard a ship 
 and you'll have to find a solitary host to take over. You won't be able to attack so being stealthy 
 and quiet is the best way to proceed. After you find your host, you'll burst out of his chest and 
 begin your quest to grow. You still won't be able to attack and you won't be able to wall walk 
 in this stage either. Both of these stages in the Alien life don't have much depth and they're 
 fairly easy, but they're arguably the best part of it because it really gives you the feeling that 
 you're controlling your own destiny.
  
  The graphics are much better than I expected. Since the first game is so old, it was hard for me 
 to get past the ugly graphics and effects when I played it. This game thankfully looks passable. 
 It looks like a very early Playstation 2 game. It certainly doesn't look nearly as good as newer 
 PS2 games, much less next-gen games, but it was fine. The lighting was especially good. The first 
 game was way too dark and it became a cheap tactic for the enemies to easily kill you before you 
 even see them. This game still has it's dark parts, but your flashlights and night vision will 
 make up for it.
  
  The sound is mostly top notch. The Alien and Predator sound great. The Predator war cry sounds 
 absolutely perfect, although it does get used way too often. Every time you cut off a head, he'll 
 let his scream out. It gets annoying, but it also takes any of the realism that the game had going 
 for it out because nobody else can hear it. It's just there to let you know you took a head. The 
 Alien sounds the best through and through. When it gets shot or burned, the painful shriek it lets 
 out sounds just like it did in the original movie and it's music to the ears. Also accurate, the 
 growl it emits when about to take a victim is amazing. While you're playing as the Marine, you'll 
 hear both species make their cries and growls and it's definitely unnerving. There were more than 
 a few times where I'd hear the sprinting footsteps of an Alien, look around, and nothing was there. 
 It was great. The worst part of the sound is undoubtedly the voice acting. Honestly, I can't tell 
 you what was going on in the story, nor did I care. The developers tried to tie all of the character's 
 stories together and from what I understood, they did a fairly decent job, but the voice actors 
 pretty much killed any interest I had in it from the start.
  
  In my review for the first Aliens Vs. Predator game I said that it was just too old to be as highly 
 revered as it once was and it lost something over time. Fortunately, this game makes me feel the 
 opposite. I feel like this game has stood the test of time and is still fun to play today as it 
 undoubtedly was back when it was released. I also didn't think the first game was particularly 
 scary. The sequel still isn't scary per se, but it was a few tense moments and a couple cheap jump 
 parts. I know this is an old game and most people that haven't played it probably never will, but 
 if you can find it for cheap somewhere, Aliens Vs. Predator 2 is a high octane ride with everybody's 
 favorite sci-fi monsters that you won't soon forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriniRicanJunie
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 2, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Now if you dont like alien type monsters then youve never played avp because this is the longest 
 running thing in the world because they had about 6 movies 2 predators and 4 aliens and all of 
 the movies were cool as hell not the 3 or resurrection but when you saw rynona wryders ass thats 
 what made it intersesting cause shes got ass but since the first avp to the one you see in the 
 future i hope they make one for the ps3 cause that'll be beyond real but the action in the game 
 is cool you can play as three species which is cool as hell cause they all have the same story 
 line intertwined in one game which is smart sierra makes good games but take forever to come out 
 but all the weapons are cool except the aliens they just bite your head off which is funny but 
 i cant remember if this is the game with the predalien i forgot one funny thing is that everybody 
 is crosseyed or frog eyed. The really cool part was that you could go online and fight which was 
 the coolest thing but this game is very good you should get yourself a copy and you dont have to 
 have fastest computer just get one with a processor of 1.60 and above cause i have a crappy comp 
 and it worked well so have fun with the game cause theirs and couple scares here and their but 
 its overall a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyuubiNaruto666
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 2, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  Aliens versus Predator is one of those series that feels worn out even before you start the game. 
 But when you get down to the meat of the game all the games in the series become additive, fun, 
 and captivating. The movie tie ins always feel flat, but the series always shines when held under 
 the light. 
  
  When you first start AVP2 it feels like every other shooter you ever played, this is mainly because 
 you normally start as a marine. But then you have the chance to discover the predator, and alien 
 races which really bring this game full circle. Marines play solid, have a great selection of weapons 
 to mess around with, and add the much needed human element to the equation. The Predators play 
 in a semi unique manner, a manner in which being unseen is the key to taking home trophies. Finally 
 are the Xenomorphs, or as they're better know, Aliens. The Aliens play in a manner that no other 
 series has, you can be stealthy, aggressive, and dizzy all at the same time.
  
  AVP2 has a number of great things going for it, ranging from the make you crap your pants scary, 
 to the fall out of your chair laughing. There is really something in this for everyone to enjoy, 
 cherish, and run to over, and over again. There are subtle things like the predator's laugh when 
 you take some one's head off with the spear gun, and when an alien jumps out at you from nowhere. 
 This game can scare the crap out of you, make you laugh, as well please your needs for carnage, 
 justice, and entertainment all at the same time. The story of AVP2 seems rather shallow, you're 
 one of what ever you picked, and you're unraveling an evil corporate plot against every one. Each 
 race has their own lead bad guy of whom which you get to chase down and slap around. No matter 
 which side you're on other side is truly evil, each is just trying to achieve their own ends. Weather 
 it be survive, conquer, or just relax on a nice hunting trip. As shallow as AVP2 can seem it has 
 a subtle depth, and you really get the feeling of a common enemy. The graphics and sound in AVP2 
 were great for when they came out, though they're lacking by today's standards. Both the sound, 
 and graphics draw you in, and submerse you in the world of Alien, Predator, and Futuristic human 
 life. Though alone they might not seem the best, together they bring you in to the world which 
 they portray.
  
  My only real problem with AVP2 is how short the game really is, and how easy it can be if you play 
 smart. But replaying each mission doesn't feel redundant enough to stop you from cranking up the 
 difficulty, and going in guns blazing. As well the game is still satisfying despite it's shortness, 
 this is because of the feeling of accomplishment you get at the end.
  
  AVP2 is the best in it's series, and really it stands out among all the Alien and Predator games 
 as a benchmark. Even in today's world of fast computers, amazing graphics, and hit video games 
 this one still stands tall and proud. It's a great experience, as well as being worth the search 
 to find it. AVP2 is one of those games that is a joy to play, makes you feel good, and just leaves 
 you with a smile when it's all said and done. Though not the best game ever made, it's more then 
 worth a pick if you see it laying around your local game shop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  This game kicks AvP1 out of the water! Frankly, I could never get AvP1 to run correctly and to 
 have a sequel that runs perfectly and still has multiplayer servers is just too good to be true.
 
  
  AvP2 has excellent graphics.. still aging very well
  
  Gameplay is just perfect.. the alien is hard to control but you get used to it in time.. also its 
 a cool feature.. something Prey took away from.. The storyline is a bit obscure but it gets threaded 
 out in the expansion.. this gives one incentive to buy both the original and the expansion, just 
 to see how things pan out. Not to mention to extend the game!
  
  The expansion really is a game unto itself.. but it is shorter than the original.. considering 
 the overall length of the original that goes without saying that it is also kinda short. The ability 
 to play 3 different styles really kicks up the gameplay.. each race has it's own way of playing 
 and function very well together.
  
  Value: the value is with an excellent singleplayer and a strong multiplayer component you will 
 be hard pressed to find a great combination like this in most modern FPS games. I give this game 
 a 10 for both the expansion and the original game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ugotoop
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Why cant all games be as good as this. Why cant the film, AVP 2 come out sooner, instead of the 
 new year......2008.
  The abilities on this game are impressive. Marine levels are good, because of the variety of weapons. 
 Alien levels are just superb. The predator one are probably the least impressive, because of all 
 the snaking involved, although very good.
  Never tryed the multiplayer, and not really considering it.
  All I want to do now is learn how 
 to make my own levels. Because I would make it unique. Maybe like a survival mode, where Predators 
 and Aliens are in a war with the human race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oll10
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  I really LOVE this game. It should have better graphics, though.
  If you like that kind of games, then play it. Should be a bit easier, the only easy campaign is 
 the predator one. Thats a bit odd, that with predator you kill marines in one shot, but when your 
 a marine you can kill predators, not easily, but you CAN do it. And to get my 100 words minimum 
 filled, i'll do this. Monkey rap... Yeah. yeah... And so on. Aww why is there a 100 words minimum? 
 I've already said what i have to say. Remove the 100 word minimum if you don't want pointless spam 
 like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarineBomb2004
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  The thrill of the hunt, and the overall spacious maps that made the first alien vs predator for 
 the pc the best to date, has been replaced by smaller bottling-up all the action maps. It's still 
 a decent title, but for replay value it really lacks. The addition of the net gun for the predator 
 alone is worth playing the game at least, if not simply just a cheap perk. The sprites of the characters 
 has been dummied up so that it plays unreal-like, so all the skill that was required with the first 
 one goes down to just who can wing out the weapon of choice quickest. Skill goes hand in hand with 
 great control, and not with bottling up enemies into the tightest places, and making the gameplay 
 as sorry as the first Half Life Counter-Strike. Nothing else to say. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_mayhem_01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  It's great to see an older title still being praised! When I downloaded the Demo many moons ago 
 I thought to myself, This is one title I really want to get even if I had to sell my wife . Sure 
 enough when I finally saw it in stores I sold my wife (just kidding) and snatched it up and it 
 became an instant classic that would stay in my collection indefinitely! Although the same can't 
 be said for my ol' lady... The graphics, although blocky, are still holding their own even by today's 
 standards of 2007. The atmosphere conveyed fits perfectly to each story-line in single player. 
 Everything from the high tension of the lone Marine to the Aliens quick tempered violence to remain 
 alive by whatever means and to the Predator himself of unleashing his hellish arsenal of firepower 
 upon unsuspecting foes. All 3 storylines are intermingled so you'll visit familiar areas that you've 
 been before from using a different species.
  
  The sound is absolutely great. Monolith truly captured the essence of the movies within this game. 
 Bar none!
  
  Game-play is so tight that it squeaks! My only gripe is the Aliens wall climbing ability that tends 
 to disorientate you fairly quickly and will sometimes slip allowing you to fall to your death.
 
  
  Multi player is just a blast to play! If your any good than it's a riot to see people type on-screen 
 of how much of a cheater you are or that every weapon you use is, somehow, a newbie weapon. Other 
 than this, multi player is really fun. I can still find servers for this game rather easily. I 
 don't normally mention other reviewers by name and we all have a right to an opinion, but I'll 
 make an exception this time. Mace_Windu91 and the user that agreed with him/her are mentally challenged! 
 His/her review is very poor and is based soley on the fact that he/she is too simple minded and 
 sophomoric that he/she got stuck with ALL 3 species, on the very first level, and says the game 
 is to blame. I make no apologies! So if you see AvP2 up for grabs then by all means buy it! For 
 the price you'll definitely not be disappointed! It's as cheap as my x-wife, but nowhere near as 
 shallow! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5UPERMARIO
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Once in a while a game comes along that knocks you flat out and impresses you beyond all expectations. 
 This is what happened to me while playing Alien VS Predator 2. In this game you can choose between 
 Alien, Predator, or the Marine and carry out about ten interesting levels each. The 3 classes are 
 played out entirely different from one another and each is just as much fun as the others.
  
  + Its funny, the reason why I call this game a masterpiece is mainly because when you choose 
 Alien Marine or Predator and start playing, you actually FEEL like an Alien Marine or Predator. 
 With the Marine you have your dark atmosphere, heavy weapons, trusty flashlight, and team-mates 
 running around frantically. With the Alien you spend most of your time running around air ducts, 
 running on the ceiling and up walls attacking marines with your tail and biting them with your 
 teeth. With the Predator you have many AWESOME cool gadgets to use such as you infared sight, lasers, 
 staff, and cool medical equipment
  
  + The sound in this game is perfect. The voice acting of the marines is done perfectly, as the 
 predator he grunts and screams just like in the movies and even makes the crackling nasal noise 
 as he uses the infared and hides in the trees. In the alien mode ususally the sound is quiet because 
 he uses mostly stealth
  
  + This game came out 3 years ago, and under high graphics it rivals most games that came out today. 
 Looking through the predators infared visor and shooting his famous disc is worth buying this game 
 alone!!!!!!
  
  - The only thing I wish was the game was a little longer
  
  If you are a fan of ALIEN, PREDATOR, FIRST PERSON SHOOTERS, or ATMOSPHERIC ADVENTURE GAMES, then 
 I suggest you check everywhere for this truly amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlypwnage
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  This game comes pakced with 3 single player missions, and a multiplayer package. As far as graphics 
 and sound, they are fantastic, using authentic sounds straight from the movies while the graphics 
 hold up pretty well, even in 2006.
  
  The multiplayer portion of the game is plagued by heavy, heavy lag, even in low-ping servers. The 
 best way to enjoy this game's multiplayer portion is to play on a local area network, which is 
 usually not coherent, but anyway, the multiplayer portion provides some good fun. I particularly 
 liked pitting 1 predator against 3 or 4 marines. Its also fun to have an aliens vs marines game, 
 and u can even live the life cycle of the aliens from facehugger to chestburster to drone. (predalien 
 rules) . I think this game shines much more in the single player campaigns.
  
  SPOILERS
  
  The Marine
  Quite a heart pounding experience. The first time you see an alien, it will probably 
 make you jump. The guns in the game are quite entertaining, especially the pulse rifle/nade launcher. 
 I also loved the Minigun and smartgun, but i usually turn that gun to not auto-target to increase 
 the challenge. I could not beat this portion of the single player on hardcore, but i think its 
 more enjoyable on the normal setting anyway. Theres about 8 levels, most of which rock. The only 
 level i didnt like at all was betrayal, it is very hard to figure out where you are supposed to 
 go, and i mean very. but the end of that level is satisfying. The rest of the campaign will keep 
 you entertained and full of enjoyment.
  
  The Predator
  I love playing as the predator. The vision modes are very well done, the weapons are satisfying 
 (love the stick and the disc) , and it gives you a strong feeling that you really are a hunter. 
 It is so much fun to stalk marines while cloaked, have them look right at you and say things like 
 what is that? to eachother, upon which you take a huge leap and land in a tree above them, then 
 proceed to drop right behind them, decapitate one and completely waste the other guy's entire body 
 with one huge downward spear swipe. The sounds of this game really do add to the experience, be 
 sure to turn em up.
  
  The Alien
  Visceral carnage, the alien mission will also have you truly feeling like you are a perfect organism. 
 There is somewhat of a learning curve here, getting used to going up and down walls without getting 
 dizzy and losing control does take time, but once you get the hang of it youll feel unstoppable. 
 I like playing this mode on normal as the human bodies you lunge at will explode on contact, instead 
 of get dizzy like they do from a tail whip. I particularly like dropping from the cealing right 
 next to 2 or 3 guys and just tear them apart before they even have a chance to shoot. The lunge 
 capability is amazingly satisfying as is the headbite.
  
  All in all, this game has it where it counts. The only things i disliked were not knowing where 
 to go next in some of the missions, the game doesnt help you out at all and sometimes finding the 
 right vent to go in as an alien can be a daunting task. Multiplayer is good on an LAN only, so 
 thats also unfotrunate, however, this game is A MUST OWN for fans regardless of the small complaints. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jokul
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  Aliens Versus Predator was one fo the best FPS for the PC that i've had the privilage to play, 
 but when AvP 2 came out i was once again eager to lock my Gloc and start kicking alien..... wait 
 do they even have a........ ah well i'll ask next time i meet one.
  AvP was a great game, ok the campaign was very disjointed, one mission did'nt necesarlily follow 
 on the story from the last mission you played, but in AvP 2 the new developer has made sure that 
 not only do the single player campaign for each race flow nicely, they also cross over on occasion 
 like the Half Life missions pack did with the original story on Half life. For example on one of 
 the Marine missions you will come across a Predator kept in a stroage tube, you must fiddle with 
 the panel to move the tube so you can escape, but later when you start as a Predator you will find 
 yourself locked in the tube watching yourself fiddling with the control panel.
  The marine is a bit tougher in this version allowing you to last longer against Aliens and Predators 
 alike than before however your armament hasn't really changed allowing you to use all those loved 
 guns from the Aliens Film. Playing as a Predator is extremmly fun and much better than AvP. You 
 have a few more weapons and are able to recharge your power levels as and when you like ensuring 
 you can pretty much play the game as you like i. e cloaked and deadly. The weapons are cool as well, 
 allowing you to shoot a net at enemies that will eventualy destroy them in a an explosion of blood 
 and guts.
  The Alien is once again a pleasure to play, with the ability to crawl up walls to mount an ambush 
 and also a new jump attack option that literelly tears the poor guy apart. Aliens controls have 
 been updated to include a target reticule which makes it a touch easier to perform the trade mark 
 inner jaw attack.
  The sound plays a huge part in the game, as a Marine when your wandering round the levels you will 
 stain your pants when you hear the crackly thoart gurgle of a predator or the tap tap of an aliens 
 claws as they stalk you across the room. The music is eerie and keeps you on your toes.
  
  All in all a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 28, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  love this game. I really do. It's so tight and focused, so cool in almost every aspect; it makes 
 me want to play it instead of writing this review. Ah but Scott will kill me if I don't get this 
 done. First of all, the graphics and sound are great. The Lithtech engine really shines here and 
 shows us some of what it can accomplish. It's not as pretty as some other games, but the dark and 
 gritty feel of it all comes off brilliantly. The sound is stellar, with some great moments of eerie 
 music and sounds straight out of the movies (like the Predator's laughter when you take someone's 
 head off classic!) . The single player game is intense for all three species. You'll play as the 
 Alien (where you start out as the facehugger and have to hunt someone down so you can bust out 
 of their stomache and become a full grown alien) , the Predator (where you'll dominate) , and the 
 Marine (where you'll be in an almost constant state of fear and anxiety, trapped alone in a complex 
 full of evil creatures that want to eat you) . So the single player missions are worth it alone. 
 The game is actually pretty long if you play all three species, and each species has its own style 
 and unique gameplay elements. My favorite species is still the Marine. The level of intensity is 
 unmatched by almost every other game I've played, with Undying and the original AVP the only ones 
 that come to mind that can match this one. There are moments of pure heart-stopping terror in the 
 game, when I literally jumped in my seat trying to kill an alien that jumped out of nowhere in 
 the dark, or when I freaking know there is something bad and mean that wants to kill me because 
 it's on my motion tracker and then all of a sudden it roars out of a hidden hole in the wall to 
 kill me. Awesome. Multiplayer is also much more advanced and balanced than before. Each species 
 now has a fighting chance to kill the other species. Some punks complain that the Predator isn't 
 powerful enough, but honestly all the changes were done for the better. Everything isn't balanced 
 perfectly, but it's close. AVP 2 multiplayer is lots of fun. If you like the movies or were a fan 
 of the original, AVP 2 is going to make you smile. The whole game is polished, and a lot of fun 
 to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xymos
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  Alien vs Predator 2 is a game that is very faithful to the franchise that it bears it's name to, 
 with equipment and items from the movies and books, and environments that fans will recognize. 
 The game is atmospheric, keeping you on edge for most of the game, wondering when something is 
 going to come out and try to kill you.
  
  This game has some fairly impressive graphics. The character models look good, and the humans actually 
 look like they're talking, not mumbling. The environments are awesome, ranging from open skied 
 barren landscapes to swampy forests to confined corridors within instalations. But no matter where 
 you are, it all looks good. The game sometimes has some clipping issues and game speed falters 
 at times, but it's something that's barely worth mentioning, and it wont ruin your experience with 
 the game in any way. Overall the graphics will make just about anyone happy.
  
  The sound in the game is even better then the graphics. You will hear aliens hissing from the darkness, 
 running through the vents above your head, or beating on doors to get to you. The predator's roar 
 is proud and satisfying, and the blip... blip.... blip of the marine's motion sensor is a really 
 nice touch onto suspense, as I guarantee you will jump with surprise when it suddenly starts going 
 crazy with readings when moments before it was all quiet. Unfortunately the Marine's weapons sound 
 really wimpy. The voice acting is, in my opinion, well done; you wont find yourself gagging about 
 it in any case. All the little touches with the sound make a big difference, especially when you're 
 walking in the dark...
  
  The really important thing is the Game play. It's awesome! And better yet the experience changes 
 with each of the races. As the marine, you are the typical bad ass that gets called upon to do 
 the nigh-impossible, and save the day. The marine campaign is in short, a test on your heart. The 
 motion sensor can and will get into your head and start messing with your reactions. I find it 
 somewhat similar to Doom 3, in the fact that you are always on edge when running through the missions, 
 cause you just never know when and where from something is going to jump out at you. As a predator 
 you are the ultimate hunter, using your impressive tools and patience to get through the day. Sometimes 
 you are playing the intense stalker of prey, and at times you are playing the battle-rager tank. 
 As the alien, it is all stealth. You are not very strong against attack, so you have to sneak up 
 on enemies to issue your amazing damage. You can climb the walls and ceiling, and you have a pounce 
 attack that will launch you amazingly far, ending in an instant kill against some hapless creature.
 
  
  Not to mention the game also has a very good story that draws you into whats going on around you, 
 with each campaign intersecting with the others at multiple junctions, this all adds a nice touch 
 which makes you appreciate the story more; something that a lot of first person shooters lack.
 
  
  Single player is where this game really shines, as the multi-player on line is not really all that 
 great. There is connectivity issues, rampant hacking and cheating, and there is noticeable lag, 
 even on low ping servers. In the case that you do get a good game running, the experience is quite 
 fantastic. This is very hard to achieve though, making it hard to want to bother with multiplayer.
 
  
  Overall the value of this game is high, and I highly recommend it to anyone who is a fan of the 
 genre or the Alien vs Predator universe, this game will not disappoint you in the least. Play it 
 alone, in the dark, with the sound turned up... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fires_in_the_sk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  This game is great so far I have played as the Alien and the Marines.
  Ok let go through each part -
  Gamplay
  Well you get all 3 diffrent type the Alien / Marine 
 /Predator First the Alien this a fanstic point of view the groest part is were you eat your way 
 out of a guys chest also you get to run on the walls and ceilings absoultie brill.
  
  Predator
  I havent played them much so can't really comment.
  
  Marine
  This is the other 
 fun part but its also the most scary at frist eevry things quite and very dark and before you known 
 it all hell breaks loose and it make you jump a lot.
  
  As for the Graphics and Sound
  The graphics are brillent and so is the sound you here everything from the bleeps of movment of 
 the aliens to the banging on doors and walls works well togther. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valherran
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  The gameplay was excellent, choosing between three diefferent races, Aliens, Predators, or marines 
 just like the first game. The gaming experiance does change if you play online, lots of modes to 
 choose from and characters. Beware of everything! im sure i am not the only one who has said this 
 about this game. The multiplayer online ruled... up untill i discovered how overpowered the runner 
 aliens were! I did like this game alot, but i do feel that Aliens Versus Predator 2 lacks something 
 it missed from the first game. I think it lacked the horror strieght from the movies, i never got 
 scared playing this game, when i played the first one though, those aliens used to scare the crap 
 out of me when i played as the marine. So hopefully when they make a next Aliens Versus Predator, 
 it will have been better than 1 and 2 combined! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris3274
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 2, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  AVP2 get's the job done when it comes to scaring the hell of of you and just plain fun. Where do 
 I begin? I think that I will review this game in it's three different single player game scenes. 
 The Marine: The Marine is by far the best one in the game. It is the scariest of the three. The 
 pulse rifle and motion detector stayed true to the blockbuster movie series. Oh let's not forget 
 the mini-gun. Great weapon to kill those blasted aliens. I was kind of disappointed in a few areas 
 of this area of the game. You only got to use the sniper rifle during the last few seconds of the 
 game. The other disappointment was when fighting a Predator. It was not much of a challenge. With 
 your Smart Gun you just lock on and blast away until he drops. I wished that the Predator would 
 have jumped around more like in the movies. It is fighting the Aliens that is the meat of this 
 part of the game and what makes this part the best. Those guys creep the crap out of you when you 
 least expect it. They do a good job at it when it is dark and all you have are flares and a shoulder 
 lamb. You hear them but not quite sure where they are at The night vision I never used due to eating 
 the juice too quickly. Next is the Predator. The Predator is quite cool to play. It's not the best 
 but it will do. The plasma caster and disc lock on stayed true to the movie and so did the view 
 changing sounds. Same will the Predator sounds from the clock to the laugh. The thing that I thought 
 that was bad for being the Predator was it felt too powerful. I had unlimited health and power 
 for my plasma caster and healling daggers. The other thing that was a bummer was on one of the 
 Predator's views. The third view aka the Predator View. I felt like it was a wasted view due to 
 the fact that all's that it was good for was to spot out some of your Predator buddies. I only 
 used this view maybe once or twice to get a clearer view in dark areas. There really wasn't an 
 enemy you had to take down or spot using this view. There was maybe one that I can remember but 
 it wasn't no human or alien. Just a stupid creature that charges at you. Last but not least, the 
 Alien. This one is the hardest one of all the three. I say this because you don't start out a full 
 grown Drone. You are a face hugger then a chest buster. Both of which you have to stay out of sight 
 or your a dead little alien. Once you become a full grown Drone. It's pay back time now. That is 
 when you become the hunter and not the bottom of the food chain sort of creature. I loved ripping 
 the humans to shreads and chomping off their heads. You are a quick and aggile creature when you 
 are the alien. I liked how I could walk on walls and cellings. One problem was with the quickness 
 and the sometimes uneven wall surfaces. I found myself quite dizzy and confused at times. This 
 is maybe my only complaint on the alien part of the game. The night vision for the alien was cool 
 to see. I never knew that the aliens changed views in the movies. Anyways it was a plus and a needed 
 plus when in dark areas (vent shafts) . The game play was smooth in all three areas and good graphics 
 and lighting for it's time. Now to the multiplayer part of the game. If you like lag then this 
 is your game. It is laggy I tell you. I've never played such a laggy game as this on. Maybe Chaser 
 is the only game that has worst lag then AVP2. Other then the lag it's a good online game. Nothing 
 new accept there are more then two teams. Which makes it interesting. If your a human you are like 
 the bottom of the food chain. If it was for the Smart Gun, Rocket Launcher, or Pulse Rifle nade 
 laucher. You are easy prey. You are the slowest and the weakest of the three. With three different 
 teams oh wait make it four. Those corprates hate those marines. Well anyways with four different 
 teams. There is like a rock, paper, siscors sort of balance to the game. Humans are slow but have 
 tracking fire power. Aliens are quick but have to be in stricking range of there targets. Aliens 
 can see the Predator no matter if he's clock or not. The Predator has clocking which if being still 
 is the ultimate camper against the humans. The different views the Predator has makes him by far 
 the best on the field due to the targeting of both the Aliens and Humans. The Alien's sight and 
 the tracking weapons of the Humans are however the equalizer to the Predators. All in all I would 
 have to but this game in the 9 range. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrisdinozilla
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Even if you're not a fan of Aliens or Predators, you'll still love this game. This is still my 
 favorite FPS of all time. Fun, bloody, and just plain addictive. Multiplayer mode is superb, you 
 can take down a Predator fanboy as a Xenomorph, and vice versa. Players will love joining this 
 on-going warfare between the Aliens and Predators.
  
  Campaign mode is great, and it has good cutscenes, and a great plot to boot. Sadly, though, it 
 doesn't really focus between the war between the two space monsters. However, this can be easily 
 forgiven by the long levels, and awesome boss battles.
  
  Overall, people who we're dissapointed by the rather lacking Alien vs Predator MUST buy this game. 
 And FPS fans should play it at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eberkain_basic
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 9, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Lets not kid ourselves, this game is all about the movies. And man, playing a predator is just 
 sweet. 
  
  AvP2 is a follow up to the first, and just builds on the old formula with a lot of nice visuals 
 and action. The expansion pack adds more story to the single-player. The Alien missions are awesome, 
 you get to start out as a facehugger, then you are a chestburster INSIDE someone, then you run 
 around and eventually become an alien and wreck havoc. The Alien experience that all fans can love.
 
  
  Multiplayer is back, but with no real now editions. Then again, dont fix it if it works great 
 already.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krussidull
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 7, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  Im a huge fan of aliens and predators. Actually, I didnt bought this game. We were on a trip 
 in school and we got 100 swedish crowns each for buying food. Because Im such a cheapskate I just 
 bought two "raggarballar" (hot dogs) for about 20 crowns. After finishing my meal me and my buddies 
 went to the local videogamestore. I thougt I could buy a cheap game since it shouldnt cost me 
 a thing. As said before, Im a fan of Aliens and Predators so I immediatly grabbed a copy of this 
 game.
  When I came home (about 10:00 pm) I tested my new game. I chose to be a marine. After twenty minutes, 
 I was scared as hell. I knew there was a lot of Aliens around me and my flashlights battery was 
 soon empty. I turned around and watched right into the face of an Alien. I fell screaming out of 
 my chair. I felt kind of silly. 
  This is a game one really should play alone in the dark.
  
  Please dont bother about my spelling, Im just a thirteen-year-old swedish boy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyskenfan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 24, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  At first I saw the movie, I was surprised.
  
  Then I played the demo, and got interrested.
  
  Then I bought the Game, for a very low price 
 and my first impression was, "god, man, that one is beautiful, and I really mean beautiful! The 
 graphics are fascinating, and that I discovered many times in the game.
  
  Now I'm seriously a fan of that game! I think the multiplayer is best, because you are abled to 
 choose between so many different characters and weapons which were not playable in the singel player 
 game. The multiplayermaps were fascinating myself most. "Lucifer's fate" with the big red firesun 
 or the "melttunnels" known from the 3: rd Alienmovie is a great map to play in.
  
  There were only 2 things which were disturbing me. First, the whole game was "too" short, it could 
 have been longer. The 2: nd thing was, that there wasn't the possibility to have computerplayers 
 in the multiplayer, in that case it had become a masterpiece.
  
  All in all, this game is really worth to buy. So go and get it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 16, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  AVP 2 is a good game, because its full of action and provides three different campaigns, which 
 is also very good and increases the value.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is the best of AVP 2.
  The action is excellent, because you always have to watch 
 your back for enemy marines/aliens.
  The game also provides three campaigns, the first allows you to play the marines, second the aliens 
 and third the predator.
  Weapons and skills are very nice too.
  Enemies are very challenging and the aliens scare the hell out of you.
  Maps are all a bit the 
 same, but that doesnt really matter.
  
  Graphics:
  Good overall graphics, the engine runs smooth, good atmosphere and of course good looking chars 
 and enemies.
  
  Sounds:
  Sounds are good, music is scary and mysterious.
  
  Value:
  Good value, especially because there is multiplayer and there three different campaigns.
  
 
  Variety:
  Very good, nothing to say here......
  
  Online:
  Online rocks, you can choose different classes what makes online so good.
  
  AVP 2 is a good 
 day and i played it a lot in the old times.
  Cya all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armor_Key
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  This game is fun, each of the characters (Alien, Predator, Human) has it's own speciality, somehow 
 I didn't find anything useful or better than the Aliens and Predators, but it was still fun playing 
 with humans. 
  Now Alien had this ability to crawl on the walls, almost everywhere. Aliens are my second favourite 
 to play.
  Now Predators, they are to my opinion most useful and most powerful of the three. Stealth can be 
 really useful, also those weapons like those discs, lasers are pretty great. Playing with Predators 
 is probably easiest.
  Each of these teams have their own strategies, I find the most hardest characters are humans, because 
 they are just too weak.
  This game has a good replay value, because you can play with these three characters. 
  The graphics 
 are good.
  Sound are also good, nothing for complaining about, could have some tensed music, it couldn't hurt.
 
  Simply entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god2emperor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  this is a great game, the player gets accese to three different races, the first and the weakest 
 physically, M A R I N E S !!! (booo) then, the P R E D A T O R S the most high tech, and lastly 
 A L I E N S, well bute power and stealth. the latter of the three are the star of the show.
  there are lots of weapons in AvP, all of the Marines have bullet based weapons, to the exception 
 of the flame thrower and the knife. all aliens attack are melee and most can kill pretty quikly. 
 Predator weapon are mostly ran on there battery expect the disc, combistick, wristblades and plasma 
 pistle, the predator can also cloak them selves, they also have auto targeting weapons and four 
 differnet viewing system.
  there is only one type of marine, but many characters with same satatus but different starting 
 weapons, there are many types of alien and four types of predator.
  The learning curve does not take along time for the marine and a little longer for the predators, 
 and very long for the aliens because they are melee.
  it has great graphic, and by the way BUY THE GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aliendude2011
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for an easter present, thats right an easter present. I loved so much that I based 
 my internet screen name off of my favorite thing to play as, the aliens.
  Basically you are a marine who, like in most Sci-fi games, has to investigate lost contact with 
 a colony on another planet. Seriousley guys this colony thing is never going to work out! Or you 
 can play as a Predator (the only thing that can kick Arny's butt) who is obsessed with stealth 
 and gutting anything that moves. Than there are aliens that have scared the pants off of us since 
 the 70's, but there is a twist, you actually start has a facehugger!
  Every thing has been dumbed down a little bit like the aliens are slower the Predators weaker and 
 marines have a slitely better arsenal.
  If you are buying this game for any reason buy it for the multiplayer, it puts Halo to shame with 
 the numerouse maps and fight modes. Plus there are two human armies so now to get human on human 
 combat you don't have to kill your teammate like in the old one.
  This game owns all other PC and Mac games!
  It will take you a while to learn the controls for 
 every specias though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply a must have. Even though I played this one in the same time that F. E. A. R. is 
 already out and the graphics are a bit out dated. All three races are fleshed out, and missions 
 full use of the capabilities of marine, predator and alien. The plot is also spread out over all 
 three races making it a fully integrated game (and not like the first AvP) . The marine missions 
 were truely scary stuff, going into an alien hive felt just like the movies. The alien missions 
 were my second favorite giving me the opportunity from growing my little face hugger into a nice 
 alien drone, ready to pounce, claw and head-bite my way through the installation.
  
  If you ever find this game in a bin somewhere, do not hesitate to pick this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing this game not only because I am a big fan of both of those creatures, 
 but because of the graphics and sound as well. It looks so real on my pc when I play it, and the 
 sound effects are nice to listen too as well. I personally liked playing the predetors the most 
 because he hunts alone and he doesnt have to listen to no one except his own honor. He came equiped 
 with most of his weapons to begin with, although I wished they could have made his shoulder gun 
 avaliable sooner. I loved cloaking and stalking the humans and the aliens and collecting the trophies 
 in the game, as i am sure others out there enjoyed it as well. I also enjoyed playing as the humans 
 too because of the more traditional HUD screen and the many guns that they used. I liked using 
 the motion tracker because it helped me stay alive alot longer if I did not have it. The campaigns 
 are very challenging and they kept me busy for quite some time. I regret never getting the alien 
 campaign to fully work with the sound, the campaign would only work if I installed the game without 
 certain features, but for the most part, I enjoyed playing the aliens as well. They have the best 
 movement of any creature Ive seen in almost any game. The graphics at the highest level are nice, 
 and the sound has that sinister feeling to it that most of the alien movies had that really brought 
 the game to life for me. If you havent tried to play this game, I highly suggest you do. The gameplay 
 is fun if you enjoy killing alot of things, and you will learn a little history about how us humans 
 are when dealing with different things, and you will get your fill of some alien vrs predetor action 
 for the fans out there. A great game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puresthate
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  With AVP 1, players got to live the dream of being one of the races in these popular franchises, 
 pitted against one and other in bloody carnage. AVP 2 takes what made that game so good and expands 
 on it to the 'nth' degree with, on the whole, a good degree of success.
  
  Unlike the previous game, the storylines of the 3 races in AVP2 are intrinsically linked. For instance, 
 certain events you trigger as the Predator have an effect on the storyline of the Alien. A nice 
 touch is the fact that there are a few moments throughout the game where you see one of the other 
 playable characters going about what you do in their respective storyline. This absorbs you into 
 the storyline and its parallel time-line and makes you want to play as all the other races instead 
 of just your favourite.
  
  Apart from the links in story and location, the 3 single player campaigns almost feel like 3 completely 
 different games. This is of course due to the huge differences between the species you play as. 
 The Alien is fast but weak and doesn't use projectile weapons, instead relying on it's huge claws, 
 tail and the veritable head-bite to dispatch its prey. Alien abilities also include wall-crawling 
 and health regeneration through the consumption of corpses. These are pretty cool abilities and 
 make playing the Alien a savage but fun (for gore-lovers and puppy-killers) experience. It should 
 also be noted that you get to start off as a facehugger, then chestburster before playing as a 
 fully-grown Alien. These are neat, but a little pointless missions and are thankfully given minimum 
 play-time.
  
  The Predator is the hardiest of the races and uses a range of weapons which feed off an energy 
 supply. One disappointment I had with the game was the ability to completely regenerate the Predator's 
 health and energy at every respite, making it a fairly simple affair to get through his campaign. 
 Cloaking and target locking are just a few of the Predator's cool abilities.
  
  The Marine is of course pretty standard with a decent armament, but the ability to tear through 
 hordes of aliens as well as the odd Predator are the real draw of his campaign. Let alone the fact 
 that towards the end of the game you get to control a modified version of the power-loader from 
 Alien 2. The Marine's campaign is also the scariest thanks to some really creepy moments.
  
  The games graphics are pretty solid, and the various options to change the view types (eg Predator 
 Thermo) of the races are a good transfer from the movies and first game, but take away from the 
 decent graphics at work, especially if you have them on most of time. Also the game isn't as dark 
 as the first one was. To most, this will be a good thing, but I really enjoyed the more 'gothic 
 nightmare' feel of the first game.
  
  Whilst each individual campaign may feel a little too short lived, there's 3 of them, so the length 
 of the is a-ok. However, there aren't any unlockable modes etc so after you've completed all 3 
 campaigns, there is little replayability.
  
  Over all this is a decent game. It will please the fan-boys of the movies and previous game but 
 also manages to function solidly as a pick-up-and-play FPS for noobies and hard-core gamers, with 
 simple controls, brilliant sci-fi/horror atmosphere and a fast-paced but immersive storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adijan
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 15, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  The AVP series yet releases another great game , except not like extinction which was one of the 
 greatest games made, this time its set in first person point of view, which i found it be a bit 
 odd. But it worked out fine with the companies move. Now you can see yourself gain head shoots 
 from the enemy as you progress throughout the games missions and campaign. The new weapons, locations 
 and new breed of aliens and predators create the game to be a bit more challenging that the extinction 
 one. Still great gameplay to the game, yet a bit short of a camapign, could have been longer but 
 it was short to me. So if your looking for a game with great action, graphics, and some intence 
 sound, you might want to check he game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sotnick955
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Alien Versus Predator 2 was a wonderful surprise for an older game. It has a great story that involves 
 different creatures and terrains. The graphics arent exactly up to par, but considering the game 
 is old, they service. The story is different from any of the movies, but still interesting. The 
 story has enough twists to keep you wanting more. There are three different characters that you 
 can play as, a soldier, alien or predator. The options are great, but I had the most fun playing 
 the soldier mode; I could identify with him more and it felt more like a traditional FPS than the 
 alien or predator mode. The game is great fun for an older game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Yes, Rebecca, there are real monsters, and they're all fighting over the same planet. When Fox 
 Interactive and Rebellion unleashed Aliens vs. Predator on the gaming world in 1999, they managed 
 to successfully enrapture and terrify us with a glimpse into an interstellar conflict that had 
 only been raging in the confines of the comic book world. Since the late 1980s, Dark Horse Comics 
 has enthralled fans of both the "Alien" and "Predator" film franchises with tales of Alien infestation, 
 the Predators that hunt them, and the unfortunate humans that find themselves trapped between the 
 two sides. Similarly, the original title, a very successful port from the ill-fated Atari Jaguar, 
 instilled a palpable sense of dread as players ran, crawled, and leapt through level after level 
 of ferocious enemies. Fox was so convinced of the shock value experienced by watching these characters 
 battle it out they offered a pair of free underwear to people who purchased it. Two years later, 
 Sierra has teamed up with Fox Interactive and Monolith to scare devotees even more with the much-anticipated 
 sequel, Aliens vs. Predator 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusismyhomie
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This is game is one of my favorite 1st person shooter and game. I say this because it is 1st person, 
 not only for shooting, but for clawing and eating people. There are 3 stories to this game and 
 I like all of them!! One of my favorites is the Alien story cause you can just tear apart humans 
 like they are nothing (Great way to get your anger out) . If your mood says, "I wanna get scared" 
 then play the Human Story. It is hella scary and fun. I would recommend this game to alot of people. 
 9/10 stars. And for all you 1st person shooters out there, I would recommend this game to 'All' 
 of you!! It is one of the best puzzle shooters also! Check it out! and Buy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mace_Windu91
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 24, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is stupid, the graphics, gameplay and that were alright, but they were probably the best 
 parts of the game. It's pretty stupid, I ended up getting stuck somewhere on the first levels of 
 each race. It's that bad. On the first level of the alien race, you start of as them facehugger 
 thingoes, and as soon as you get close to even finding someone to attack, some guys just randomly 
 appear with flamethrowers and kill you. It's so bad that I can no longer find any words to describe 
 how bad it is. So I'm going to just stop this review and uninstall the game right about..... now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scaryguy2012
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 23, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  i like it i know alot of other ppl like it to but i want a new one its sweet and all but still 
 it needs better graphics that the online flaw in my eyes but one more its the make ur own server 
 thing its a pain in the Butt its easy but if u want to kick someone u have to leave online then 
 leave the game pull it up and kick him some times they are gone by then so thats a big pain but 
 all in all its a great game and thats all i have to say about that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  Aliens Vs Predator 2 is the Second game That you control one of the 3 Race's if you may call them. 
 The Human the Alien and the Predator. and it has more of a Story than the Last game did. so its 
 not like your just going through levels killing anything and doing the Odd thing like kill all 
 the Alien eggs and so Forth. and all the 3 story's in this game do connect to each other in a way. 
 the Charcater Voice's are Good. Withh the Odd Good Voice Actor or Actress like Jen Taylor who does 
 the Voice of Cortana from Halo 2. and the Good Moments of Terror when aliens jump at you from dark 
 corners. or Screams witch can be heard from the Other side of the Tunnel. All this Adds up to a 
 Good Game. Now Let me Get to the Review as you Might know i Do my Reviews By Graphics Sound and 
 Gameplay and My Say. just to make it more easy to Break the Review down insted of having one long 
 Review.
  
  Graphics: Not Harf Bad By now 2006 Most Gamers will be able to Have this game on High or Very High 
 now. with the odd Gamers who might have to have it on Medium like i Did 2 years Back. but as you 
 know as Technology Gets better. i can have it On very High...... Any way back to the review so the 
 game looks great no matter what setting you have it on. the game does make good use of the Monlith 
 game engine with cool out door and indoor levels the predator hud (Heads up Display) Looks far 
 the most cooler with the heat Vision and so on. while the alien is simple yet very Alien like and 
 the Marines looks very human and neat. of corse each of the races gets there own weapons and each 
 of the weapons looks great the pulse rifle the Pistol looks very neat same goes for the predator 
 weapons. the only thing i got wrong with the graphics are the Humans eyes when you look at them 
 they look like they pointing in 2 different Dirtections meaning you have google eyed Men and women. 
 although saying that it could be the way i stand at front of them. But its funny to look at. the 
 aliens look cool. a lot better than the aliens form the First AVP game. But could of been done 
 with a Bit more detail. On the Bodys that is. But looks great still. levels look great and sound 
 great each levels really does make you feel in the movies and the weapons from the movies you can 
 eayly Spot out thanks to the detail on them.
  
  Sound: sounds great on the game. the Aliens have th Odd sound from Aliens the film. when you shoot 
 them they make that really high Pitch scream from when they get shot and it feels Great no i really 
 mean it. i just love that effect Predator sounds great as well. even the taunts infact there really 
 nothing to Complain with the sound i think its done Almost Perfect. the weapons sound Great. Maby 
 the Only Thing i wold Say is That it Needs More of the Sound.
  
  Gameplay: for the most Part it Plays like a Furst person shooter with a Good amount of levels each 
 of the 3 race's are different the predator use's stealth and power the alien use's speed and Numbers 
 and the marines use's his guns and Grenades to do the job. Levls are nicely done. and allways feel 
 different. they could of put more levels in the game. But what it comes with it Well more enuff 
 to keep you busy Weapons Include the Shotgun Pulse rifle and Many More each with there own Power. 
 and Weakness. Multiplay is Fun. and there's allways plenty of poeple on to have fun with. main 
 menu is easyto Navigate through and looks cool.
  
  My Say: i would get it its a great game for any Predator or alien Fan. its great to see the classic 
 weapons Back. Multiplay is fun. like i said beofre could of been i bit better if there was more 
 levels for each Race like 1-2 more. But apart from that great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkShadow-X75
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  this game is highly addictive. the ability to play as a Marine, a predator, or an alien is a lot 
 of fun. each race has unique weapons found in the avp world. one thing i like about the aliens 
 is that you can crawl on walls and its a lot of fun to do that and sneak up on enemies. the multiplayer 
 is awesome. its a lot of fun to join a deathmatch becasue its all out killing. hunt is fun becasue 
 its a hunt. predators versus the humans. escape is also fun becasue you get to play as the aliens 
 and stalk the fleeing humans. i guarentee that you will like this game if you buy it. and ill play 
 you if you can find me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celticpred_65
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS A REVOLUTIONARY INSTANT CLASSSIC GAME OF ALL OF THE ALIEN VERSUS PREDATOR GAMES. NOT 
 ONLY THAT BUT THE SOUND GRAPHICS ARE AMAZING TOO. VERY CLOSE TO THE MOVIE, ESPECIALLY THE MARINES 
 MACHINES MACHINE GUNS. JUST LIKE HOW THEY SOUNDED IN ALIEN 3. ALSO THE GRAPHICS WERE INCREDIBLE. 
 THE ALIENS WERE A LITTLE TOO FAST THOUGH (AS IN THE WAY THAT THEY CONTROLED) . SPEAKING OF HOW THINGS 
 CONTROLED IN THE GAME, THE GAMEPLAY WAS PRETTY GOOD, EXCEPT FOR THE ALIENS, WHICH I JUST NOW EXPLAINED. 
 OTHER WISE, THE GAME WAS PERFECT. A NICE GAME TO ADD TO THE COLLECTION. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of the game I wasn't very impressed. I played and liked AvP 1, but the game 
 had many shortcomings: bad AI, over simplified gameplay, unacceptable dificulty, no in-game save...
 
  
  When I finally got around to try out, after a friend reccomended it, I was positively impressed. 
 The game has solid graphics, pleasant sound and music, and very interesting gameplay options. And 
 now, unlike Avp 1, a compelling storyline, in fact, three superb storylines, cleverly crossed over.
 
  
  But where the game truly delievers is in the differences between the three species:
  - With the marine, you play a conventional shooter, with some interesting equipement, and, for 
 the fans, a variety of weapons from the films.
  - As the predator, gadgets is everything, from the cloak, to the vision modes and weapons. It works 
 as a shooter but also has some interesting stealth action.
  - As the alien, the game becomes completely different. Stealth and cunning is every thing, weapons 
 are the body itself, and all notions of up and down are lost, since we can run on walls and on 
 the ceiling.
  
  All things said, it is a very entertaining game, and a superb one to the fans of both Alien and 
 Predator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otownshend
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be addictive, especially with surround sound speakers turned up.
  
  If you have seen the Alien films and the Predator films you will find this game to be addictive. 
 
  
  The graphics are excellent, highly detailed the sound quality is superb especially with surround 
 sound.
  
  You can play as a marine, trying to re-group with the others, or as an alien from an egg to the 
 killing machine, or as the predator.
  
  Each is brilliant to play, I love playing as the marine going around shooting anything that moves!
 
  
  Overall, Id say that this game is fun for everyone, but a real blast for a fan of the movies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkluver3152
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Aliens versus Predator 2 is one of my favourite games in the world, it is also my first M game. 
 In the game you get to play as one of three spieces, a marine sent to a planet (can't remember 
 the numbers) to rescue some civillians from trouble, a predator who came to the planet to have 
 a nice hunt and an alien who is trying to get back to his/her nest. The story between the two intercects 
 from time to time. Ex. You r the human and u need to get out of a room, there is a switch, u turn 
 it on and a cryo tube with a predator inside lifts up and u go behind it and find ur way out. In 
 the predator missions u r that pred. After a while after the pred incident (ur the human) u go 
 under an elivator and u hear the people inside talking about an alien, guess wat, u r that alien, 
 how nice. Graphics r good 4 its time and they r still kind of good today, in multiplayer it kind 
 of freaks u out wen ur a human it the dark and a predator makes a clicking sound then the next 
 thing u know ur dead. This game is great and i recommend it to all alien and predator fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InvaderZiM196
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  Ok the graphics are not the best but graphics do not depend if the game is good or not. For ex. 
 this game has not so good graphics but what makes it good is the gameplay. Just being an Alien 
 or a Predator is fun. Unlike other games like halo 2 where it lets you be a Elite but there is 
 no difference. Alien , Predator and the marine have compeletely different gameplay. Aliens are 
 the fastest and have very powerful attacks there tail stuns there claws kill and they have a one 
 shot kill move called the "headbite" where there inner jaws come out an the victoms head blows 
 up. And some can even walk up the walls and those same ones can all so pounce. Predators they are 
 stronger the humans the are fast too i think they can jump really high but there weak weapons are 
 what sets them apart from just being better in every way then the humans. They have about 9 weapons 
 the wrist blades are really strong but they are allso very short range makeing them only good while 
 cloaked. Aliens can see you when you are cloaked so they are not the best on aliens. Spear is the 
 same power but longer ranged making it good w/ aliens and there acid blood but no chance vs a human 
 pulse rifle. then there isthe shoulder cannon the best weapon that the preds have but... it eats 
 up all your energy very fast and uncloaks you. But the predators have a fair chance at winning 
 a game as any one else if you are a good player as them. Then the marines are next they can sure 
 kill. Aliens vs Marines marine win a lot of the time. Preds vs marines marines win half of the 
 time. Aliens vs Preds vs Marines (and now when if say marines i mean marines and corps) Aliens 
 most likly will win Because the predators when fighting both they have a hard time picking visons 
 and marine are most of the time easly killed by any race when they are attacking something else
 
  unlike alien that kill fast and go on to next kill faster but aliens use sneak attacks. Marrine 
 are strong by them selfs is they point I am tring to say
  Corps are marines w/ different weapon classes. they are not on the same team. All in all it has 
 a great multi-player. The best I have seen in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beardsley
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Aliens Versus Predator. I still have the nightmares - not from the creatures, but the Game. Oh 
 god, the Game...
  
  So you can imagine my trepidation when one Christmas day, I was forced to mouth out the words "Thank 
 you dad, AvP2, just what I wanted".
  
  So before I flogged it off on eBay, I decided "one quick try cant hurt". And I am still thankful 
 I took that one little try. Monolith have changed my opinion entirely since the first game, and 
 have made a truly briliant game, doing all the things the first should have done, and so much more.
 
  
  Again, the same formula applies, choose Human (now more powerful and fun) , Predator (with more 
 Predator esque outdoors escapades and more familiar equipment) , or the favourite, Alien (with very 
 good level design and gameplay) . But past that, so much has changed.
  
  The levels are well paced and very well designed - you feel like you are achieving something throughout 
 the game, and you have obvious challenges and rewards to achieve. And of course, the storyline 
 is massively improved. Take the alien for instance - you start out life as a facehugger, stored 
 away in some cargo. No attacks, just a very fast run, and a jump. You have to explore your way 
 through a human ship, and find a sleeping member of the crew to facehug, where you then have to 
 eat through his chest (thats right, you actually get to play a chest burster!) . Of course, the 
 evolution is not complete yet - you then are a chestburster on the look out for something to eat 
 - once you find a chicken pen (I know, a bit odd, but still) - you manage to grow into a full on 
 alien. But this is where this is incredible - you get to do this in multiplayer too! You start 
 out as an alien facehugger - depending on the character you attack, you become that alien - Hug 
 a predator, become a Predalien, etc.
  
  The game overall has been well thought out, and is very very creepy in parts, especially if you 
 play as the human - with some very scary levels particularly early on in the game.
  
  Overall, a vast improvement, and in light of such a travesty of the original game, definitely worth 
 getting hold of - especially now it is out on budget! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobby555
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Great game, awsome to be able to play as all those famous movie villans. Loved going through the 
 life cycle of the alien drone. The multyplayer is fun and a little adicting if you can get a good 
 server. Many different playable classes in the multiplayer... ( more that battlefield series has 
 anyways) . WIde selection of weapons and abilities. Story mode is good but not spectacullar, best 
 story modes are fore the alien and the marines, the predator's seems to fade in and out of different 
 types of troubling scenarios. I can most certainly say that if a new aliens vs. predator came out 
 tommorow I would buy it no second thought, if only there would be another... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlfolkman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 13, 2005 1:32 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for a couple of years now, and I still come back to it. In fact, I never got 
 too far, because even on easy level, it is fairly challenging, regardless of which race you play. 
 In terms of a 1st person shooter type game, I don't know if even now there is a game that beats 
 it, in terms of combining action, variety, replayability, and scariness (at least when you're the 
 humans, because those little lights don't do much for ya, ya can't see a thing!) . Most 1st person 
 shooters are a 1 trick pony, maybe having cool weapons and a cool multiplayer feature. But that's 
 where it usually ends for shooters, you go through level after level of blowing stuff up. The thing 
 that makes this game so much fun is the variety more than anything, each race having a completely 
 different set of missions. Even tho I like the aliens the least (mostly because they always owned 
 me in multiplayer) , they have probably the most interesting story line of all 3. You start out 
 as the facehugger, lay an embryo in a guy, and burst out of them, getting bigger and stronger as 
 you kill more things. I thought that was an interesting twist, when I first got the game, I assumed 
 I would just be one of the regular, biting and clawing aliens, so that was kind of neat. It is 
 also pretty interesting playing as a predator, and using their different vision types and weapons. 
 
  
  Overall, it's a pretty engrossing experience. It has a good mix of action, challenge, and will 
 jangle your nerves a bit with the suspense, music, and surprises. There are also some environmental 
 challenges, like stuff falling through the ceiling at you (human) , or making some tough jumps (predator) . 
 What truly sets this game apart, other than the replayability with the 3 different races, is that 
 it keeps you guessing as to what is next. The multiplayer is also pretty fun, very entertaining 
 having aliens, marines, and predators running amok and blasting each other. Furthermore, there 
 is variety within those races. For example, 1 type of alien runs faster, but the other type takes 
 a bigger beating. 1 type of marine has different equipment than the other, same with the predator. 
 So in multiplayer, there are actually different choices within the 3 species, which I think adds 
 great depth to it.
  
  That said, it is not a perfect game, of course. While I like the idea AVP2 has behind making the 
 game a little frightful for the marines, the utter darkness does get to be a bit too much. I understand 
 they did that for the scare element, but a lot of times, you flat out cant see what you are doing 
 or where you are going... and the aliens are tough enough with how fast they are and being able 
 to run around on ceilings and walls. By the time you see 'em, its already too late... you basically 
 just have to hope you have a lot of health and armor to last through a couple swipes of their claws. 
 It's also a little on the difficult side. Granted I am not an expert first person shooter player 
 (mostly an RPG/adventure game type) , but I had it on easy, and the aliens were really sticking 
 it to me on only the 2nd or 3rd mission (can't remember which) .
  
  Other than those 2 minor things, pretty much a perfect game, really. I don't think you can ask 
 more, and by now, you can probably get this game pretty cheap. It won't have the graphics of Far 
 Cry or other recent FPS games, but the replayability and uniqueness of the game make it worth buying 
 even now, a couple of years or so after it was released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebbderelict
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic. I love the Alien & Predator franchises, and this game does them great justice. 
 It's even better then the first AVP.
  
  When you're the Marine, it's instense and scary. When you're the Alien, your sleek and fearless. 
 And when you're the Predator (my personal favourite race to play) , you're just too damn cool.
 
  Lots of weapons, great sound, great graphics, and it's the only game in my library, that still 
 draws me onto online play, adding even more replay value for me. Aside from online I've played 
 through the Predator campaign a number of times, with consistent fun.
  
  If you have a PC, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwarsyoda
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2005 8:49 am PT
Review:  the emphasis of the quality of the graphics of todays systems is perhaps misplaced. the quality 
 of the story and realism of the atmosphre is what relly makes a game. now dont get me wrong, i 
 love the fact that i can play a game on two high def tvs. this game is a perfect example of a sequel 
 bettering the original. the graphics are ok and the is just right. the thing that makes this game 
 amazing is the sound that is created to scare the player. if you where headphones when you play, 
 youll really enjoy it. the silence and abence that is created to highten your sense of the attack 
 and the weapons sound just like in the movie. this makes for a really imersive experince. the way 
 the mission unfold is increbily griping and the pay off for a head shot is great. i would reccomend 
 these games to any fan of FPS or teh movie. the Marine campain is expecialy good. so if you want 
 to drop 10 bucks on a good game. make this a choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:37 am PT
Review:  The game concept brings together 2 of the greatest movies - Predator and Aliens - and offers you 
 the chance to play either a human marine or one of the creatures. 
  
  Every option has its strengths and weaknesses. The predator is in my opinion the easiest and strongest 
 to play, and the marine is the most difficult. The alien has the advantage of not really being 
 bound to gravity - it can climb walls etc. with ease. That makes it a formidable opponent! The 
 gameplay is realistic and the graphics are good. 
  
  I've just bought AvP 2 though, and it's much better in terms of graphics, so if you're thinking 
 of buying this one, I'd rather opt for the new one, except if you get a really good deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emokid00
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  SURVIVAL OF THE FIERCEST
  On a cold, distant planet, the war against extinction is on and your command skills will determine 
 its outcome. For the first time ever on PlayStation2 and XboxTM, control an Alien hive, direct 
 a Predator clan, or lead an elite squad of Colonial Marines and fight for the survival of your 
 race. Experience the Aliens versus PredatorTM universe from the perspective of the Aliens, the 
 Predators, or the Colonial Marines in 7 unique missions customized for each race. Control never-before-seen 
 Aliens, Predators, or Marines and upgrade your weapons and abilities to gain a tactical advantage. 
 Do you have what it takes to win this ultimate battle of the species? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akr321
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:07 am PT
Review:  To start things off, the original AvP is not a game I have fond memories of, it was excessively 
 monotonous and the lack of a save feature annoyed me to death. I was pleasantly surprised by this 
 game. Most of the monotony is broken up, you get to play as the entire alien life cycle, and the 
 mission structure nicely breaks up the monotony. However, the graphics disappoint slightly in being 
 a little rough around the edges, and like most FPS games, this gave me severe nausea, so much so 
 that i couldn't finish it. But it's still great, and even though it didn't have much of a story, 
 was pleasantly interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avpget
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 3, 2005 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Alien vs. Predator, one of my favorites games Ive played. Its challenging, creepy and gory. You 
 can play a Predator using stealth and a bunch of cool weapons, a human using an arsenal of weapons, 
 and an Alien. All offer the same story but in different points of views. The graphics aren't that 
 impressive but the sound and game play made me freak out a few times playing as a human. Whats 
 best of all other then a solid single player mode is an addictive multiplayer mode where three 
 teams fight each other. Although the balancing does have some issues in multiplayer. So if youre 
 a fan of Alien or Predator pick this game up if not still for whats it worth I think youll be 
 happy with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gerg1988
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 29, 2005 2:57 am PT
Review:  The game Alien Verus Predator 2, is the sequel to the highly successful original Alien Verus Predator 
 game. AVP 2, advances on the success of the original with fast paced multiplayer, fantastic single 
 player and great gameplay. The graphics in its release were the best against other current competitors 
 of the time, however have lost their quality over the years. 
  AVP 2, also is a rare game boasting three awesome single player campaigns, each with different 
 weapons, specialties and stories that intertwine within the action. The single player allows the 
 user to play as either the USMC Marine from Aliens, a Predator and the Xenomorph (aka Alien) . 
 
  
  The Marine campaign is great FPS action in which no game has come close to the intensity of having 
 cloaked predators stalking your every move. The story is also very enjoyable taking parts of Kubricks 
 Full Metal Jacket and mixing it with Camerons Aliens to create a great story. The weapons include 
 pistols, Pulse Rifles, Smart Gun (locking on Machine gun) , shotguns, SADAR (rocket launcher) and 
 the good old shotgun. The marine also gets to fight in a Mech Warrior like level blasting Aliens 
 with flame throwers, mini guns and lasers to the climatic Alien Queen.
  
  The Alien campaign further demonstrates this unique game in which the user begins as a Face Hugger 
 and has to find a suitable victim, then a small warrior alien, followed by the warrior alien itself. 
 The alien unlike most FPS shooters, does not have any weapons apart from its claws, tail and deadly 
 Bite. The alien campaign is further enjoyed by the ability to climb on walls and in order to heal 
 eat people and predators.
  
  The Predator campaign is also very enjoyable due to the ability to be invisible to humans and stalk 
 them and kill them using the predators variety of weapons. The predator uses thermal vision to 
 see the humans and a special vision to track aliens and also has the normal view. The predator 
 also has a variety of weapons including Spearguns to stick people to walls, the Plasman Caster, 
 Combi Stick and the Predators talons to fend off the Humans and aliens in battle.
  
  The multiplayer is also great and is still being played today due to its fast pace and unique character 
 classes. Each of the single player classes and weapons can all be played, making exciting multiplayer 
 in which predators are killing aliens with their plasma casters, whilst being tracked by the Marines 
 smart guns.
  
  Overall Alien Verus Predator 2 is a classic unique first person shooter, which is well worth a 
 look for in your game stores world wide, (I found mine in a bargin box in EB Games Australia) and 
 even if you do have it already, isn't about time for a new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: len47811
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  One of the best FPS games to date!!. Aliens can be a lil boring at times, playing predator is the 
 most fun, the weapons are exactly the same as the the Predator movie's character. Much better than 
 Alines vs Predator or Gold, Very addicting game. It would have been interesting if the had added 
 the abiltiy to get in vehicles and drive and fly, but it still gets major kudos from me. Great value, great 
 graphics, decent story line, will there be a sequel? The movie was good also, game was better, prolly 
 find it for $10 in bargain bin somewhere. Im trying to get to 100 words but evidently im not there 
 yet, what else can i say? This is a great game, also Return to castle waolfenstein is great, actually 
 better than this, but this comes in a definite 2nd for FPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noonryder
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 21, 2005 1:22 pm PT
Review:  My friends told me about it and I was sceptical at first. I'm thinking, "How can a 3 or 4 year 
 old game be any fun?". Believe me, it was one of the best things I did this summer. I mean, shooting 
 stuff is fun, but when you have a predator or alien stalking you, I gets intense. We had an entire 
 LAN party for this game not too long ago, and believe me, it was hellacool. Each race has its own 
 classes and each class has specialized weapons and attributes. For example: Assault marines start 
 out with a missle launcher and kick-arse smartgun (fancy for an auto-tracking, fast-firing machine 
 gun) . Like I said, awesome. If you don't agree, well, I guess you don't know jack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herosuperdude
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 18, 2005 11:16 am PT
Review:  When I play AVP 2, I think it's cool that you can choose from three different species to play as, 
 but when the game starts, and I start to walk around as either a person, and alien, or a predator, 
 something just isn't there. It feels like the game needs something more. It feels a little empty. 
 The weapons, game play, and grahpics are good, (Well, the graphics are terrible compared to now'a 
 days graphics, but they were good at the time) but it just seems annoying and a little boring. 
 But I wouldn't call it a bad game. I also wouldn't call it a good game either. But I know several 
 other people who love the game, so don't just go by what I say. I think you should try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SataN_69_
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Granted the animation isn't the best and sometimes some levels in both single palyer and multiplayer 
 can be reptiative its not likely to happen often if at all. Plus its not ahrd at all to learn to 
 control all 3 races with ease and the multiple classes are well-balanced and fun to play. Again 
 this is one of the best ever made and it should go down in the books. This game is absoultely a 
 must have even today. The music fits the atmostphere and the many differnt multiplayer modes are 
 all fun. The cahracter models although somewhat bulky are all detailed extremly well, and it has 
 a great community of both hardcore and new players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srickert12
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 23, 2005 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Aliens Vs. Predator 2 was 100 times better then Aliens Vs. Predator. Everything about the game 
 was improved. The graphics were really stunning. The interface was easy to use. The storyline was 
 great and kept you interested at all times. As in all games there were a few bugs and patches to 
 fix them. I personally loved the game and got a lot of enjoyment out of the 21 single player missions 
 that had 3 interlocking story lines. The Alien Race is a lot easier to play in this game then it 
 was in AVP. I would recommend this game to anyone who likes the movies Aliens or Predator. It has 
 a lot of nice features included in the game. The graphics were very good for when it was released 
 in mid 03. I found the different vision modes available in the game for the alien and predator 
 were very realistic looking and the night vision used by the marines was actually pretty close 
 to what night vision really looks like. It has some of the best special effects I have seen in 
 a while and you could interact with a lot of objects in the game. I liked the way the storyline, 
 when playing through the game, with different species all interlocked with each other. The jumping 
 on it was a little difficult. The LithTech graphics engine was really impressive. You had a very 
 impressive arsenal of weapons at your disposal. The sound and music were equally as impressive 
 which made for an incredible gaming experience. One thing I would have liked to see in the game 
 is the ability to have team members and no being solo and sent off on your own to do the impossible. 
 Maybe AVP3 will incorporate that into the game. Overall this game is well worth the money. You 
 will get your moneys worth and a lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2005 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I can't tell you how many hours of my day were devoted to this game for a very long time. The 
 online multiplayer is what I found to be the best feature. A patch later in the game's life allowed 
 you use vehicles, like the mech looking things. You can chose between Humans, Predators, and Aliens. 
 It's amazing how different each race is from the next. Some are really good at sneaking and attacking 
 silently with the alien. Some are killer with the cloaking ability of the Predator, using the disc 
 of death to take off your head before you knew what happened. Me, I was a good marine. Using the 
 sniper rifle and rocket launcher to really anger the players around me. Anyway, this game is a 
 classic to me and is worth every penny you spend on it. I wish they would bring out AVP 3. But 
 instead they released AVPE, which was terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEATH775
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2005 9:37 am PT
Review:  For all the PREDATOR and ALIEN fans this game is a must buy. It will be great for your collection. This 
 game is really intense even tho that the graphic is quite low. But I don't care about that. Cause 
 when you play the game you get to choose your character ,which is a PREDATOR, ALIEN or HUMAN [MARINE] . Trust 
 me the story mode is great. There's a lot that you can do in the game. My favourite would be the 
 PREDATOR. Cause the PREDATOR has the ability to cloak and heal. Which is a good thing to do when 
 you are out hunting. The PREDATOR also has tons of cool weapons, one of the best if you ask me. The 
 other part that is great about this game is the multiplayer. Here you get to choose all different 
 kinds of character for the PREDATOR, ALIEN and HUMAN which you don't get to use in the story mode. Overall 
 this game is a must buy for the fans. But if your not a fan quick be one or just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: declanmurphy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 7, 2005 10:53 pm PT
Review:  i only played each campaign for about two mins before i got bored but the multiplayer is my favourite 
 multiplayer game even better then cs some people say there is a small selection of map but this 
 can be solved by dnl the map pack and u dont need that many maps anyway because the ones u get 
 are fantastic there are good weapons and the game is very easy to pick up and play and there is 
 still plenty of servers so dont worry
  about that at all and there is not a problem with cheaters and not everyone is experts so it is 
 a good game for beginers i barely ever get frags in cs but i get loads in avp2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onuracengiz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 15, 2005 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Two of the most successful sci-fi movie franchises in the late 70s and early 80s are Aliens and 
 Predator. Almost everyone is familiar with both of these titles and their subsequent sequels. In 
 an effort to combine each of these in a single computer game, Aliens vs. Predator was put on the 
 et several years ago; I remember seeing it around, but I never actively played it. Intent on proving 
 upon the original, a strange grouping of Sierra, Fox Interactive, and Monolith formed what has 
 become Aliens vs. Predator 2. The sequel builds upon the original, offering campaigns from each 
 of the three perspectives: aliens, predators, and marines. Will Aliens vs. Predator 2 be full of 
 face-hugging action (from the alien perspective) , or be full of face-hugging action (from the human 
 perspective) ?
  As I noted in the random collection of disjointed words I like to call an opening paragraph, Aliens 
 vs. Predator 2 features three different campaigns for each of the three species present in the 
 world of AvP2: aliens, predators, and humans. These three different experiences are something that 
 is not found in many other first person shooters, and the three campaigns combined reach the amount 
 of gameplay (time-wise, that is) found in other shooters. Not included with the release, but available 
 on the AVP2 website, is a set of level building tools to make your own custom levels; many games 
 are doing this now, seeing the success and longevity that Half-Life experienced. Ill talk more 
 about the single player missions later on, so lets see what multiplayer has to offer. 
  The number of multiplayer modes found in Aliens vs. Predator 2 is more than what may be found in 
 most other games. We, of course, have the classic deathmatch and team deathmatch versions of gameplay, 
 but four extra ways to play online are included. In Hunt, one player is it and must try and kill 
 the other contestants. In Survivor, one player starts as a Mutant, and tries to capture Survivors 
 to bring over to their evil side. In Overrun, Attackers vie to kill all the Defenders before time 
 expires. And in Evac, the Attackers are trying to prevent the Defenders from reaching an Evac point 
 on the map. These are all variations on the kill everyone theme, but it is nice to see that some 
 variation in multiplayer gameplay is found. On top of this, the chaos of aliens, predators, and 
 humans dueling with each other makes for another aspect that most other games miss. With the variance 
 derived from having three distinct species playing at the same time, Aliens vs. Predator 2 delivers 
 in the features department.
  In a game that is punctuated with atmosphere, it is important to have appropriate sound and music 
 to complete the experience, and AvP2 does this in a convincing manner. Firstly, all of the sounds 
 are taken directly from the movies, from the sound of the pulse rifle to the roar of the Predators. 
 This goes a long way in creating a believable sci-fi environment, especially for people who have 
 seen all of the movies. Secondly, the background music is also appropriately haunting, and picks 
 up the pace during tense scenes. This is the type of sound we expect from a game based on a movie 
 franchise, and Aliens vs. Predator 2 certainly delivers.
  The gameplay in Aliens vs. Predator 2 comes in three flavors, one for each of the included sides. 
 Each of the three species dictates a different approach to gameplay, and all of these are dissimilar 
 enough to make it feel like three different games every once in a while. The marines are the most 
 traditional of all the sides to play. They come equipped with pistols, shotguns, pulse rifles, 
 smartguns, flamethrowers, rocket launchers, grenade launchers, miniguns, and sniper rifles. Of 
 course, we have the motion tracker to build the tension when many blips appear, heading your way. 
 I found that the motion tracker was sometimes slow in updating after I relegated enemies to smoking 
 piles of acid, but its a small problem. The marines regenerate health by picking up medical packs. 
 The predators, using the cloaking device, have mostly close combat weaponry, such as the wristblades 
 and spears, but youll eventually get plasmacasters, spearguns, and disc launchers. In the most 
 unbalanced issue in the game, the predators can heal themselves using the medicomp, and recharge 
 their power that the medicomp uses with the energy sift. This means that predators can effectively 
 never die, and is a balancing issue that I am surprised was overlooked. Predators have several 
 vision modes (seen in the movies) to detect their prey more easily. Aliens have the least impressive 
 arsenal, and just rely on clawing, headbiting, pouncing, and tailwhipping. Of course, they can 
 also walk on the walls, so they are not relegated to the classic notion of gravity (take THAT Newton) . 
 Aliens also have a night vision mode, and eat their prey to regain health. 
  
  The levels themselves are very well done: they are mostly linear, offering few chances to explore, 
 but the outdoor arenas have more options. Another nice touch is the fact that the three campaigns 
 tie together: you can see yourself as an Alien during the Marine campaigns: thats cool. As the 
 Alien, you progress from a facehugger, finding a viable host, to a chestburster, to a full grown 
 adult: thats cool. Its also cool that the developers didnt wussy up and shy away from the Mature 
 rating; this is a game based on a couple of rated R movies. The bad aspect of the game is the heavy 
 amount of scripting used: the enemies will always appear from the same locations in the same numbers 
 every time. This makes replaying the same level after youve died much less surprising and repetitious. 
 Despite this, Aliens vs. Predator 2 is still loads of fun and a blast to play.
  Aliens vs. Predator 2 uses the Lithtech engine for rendering graphics, used in No One Lives Forever. 
 Now, the Lithtech engine isnt the most beautiful graphics engine around (see Quake III) , but it 
 certainly does a good job here depicting the dark and moody levels for the game. The detail of 
 the people, places, and things is very good, and the beheading sequence is especially convincing. 
 Youll easily recognize the exotic species during the game, which are pretty well detailed. The 
 people at Monolith did a wonderful job in warping the Lithtech engine to show convincing levels. 
 The story itself forwarded by the way of cutscenes, which conveys the movie atmosphere of the game. 
 All told, the graphics in Aliens vs. Predator can compete with most game on the et, and look very 
 well done and professional.
  Aliens vs. Predator 2 builds upon the foundation laid by its predecessor, and ends up being one 
 of the better first person shooters around. Varied gameplay stems from the inclusion of three 
 distinctly different species, and this keeps the game fresh: if you get tired of being a Predator, 
 just switch over to another campaign. The graphics and sound are first-rate, and the multiplayer 
 has some innovative modes of play. Aliens vs. Predator 2 is one of my favorite shooters, and I 
 routinely come back to play some more of the game. Anyone who is a fan of shooters or the movies 
 (or both) should not be disappointed by this juicy offering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterofMages
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2005 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Playing as Alien: the easiest of the three characters. The early "stealth" levels are boring and 
 i dislike them quite a bit. Playing as an alien drone is tons of fun, towards the end with lots 
 of robot guys it can get a little challenging
  
  Playing as Predator: I like the gadgets alot. This is my favorite of the three. My only problem 
 is that it gets really really hard at the end few levels (seeing a trend?) Also some weapons are 
 unbalanced, which detracts from multiplayer.
  
  Humans: The hardest i feel, the atmosphere is great and it can be very enjoyable. The weapons are 
 the best. I have played this character the least though as i prefer the non-humans..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 21, 2005 6:22 am PT
Review:  First of all, AvP2 far surpasses the original, in every respect. This game is great. Visuals and 
 sounds are amazing, but the gameplay really exceeds. 
  
  In AvP2 you choose your species, either a gun-toting Marine, a terrifying Alien or a fearsome Predator. 
 
  
  As a Marine, levels are scary and frenzied. Predators hunt you invisbly, while Aliens jump from 
 the darkness to maul you. The marine motion detector really adds to the atmosphere, as whenever 
 you hear it beep, your heart rates increases massively. Something is behind me, 7 metres away - 
 Oh, it's only a crane swinging in the wind. Lucky. 
  
  Predators primarily use energy weapons, such as Plasma Casters and Shoulder Cannons, shooting savage 
 blasts of fiery hurt towards your enemy. Spearguns are great, especially when they are used for 
 severing and pinning enemie's heads to walls. You hunt your prey with stealth, using 3 different 
 vision modes on your mask.
  
  Aliens climb walls and use their claws, teeth and tail to inflict pain. Wall climbing is great. 
 However, this is probably the weakest campaign of the game.
  
  Multiplayer is also very good. The species are well balanced, and maps are well designed.
  
 
  Get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximus_2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 13, 2005 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I played through the alien campaign first because I knew I would love crawling along the walls, 
 and I have played some of the marine campaign. I've ended up playing all three species on multiplayer 
 too. The problems I have with the game are mainly problems with the aliens portion. While crawling 
 on the walls I fall off occasionally due to small portions of wall/ceilling where it turns 90 degrees 
 or more and the headbite does indeed miss far more than it should.
  
  The sound gets a little repetetive if you pay enough attention to it. The graphics were just fine 
 in my opinion, I have to say that I found no evidence that would suggest that the lithtech engine 
 sucks. The story is probably one of the best you'll find in a FPS. I really like the gameplay in 
 general so this game deserves an 8.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: atom420
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 10, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Aliens Versus Predator 2 (AVP 2) is a great game that offers a lot variety to the gamer and a lot 
 of fun.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of AVP 2 can be split into three different sections as the player can choose 
 to play as a marine, a predator or an alien and experience the same story line from three different 
 perspectives. There are seven levels per species which make a lot gameplay for the gamer. The way 
 the game plays for marines is very much like your standard First Person Shooter (FPS) and it plays 
 very well. The difference comes really when the player plays as a predator or alien. As a predator 
 the player will be on the hunt and so must make the most use of the predators' visions and unique 
 weaponry. As an alien the player has no weapons so must use stealth, speed, and ferocity to succeed. 
 Gamers will see that a lot has gone into designing the levels for each species as levels cater 
 for different species characteristics.
  
  Graphics: The graphics of AVP 2 are not the best around but they certainly are not the worst. The 
 graphics do a more than average job of setting the scene for the gamer. The best thing about the 
 graphics is that they accurately take from the films and comics the things which are necessary 
 such as the predators' various visions. When in heat vision mode (while playing as the predator) 
 it looks exactly the same as in the films.
  
  Sound: The sound in AVP 2 is great as again like the graphics takes everything needed from the 
 films to make the gameplay as authentic as possible. When using a marines pulse rifle it sounds 
 like the pulse rifle from the film; and when changing vision modes as the predator again it sounds 
 just like the film. There is not much more they could have done with the sound.
  
  Value: The single player portion of the game lasts a fare while but maybe not long enough. But 
 even if the single player campaign is not long enough for you, you can take the game online and 
 player various games such as death match, survivor, and team death match. The online play adds 
 many extra hours of gameplay and is different as there are three different species to play as or 
 fight, all with their own strengths and weaknesses.
  
  Tilt: Overall AVP 2 is a great game that is a must buy for any FPS fan. The choice and variety 
 given to the gamer is amazing and it can be seen that a lot of effort has been put into developing 
 this game to make it an accurate portrayal of the films and comic books from where all the AVP 
 fiction started. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -spiritfall-
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2005 2:59 am PT
Review:  AvP2: The name alone is enough to buy the game. The sequel to the much esteemed original AvP deserves 
 its spot in any FPS fanatics library. The game is based off of two movie franchisesThat said lemme 
 give you my impressions of AvP2.
  
  The SP aspect of AvP2 has changed the ways an FPS is played. Instead of one SP campaign, you get 
 to pick from three, one for each "species", Marines, Predator, or Alien. Each species plays differently, 
 making the game much more interesting. Its kind of like getting three games in one. When you finish 
 one campaign, you can start a different one that requires totally different gameplay tactics. I 
 won't go in depth on each species, but I will give you a taste.
  
  Marines: Your basic grunt, jarheads of the future if you will, equipped with state-o-the-art weaponry, 
 and lots of it.
  
  Predator: Everyone favorite trophy-grubbing B. A. You got the weaponry you see in the movies. From 
 the Wristblades, the Spear, and the Shoulder Cannon. Oh and did I mention you can become invisible.
 
  
  Alien: Slimy and fast as hell, the only thing more lethal than this melee-only fellow is a bullet, 
 and not by much. Climbing on walls, accessing air ducts, and biting the heads of your victims for 
 a much needed, and healthy snack are whats in store.
  
  The sound in this game is fantastic. Ripped from right out of the movies, it really gives you a 
 smile. You stand around for hours switching the Predators Visor Scanning Modes, just because it 
 sounds cool. Playing as a Marine, you will more than likely expend more ammo into walls and ceiling, 
 than into actual enemies. Plus, nothing beats playing as Alien and using your taunt, a hissing 
 Alien scream again ripped from the movie, while exiting an air duct into a room full of unarmed 
 humans.
  
  Grafxs in the game are nicely done, but are a bit "meh" compared to todays eyecandy. The lighting 
 works well in given you several heartattacks that could be served you better later in life.
  
  Mplayer works a bit like the battlefield series, whereas each race has different classes, with 
 different attributes, etc. More fun than you can shake a boomstick at.
  
  My advice, pick it up if you can still find it, its worth it. Survival Horror at its best! And 
 Hey it doesn't even have the words Resident or Evil in the title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntercubs54
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2005 3:31 am PT
Review:  This game was fun to play, and was better than I thought it would be. The single player and mutliplayer 
 modes are both great, and in a way equaly great. I just love the length if the single player story, 
 and the story is a great one, not comparable to either Halo games but still good, especially if 
 you like the Alien, Preadator, or Aleins VS. Predator movie, and if, and I mean if, you ever get 
 bored of it then you can always play online, which is harder to get used to then most multiplayer 
 games, but after a while you can get really good at it. The gameplay is very good, and you have 
 a lot of control over the player you are playing as. The graphics are not very good unless you 
 have a good graphics card and put the graphics settings all the way up, but that makes them good 
 a best. the sound is good, the voice acting, the guns, the aliens, they all make good sounds, that 
 sound similar to the sounds of the movies. The value is good because you can continue to play this 
 for a long time with its good storymode and its very fun, but I have to say repetative multiplayer 
 mode. I overall enjoyed this game and thought it was fun to play. The tilt is very high for me 
 due to a very good story line and enjoyment because I am a fan of the movies, despite its mediocre 
 visuals. You can buy this game anywhere from $10-$20, and in my opinion its worth more than that 
 so if you have an extra $20 go out and buy this game, at best buy I saw the deluxe pack, The 2 
 expansion packs and the origonal AVP 2 game for $20 bucks and thats a bargain, buy this game, its 
 a surprisingly good title for the pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S7ATER
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 26, 2005 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Like its predecessor this game has the fear that people look for in an alien vs predator game. 
 The graphics have greatly improved, except for the in game cutscenes. The people just look like 
 a joke, The plot was refreshing to see since the first AVP had none. But i believe they could have 
 done so much better with it. Sound was also greatly improved. The difficulty seemed as if the odds 
 were greatly against you, basically handicapped. Adding vehicles and gun turrets was a nice touch, 
 being able to mow people down with a huge turret gun definetly gets you to feel as if you should 
 do this at home and kick some major alien / predator butt. Pretty good game all in all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 10, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I never played the original Aliens vs. Predator. I had seen screens and watched some people play 
 but I wasn't that interested. But when #2 came out I figured I would give it a try and I am happy 
 to say that I did for the marine levels alone.
  
  You can start off the game as either one of three races but it is recommended you do them in order 
 to follow the story line. The marine levels are extremely nerve racking as the lack of lighting 
 and noises you hear along with the range finder reporting something over in that corner left me 
 seriously jumpy everytime I played it. Even when I replayed the game, knowing where the aliens 
 would be coming from I was jumpy. You can use your flashlight but it has an extremely short life 
 span. You also have some flare you can pick up and when you throw them at the wall they will stick, 
 giving off an eerie glow that casts more shadows around you. The motion detector was probably my 
 favorite toy due to the fact that you could actively see where creatures were coming from but just 
 not if they were up or down from you so I would be swinging my weapon in wild archs trying to find 
 the alien creatures.
  
  Did I mention the sound effects at all? If I haven't then I have completely done this game a disservice. 
 One word, creepy. The aliens scuddle, the wind blows and things crash. And when this is happening 
 in a low light level... True fear. Most of this I experienced in the marine level and some in the 
 Predator level too. The sounds in the alien level are just as creepy, but since your playing as 
 an alien, I didn't feel the suspense I did in the marine levels.
  
  When I had completed the single player levels, I moved onto the multi-player levels next and for 
 a few years I really enjoyed it until all of the hacks and cracks started showing up. But if you 
 manage to find a good server with plenty of people on it, then you can become instantly addicted.
 
  
  So in closing I would like to say that there is a lot I didn't touch on, the weapons for the marines 
 or predators, the class structure in multi-player or even my take on all three races. The reason 
 for that is I would simply recommend trying them yourself as everyone will have a different take 
 on there favorite character or weapons. I personally prefered the aliens in multi-player and the 
 marines in single player. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valve_89
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2004 3:03 am PT
Review:  AVP2, is a fantastic game.
  You can choose three different races; humans, aliens, predators.
  When you choose Alien's story, 
 the game makes a Alien simulation. This simulation do the game to get a really Alien life.
  And when you choose predators or humans, the different races have a simulation too.
  The story 
 is fantastic, because Monolith Prod, and Fox worked to make a fusion about Alien's movies and Predator's 
 movies.
  Finally the graphics are excellent, the sound and the gameplay too.
  The sound is very important in this game, bacause you should hear all the noises when you play 
 the Humans campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoLamb
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 12, 2004 1:55 am PT
Review:  While by no means a bad game, you can't help but feel like something's missing. Oh wait, that's 
 right. It's the singleplayer experience. The singleplayer portion of the game itself is its downfall. 
 It's repetitive, and boring. Sometimes it will be easy, and the next frusturatingly hard. The story 
 is medicore, and doesn't make you feel as if your in the game yourself. It's almost like watching 
 a bad movie. However even though the singleplayer lacks, the muliplayer portion shines. You'll 
 spend most of your time with this game online. Online play is fast paced and exciting, and the 
 ability to play as either alien, predator, marine, or corporal (each with unique ablitities) , makes 
 it even more rewarding. If your looking for an immersive single player experience, look elsewhere. 
 If you want to battle your friends online, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sersie
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 18, 2004 12:50 am PT
Review:  AVP2 was the first in the series that I have played having missed out on the first one, but I am 
 a huge fan of the movies so I had a good deal of expectation going in.
  
  I must say that overall the game was a lot of fun both in the single player and multiplayer areas. 
 In both aspects of the game I felt like I was in the alternate reality that is the AVP world and 
 that world was fun and exciting.
  
  The single player allows you to experience a single story from three different perspectives; that 
 of a Marine, an Alien, and a Predator. All three stories have their own path, but these paths cross 
 over into the stories of the other two as you go along, which was a very refreshing story element 
 for something like a first person shooter. 
  
  Each of the three stories has its own feel to it which is nice as well. It is appropriately dark 
 and spooky as a human Marine slogging through lots of dank places where wily Aliens and camoflaged 
 Predators might be hiding. As an Alien, there is much less conversation and more of a animalistic 
 drive through its story. The Predators meanwhile have all sorts of toys and gadgets to do lots 
 of very fun and very destructive things. 
  
  Each character type has its own challenges and rewards. For example, the Aliens have their ability 
 to see in the dark with a special vision as well as climb almost anywhere along walls and ceilings, 
 but no weapons at all other than melee with tails, claws and biting. The Marines counter with some 
 heavy firepower and motion tracking. The technologically superior Predators have lots of gadgets 
 and also both melee and ranged weapons, but seem to be more of a balance between the Marines and 
 Aliens.
  
  This balance between the three carries over into the multiplayer, although I saw a lot more people 
 playing Predators and Aliens, than Marines. I am sure many take up the challenge of playing a Marine 
 for the fun of it though. My preference is always the Alien as I think the wall crawling is such 
 a cool mechanism that I have not really seen in a game before, but any of the three can be played 
 in a winning manner as long as their particular strengths are exploited.
  
  The graphics for a game we right on, though nothing spectacular and the sound was perfect to give 
 the right atmosphere to the dark and alien locations.
  
  Game mechanics-wise, the feel of the game was right on and I had no complaints about how things 
 moved or each particular weapon felt.
  
  Overall, AVP2 was just a lot of fun to play and well worth at least a bargain bin pickup for a 
 look-see, but for me it was well worth full price.
  
  -J
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 9, 2004 7:09 am PT
Review:  ... more. You have three seperate campaigns, one for each of the sides; Aliens, Predator and Humans. 
 The level of detail that went into each of these races really pays off. As an Alien you can cling 
 to walls and run around. You can drop down infront of a human and hiss.. resulting in a terryfied 
 human that screams. Thats the perfect moment to bite his head off, and replenish your health. The 
 Predator can turn invisible, has numerous weapons. The speargun is a lot of fun, pinning Aliens 
 against walls. The humans have numerous weapons, as well as the motion tracker and flares to light 
 the place up. The single player campaigns are a lot of fun and multiplayer adds a new level to 
 the word tension.
  
  If you like scary, dark and action games, or if you like the movies, definatly pick this one up. 
 The atmosphere is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 25, 2004 2:49 pm PT
Review:  AvP2 is a very underrated game. Not many people know of it's greatness. It is made by Monolith 
 who have brought us No One Lives Forever 1 & 2 and the highly anticipated FPS "FEAR". Monolith 
 doesn't fall short with AvP2 it is top notch just like the NOLF series with a great story and atmosphere. 
 AvP2 will puts you in an intersecting story as you play 3 campaigns, Marine, Alien and Predator. 
 Each one is very unique from each other and all play in to the story. You even see yourself as 
 another character when you played in the other campaign, so as an Alien you may see what you did 
 as a Marine a while ago. It is very cool how the 3 campaigns intersect each other.
  
  Graphics: At the time when it was release the graphics were great. Highly detailed character models 
 and environements. The environments are varied from indoor corriders to outdoor lush areas. Monolith 
 has a great engine in the Lithtech engine and it shows in AvP2. It looks slightly dated now 3 years 
 later but still holds up as a great looking game.
  
  Sound: The ambient music sets a great tense mood and the voice over is great. Just like in their 
 NOLF games you can eaves drop on NPC's and listen to their funny conversations. The sounds and 
 screechs from the Aliens will raise the hair on the back of your neck and all the weapon sounds 
 are superb.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay stands out because it is totally different for each campaign. The marine 
 has his own weapons. The Predator has some of the coolest weapons from his net and all his gadgets 
 that he controls from his forearm controls. The controls on his arm look just like they do in the 
 movie right down to the alien like glyphs and digital display. The Alien campaign is what really 
 stands out. You play the whole life cycle of the Alien! You start out as a little facehugger looking 
 for a human host to use as a cocoon. As a facehugger you can climb the walls and cielings. It is 
 truly amazing. And when you find your human host and grow inside his body to the next life stage 
 of the alien you will enjoy how you break free of your host, I won't spoil how it happens. You 
 eventually will be a full grown alien with crazy claw attacks and exceptional jumping attacks. 
 Each of the 3 characters you will control have their own unique weapons and attacks so it is like 
 playing 3 different games in one. Each campaign will last you around 4 hours so the game is around 
 10 - 12 hours long. 
  
  Extra replay value will come from the Multi-Player which at the time was very popular and has some 
 fun modes along with your standard modes. It is fun being an Alien and ripping apart poor human 
 souls online. The community has died down a bit after 3 years but you can still find a game online.
 
  
  AvP2 is recommended for any FPS fan and any Alien/Predator fans. This game does the movie justice 
 more than any Alien or Predator game before it. Here's to hoping for an Aliens Vs Predator 3 with 
 the Doom 3 engine! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2004 12:15 pm PT
Review:  AVP2's defining features are the unique qualities of the three playable characters that make for 
 some very innovative gameplay. The most memorable AVP2 hours of mine were spent with a baby-alien 
 as it escaped from its cage in human's base and was looking for food to grow, and later was searching 
 for a lonely human body to nest in. The alien could walk on walls and ceilings, jump 20 feet high, 
 heal itself by eating little rats and victims' brains, move exceptionally fast, and to obtain new 
 abilities as it grew. Marine, predator and alien each have their own unique 10-hour campaign that 
 present the same story from three perspectives. Predator can use its invisibility cloak limited 
 by its energy level, jump 8-feet high, restore one's energy and health while left alone, and it 
 also has three special vision modes and a varied selection of weapons. The character of human marine 
 is the frailest of the three but has the best firepower, a motion tracker to detect enemies and 
 the ability to hack locks. Despite all the interesting features, the single player campaigns cannot 
 sustain the excitement for the whole 10 hours. But there are more interesting tactics to be discovered 
 in multiplayer. For example, a marine cannot detect a cloaked (invisible) predator if the latter 
 is standing still so he would need to get the predator moving by "smoking him out". The predator, 
 on the other hand, has to shift between his three vision modes for detecting marines, aliens and 
 other cloaked predators; when it's fighting marines it would help to remain stationary and when 
 fighting aliens it would have to move fast to dodge the alien's charge. The alien itself, although 
 lacking long distance weapons, is very dangerous with its ability to climb anywhere, to leap and 
 move very fast.
  
  
  
  15/20 - Based on : 15 HOURS
  3/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Gameplay-wise excellent, graphics-wise not so.
  3/4 ACCESSIBILITY - I 
 spent 5 minutes figuring with the marine how to open a door. Might be stupid me, might be bad instructions.
 
  2/4 PACING - Uh, gets 2 for getting me so excited with the alien's progress and then gradually 
 wearing it down by hours and hours of continous killing...
  4/4 INNOVATION - Using three characters - alien, predator, human - with different abilities, their 
 developments and stories.
  3/4 IMMERSION - One of the best ever in a game for those few first hours with alien; later went 
 quite bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metron4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 17, 2004 11:36 pm PT
Review:  All the despair and hypocrisy of the Alien universe is here, albeight less dire than the films. 
 As a marine, you live out a chapter that easily fits within the second 'Alien' film. Your turn 
 as a Predator adds some goodies, such as the net gun and portable medkit (complete with the howl 
 of pain from Predator 2) . Buts its the alien that gets all the fun, especially since you get 
 to play as all the life-stages. I dont know what was more fun; headbiting as an adult, or scrambling 
 through tight spaces and freaking out the humans as a facehugger. All this and a welcome save 
 anywhere option make AvP 2 a solid hit.
  
  * Gameplay: Spine-chilling atmospheres, predatory hunting and an excellent crossing storyline are 
 well executed. Each of the three characters are balanced for multiplayer gaming.
  
  * Graphics: As a marine, theres nothing extra-special, but the other two get unusual visual modes 
 that add cool visuals. A drab color palette adds to the dismal ambiance.
  
  * Sound: The soudtrack reflects the environment well. All the familiar effects are here. What could 
 be better than watching a scientist mumble incoherently as your hissing jaws prepare to lockdown?
 
  
  * Value: Multiplayer feature and a dearth of mods will keep you busy.
  
  * Tilt: I love everything about the films (even the new AvP film) , read the comics and even have 
 some AvP toys.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dijita
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 30, 2004 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Innovative story structure creates a compelling single player experience. Multi-player is high 
 action and addictive.
  
  Lets start with the single player game. The game lets you choose from the three different races; 
 predator, alien, and marine. Each experience is different, but somewhere along in the game you 
 realize that each of these three experiences cross a path. Its ingenious and it makes you want 
 to play the game through each race. Playing as the marines late at night with the lights off will 
 make you jump more often than you wish.
  
  The multiplayer experience is quiet engaging as well with some really unique game play modes, such 
 as a tag variant where everyone starts as a marine and the first person to die becomes an alien, 
 where at this point youre on your own and must kill marines to add more aliens to your team. Even 
 though the weapons are so varied between each species, theres still a strong balance and different 
 strategies are required depending on which you play as.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimsonknight99
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 18, 2004 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game. Same rules apply for the species from the first installment. Graphics were obviously 
 a lot better being that it was released two years after the original. A major improvement that 
 I noticed right off the bat was that the game wasnt nearly as dark as its predecessor (no more 
 throwing flares every couple of steps) . Multiplayer had been reworked big time. Environments and 
 maps were just stunning and quite large, you didnt get that since of claustrophobia constantly. 
 The multiplayer maps just seemed to support the amount of people playing, not like the original 
 where they packed as many people into the smallest place possible. Over all I gave this game an 
 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1alboogie
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 8, 2004 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Great game, I had a blast (literally) . I thought it was nice that you got to play all three species. You 
 get to grow up to be an alein. You get to play predator and bite peoples heads off, what could 
 be more fun than that; and of course you get to play the marine who has to constantly watch his 
 butt. The gameplay was very good (fun) . The graphics were above average (nice) . The sound in the 
 game was good, and the background sounds and music set the mood very nicely. Definitly a game you 
 can play again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabidFerret
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2004 5:50 am PT
Review:  For anyone who's a fan of either the Alien or Predator movies, this is a must buy. For anyone else, 
 it might just make you a fan.
  
  Graphics and sound are solid especially for when it was released, but I got to say that the real 
 gem here is the gameplay and story. You can play as either an alien, predator or a human marine, 
 and you really get the feeling of what it is like to be in each of their shoes. Play as the alien, 
 and you'll be quickly sneaking from shadow to shadow and up walls and then charging headlong into 
 danger to maul your opponents. Play as the predator, and you'll be turning invisible and destroying 
 your opponents with a good supply of hightech weapons and feeling almost invincible. Play as the 
 marine, and you'll be afraid of the shadows and wetting yourself at almost every sound.
  
  Plus you get to go through the entire life cycle of an alien: from hatching as a facehugger, to 
 targeting and attaching yourself to a solitary victim, to bursting through his chest, to eating 
 small animals and avoiding detection as a chestburster, to finally becoming a full-fledged alien 
 and chewing on some human heads. Another plus is the way that the three stories as each of the 
 characters come together to tell a bigger story of why all hell is breaking lose on this planet.
 
  
  Overall, Id say that this game is fun for everyone, but a real blast for a fan of the movies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrackZero3369
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 1, 2004 11:26 pm PT
Review:  After hearing good things about this title, I picked it up for a mere 20 bucks at my local EB (pre-owned) . 
 Playing as Aliens, Predators or Humans, you're essentially getting three games in one here. Each 
 single-player campaign seems well thought out, with many great moments (the story's narrative is 
 good too) . I must have jumped out of my seat at least a half-dozen times while playing. The graphics 
 and sound both fit well and definitely had the feel of the movies involved.
  
  There's lots of fun to be had playing as the Aliens or Predators and taking on humans through the 
 single player campaigns. The aliens campaign is specifically great, as you work your way up from 
 a facehugger to a full grown alien.
  
  The multiplayer was definitely enjoyable as well (having choices between 4 different groups (aliens, 
 predators, mercs and marines) .
  
  With the lower price and the fact that it runs on older hardware requirements (so you can set it 
 to 1600x1200 and max out all the graphics options) , it's definitely worth picking up if your looking 
 for a good FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snide
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 26, 2004 11:58 pm PT
Review:  The alien vs. predator games may not be built on the great first person engines of its peers, but 
 they always have one thing going for them... spine tingling spookiness. Granted, a lot of this 
 is due to the liscense, it's hard to screw up the aliens, and they are always gonna be cool baddies. 
 Still, the devs have done a decent job putting you in scary enviroments and giving you that one 
 man with a flashlight feel. Only Clive Barker's Undying provides a scarier first person experience. 
 AVP2 is definitely a game to appreciate with a good pair of headphones and a dark bedroom. Maybe 
 not a classic, but definitely an enjoyable game for what it does. Muliplayer leaves a lot to be 
 desired though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killjoi
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 16, 2004 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Aliens vs. Predator 2 improves upon the original in almost every way. The single-player portion 
 of the game involves three separate modes of play, each based around a particular character, as 
 did the first game. Players can choose between marine, alien, and predator 'campaigns', each one 
 with it's own unique storyline.
  
  AvP 2's three races are brought together once again by the Weyland-Yutani corporation and it's 
 desire to use xenomorphs as weapons. While the improved plotline is welcomed, the gameplay overshadows 
 this clichd background story. The marine is a tough hombre with a variety of firepower, but succumbs 
 easily to melee attacks. With this ever-present knowledge in mind, playing as a human can be very 
 intense against enemies that are largely invisible, whether through darkness, cloaking, or simply 
 because they have a tendency to burst out of walls and floors at the most inopportune of times. 
 
  
  Players filling the role of the alien will find that solving 'problems' in a more stealthy fashion, 
 i. e. hanging from the ceiling above a doorway, patiently waiting for unsuspecting passerbys, yields 
 better results than taking on foes head-on. While the alien can cling to walls and ceilings as 
 if walking on floors and also move at incredible speeds, this race tends to be the easiest to kill. 
 However, the alien can evolve into more powerful classes, such as the Praetorian, though doing 
 so can trade special abilities like wall-walking for stronger damage resistance.
  
  While the marine relies on firepower and the alien on stealth, the predator race depends on a mixture 
 of both and none. They have superior weaponry and equipment geared toward hunting both humans and 
 xenomorphs, plus players can cloak themselves from human eyes, allowing them to walk directly up 
 to their prey if careful.
  
  As first-person shooters go, sight plays a more significant role in AvP 2 than in other games in 
 the genre. Each race has different advantages over the other in terms of detecting enemies. Marines 
 have night-vision, a shoulder-lamp for illuminating poor-lit areas, and a motion tracker that helps 
 pinpoint moving targets. Unfortunately, this handy device can't be used in conjunction with night-vision, 
 posing a toss-up for the player -- the ability to see night as day, or being able to detect the invisible 
 through movement.
  
  Predators are a bit more complex, with an assortment of different vision modes provided by the 
 visors they wear while on the hunt. Each mode is designed to detect a specific character, be it 
 human (thermal) , alien (infrared) , or fellow predators (x-ray) . Players can cycle through these 
 modes so long as they wear the visor, which can be knocked off in combat. Without it, the predator 
 sees as a human would. Using a specific vision mode can be a problem, however, as one can only 
 see a particular prey when using a race-specific mode.
  
  Aliens have perhaps the most user-friendly vision, in that they can see any race at any time with 
 normal sight. Conversely, their alternate mode of seeing makes it nearly impossible to see the 
 enemy, though it makes navigating crawl-spaces such as ventilation shafts and sewers a snap.
  
  What you can see plays a large part in the feel of AvP 2. The marine campaign is hair-raising 
 in that you're forced to choose between night-vision and motion tracking, both of which make you 
 more or less vulnerable to the fast moving alien drones or the oft-invisible predators. Playing 
 as the predator is a bit more laid back in that for the most part, humans and aliens can be easily 
 dispatched through range weapons or melee combat. It's only when a player bites off more than they 
 can chew does the predator run into big trouble. The alien is possibly the most interesting role 
 to take on, in how it's part of the game revolves around evolving into a more powerful xenomorph, 
 enabling more abilities as the story moves along. While you have a tendency to die easily, playing 
 as the alien is a hoot in how you get to experience the opposite side of the fence when stalking 
 marines or predators.
  
  When it comes to graphics, Aliens vs. Predator 2 still looks good by today's standards. The game's 
 visuals are true to the source material; futuristic tech combined with an inexplicable lack of 
 lighting. Indeed, it's the latter that can bring so much interest to how one plays AvP 2-- marines 
 have to be constantly wary of dark corridors, while aliens and predators use shadows to their advantage. 
 While the overall look of the game is great, the animation of the characters can seem jilted and 
 odd looking, especially in regards to the alien race. The environments themselves, while convincing, 
 can look somewhat sparse and have little in the way of deformation or destructible components. 
 As far as performance is concerned, players shouldn't have a problem with framerates on modern 
 PCs. In fact, AvP 2 is a great game to pick up not only because it's inexpensive but because it 
 runs well on older machines, making it easy to accomodate a variety of setups at a LAN party. 
 
  
  The audio of AvP 2 is great. While there isn't much in the way of a musical score, it's not really 
 needed or even warranted. The ambiance of an abandoned facility possibly infested with xenomorphs 
 is much more interesting, and trying to place the position of a cackling, cloaked predator is harrowing 
 in and of itself. The sounds of weapons, changing vision modes on the predator's visor, and the 
 bittersweet tone of the marine's motion tracker are high-fidelity in regards to the films they're 
 drawn from.
  
  The most fun to be had with the game can arguably be found in the multiplayer component of AvP 
 2. Various game modes are available, including standard deathmatch and team deathmatch. The first 
 is a free-for-all, regardless of race, while the second pits each race against each other. Kill 
 a member of an opposing race, and you score a point for the team. AvP 2 also features several other 
 modes of play which revolve around specific situations between the races. The most popular mode 
 between my friends and I was Hunt, where one race is the hunter and the other is the prey. By default, 
 one player takes on the role of the predator, while the remaining participants fill the shoes of 
 marines. The predator tries to kill as many marines before being taken out. Once the predator is 
 dead, the round ends and the player that defeated it gets a chance to be the lone hunter. Trying 
 to work together as a team is good fun, especially when pitted against a player that knows how 
 to use the predator class well, and use the marine's weaknesses to their advantage.
  
  Other modes include Survival, where marines try to live as long as possible against xenomorphs. 
 If a marine dies, they mutate into an alien and proceed to kill the remaining humans. Another mode 
 involves marines attempting to escape from a facility within a time-limit, similar to Ripley's 
 exodus from the colony at the end of Aliens. Likewise, the aliens are attempting to prevent the 
 marines from leaving. Yet another gametype places marines in a base, but the majority of players 
 are placed on the alien team, who attempt to overrun the marines inside. 
  
  If it sounds as though the game modes are partial to aliens and marines, the game allows server 
 admins to toggle the races involved -- for instance, instead of being a predator in Hunt, you can 
 be an alien, or a marine if you so choose. Speaking of server admins, Aliens vs. Predator 2 a dedicated 
 server option for up to 32 players. While the gameplay itself comes across well in a multiplayer 
 environment, the game maps can seem a little bland at times. In some cases they're too small, in 
 others too symmetrical. They're simply not as convincing in terms of construction as they are in 
 the single-player portion of the game. Still, overall, multiplayer is a blast with relatively balanced 
 gameplay between the three races. 
  
  At the end of it all, Alien vs. Predator 2 is a fantastic sequel that succeeds where the prequel 
 failed, and then some. With a strong single-player game and a multiplayer component that yields 
 tons of replayability, it's worth checking out if you're interested in first-person shooters in 
 general and a must-have for fans of the films. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephyr
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2003 10:49 am PT
Review:  I played through the alien campaign first because I knew I would love crawling along the walls, 
 and I have played some of the marine campaign. I've ended up playing all three species on multiplayer 
 too. The problems I have with the game are mainly problems with the aliens portion. While crawling 
 on the walls I fall off occasionally due to small portions of wall/ceilling where it turns 90 degrees 
 or more and the headbite does indeed miss far more than it should.
  
  The sound gets a little repetetive if you pay enough attention to it. The graphics were just fine 
 in my opinion, I have to say that I found no evidence that would suggest that the lithtech engine 
 sucks. The story is probably one of the best you'll find in a FPS. I really like the gameplay in 
 general so this game deserves an 8. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
