-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Aliens Versus Predator
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/aliensversuspredator/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  7, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.5, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,216 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Fox Interactive
Developer: Rebellion
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Apr 30, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Where the game deviates from the norm, and succeeds beyond expectations, is in its rendering of 
 three distinct viewpoints and its effective re-creation of the film series' unrelieved sense of 
 dread. 

 If you're a typical game player, you already know the story and concept behind Aliens versus Predator. 
 You've seen the movies, read the comic books, played with the toys, and maybe even helped Jesse 
 Ventura become governor of Minnesota. In 1994, Rebellion software created what is generally considered 
 to be one of the ill-fated Atari Jaguar's best games and the definitive use of the license to date, 
 Alien versus Predator. Five years later, the company has remade the game for the PC, bringing half 
 a decade of technology and gameplay advancements to bear on its previous effort, and the result 
 is excellent.  

 On the surface, Aliens versus Predator is a 3D action shooter of the old (pre-Half Life) school: 
 Armed with a variety of weapons you doggedly, repeatedly move from point A to point B, killing 
 anything in your way, riding on elevators, and flipping lots of switches. Where the game deviates 
 from the norm, and succeeds beyond expectations, is in its rendering of three distinct viewpoints 
 and its effective re-creation of the film series' unrelieved sense of dread.  

 Each of the game's three characters - the titular Predator and Alien, and the hapless human Marine 
 - has his own plot, composed of six levels (five in the case of the Alien) . The story portion of 
 these campaigns, though, is virtually missing; the levels have little continuity between them, 
 except for a vague sense that you are traveling from one connected place to another, and equipment 
 acquired on one level does not carry over to the next. Luckily, a lack of coherent plot is not 
 as much of a liability for Aliens versus Predator as it would be for almost any other game, because 
 the history and motivation of each main character are understood implicitly, as they are simply 
 part of the pop-culture landscape. The entire game is essentially a series of set pieces designed 
 to evoke a mood of anxiety and lurking terror. And this Aliens versus Predator does very, very 
 well. Emerging from a cramped hallway into total darkness, scattering a few flares around to discover 
 that you've entered a five-story hangar containing a huge alien ship, then hearing your motion 
 detector scream to life as something starts to move in the pitch blackness is an experience in 
 horror unrivaled in gaming.   

 The engine that brings this all to life is not exactly state of the art, but is close enough to 
 more than adequately render the game's environments. The developers have wisely chosen to focus 
 their attention on effective lighting: Fluorescents crackle to life in response to your entering 
 a room, flashing red lights accompany warning klaxons, and hissing flares bathe dark areas in an 
 eerie white glow. The corona effects made popular by Unreal are here in abundance, and if strobing, 
 colored lights are sometimes overused, they remain true to the Alien films, which share a similar 
 fascination with mood-heightening, seizure-inducing lighting schemes. The levels take place, for 
 the most part, in assorted military installations, with occasional forays into alien hives and 
 the familiar tall canyons that pass for outdoor scenery in most shooters. More often than not, 
 though, the locations are interesting and filled with enough architectural surprises, bric-a-brac 
 from the various films, and cool extras (like glimpsing spaceships rumbling past windows) , to ensure 
 that the environments remain exciting. The game is especially successful when rendering derelict 
 Alien spacecraft. The recreation of H. R. Giger's sleek design is almost flawless, from the enormous, 
 curved hulls to the overtly erotic entryways.  

 Where Aliens versus Predator truly breaks new ground is in its selection of protagonists. The Marine 
 is both the most immediately familiar and the most fragile. He carries a standard yet satisfying 
 array of weapons; from the bullet spewing, grenade launching pulse rifle (taking a cue straight 
 from Aliens, it's best fired in "short, controlled bursts") to the rocket firing SADAR to a really 
 well-depicted flamethrower, with several variations in between. Unlike the heroes of most first-person 
 shooters, the Marine is relatively mortal. A few solid hits from an alien, an overlong bath in 
 its acid blood, or a single unstopped facehugger, and it's  
 time. This frailty makes the Marine missions an unusually tense challenge. The Predator is somewhat 
 more standard shooter fare, and the least interesting of the three. He's a tank rolling over hordes 
 of enemies, and while he has the stealth and infravision capabilities of the movie series (both 
 well rendered) , his game, while enjoyable, is the most traditional.  

 The Alien, on the other hand, is a completely original experience. Armed with only a dagger-like 
 tail and claws, it views the world through a very nifty fisheye perspective patterned after the 
 POV shots in Alien 3. Having no ranged weapons, it must get right on top of its prey to be effective. 
 Luckily, the Alien moves like a rocket car, can fall from any height without taking damage, and 
 climbs fly-like across walls and ceilings, making navigating levels a dizzying, and at first disorienting, 
 business somewhat akin to Descent. Once mastered, the incredible sense of speed and freedom the 
 Alien provides is exhilarating. Rebellion has taken full advantage of the surface-clinging play 
 mechanic in its level design. The game's environments are loaded with twisty passages running off 
 at all angles, forcing the Alien player to crawl everywhere and making wall climbing a central 
 strategy rather than the underused gimmick it could have been.  

 It must be mentioned that the designers at Rebellion have made a decision that will be reviled by 
 many PC gamers: True to their console roots, they've eliminated on-demand, intra-level saving. 
 You must complete each mission from start to finish without dying. By wresting control of the save 
 feature from the gamer, they are able to set the pace of the game and ensure that tension remains 
 high in a way that simply couldn't be accomplished using the standard save-anywhere mechanic. Some 
 of the levels are large, though, and if the idea of replaying them over and over again is unbearable, 
 you'll want to give Aliens versus Predator a miss. Having said that, enemy placement is randomized 
 with each restart. While they generally appear in the same area, their numbers and entry points 
 change, so redoing a level is not simply an exercise in rote memorization and remains somewhat 
 fresh even the nth time through.  

 Aliens versus Predator includes all the standard multiplayer options, plus several unique variations. 
 The game advertises co-op play, but, rather than being the hoped-for cooperative romp through the 
 single-player levels, it's actually a bastardized form of deathmatch, with the computer controlling 
 wave after wave of kamikaze Aliens. The whole endeavor is rather pointless and quickly becomes 
 tiresome. The designers have inexplicably eschewed the current trend of including a built-in Internet 
 game finder, and have tragically relied on the baroque contraption that is Mplayer for match-ups. 
 The best that can be said for this choice is that it affords the player plenty of time to spend 
 in the Mplayer lobby discovering the many different ways to misspell "predator." The game also 
 supports specific IP connections and, a feature missing from many modern action games, direct modem 
 hookups. Once set up, the multiplayer game is both stable and relatively diverting. You won't be 
 throwing out Starsiege: Tribes or the Quake 3: Arena demo just yet, but, as an addition to the 
 package, it's a fun bonus, though locating a game can be unreasonably arduous.  

 Aliens versus Predator takes the traditional first-person shooter and, instead of attempting to 
 advance the art of interactive storytelling, simply augments the form with new effects and features 
 that affect gameplay in deep, satisfying ways. With its single-minded focus on terrifying the player, 
 the game is something of a one-trick pony. But that one trick is more than adequate to carry an 
 entire game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (28 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cathad
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 8:16 am PT
Review:  great game, first in the series, great stories with all the characters, loved the alien, hated 
 the predator (when playing with the alien :D)
  I love the way it gets to u, nice story, nice background music, quite scarry with the marine when 
 hoardes of aliens come rushing to you ( I could say that if u are the scary type or have a weak 
 heart, don't plau this game, u'll die with your hands on the keyboard and mouse-just kidding)
 
  I love the skirmish mode, that is where I spent most of the time I played the game, of course 
 after finishing it with all the characters.
  and for those out there that haven't played this game yet, don't think of the movie series, it 
 has no corelation with them, and it's way better that the alien versus predator movies to
  the game also has a nice multiplayer, great ways to hack and slash or to eviscerate your best friends (virtualy) 
 if u have a grudge on them HA HA HA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samfisher_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  ALIENS VS PREDATOR
  
  The Good
  
  1 - A graphically superior FPS
  2 - Perfectly crafted horror atmosphere that fits the films
  3 - Captures the horror and action 
 of the films to perfection
  4 - Fantastic amount of variable weapons and equipment
  5 - Great variety of Alien enemies
  6 - Excellent Predator equipment 
  7 - Climatic battles
 
  8 - One of the most frightening game's ever
  
  The Bad
  
  1 - Not so good storylines
  2 - Levels can be repetetive, hard, linear and lack the backing of 
 a good story
  3 - The fear the Facehugger's cause make the Marine campaign unplayable
  4 - Awful saving features
  5 - Wierd Alien enemies have laser guns
  
  
  I will never forgot 
 Alien vs Predator, for the simple reason it destroyed my childhood. I have, and probably never 
 will experience anything like this game again in my life. It is not the greatest FPS ever made, 
 or anything of the sort, instead it instills a fear that i have never experienced in my life. Alien 
 vs Predator proudly remains the greatest horror game ever released on any platform.
  
  The player, is given the ability to choose to play as 3 species. The basic, vulnerable Colonial 
 Marine, and two of the scariest Sci-Fi creatures ever invented. The Alien and the Predator. Fan's 
 of the series who are interested in the game will definately enjoy the fact that the developers 
 have captured the expierence and atmosphere of these characers fantastically. Each species has 
 there own unique story and objectives, the Marine's mission's task the player with escaping an 
 Alien infested base, the Predator's story track's down a captured clan mate, whilst the Alien story 
 follows a mindless tale of destruction as you quest for stolen egg's. However, as the story, on 
 the premise, looks rather good. Instead it lands around the average levels, as not being engaging, 
 not very imaginative, no plotwists and stupid TV's with poorly acted scenes that act as cutscenes. 
 
  
  Do not let the fact that the story isnt up to what it could be put you off this perfect game. The 
 gameplay is just about everything you'd expect from an FPS during your Marine playthrough, weapons, 
 ALT fire's, nigthvision. However, there is also the presence of a jetpack, on later levels, which 
 varies the gameplay. With the Alien, the gameplay is very original. Though it is presented in First 
 Person, the player has no weapons. Instead player's have the use of the Alien's Claw's, Tail and 
 trademark teeth. All this makes for a very original playthrough as the Alien. The Predator is, 
 in my opinion, where the game shines. The Predator is clearly the dominant species, as presented 
 in the films, with advanced cloaking devices, thermal vision etc. Other than the weapons shown 
 in the famous Predator film's, the player also has at there disposal a number of fantastically 
 original weapons. From the wristblade, to the Predator's disc, plasma cannon and pistol and my 
 personal favourite the speargun. As the Predator is presented in the film's they are incredibly 
 mysterious creatures, that take human skulls as trophys. This is all a part of the game, and performing 
 a headshot with the speargun and seeing your opponent's head on the wall behind there lifeless 
 body never get's old.
  
  As mentioned in my summary at the top of the review, Alien's vs Predator's Horror element is where 
 the Gameplay obtained it's almost perfect score. With the Alien, the player is rarely scared by 
 the human opponents and the climatic Predator battle, however the satisfaction that you get from 
 watching your next victim cry and whimper in the corner never get's old. With the Predator, the 
 Horror begin's. After the first 2 missions, the Aliens are unleashed upon the player with such 
 speed and ferocity it is enough to wet your pants. Then, after barely making it past these enemies, 
 the Player has a Facehugger chasing them down an airvent. Facehugger's, player's may originally 
 think that these guys are a push over, until the facehugger suddenly dissapears and is covering 
 your hud in the space of less than a second. If this dosent scare you nothing will, these little 
 guys destroyed my childhood. The horror that is unleashed on the Marine is unbearable, as the player 
 is alone, against countless Aliens, toss a couple of Predators and Facehugger's against the Marine, 
 and the campain can become unbearable for some player's me included, any game that can scare you 
 to this level surely deserves a high mark, right? Wrong, not if the game is too scary to stop you 
 playing, but still maybe im just a puff.
  
  Dont imagine AvP is a perfect game, cos it isnt, hence it's below perfect score. Like i have previously 
 mentioned the story isnt top notch at all and can become boring and predictable, the level's also 
 lack imagination and can look very similair and boring. Fan's will be glad however, some of the 
 levels draw inspiration from the film's. There are also the strange Alien hybrid creatures that 
 have.... laser gun's? I may be being stupid, but that isnt what i bought an AvP game for, Alien's 
 with laser guns, no thanks. Sadly, the greatest letdown of AvP, and the fault that steers it away 
 from a 10, is the disastrous save feature. Player's can not save in between levels, this, combined 
 with a high difficulty setting, annoying particularly hard part's and rather long level's is asking 
 for an upset.
  
  Graphically for a game released in 1999, AvP succeed's alongside the years top graphical FPS games. 
 The Alien, Marine and Predator models all look lifelike and great for the time. Making the enviroments 
 look realistic must have also been a strong factor of the graphics, as these have been presented 
 perfectly. The soundtrack for AvP, add's to the already ridicliously scary atmosphere by adding 
 slow, dark eerie sound's to the game. With the gunfire combined with the Aliens screeches and the 
 Predator's Roar, combine this with a great graphic engine, you have one of the scariest FPS's of 
 the year, and all time.
  
  Overall my review my be biased, as i grew up with this game. Sadly, AvP dosent work on Vista, which 
 dosent suprise me. However, if you have an older system (XP or lower) there is no excuse for any 
 fan of FPS games and horror games to have not experienced this pefectly crafted game that will 
 scare you to your wits end, a fantastic game, with just too many minor flaws and one big one to 
 keep it from perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doggy47perfecto
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  as a marine you feel helpless and doomed. as a predator you feel alone but powerful. ans as an 
 alien you feel at home hunting in what feels like an environment perfectly suited to your deadly 
 skills. single player skirmish mode is also a blast, in fact i probably spent almost half my entire 
 time playing that. you have to survive against a seemingly endless supply of enemies, (being the 
 other two races) . its hard fast and brutal fun!!! the weapons are well balanced and feel right 
 according to each race. the marines minigun can decimate almost any foe and the alien tail and 
 talons are without much in cqc. the predators choice of weapons are the hardest to use due to lack 
 of energy cells ing ame, but this doesnt take anything away from their fun to use. he also has 
 cqc weapons to use, namely spear and his handblades. overall i would say its the most unnerving 
 being a marine, because you feel almost unable to completely defend yourself. every fight could 
 be brutally fatal. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s-leya-s
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  I write this short review as symbolic act of my appreciation. I was reviewing the list of my tracked 
 games and I poped on AvP, and wow, emotions came in waves. I recalled first missions I had played 
 as marine, going through endless corridors, with confusing lights, seas of sounds and fear in bones, 
 fear of the alien watching and waiting. 
  
  I must admit I liked marine for his nervous fragility and passionate wish for survival, I adored 
 alien for hers animality, adaptability, lust for killing. Predator gives me the memory of superb 
 hunter, over-ecquipped, over-powered gadget man. I liked predator the latest.
  
  I played tons of FPShooters, FPSneakers, FPShi.... nevermind. And today, almost 9 years after, 
 I still believe 10-mark requires the additional +, to become 10+. AvP was breakthrough in concept, 
 and it transfered the movie to the PC quite succesfully. I recall it as substantial fun with marine's 
 fear-sweat, alien's thrill or predator's feeling-of-power, respective for the subject of the play.
 
  
  
  And BTW, I played just the hardest difficulty level, with no saving, no second chance.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TKOTCT
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  It has a great storyline along with my most favorite part of it incorporating a skirmish mode, 
 one thing that AvP 2 doesn't incorporate without modding it! It's definitely worth the money, especially 
 with when I only paid a few bucks for it in the bargain bin, but don't get me wrong, AvP 2 rocks 
 your socks off! Graphics are okay, and sound can be really intense, especially with an alien behind 
 you to scare the crap outta you. The AI is great, and other than that, it's an overall great game. 
 It doesn't tax your computer any, let alone challenge your graphics card, so it's even great on 
 older systems to make it a great classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 9, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  The game's atmosphere is great (especially the marine missions) .
  Gameplay is good enough and the graphics are decent.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Good action gameplay
 
  +Nice campaign
  +Marine campaign is very atmospheric
  +Follows the movies
  -Unable to save sucks
  -Some stupid bugs
  
  Graphics:
  +Atmosphere is great
  +Graphics 
 are decent enough
  +Game runs decent
  
  Sounds:
  +Cool alien sounds
  +Pulse rifle sounds great
  +Some spooky music
  
  Value:
  ++Features three different campaigns 
 which really rocks
  +Solid gameplay
  +Stories are easy to get and nice
  
  Tilt:
  +Decent enough
  +Good introduction
  +Nice first impression
  -Better watch the movies before 
 you play this game
  
  If you love aliens predators and marines this game is a must-buy
  Bye bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  Single and Multiplayer games are simply awesome. In Single player you play The Marines, Aliens 
 and Predator. It's great how they mixed these races up. I don't really want to say much about the 
 missions or the story but it's still great. Multiplayer is really great but I never played online 
 I always played through Lan with my bro' and we just played as the marines fighting against a horde 
 of Aliens a really kl mode and I still love it. Graphics aren't trhe best but I think having Polygons 
 to produce Aliens and Predators are really kick ass. There isn't much to be said about sound. Gameplay 
 took me a while to get used to the keys since they do varie on the keyboard. Tons of Value you 
 got 3 races to play in each of their single player game and the multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  Aliens vs. Predator is big on unique game-playing roles and intense combat. The premise is rather 
 simple as you get a choice of playing either as an Alien, Predator, or Marine in an Alien-inspired 
 environment where its open season amongst all three. This makes for a compelling gaming experience 
 as each character has its own unique strengths and weaknesses.
  
  I played the game starting with the more traditional Marine; from there moved on to the multi-functional 
 Predator and then concluded with the incredibly agile Alien. The Marine is by far (and sort of 
 expected) , the weakest of the three characters. You accumulate the typical FPS weapons as you progress 
 throughout the various levels but you still feel like Gomer Pyle going up against Team-Alien! In 
 realistic-mode, its just plain tough to survive against what seems to be a never-ending onslaught 
 of fast-moving Aliens. The motion tracker becomes your best buddy but its still a **** to dispose 
 of these bipeds. Even when you are able to blast them, you better get ready to evade their acidic 
 blood, otherwise youre burnt burger. After playing a few rounds as a Marine, you come to realize 
 that its more than just an adventure - its a nightmare! The positive is that all of this makes 
 for an extremely intense and almost nerve-wracking experience, especially when you factor in the 
 limited number of saves per level.
  
  Its hard to believe that Fox Interactive initially released this game without a mid-level save 
 feature - the guys at the design house, Rebellion, have obviously played too many hours of this 
 game. Even with the added save feature, you still have to contend with the limited number of saves 
 and you end up trying to guess when to use the saves. A running count of completed objectives would 
 have made sense and still kept the intensity level high. There will always be multiple debates 
 on this subject matter but Im in the camp of limitless saves. It as simple as this - put in a 
 reward feature that judges you on the number of saves used during a level. If you complete a level 
 with a minimum number of saves, you get a reward (cool weapon or access to an extra level) . Isnt 
 the difficulty level supposed to be there to make the game more o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 13, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  Aliens Vs. Predator, contrary to what some people say, isn't a movie to game translation. The horrid 
 movie came much later (thankfully) and it is true that it translates the Alien and the Predator 
 from their respective movies, but it isn't a translation. With that said, Aliens Vs. Predator is 
 a competent shooter that was probably awesome back in 1999, but now doesn't hold very well.
  
  The gameplay varies from character to character. You can play as either the Alien, the Predator, 
 or the Marine. The one that is the most traditional and recognizable is the Marine. As the Marine, 
 you will be running and shooting everything in sight. To be honest, it's not particularly interesting 
 or varied anymore and it's just downright disappointing that there isn't much depth to it. There 
 are only 3 or 4 guns, only 2 of which I even bothered using. When playing as the Predator, things 
 get a little bit more interesting. It's still in a first person shooter perspective, but there 
 are more things at your disposal. You have a bow, your trusty laser gun, a cloak ability, and certain 
 views that let you see humans or Aliens. It's practically the same as the Marine gameplay, but 
 with a wider array of abilities. There isn't much else to say really. When it comes to the Alien, 
 it is probably the most inventive of the three. As the Alien, you only have 3 moves at your disposal. 
 You can slash with your claws, slash with your tail, or target a victim's head and bite it off. 
 There are no weapons and each level consists of sneaking up on your prey and devouring them. These 
 are easily the most fun of the three, but also the most disorienting. As the Alien, your view isn't 
 like a typical FPS. The view is skewed slightly on the sides and it always brings a headache. Also, 
 when you are climbing on walls and ceilings, the Alien moves so fast that it's hard to tell just 
 exactly where you are, so it makes it increasingly harder to sneak up and kill your victim. One 
 thing that can be said about the gameplay is that it is very hard. I highly suggest downloading 
 the patch that lets you quicksave mid-level because without it, if you die, you must start over 
 from the beginning of the level which is frustrating to say the least. The Predator and Marine 
 consist of only 6 levels and the Alien only 5, with bonus levels depending on which difficulty 
 level you chose at the beginning. But after completing the initial levels and completing the storyline 
 (which by the way is almost non-existent) , you probably won't want to bother with the extra levels.
 
  
  The graphics are about as good as you'd think from a game made in 1999. They aren't all that pretty 
 anymore. A lot of people say this game is scary, but with the graphics as trashy as they are, it's 
 hardly intense or frightening. The levels all look the same. You run through an open corridor, 
 shoot something, then run into the next corridor and do it again. There's nothing significantly 
 different about any of the levels so you'll probably be bored looking at them after a level or 
 two. My last complaint about the graphics is that some of the levels are unfairly dark. I shouldn't 
 have to adjust my computer screen settings just so I can see where I'm going in game.
  
  The sound is probably the best part of the game. The Aliens and Predators still have their signature 
 rips, roars, and snarls and they sound great. You'd be hard pressed to find a difference in the 
 sound of the creatures in this game from their movies. Nothing else is important enough to even 
 mention, but all in all the sound is decent.
  
  Overall, this is a game that undoubtedly was great back in the day, but now feels almost obsolete. 
 The graphics are nothing to look at and the gameplay is worn down and overused. It's tough to review 
 an old game now because it's hard not to compare it to much better more recent games, but as it 
 stands, this game isn't anything special. Honestly, I can't even see how it could have been scary 
 when it was released, much less now. It's worth a playthrough if only to see how they adapted these 
 iconic characters to the video game realm, but after playing through the storyline levels, there's 
 not much reason to play through the bonus levels, much less go back and play through it again. 
 Remaking this game today on current gen systems would be absolutely remarkable and I'll be crossing 
 my fingers for it, but as of now, Aliens Versus Predator is a game that has outlived its welcome 
 and over time lost most of what was so appealing about it in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zedy_3000
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  i really got this game for my older bro, but i kinda fall in love with it lol! were to start..... 
 well my favoute was being the alien because you can sneek up to unsespeing humans and then *POW* 
 slash and bite sooo much fun. sometimes a changle which is hard to find for me. and so many levels 
 it took me i think about a year and a half to complet just being the alien. near the end you have 
 to fight this predator well preadater's which are invisable.
  
  ok well my fave thing about the alien is you can climb walls and have lots of attacks like tail 
 wip, claws and the best thing.... that fast bite that comes out of ya month and bites the humans 
 head off, ok a bit yak but hey! oh and you can run really fast. at the end their is a video clip 
 were you are ariveing to earth to do you know what. destory the hurman race i gress.....
  
  i almost finshed being the human i was on the last level were i was trying to kill the alien mother 
 MAN was she pissed off! lol
  then sadly i had my computer updated so the game was unable to run : [
  you get these KOOL guns 
 to many to say. right at the start you get put in the deep end. a little along the track aliens 
 full on top of you and come out of well everywere at one stage you even go into the alien hive... 
 wow :b
  
  i didnt really play much as the predator i always found it boring so not much to report.
  
 
  you must play this game if your computer will run it, i think its 95/98 running sytem, not to 
 sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rysing_Furi
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 21, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  With no story to speak of, the game feels flat as a pancake with nothing keeping it together. It 
 feels more like a sub-par total conversion mod for half-life in which you play little scenarios 
 more than an actual game you WANT to play. There COULD be a story, but you'll have to fill the 
 blanks quite a bit in your head for it all to make sense. While your heart does skip a beat quite 
 often, something half-life didn't do, it doesn't save it from being mediocre. Fans will appreciate 
 some of the tie ins from the movies, such the lv-426 colony, and other little tidbits, but really 
 if you haven't seen the movies you'd ignore them completely as they're not especially relevent. 
 The only thing the game did do right was the sound, a few of the weapons sound excellent and it 
 feels awesome shooting a plasma rifle at a hoard of aliens (However, there is a noticable lack 
 of hoards in this game) as it really puts you into the movies ala Ripley, not to mention the hiss 
 and screech of the aliens. Graphics aren't a great deal to speak of, they're ok, but not great, 
 you'll notice it most with the weapons as there can be clipping issues, as well as a few other 
 annoying instances. All in all, what AVP2 became was what AVP1 should have been from the start, 
 a game with substance and story line, rather than mindless scenarios and fanservice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadelotuz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 16, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  Prepare to go mad!
  
  It was some years ago i played this game. Somewhere around its release. I love the predator movie 
 (mostly cause of the Minigun :) , and I really love the Alien series, Especially the second movie 
 - Aliens. I read allot about the Alien vs Predator on the forgotten console Atari Jaguar . But 
 I never came around to by the Jaguar, and off course not the game. When I saw that a PC version 
 was gonna come out, I just hade to test it. And I hoped that this was going to be good.
  
  But heck! the Nightmare was back. Not cause the game was bad, it was great. In a rather usual FPS 
 way, the controlls worked almost as they should and so on. But the nightmare was in the shape of 
 tenseness ... and Aliens! The Claustrophobia and so on was so intense that I actually in a terrified 
 reflex threw away the mouse when I had my First Contact with an Alien ... there, in the creepy 
 foggy hall, right after the open lift ... in that dark, cavelike room.
  
  The mouse just flew out of my hand, and hit the floor, and I jumped up like actually been stalked 
 by a real life alien. This is by far the most horrified experience i ever had in any type of media. 
 Game or Movie. And I not the faint of hearted one. I love horror movies, and Survival horror genra 
 of games. But this game made it mark in my brain ... burnt in to my retina for a long time :)
 
  
  This is one of the best Licensed movie based games ever created. It manage to capture the horror 
 the marines must have felt on the windy colony planet in Aliens .
  
  I Actually never finished the game. My nerves killed me and I just hade to let the game go. Sadly. 
 The scanner sound was so perfect. the feeling and darkness of the game was perfect. And the thing 
 that you can play as a predator or even an alien also makes the game a bit bigger.
  
  But as an alien, the game is nothing as half as scary. To get the real nightmarish feeling you 
 must play as the Marine. Thats the hard way to go, strait way to psychic care :) The Alien and 
 Predator campaigns are just something to make the game last a bit longer EFTER you finnished it 
 as a marine.
  
  Now ... some 6 years later. AvP 2 have come out, (Hav'nt played that yeat) . The AvP have aged, 
 and other games have made horror better. But AvP was still a hard game, mostly for its criticised 
 saving problems (wich was patched later to let you save everywhere for the yellow players :) . I 
 hope a AvP3 for the Next Gen machines comes out soon. That makes it all perfect, and so damn scary 
 that no-one actually manage to play the game right thrue , without loosing his mind!
  
  Over and out ... In space no one can hear you scream!
  Heil H. R Giger ... the Father of the Alien 
 creature.
  
  // Rc - jadeLoTuZ - 2006 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valherran
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 24, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  For people who love gore, sci-fi action, and monsters, this is the game for you, Aliens Versus 
 Predator. This killer game has an awesome single player, multiplayer and all around good gameplay. 
 I usually dont get scared at horror type games like Doom 3, Quake 4 etc. This game however, scares 
 the crap out of me every 3 min, especially when i play as the Marine! The weaponry and the engine 
 this game has is also excellant, characters look very good for that time it was made, plus the 
 multiplayer is phenomanal, the different modes of gameplay will ensure the consumption of your 
 gaming day and night! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eberkain_basic
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 9, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I know this is just another FPS that only distinguishes itself from the competition by tribute 
 of the movie franchises...
  
  But hey, you get to be a marine and plow thought throws of aliens or play as a predator and stalk 
 the marines. Damn good and this game is all about the developers execution. I loved it, single 
 player, multi player. A game I don't regret spending an inordinate amount of time playing. A selection 
 of good online mode types.
  
  The game has everything you expect. The motion tracker. Aliens running on the walls. Vision modes 
 with the predator. The shoulder cannon. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  Wow, really cool game for the time it came out, gives you a real scare the multiplayer mode is 
 fun too.
  
  GOOD: It's cool how you can play three characters in the game and see how the story winds up. The 
 gaem is pretty scary and the graphics are pretty good in a game of this time..
  
  BAD: Terrible on the eyes because most of the game is played in dark areas and you have to use 
 night vision it's bad on the everytime I got up after playing the game, I feel like the world is 
 spinning around and I end up with a terrible headache,
  
  Overall the game is ok, really fun and the game feel like your playing a game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I had this game for 5 years now, and like someone else said it scares you to this day playing. 
 This game back in the day wasn't all that great on my old arse comp. I couldn't play the thing 
 much at all. From what I remember it was down right scary, and fun. Being the Predator was my favorite. 
 Cloaking myself with the thermal vision hunting on soldiers. Man what a great feeling to search, 
 and destroy instead of being hunted by him! The alien wasn't my best pick. I didn't enjoy the acid 
 spitting??? Am I thinking of the right game? Or his melee hits? He might have been quick I think, 
 but nothing special. I'd recommend this game for an oldie that it is. Must play the new one. Sounds 
 to be a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WookishPriest
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  This game was well ahead of its time in my opinion. The creative play options, weaponry and movement 
 are still unmatched. I only wish the movie was at least one-tenth as good as the game. While learning 
 the map and how to maneuver as the alien can be difficult for the first few minutes, learning to 
 creep around as an alien is just the beginning. As the predator, you get all the toys you've seen 
 in the movie. And Yes, you get the boomerang-like disk that chops peoples' heads off. Nothing is 
 more creapy than walking through a dark corridor as a marine and start to hear the beep on your 
 tracking sonar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beardsley
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Aliens. Even the mere mention of the film or its predecessor Alien sends shivers down your spine, 
 remembering the fear and sheer suspense. And then Predator - remembering the terror of the most 
 fearsome soldier ever.
  
  But Aliens AND Predator? Together, in a Game?
  
  AvP is an old game now - very old in fact. But even when it was first out, it was a game riddled 
 with problems and little nasty patches.
  
  The game is set around the three races, Human, Alien and Predator, and follows a different story 
 for each - each one tentatively interlocking (if you could call "Oh I've been here before" interlocking) . 
 Innovatively enough, the controls and entire feel of the game change between characters - Alien 
 being very much about exploring your environment with the ability to walk on walls and ceilings, 
 predator being able to cloak and use all his technology etc, and humans just being plain weedy... 
 but this alone is not enough to keep from some very glaring holes in the game.
  
  The game does have suspense - but for all the wrong reasons. One wrong foot and you're dead so 
 easily - so there is a constant fear of "If I turn this corner, will I have to restart the level". 
 Fear should be things like "Whats going to jump at me" or "Am I being watched?!", not "I'm going 
 to die if that grasshoper looks at me funny".
  
  The multiplayer was a brief breath of fresh air - with again the player being able to play as any 
 race, and points being changed accordingly - but the lack of a good range of weapons and a very 
 restricted set of levels and level design means it gets very monotonous, very quickly.
  
  AvP is not without its merits however - some indoor levels can be quite atmospheric, and some have 
 some nice design, such as the spaceship you board as an alien... but even this can sometimes be 
 easy to get lost or lose direction within.
  
  To put it simply - On paper, a lot of things work. On paper, Communism works. On paper, Microsoft 
 works... and On paper, AvP could have worked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beechbone666
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2005 4:18 am PT
Review:  First I must say that I am a great fan of "Alien" films (maybe excluding Alien Resurrection) and 
 quite a big fan of Predator. I played this game for the first time in 2001 and even a few years 
 after the release it just smashed me to the ground. There was never such a game before and after 
 AVP.
  
  Some say that it is not good because the game is too hard to complete. Yes it is very, very hard 
 even on the lowest difficulty level, but it's all matter of motivation:) After couple dozens hours 
 of playing the game becomes a little bit easier but it's never easy for the level of fear and adrenaline 
 while playing makes it even harder. It is genuinely one of the most terrifying game I've ever played.
 
  
  And now a few words about technical stuff. The graphics is great, not today anymore but it was 
 then. Sound technically is also very good but the most important thing about sound is that it creates 
 atmosphere of horror and fits really perfect to the game based on the Alien saga. For example all 
 sounds of guns are the same in the movie and in the game.
  
  So, in my opinion the game is perfect, and should be played by every Alien and Predator maniac! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Most of us are familiar with the Aliens movies that have been around for about 2 decades now. I 
 remember being fascinated with the original movie with its totally original look, feel and tremendous 
 sense of dread. You never knew where that Alien would show up. Predator proved to be equally as 
 popular a title, again creating a believable and dangerous alien creature. I also remember the 
 level of violence and foul language that earned them and all subsequent sequels an "R" rating. 
 Well the computer game named after these titles is no different. Violent, dark, tense and full 
 of great effects, it drops the player right in the midst of the environment the movies are famous 
 for.
  
  Marine - image from 'Aliens vs. Predator' One unique element of this game is the ability for the 
 player to play as one of 3 characters. You can select to play as the Alien, the Predator or as 
 a Marine. In each case you have a set of specialized abilities and weapons you use to navigate 
 the totally different scenarios. The levels are all very tense and require the player to destroy 
 numerous creatures to reach the end point. As the Marine you fight primarily the Aliens and there 
 is no sense of killing unrighteously. To explain, if I had an Alien coming after me I wouldn't 
 consider it a sin to shoot it! However, in the Alien or Predator modes your primary targets are 
 defenseless humans or marines and the method for killing them very gruesome.
  
  There is also a great many expletives used in the voice-overs during the game. As the players navigate, 
 there are brief video or voice clips to direct or describe to the player what needs to happen next. 
 To keep with the "R" rating of the experience. The producers throw in plenty of foul language. 
 
  
  The gameplay is very intense regardless of the mode you play in. The game developers did translate 
 the environment and experience of the films very effectively. One beef I have is that they decided 
 to "enhance" the tension by not having a save game feature during levels. The player must get from 
 one end to the other intact or start completely from the beginning of the level. Very frustrating 
 and time consuming, if effective and the reason I took it from a "4" to a "3" in the gameplay rating.
 
  
  This is definitely an adult only game and then I advise you skip the Alien and Predator modes and 
 see how far you can get as the Marine. And be prepared for the Captain's video and radio contact. 
 It brings new meaning to "Curses like a Marine"! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdevries
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 18, 2005 2:39 pm PT
Review:  AvP is a first person shooter, or first person slasher.
  
  If played as the marines the game is like a real duke nukem or whatever game. You have a gun a 
 motion sensor and night-goggles for dark rooms.
  But still, you never know the motion sensor is a peace of equipment that only works 2D, so if you 
 see a spot running towards you it may be 10 meter above you, or worse it may be cloaked. That makes 
 it really exiciting. Knowing where the foe is, but not know how or when it is going to strike. 
 Really scary from time to time.
  
  ... playing as Predator, use slash or used snipe weapons to take down enemies. With Predator you 
 cloak and can sneak behind a human guard and kill him in an instant. If an Alien is the opposition 
 you can go into kiling frenzy and kill all of them without having to worry about sneaking or hiding.
 
  
  But what about a Alien, how can that be fun?
  Well, if I say walking on walls and playing the game fast and fast, and sneaking in the dark ripping 
 heads off and slashing everything, I would put it nice. As Alien you must hide in the dark move 
 fast to avoid bullets and need to rip off heads to gain life. Walking on walls make it really cool 
 but I warn you dont play the game if you have too much to drink.
  
  Overall is the game tasty and nice, some bugs make the game poor, but the graphics are nice and 
 the sound effects too. Music is terrible and as tip I would play the game without music!
  
  Verdict: Play A Alian, play a Predator or kill them both. This idea is put into a nice package 
 and was very well constructed by the developers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redraptor75
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2005 4:12 am PT
Review:  Ahhh, good old Alien vs. Predator! Back before the attrocity commited by Paul W. S. Anderson, Aliens 
 and Predator and Colonial marines alike flourished in a very well respected franchise that included 
 toys, comics, novels, and a few good and not so good video and arcade games. 
  
  This particular PC game is what I, an avid and no doubt biased fan, would probably label the highlight 
 of the franchise. I have played AVP2, but I believe this one to be the superior of the two. 
  
  What you'll notice right off the bat is the games atmosphere flows right from the opening credits 
 with a musical score and directorial style truly worthy of the movies that made this what it is. 
 Create a profile, then jump into a game under one of three campaigns- Alien, Predator and Marine. 
 
  
  So lets see what we have: 
  
  Alien: You're a quick bugger! Run all over the ceilings, walls, and chomp off the heads of your 
 enemies to spread your seed and conquer the galaxy! 
  Predator: Its time to gain some extraterrestrial respect! Fly around the planets mentioned in the 
 game hunting marines and aliens alike, until you reach the ultimate trophy.
  Marines: You're a lone marine, and you have to escape, as you do the company hires you to carry 
 out some missions, watch out for the end though, you can't let the ship go down! 
  
  So the stories start out pretty simple. But thats ok! So did Half-Life, and in actuality this game 
 flows the same way in terms of story telling. In an almost comical yet effective presentation, 
 the player will recieve instructions on what to do hidden in messages sent over vid screens. The 
 messages are live action British guys in Marine duds, barking orders at you and explaining whats 
 going on at the current time in the current place. They'll speak right to the marine, but the Alien 
 and Predator will watch them sometimes as well, dropping clues as to where you should go for your 
 next set of prey. Its actually pretty motivational, sometimes comical, and truly sets the stage 
 for a plethora of interesting situations. 
  
  The levels are actually varied and are direct descendents of the movies- featuring well detailed 
 levels with architecture that just screams Cameron and Scott. Not much of it is very interactive, 
 save for the lighting which is a remarkable aspect of the game. This game starts out very dark, 
 and you can make it even darker, breaking lights all throughout the levels. These aren't splinter 
 cell effects, but the AI is good enough to realize when the lights have gone out and, just like 
 characters in the movie, they start to panic! (This feature applies solely to the Alien and Predator 
 campaigns; as a human you never see another human) . 
  
  One of the most key aspects to a succesful game is atmosphere, and AVP hits home on every level, 
 in every situation, and with every enemy. Music is optional and sometimes its better without playing 
 the audio CD (which you get to keep, I put it in my CD player occasionaly) with lifted audio scores 
 from the movie Aliens. The graphics were good at the time, ranging in the Quake 3 or Unreal Tournament 
 spectrum, and are still just as effective today. I'm not a graphics wiz, but when I know something 
 works, I consider it a job well done. Both the visuals and the audio combine to make an unsettling, 
 tension filled, and adrenaline pumping ride that has an amazingly brisk pace that keeps you lost 
 in a terrifying world of corridors and vent shafts. An alien could jump out at you at ANY TIME! 
 A marine could be waiting around the corner with a minigun! Or... was that a predator that just 
 walked by? Shimmering in its invisibility cloak? Hmmm...
  
  This is one of the scariest games you will ever play. 
  
  The weapons are awesome! Taken right 
 from the movies and then some, the Marines and Predators each come with a seperate set of armaments. 
 The marine must find his guns throughout the game, including Pulse Rifle, pistols, flamethrowers, 
 smart guns and rocket launcers. The Predator dons his wristblades, which function as potent marine 
 killing tools and trophy taking skewers, cutting disc, plasma caster (shoulder cannon) , and Plasma 
 Gun, a weapon not seen in the movie universe, which launches balls of electic plasma that dish 
 out huge damage and drop at an arch (like throwing a bowling ball that doesn't roll) . 
  
  The predator has his advantageous and downright fun vision modes, and though they don't look graphically 
 special they really work well and get the job done. Hunting pray that contrasts a washed out blue 
 backround has never been more exciting! You also get to be invisible thanks to the wonders of predtech, 
 and can sneak right up in front of a person, just be careful not to bump too close! To counter 
 this, the marines are gifted with the ever-beeping motion tracker, a great new feature that employs 
 sound just as much as it does a monitor, and vision enhancing flares and night goggles. The alien, 
 most indigineous and crafty of them all, is supplied with a darkvision and is nearly invisible 
 itself when it blends like a chameleon into the darkness. If you're an alien BREAK THOSE LIGHTS! 
 For once, YOU get to play the scary monster in the horror movie, and I cannot STRESS how wonderful 
 that feels! With all these fun and well implemented options, gameplay is nearly perfect and revolutionarily 
 interesting for what could be a typical FPS. 
  
  So we've covered the gameplay and graphics. Now's the part where I usually flub up myself- sound. 
 Most first person shooters are just gunfire and alien squeals, and this game isn't much different, 
 but by lifting memorable sounds from the movies with high quality, you get an immerisve real world 
 feel in one of the most brilliantly concieved sci fi universes in the history of cinema. 
  
  One final aspect that might dissapoint but is decent fair is the multiplayer. I never really 
 got very into it because it limits to 8 players and is kinda clunky, but if you can find a working 
 level with decent ping you'll usually have an enjoyable time, but nowadays its barely got enough 
 players to fill a single server. Even so, as a standalone singleplayer you still have enough game 
 to fill your diet. 
  
  So what do I have to say overall? Well, I've had a lot of fun with this game, and I usually do 
 with typical first person shooters, but this game is so much more! It involves you on a new level, 
 making you the hero, the enemy, or the creepy critter skittering around in the darkness. You do 
 not get this kind of feel from many games, and if you do, it surely will not be as well exectuted 
 as Alien vs. Predator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suzabbe
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 18, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This is one hell of a scary sci-fi shooter, the only game to ever make me jump out of my chair. 
 Being familiar with the background of the Alien and Predators films adds to the storyline and scare 
 factor, but isn't a requirement for some great classic shooter action. The most interesting feature 
 of this title is being able to play the game in three entirely different character modes; Marine, 
 Alien or Predator. The Alien films are always seen through the eyes of the Marines/Civilians and 
 where the Predator films gave you a slight glance through the viewpoint of the Predator, but most 
 of the films were seen through the eyes of the humans being hunted. 
  
  This unique feature brings together the two film franchises and creates a game with layers of depth. 
 Play through the levels once as a Marine and you still have two completely different games to play 
 when you are done. Because the three character modes are so unique the game changes more than you 
 could possibly imagine depending on which character you chose. For instance, play as a Marine, 
 and you are in some seriously deep water. You've packed on weapons, ammunition and health thinking 
 you have the advantage, however, the Predator has his shoulder beam rifle, large hand blades and 
 don't forget his invisibility cloak. Play as an Alien and you have no weapons in hand, except for 
 your tail, claws and a stealth speed that isn't matched in the game. Overall the character modes 
 are what makes this title exciting. There are pros and cons to each character which you learn as 
 you play. The experience of playing this game through the eyes of the Alien is one that should 
 not be missed, especially for Alien film fanatics. 
  
  This game is not easy by any means. The difficulty level is extremely high and it all comes down 
 to who you choose to play. The Marine is faced with many challenges, dark maps to explore, a lack 
 of ammunition, sometimes seemingly impossible tasks and faces two extraordinary adversaries; one 
 who can shoot you from afar without being seen and the other who can run up beside you slashing 
 your health to bits before you realize it. The predator faces a lot of firepower from Marines and 
 his invisibility cloak only works for certain distances, get to close to a Marine and they will 
 detect and kill you. The Alien, because of his lack of weaponry, must be fast and not be seen; 
 mastering the Alien movement and speed are very difficult tasks. 
  
  Overall the environments reek of eeriness, lighting is well done and the sound effects are truly 
 frightening, in a good way. Gameplay is standard shooter in Marine and Predator modes, but the 
 Alien mode brings something new to the table, the likes I haven't seen before; truly remarkable. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: S7ATER
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 26, 2005 11:28 pm PT
Review:  When you think Alien vs Predator you think of the most epic battle known to sc fi creatures. But 
 this game dosn't make the battle seem very epic. The game does have the ability to freak you out, 
 but not because of the creatures and how horrific they are. Its because they just leap out at you 
 from every corner, after a while it gets really fustrating your doing a mission that is just taking 
 all your efforts and all of a sudden you waste all your ammo because something leaps at you. Sound 
 is considered average, graphics are decent. But this game has nothing special going for it, basically 
 in a nutshell you could call this game your everyday shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bidybag
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 21, 2004 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Well since i am reviewing this game now my thoughts will be probably different to if i had the 
 game when it come out because games have moved on a lot. I am sure this game was good for its time 
 but today it is not. I did not like this game because it was too dark and the graphics where bad, 
 the graphics might have been good for its time but today is all that matters. If you have allready 
 got this game im sure you enjoyed it but if you are reading this review now i dont recommend getting 
 it because there are lots of better games out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chitown_lova
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2004 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I never knew a game could have schizophrenia. One moment I'm playing a survival horror game. The 
 next I'm playing a stealth game. Then I turn around and I'm playing an all out action game all 
 without changing discs in my computer.
  
  Aliens Versus Predator does to First Person Shooters what Starcraft did to RTS; it gives you three 
 distinct species with different strengths and weaknesses. (I won't go into how the three races 
 of starcraft seem to be modelled after the Human, Alien, Predator trilogy) .
  
  The Single player experience is very immersive and well executed. The story weaves between the 
 missions of the three species providing an engaging plot that coaxes you to play through all of 
 the campaigns.
  
  The human campaign is the scariest first person experience you can have. The developers did a wonderful 
 job at capturing the sense of dread from the Alien movies (particularly the second installment) . 
 Your first mission has you waking up to an alarm as the base commander tells you that something 
 has gone wrong and the base is being evacuated. You exit your room to find a dark hallway as your 
 motion detector ticks in a steady rhythm. You shoot out a flare so you can light your way just 
 as the motion detector beeps, startling you. Firing off a few rounds in that direction, you notice 
 that it must have been the flare that set off the motion detector. Isn't that grand, an over-sensitive 
 motion detector in a dark, alien infested space station; what else can go wrong? How about having 
 to walk through an alien egg hatchery and past an alien ship on the way to your escape? Oh and 
 let's not forget our friendly wall crawlers are waiting for a prime opportunity to snack on your 
 head.
  
  From the dreadful Human campaign it is somewhat invigorating to jump into the shoes of the Predator 
 who because of his armor, weapons, and cloaking seems darn near invisible. Indeed you'll be stalking 
 your human prey with impunity for the first few missions, until you get to the laboratory where 
 unfortunately the xenomorphs have escaped. Then you'll be wishing for the convenience of an assault 
 rifle with grenades over your slow firing plasma caster, disc, and spear gun.
  
  Finally the Aliens play unlike anything you've ever experienced in a FPS. With lightning fast speed 
 (which they need to avoid being mowed down by superior firepower) , the ability to scale walls (very 
 disconcerting if you're not careful) , and a constant supply of health kits (you regain health by 
 munching on opponents' brains) , the xenomorphs only downfall is a lack of long range attacks. That's 
 right, you've got to get up close and personal as the Alien. Playing as the alien is definitely 
 a game of hit and run.
  
  Finally the multiplayer mode brings the carnage to another level. It's a deathmatch unlike any 
 you've ever played. May the best species win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-miller
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 22, 2004 10:53 am PT
Review:  Aliens and Predator or should I say Aliens vs Predator. This was one the first reasons why licensed 
 video game don't always suck. Thanks to a unique graphics engine that was well detailed back then. 
 Despite a few flaws the game was enjoyable and yet I haven't even finished it.
  
  Gameplay: 6 out of 10
  Hard to control. Your character dies real easily despite their advantages!
 
  
  Graphics: 8 out of 10
  A little blockiness here and there but you can easily make out everything that's at a distance.
 
  
  Sound: 10 out of 10
  Listening to AvPs sound effects is like going back to the movies. Don't let the kids play this 
 game, there's a lot of profanity.
  
  Value: 4 out of 10
  It's just too hard and I can't even get passed the third level in the Marine campaign.
  
  Reviewer's 
 Tilt: 6 out of 10
  Yes it's hard enough to make you yell at the computer screen and break the CD, that's how hard 
 it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimsonknight99
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2004 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Fun game. The multiplayer was a lot more in depth than a lot of people gave it credit. Each species 
 benefited in certain areas that the others didnt. Predators where invincible to the human eye 
 and were built like a tank, but due to their weight they werent very fast (and it was quite irritating 
 to have to change vision types all the time) . The marine, while having by far the best weapons 
 in the game, were pretty weak and easily overwhelmed by the other species. Alien, by far, were 
 the best species to play in the game, if you could master them. Their speed and agility were unmatched. 
 The wall climbing ability was the coolest, but also having to change vision types was a pain. The 
 single play was fun, and definitely creepy, no run and gun here. My biggest problem over all was 
 the issue that while playing the marine, you couldnt use your tracking device and night-vision 
 a the same time. But overall, I give this game an 8.0. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
