-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Alien Shooter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/alienshooter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Firefights leave behind a great deal of carnage.
 Pretty good soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Isometric perspective gets in the way.
 Most weapons lack punch.
 Movement feels clunky.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 7.8, 106 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 106 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: MSN Games
Developer: Oberon Media
Genre: Shoot-'Em-Up
Date:     Q4 2005

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While the game makes good on its promise of giving you aliens to shoot, the end result is very repetitive. 
 

  Take a wild guess at what a game called "Alien Shooter" entails. You're right! In Alien Shooter, 
 you shoot at aliens. The game takes place from an isometric perspective, and you control a man 
 or a woman with the task of running around a variety of facilities, turning on the power, and blasting 
 aliens with a handful of different weapons. You run around with the keyboard, and the mouse is 
 used to aim and fire. Generally speaking, it works pretty well; but all in all, the game feels 
 like a clunky take on the same aim-and-fire mechanics used in Crimsonland. Also, enemies and power-ups 
 can often hide themselves up against walls due to the game's isometric view of the action. While 
 the game does have some depth to it -- you can purchase additional weapons -- the action is generally 
 unsatisfying, though the way that all the corridors get smeared with alien corpses and blood after 
 a prolonged firefight at least looks nice.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MoggyDaPimpsta
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  MY MOM BOUGHT ME THE GAME AND I LOVE SHOOTING ALIENS SO MUCH IVE PLAYED THE GAME FOR LIKE 400 HOURS 
 STRAIGHT ITS THE BEST GAME EVER MADE AND YOU GET TO SHOOT SO MANY ALIENS BUT THEIR NOT CRABS. ITS 
 SOO COOL! I LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE 
 ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE 
 IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE 
 IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE 
 ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE 
 IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE 
 IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE 
 ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE 
 IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE 
 IT I LOVE ITI LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bedram793
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 8.5/10
  It's pretty good considering how many enemies you have to kill and all the carnage left behind. 
 Not to mention all the casings or shells you have shot will remain on the ground. Lighting is good. 
 Overall, it's a pretty good.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  It's very fun and addictive, but after a while it just gets old. You go around, shoot enemies, 
 blow up these bases, turn on power generator, and that is about all you do in the game.
  
  Lasting Appeal: 6/10
  No multiplayer, I finished all 3 campaigns in under 5 hours, survival mode 
 isn't bad but won't keep you playing for long, and after you beat the campaign there really isn't 
 much to go back to. 
  
  Overall: 8/10
  It is fun, but it gets old. Also, some parts are just really hard if you don't have the money to 
 buy the weapons you need in that level or whatever. If you don't have the right weapon, you are 
 basically screwed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  Alien Shooter is a budget title that requires no more than 10 hours to finish the whole game twice. 
 Though the game is short, it provides great old-school arcade entertainment at short bursts in 
 between intensive commitments like dull office work and schooling. The replay value is good since 
 it serves to de-stress by shooting everything up on screen. Don't underestimate this simple gameplay, 
 cos the action really grows on you with the progressive play.
  
  By having the choice of either a guy or gal for your main character, there is also a simple RPG 
 element of level-up options (e. g. strength, accuracy, weight allowance) for your role-playing pleasure. 
 The monsters are just mad in terms of numbers and their variety is interesting enough to grab your 
 attention despite the repetitiveness sometimes.
  
  *ALERT* - There is another ridiculously expensive (US$40!) game in the market named Invasion Grounds 
 that is actually an exact rip-off of Alien Shooter. Be warned!
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earthcreater
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 2, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  would say this is a really fun game to play when you have nothing else to do, dont take me wrong 
 here i mean it gives you the amount pleasure you need, and also gives you enough action to keep 
 you hooked for an hour or two. off course if you are looking for graphics and a deep story this 
 is not the game for you, but if you like hack and slash you are totally welcome
  
  but this game dosen` t have the best Ai and there have been a number of times where i just stand 
 behind a corner and fire with my grenade launcher and all the ailiens die, but i will rate this 
 game as totally time kill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Alien Shooter is a nice game and descent while it was downloadable as a demo or a trial in MSN 
 games and ones ure done with the trial theyll ask u to buy it online or either shops which cost 
 at about 10 bucks or less
  while its worth the fun because of its budget prices and satisfying gore and gameplay!
  
  Gameplay: Alien 
 shooter has a good use for moving ure charecter. Firstly the player can choose either survival which 
 means that player must fight in one map, which is the only map ull play in survival, with unlimited 
 numbers of aliens while this maybe fun and satisfying as the longer you go the more harder aliens 
 will spawn out of your screen as while blue aliens will drop stronger weapons. While Its offers 
 over 12 different weapons and each with its own spciealty and weakness for example the pistol will 
 be ure first wepaon in the game and it offers unlimited ammo but dosent really do much damage as 
 you go deeper into the game but while the shotgun will not offer unlimited ammor though it will 
 send out numbers of bullets on one shot and will do quiet a heck of splash damage on the enemy. While 
 there also bonus items and upgrade items like for example bonus are like u can buy armor and there 
 are three armor one is green which is the weakest and theres a yelloe one which has a fair size 
 of defence and the red is the strongest amror or u could add more life bonus to your charecter 
 or have a robotic eye that is your ally and will move anywhere and shoot any of your enemys alongside 
 with you and while it will stay with you for an unlimited time until it is either destroyed and 
 while upgrades are chips that will either allow you to buy more ammos and allowing you to put more 
 ammos to that gun or laser of your or upgrade you health .While there is also a misison mode which 
 is obvios that it has it. The mision take place in an either abbandon or maybe taken over secret 
 labrotory where a group of scientis have accidentaly made contact with an alien race nad allowed 
 a portal between thier world and the human world now you are sent there to investigate the base 
 and stop the aliens before they grow in even more numbers and conquer the world. While there will 
 be tons of aliens and as you go deeper into the mission the more new aliens are discovered
  the mission arent many but very satisfying and it may also really remind you like half life sdtroy 
 plot i mean you could see that there is alot of similarity like half life the labrotory was aboduccted 
 by aliens and in alien shooter its also the same plot tough when ull descover more laines as u 
 go deeper in to the game they getm more unique as some are the same but others will be carrying 
 weapon and others are veery spider like
  tough enemys AI are very primitive and theyll shoot anything that it sees as an enemy but at most 
 time aliens tend to lok like its very hard for them to go out of a wall hole and will usually get 
 stuck and while there are bonus like if you see a small crack means that there might be a bonus 
 in it but its very hard to see yourself when inside the wall hole.
  
  Graphics: While one would not expect to have 3D but it does have a mix of small artistic 3d gender 
 from a 2d perspective game and while corpses of alien are very gorry which is very nice and undenying 
 statisfying in many ways. Environments are very Destruvtive and very satisfying too and while thyl 
 be aliens swarrming the aliens look very unique and nicely design in a 2d perspective and environments 
 of the labrotory looks very abbandon .While its hard to view ddue to its 2d perspective while theres 
 isnt much to talk about the graphics as there all very basic, descent and simple but fits very nice 
 for alien shooter
  
  sounds: While Gunshots, Aliens growls or hounds when they die sounds very wierd but music are very 
 nice and very fun to hear as there very hard rock ot to say metal rock.
  
  While This game may not be the best game one would want to expect but its worth to budget priced 
 fans or people that want to do something during their coffe break or something and while its very 
 well done by a small company this company has done a rewarding job for a budget pricede game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanitycheck4
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 7, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game. It's as Generic as it sounds. I've played this game. It's as Generic as 
 it sounds. I've played this game. It's as Generic as it sounds. I've played this game. It's as 
 Generic as it sounds. I've played this game. It's as Generic as it sounds. I've played this game. 
 It's as Generic as it sounds. I've played this game. It's as Generic as it sounds. I've played 
 this game. It's as Generic as it sounds. I've played this game. It's as Generic as it sounds. I've 
 played this game. It's as Generic as it sounds. I've played this game. It's as Generic as it sounds. 
 I've played this game. It's as Generic as it sounds. I've played this game. It's as Generic as 
 it sounds. I've played this game. It's as Generic as it sounds. I've played this game. It's as 
 Generic as it sounds. I've played this game. It's as Generic as it sounds. I've played this game. 
 It's as Generic as it sounds. I've played this game. It's as Generic as it sounds. I've played 
 this game. It's as Generic as it sounds. I've played this game. It's as Generic as it sounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildnine00
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  In Alien Shooter, you shoot aliens. Its a very one-dimensional, simple game with a classic arcade 
 feel. Its a third person top down view shoot em up game with tons of enemies swarming around you 
 at all times. While the action is of course repetitive, this game is really more than the sum of 
 its parts. This game has a lot of charm. The controls are tight and feel very natural, and the 
 sound is surprisingly good for a low-budget game. Theres lots of heavy metal blaring away as you 
 blast your way through wave after wave of aliens. The game is cheap, or free if youre computer-literate. 
 So give it a try. If for nothing else, its a great way to kill a few hours here and there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miless
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 1, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  Alien shooter is really great game for both RPG & Arcade fans. But do not be fooled this is not 
 your average arcade game nor is it your average RPG.
  The Arcade part of the game is very well balanced, the swarms of monsters are a real pleasure to 
 destroy, awthrough they pile up from time to time.
  The RPG part is done well too, but as written above this is not your average RPG, there is no quest 
 or any interaction with computer controlled units here. The controlls are both arcade and RPG style, the 
 game can be played both with the keyboard & the mouse like a real third person shooter, and with 
 the mouse only (kind of hard when you need to run backwards while shooting forward) like a RPG.
 
  The gameplay (generally killing all the bad guys and blowing something up from time to time) is 
 verry similar to Krimsonland, RI. P. or even Devastation Zone Troopers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wazodude99
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Alien Shooter is a Bird-Eye view shoot'em up game, where you need to fight through hordes of aliens 
 with all you've got. This review is on the whole Alien Shooter universe (excluding Alien Shooter 
 2) , including Alien Shooter, Alien Shooter: Fight 4 Life, Alien Shooter: The Experiment, and Theseus: 
 Return of The Hero. First up, the original Alien Shooter, the one that started this whole thing. 
 For more information, visit www. sigma-team. net.
  
  ALIEN SHOOTER
  
  Gameplay:10
  This game is fresh, and unique in it's own way. You walk down corridors with total of 9 super-destructive 
 weapons, blasting and rampaging your way through hordes of monsters, at a certain point of the 
 game, when it get's too tough, a even more super-destructive stationary turret awaits you, which 
 you can control and use it as your advantage and beat the hell outta the aliens. You can just sit 
 back and let hundreds of aliens charge at you, and watch the blood, gore, and pieces of burnt meat 
 flying everywhere, splattering the walls and ground all around you, leaving a huge pool of blood 
 and corpses. I cannot describe how addictive and fun this game is, where the harder it is, the 
 harder you try. You just have to try it out yourself.
  
  Graphics:8
  The graphics are wonderful (for a small game) , but if you are comparing this to Doom 3, Fear, Half 
 Life 2 and all those games, then this game looks like a C+. The weapon effects are wonderful, and 
 the monster effects (bodies exploding, attacking you, blood spilling, meat flying everywhere) are 
 just plain genius. The environment is highly interactable, with explosives, destructable objects 
 spread all over the map, and filled with movable objects, where if you're creative enough, you 
 can make a whole wall of chairs to slow the monsters down. What can I say? This game compared to 
 other small games=A++++++ Compared to modern full games=C+ (maybe higher, or lower, depending on 
 player)
  
  Sound:9
  The sounds are wonderful. Listening to monster squeal of pain, explosions, used bullets dropping 
 on the floor, guns firing, armor falling into pieces, burnt meat making plopping sounds all around 
 you just makes you feel so much better after a hard day of work or lots of stress. And to top it 
 all off, there are fast-paced rock and techno soundtracks playing while you go on with your slaughter. 
 Superb Job Sigma!!!
  
  Value:9
  This is definitly worth your money's worth, since it's so intense and addictive, but to some player's 
 high standards due to all the modern games right now, they might not enjoy the game as much, there 
 for, thinking it's a waste of money, but to the rest of you serious gamers, please give this game 
 a try and you won't regret it.
  
  Alien Shooter: Fight 4 Life
  
  Alien Shooter: Fight 4 Life is the first addon for the original alien shooter, which doesn't have 
 much new features, just new levels.
  
  Gameplay:7
  This addon is almost exactly the same as the original Alien Shooter except with twice as many monsters, 
 explosions, and turrets spread throughout the levels. So, Eh.
  
  Graphics:7
  Exactly the same as before, walking through corridors, nothing more, so I gave it a 7, since everything's 
 still the same (not that it's getting worse or anything)
  
  Sound:8
  *sigh* Everything's still the same, except for a few new soundtracks...
  
  Value:6
  I recommend 
 this addon to only serious Alien shooter fans, since there's nothing new, except for some new soundtracks 
 and levels...*sigh*
  
  Alien Shooter: The Experiment
  
  This is the second addon to Alien shooter, and does not require Fight 4 Life. Now this is where 
 the game starts to get interesting, with whole new environments.
  
  Gameplay:9
  This addon revived the alien shooter series from Fight 4 Life, which was a wee-bit disappointing. 
 This addon actually LOOKS like an addon and FEELS like an addon, unlike Fight 4 Life. There are 
 all new monsters, open environments (trees, houses, playgrounds, so on) and finally, a final boss!!! 
 And this is like Fight 4 Life, where all the aliens and explosions and everything else from the 
 original Alien Shooter is doubled!!! Amazing gameplay!!! Three words for the gameplay of this game: 
 *ahem* INTENSE AS HELL!!!!!! *screams* *rolls on the ground, having seizure*
  
  Graphics:9
  The graphics are beautiful, with all new environments, new monster effects, and some 
 more interactable objects, amazing.
  
  Sound:8
  Nothing new, except for the new sound effects for the new monsters.
  
  Value:9
  If you are 
 an owner of the original Alien Shooter, this addon is a must buy!!! And if you DON'T own the original 
 Alien Shooter, buy it for this addon's sake.
  This is a must play.
  
  Theseus: Return of the Hero
  This game is not an addon, but is ran on the Alien Shooter engine, 
 and is a sequel to The Experiment. This game is almost exactly like Alien Shooter, with whole new 
 levels, environments, bunch of new aliens, weapons, sound effects, features, sound tracks, and 
 you get to control a whole new hero!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is not as fun as Alien Shooter, even if there are more monsters and like, 
 ten bosses. I'll tell you why. In Theseus: Return of The Hero, The weapons aren't as destructive, 
 or look as destructive, and the stationary weapons aren't as intense. But on the bright side, there 
 are whole new interactable environments (such as blowing up dead cow corpses, running over cabbages 
 and making them explode, and so on) , lots of new aliens, even more aliens showing up on your screen 
 than all of the games before, super wide-open spaces for slaughtering, a whole new line of weapons, 
 and a whole new "civillian rescue" feature. I'll tell you more about this game compared to Alien 
 Shooter as I go on with all the other attributes.
  
  Graphics:9
  The graphics are wonderful. The textures of the environment (houses, vehicles, aliens, so on) is 
 absolutely amazing, and the weapon effects are quite nice too.
  
  Sound:7
  This is where it kinda ruins the game (in my opinion) . There is a whole new set of weapon effects, 
 which doesn't sound so... explosive, rather, they sound rather quiet and non-destructive. There 
 is a whole new set of soundtracks, which isn't all that good compared to the Alien Shooter soundtracks. 
 In Theseus: Return of The Hero, the soundtracks are carnival/rock/techno all mixed together, which 
 is an weird combination, and quite a nice idea, but Sigma managed to mess it up, and the soundtracks 
 needs some getting used to, and they don't provide that intensity in the gameplay compared to the 
 original Alien Shooter series.
  
  Value:7
  Now this might sound a bit confusing, so stay with me. Theseus: Return of The Hero, has hundreds (maybe 
 thousands) of new features and effects than Alien Shooter, but is not as intense as the original 
 Alien Shooter, so only buy this game if you're curious, or a die-hard fan of the Alien Shooter 
 series. But other than that, wait for Alien Shooter 2 to come out and buy that, since it will include 
 everything from Theseus: Return Of The Hero and the Alien Shooter Series. For people who never 
 tried Alien Shooter and would like to, and also wanna play Theseus: Return Of The Hero, try Alien 
 Shooter FIRST, than Theseus. I recommend for people who would like to get more into the Alien Shooter 
 Universe, First buy Alien Shooter, and if you like it, buy The Experiment (Skip Fight 4 Life) , then, 
 buy Alien Shooter 2 (which is gonna come out soon) .
  
  That concludes my review, if you have any questions, contact me through the gamespot messaging 
 system and I'll help you if you can.
  
  PS: Spread the name of Alien Shooter around, since not many people know of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnny27
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  When you first start the game starts off slow you'll encounter a few baddies here and there but 
 then the game speeds up considerable as swarms of dozens upon dozens of aliens rush at you trying 
 to rip you apart. And you must use your high tech weapons to defend yourself against them. And 
 that pretty much sums up what playing alien shooter is all about. 
  
  Alien shooter is a third person action shooter. In it you play as eithier a female or a male. Each 
 has different their own strengths and weakness. The whole point of the game is to destroy all the 
 aliens that have invaded a government facility. There are a handful of weapons that are at your 
 disposal to help you accomplish this. The game has pistols , shotguns, machineguns, flame throwers, 
 etc. you can also purchase genetic upgrades for your character to make him faster and stuff like 
 that. 
  
  The game is very fun and addicting. The graphics in the game are ok considering the size of the 
 devolepment team that made the game. The sound in the game is nice the guns sound realistic and 
 there is a good music that suits the nature of the game
  
  I know I've said nothing bad about the game so far but the game has a fatal flaw that doesn't make 
 it worth the 20$. The game is SHORT!!! Very short shorter then brittany spears las vegas marriage. 
 The game may be fun as hell but you can easily beat it under 1 day of play. The game has little 
 replay value and while it is worth playing its not woth paying 20$ just download a free cracked 
 version you'll be glad you did.
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
