-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Alien Trilogy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/alientrilogy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  3, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 4.3, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 77 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Acclaim
Developer: Probe Ent.
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Nov 30, 1996
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
To quote Bob "Company Synthetic" Dole: Just don't do it. 

 All right, you really like the Alien movies (except you didn't dig the last one nearly as much as 
 the first two) . You love first-person shooters like Duke Nukem 3D and Quake. You walk into your 
 local software store and spot Alien Trilogy, Acclaim's new first-person shooter based on the movies 
 you love. It's like a dream come true, right? Right - if the dream were a nightmare.  

 Actually, that's a little bit harsh. Alien Trilogy isn't a horrible game; in fact, if it had been 
 released two years ago I'd probably be inclined to give it a fair rating. But hey, it's 1997 - 
 and after seeing what can be done with first-person shooters on the PC, Alien Trilogy looks like 
 a real trip back in time.  

 There's no doubt that this game has problems, nearly all of which can be traced back to two things: 
 It's a video game port, and the video game that's being ported is already a year old. I don't mean 
 to imply that all video game ports are sub-par, but when little or no effort is made to take advantage 
 of the PC's capabilities - such as saving during levels, changing options during gameplay, and 
 more - then you're off to a bad start. And while a year may not seem like that long of a time, 
 anyone who knows anything about gaming technology will assure you that it is.  

 One thing AT does have going for it is a great setting. I don't think I've met an action-game fan 
 who wasn't into Aliens, and that's where Alien Trilogy begins: You play as Ripley entering the 
 colony complex on LV426, armed only with a 9mm pistol. Following the tried-and-true formula for 
 first-person shooters, you explore each level in search of weapons and power-ups, and of course 
 blasting everything that moves.  

 But a great setting alone does not a great game make, and in nearly every feature Alien Trilogy 
 falls far short of the standards set by classy products like Duke Nukem 3D and Quake. Hey, the 
 annoyances crop up even before you begin play. When you install the game, AT offers you the choice 
 of 256-color (8-bit) or 16-bit (64K-color) display. But the 16-bit version provides a color palette 
 with only 40 or so more colors than the 8-bit version; why bother someone with this decision when 
 there's no discernible difference?  

 Once you launch the game, be ready for a wait - a long wait. The credit sequences for Fox Interactive, 
 Acclaim, and Probe Entertainment are interminable - nearly a minute and a half on a P-133 with 
 32MB RAM - and there's no way to bypass them. That's right, you gotta watch 'em every time. Excusable? 
 Not in my book. When you do get into the game, you'll find all the usual ingredients of a shooter, 
 but executed so nonchalantly that it seems the designers just whipped this thing out by rote: kill 
 an enemy, find a weapon, open a door, exit the level. Yee-haw.  

 Of the seven weapons here, only the flamethrower is unique - and with several of them (shotgun, 
 pistol, seismic charges) , you have to press the fire button for every single shot. Given the number 
 of aliens you're facing and how many shots it takes to waste each one, gamer's cramp is always 
 looming on the horizon. Three of the six alien enemies - the Young Dog Alien, Warrior, and Adult 
 Dog Alien - are so similar in appearance that they all might as well be the same critter, and except 
 for the Alien Handler the Company Enemies are run-of-the-mill employees who were unlucky 
 to become host to the alien - in short, they're just people. You'd probably offer them a sandwich 
 if they weren't shooting at you.   

 There's no jumping or crouching here, and the motion tracker - that way-cool device that's supposed 
 to tell you if anything's getting ready to jump your butt - is pretty much useless. It doesn't 
 even tell you if creatures are in a room you're about to enter even when you're standing at the 
 doorway.  

 The sound effects are mostly adequate, but uninspired. Shoot a Young Dog Alien, for example, and 
 after the acid has splattered you hear a wheezing noise that sounds like the Three Stooges snoring. 
 Your character seems to revel in taking damage, hissing out "Come on!" and taunting "Is that all 
 you've got?" whenever you take damage. That's not what I call talking the talk AND walking the 
 walk.  

 Besides being unable to change options during play or save a game in mid-level, Alien Trilogy's 
 video game heritage is revealed by the fact that you can't play separate sections a la Duke or 
 Quake unless you use cheat codes (which I haven't been able to find yet) - you have to play this 
 thing straight through from start to finish.  

 Alien Trilogy runs at 640x480, but the graphics for enemies and backgrounds are so ho-hum and chunky 
 that I could have sworn it was running at standard 320x200. These graphics are straight out of 
 the Doom era - good enough if you haven't seen any recent first-person shooters, but disappointing 
 for everyone else. Acclaim boasts of using "motion-capture technology" to create the game, but 
 I guess you'd have to be a programmer to see any difference between this high-end technology and 
 other first-person games that eschew motion capture.  

 The last insult is the game's network play features. The box copy boasts that AT is "fully loaded 
 for real-time multi-player action over a network" - not much to brag about, since I've never seen 
 a first-person shooter on a network that didn't play in real time. What's more, the network game 
 doesn't have you shooting other players, but company synthetics; whoever kills the most company 
 enemies wins. Now THAT'S the kind of action you'll hang around after work to enjoy! The crowning 
 touch? No modem support - despite the "ad" on Acclaim's hot line that says the game has this feature. 

 So what have we got? Great setting. Dated graphics. Dated gameplay. Mediocre sound effects. Sub-par 
 multiplayer options. Those might be enough for a die-hard Alien fan who wants to make sure her 
 collection of memorabilia is complete, but for the rest of us - even those of us who love the movies 
 - it's not enough to make this game worth buying. To quote Bob "Company Synthetic" Dole: Just don't 
 do it.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kanedajjj5757
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  for those who ever saw any of the highly entertaining Alien motion pictures, this is the game that 
 first brought it to the FPS style and carrying on to the more successful game 'Aliens Online'. 
 this game did not introduce anything new in terms of functionality or gameplay. the creators did 
 not even attempt a 'free look' aiming system that ID Software easily pulled off a year later with 
 the joint production with Ravensoft called 'heretic'. the controls are customizable which is a 
 lt down because the controls were very awkward. lastly the game, like other movie to game adaptations, 
 wasnt true to the film series, which didnt help either. if you try this you'll find yourself trying 
 to bear the game from start to finish - it's that hard to take... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Spielmann
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 7, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Back in the old days when it came out, Alien Trilogy was a shock to me. It has been one of the 
 few games that truly scared me when playing it. I like the Alien saga but I am not even such a 
 fan, I enjoyed this game because it was fast-paced, scary, and it had nice graphics. It was also 
 quite difficult. I found myself installing it again and again through the years to give it another 
 go... and I have done that with very few games. Don't believe the Gamespot score on this one. If 
 you are lucky enough to find this game on abandonware sites, or if you come across it at some second 
 hand market, get it... you will not be disappointed. It sits comfortably among the other masterpieces 
 in my collection. It might have come at the wrong time, or maybe the reviewer had a bad day, or 
 maybe other games were more popular at the time, when everybody was playing Duke Nukem and Quake... 
 but Alien Trilogy... with the empty corridors and the acid splashes, with those alien crabs jumping 
 on your face... it's something to remember and it keeps scaring me today. I was shocked to see 
 the score they gave it, it didn't deserve such a harsh treatment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Alien Trilogy is a somewhat underrated shooter. Many of you wont agree with the mark that I granted 
 to this game, but you should give it a second chance in order to get a glimpse of its better side.
 
  
  Alien Trilogy is best described as a straightforward shooter. Despite the objectives that the game 
 presents, there is no need to actually accomplish them. Just like in Doom, all you need to do is 
 get to the exit point. This isnt exactly a bad thing, as those that wish to blow some enemies 
 away and carry on to the next level will be satisfied. Weapons are pretty nice, especially for 
 those alien fans that always wanted a smart gun of their own. I quite enjoyed the simple gameplay 
 myself, but others (looking for a deeper experience) will be disappointed.
  
  Alien Trilogy does present some nice change of scenery every now and then, ranging from cargo holds, 
 a cryogenic chamber, and the alien nest itself. There is little variety in the locals. Enemies 
 look well enough to please you, but up close they become horribly pixilated, turning into some 
 form of black and white mush. Explosions are quite nice and a joy to look at, but nothing special 
 is overall present by the graphic quality.
  
  Sound is suitable, but not amazing. There are sometimes problems, as running the game in XP will 
 disable sound. Because of that, I recommend DosBox, although youll need a pretty fast PC. The 
 sound or music wont amaze you, but theyll be adequate for your game playing experience.
  
  The storyline is standard, you are lieutenant Ellen Ripley, your object is to kill the alien 
 queens and save your human friends from extinction. Quite frankly, this game doesnt need a good 
 story, as most of the time youll be blowing things away.
  
  There you have it, Alien Trilogy in my honest opinion is a great shooter that will satisfy your 
 mindless cravings for violence against aliens. Enjoy blowing things up and wreaking havoc, because 
 if youre looking for a deep and plot oriented adventure, youll be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spawnleon
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  sure this game looks diasterious but really to me, its fun for alien fans! u play as reply fighting 
 against the aliens from the alien movies, aliens, alien3, and alien resurection, the game can loose 
 its interests in some points but come on having face hugers jump on ure screen, having aliens chasing 
 u, and when killing them the acid comes, who would'nt want that in a video game i mean come on, 
 if u watched the alien movies u can understand this game, even its different that humans are firing 
 at u but its fun for a classic game, i say if u want a fun PC game or PS1 (cause its on the ps) , 
 this game might be worth 6$!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madindianboy
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 4, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  Im not going to say much as I am too annoyed at how lame this game is. 
  How are you supposed to play a FPS with the D-Pad?! Use the analogue sticks! That's what they are 
 there for!
  
  Yes there is a lengthy campaign, but it is the same target every 3 missions. 
  Get the power 
 back on, kill everyone and stock up on ammo before time runs out. 
  
  Sound is A-Palling! Music is repetitive and is ok-ish. The Alien sounds are more or less the same 
 for every creature. The weapon sounds are "canned" and are very low quality. 
  
  This game seems too rushed. 
  
  Only nice thing was the cut scenes and yet they were disappointing.
 
  
  I hope that IF they make another alien game for consoles, please take your time! Alien is a brilliant 
 franchise, don't mess it up for the sake of the planet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 30, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  The Trilogy is loosely based on the first three movies, or rather the second and the third. Its 
 ambience is excellent with a soundtrack that really shines on some levels, and the cut scenes are 
 decent. However, gameplay suffers from several niggles that stop what could have been a really 
 good game. First of all the level design is a bit confusing with maze like structures and one way 
 elevators that makes navigating rather boring. Most of the time you cannot go where you intend 
 to and have to look for other routes. Jumping will lead you nowhere, instead you have to navigate 
 shallow ramps to get where you want to.
  
  To make this more interesting you will be stalked by xenomorphs of different kinds that will sometimes 
 roam the corridors, or pop up at scripted triggers. The AI isn't particularly impressive, and the 
 game ambience is ruined by the insane amounts of damage that some of the beasts can take. It is 
 not uncommon to pump fifty rounds of pulse rifle ammo into an alien drone, and still it will come 
 back for more. This is really bad design, and removes all of the instant scare factor into a dumb 
 slugging fight that goes on and on and on.
  
  It is a shame for the graphics were ok for its time, and the weapons were all faithful to the movies. 
 There are some really good spooky levels where you walk in a dark and poorly lit xenomorph nest, 
 blasting eggs and getting attacked from creatures hiding in the ceiling, but these scarce moments 
 can't save the entire game. This game is reduced to Doom vs. Aliens (wasn't there a mod for this 
 anyway?) , but it could have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebbderelict
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Probably the only that kept me from ditching this CD a long time ago, is the fact that it is Aliens. 
 
  As a FPS, it does offer much to the genre, even at the time it was new. Some levels were well done, 
 but some level design I found sloppy and confusing.
  And the lack of ammo lying around, added a undesired over-use of my pistol, which also robbed from 
 the game play. 
  The story line would've been better if they didn't specify that you were suppose to be ripley, 
 as it borrows locations from the 1st three movies, and some plot, but does not have you playing 
 through the movies.
  You may want to pick it up for a retro weekend if you find it in the $2 bargain bin at your local 
 games shop, AND your a fan of the franchise. But don't expect an AVP experience. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
