-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Alien Blast: The Encounter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/alienblastencounter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 18, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.3
Critic Score: 3.9, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 4.1, 44 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Made by Kiddies
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Feb 9, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Across every category, Alien Blast defines itself as the very epitome of boredom. 

  Everybody loves turret-shooting, right? It's always a fun way to break up the standard action of 
 your favorite shooters by climbing into some sort of big, gun-mounted contraption and then blowing 
 the hell out of a slew of enemies with far more powerful weaponry than you'd otherwise have at 
 your disposal. So why is it that when you play a game like Alien Blast: The Encounter (which, for 
 all intents and purposes, is just one long turret-shooting session) , you're liable to find yourself 
 bored to the verge of tears? How could a game based solely on the concept of sitting inside a large 
 turret while shooting nasty alien hordes manage to fall flat? Maybe it has to do with the game's 
 complete lack of any gameplay variety whatsoever. Or maybe it's the ugly, muddy visuals and the 
 laughably bad enemy designs. Or perhaps this brand of stationary shooter has just lost its luster 
 in the modern gaming era. Whatever the reasoning may be, the simple, glaring fact remains that 
 Alien Blast is just not fun in any way, shape, or form.  

          Alien Blast bills itself as an "arcade shooter." However, it fails to mention that it is 
 also a very "bad" arcade shooter.     

  Like most shooters of this ilk, Alien Blast has a very simple premise. It's the future, and humanity 
 inhabits planets far and wide. However, when an onslaught of unpleasant alien invaders threatens 
 one of Earth's colonized worlds, it's up to you -- the anonymous Allied Force soldier -- to stave off 
 these alien hordes by blasting them back to the cold depths of space. How, exactly, are you to 
 do this? Essentially, you accomplish this by sitting inside a big, dome-shaped turret gun that 
 is armed with one of seven available weapons (though some must be unlocked as the game progresses) ; 
 then you shoot until every ugly alien in sight is dead. Sounds exciting, right? Maybe it does, 
 in theory.  

  There are 45 levels in Alien Blast, and they're all pretty much exactly the same thing over and 
 over again. You aim your gun by using the mouse, shoot until nothing's left, move on to the next 
 level, lather, rinse, and repeat. While the weapons you're provided are fairly different from one 
 another in terms of effectiveness, almost all of them suffer from an annoying habit of simply not 
 hitting their designated targets when they seem as though they ought to be. This could be because 
 the game's targeting reticle requires you to be extremely precise in your shooting, though there 
 are definitely times when even a pretty careless shot somehow manages to take down a random enemy. 
 So most likely, the game just suffers from some lousy hit detection.  

  During each mission, you'll see various types of evil aliens, ranging from flying batlike creatures, 
 giant eyeballs with arms, and nasty little lizard life-forms, to some occasional aliens of the 
 Serious Sam-inspired larger variety. No one enemy by itself is terribly challenging, but aliens 
 in the game come at you in huge swarms, essentially challenging you only through sheer numbers. 
 Some levels can be beaten in a single try, while others are so ridiculously hard that they border 
 on impossible. There's just no reasoning with the game's difficulty, and more than likely, you'll 
 find yourself frustrated and bored by the whole thing before you even reach level 10. If the single-player 
 game does indeed prove to be too obnoxious for your tastes, there is a multiplayer mode in the 
 game for LAN or Internet play where, presumably, you and up to three other people can engage in 
 some alien-blasting action. However, in every attempt made to find a game online with other people, 
 we were regrettably rebuffed by the fact that there was simply never anyone online to play against. 
 Then again, after playing Alien Blast, it's hard to imagine that there's anyone else who wants 
 to play it, either.  

  Further compounding the level of uninterest the game will inspire in you are its unpleasant-looking 
 graphics. There are many different environments in the game, though most of them just seem to be 
 color-scheme variations of the same basic one. In every single mission, the base you're supposed 
 to be guarding never changes, so you'll constantly see the same, ugly building every time out. 
 Textures are extremely low-res, and texture-tiling is plainly obvious -- pretty much all over the 
 place. Even worse are the incredibly derivative enemy designs, which look like they were individually 
 ripped off from just about every sci-fi movie and game ever made. Maybe if the aliens did something 
 cool when you blew them apart, this might be slightly forgivable, but sadly, they don't.  

          Unless you enjoy tediously boring shooting mechanics, spotty hit detection, and ridiculous-looking 
 aliens, you're better off just skipping out on Alien Blast.     

  As for the game's sound design, there's really not much worth mentioning. Most of the weapon and 
 explosion effects are reasonable, though they're not terribly well recorded. Beyond them, there 
 just isn't much else to hear. Enemies don't really make any sounds, and there isn't much music 
 in the game (and what's there is usually extremely quiet by default) . The only voice work comes 
 in the form of some guy who talks over your radio in between missions and after you die, occasionally 
 providing words of encouragement. To be quite frank, his dialogue sounds as if it was written and 
 recorded by a 16-year-old kid with nothing better to do.  

  Across every category, Alien Blast defines itself as the very epitome of boredom. The action is 
 dull, repetitive, and in some cases, a bit broken. The game's graphics are pretty much a sad, underdeveloped 
 joke. Its sound is best left with the volume knob turned completely down. And despite the fact 
 that it features multiplayer, the game's pretty much useless if no one is ever online to play with. 
 Every single aspect of Alien Blast is just supremely uninspired, and as such, there's absolutely 
 no reason to play it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 3.2
Date: Apr 8, 2004 12:36 pm PT
Review:  In this day in age, games are constantly being refined to bring new spins on existing genres or 
 bring something totally original to the table. While this is met with varied degrees of success, 
 innovation is never a bad idea. Once in a while, a game comes a long that harkens back to the old 
 days of simplicity with classic gameplay and half the time it's actually really good, and further 
 enhanced by waiving learning curves in favor of addicting twitch gaming. Unfortunately, Alien Blast 
 is not one of these games. 
  
  
  
  Alien Blast takes place in the future where humanity enhabits a number of planets. You are a turret 
 gunner protecting these bases from an invading alien force. Perhaps the story leaves a bit to be 
 desired, but is suiting for a game as simple as this. 
  
  Gameplay puts you in the turret of a base on one of the similar looking planets. Aiming is done 
 with the mouse. Left-button shoots and right-button zooms. You can switch between the game's seven 
 weapons with the 1-7 keys. You spend any of the the game's 45 levels blasting away the invading 
 aliens until they stop showing up. Wash rinse repeat. Needless to say, by the tenth level the tedium 
 sets in. 
  
  Weapons are pretty basic fare. You have an assortment of laser cannons and slow firing balls of 
 energy to a flame thrower and a gun that produces a giant explosion that kills everything around 
 it for a few seconds. None of the weapons are really impressive and most of the higher powered 
 weapons have such limited amounts of ammo, limited range, or horrible firing rates that you'll 
 see yourself using the same two or three weapons throughout the game. 
  
  The visuals of Alien Blast are substandard to say the least. Environments all look similar and 
 barren. The only differentiating trait are different colors and far off environmental perks like 
 cliffs, mountains, or floating land masses. Enemy models don't look any better either. You find 
 some ugly and downright laughable designs here like flying bugs and floating eyeballs with what 
 look to be boxing gloves for hands. Another blow to the visuals are really bad clipping issues 
 that cause any alien that gets close to your turret to disappear until you start spraying fire 
 in circles until they run away. Aside from the barren environments, monsters, the inside of your 
 turret, and the score screen in between levels; Alien Blast is nothing great to look at. 
  
  
  
  The biggest downfall of the game has to be the sound. You'll have 45 levels with the 
 same music and the same weaponry sound effects. Monsters barely make a sound when killed. The game 
 features no speech, aside from the very poorly sampled advice from a nameless guy (maybe a superior) 
 in between levels who sounds like his voice was recorded on a twenty-year old tape, then playing 
 said tape in a bad tape player and recording it through an answering machine. Even with the volume 
 up, you're struggling to hear this guy's emotionless quotes. 
  
  Alien Blast serves as another reminder that PC gaming is somewhat of a double-edged sword. For 
 every Unreal Tournament 2004, you'll have ten Alien Blasts. Those who are looking for some old 
 school twitch gaming will not find much substance here aside from a lesson in tedium.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
