-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Aliens Versus Predator 2: Primal Hunt Expansion Pack
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/aliensversuspredator2phep/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 21, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.1, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 578 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Third Law Int.
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Aug 13, 2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The original Aliens Versus Predator 2 was a much better game, and you'd be better off going back 
 and playing it again instead. 

 Primal Hunt, the first expansion pack for last year's excellent Aliens Versus Predator 2, will take 
 you around six hours to finish. But it's hard to fault Primal Hunt for its length. For better or 
 worse, 20 bucks for every six hours of gameplay is about average for a modern shooter. However, 
 the expansion doesn't manage to squeeze any memorable settings, set pieces, story elements, or 
 surprises of any kind into those six hours. The single-player campaign is frustrating and boring 
 in equal measures, and nothing really noteworthy has been added to the multiplayer game, so you 
 can feel free to hold all that against it.           Primal Hunt looks a lot like the original 
 game.    

  As in the original, the expansion features separate human, alien, and predator campaigns (three 
 levels for each) that all intersect at certain points. Primal Hunt feels like a retread of segments 
 from Aliens Versus Predator 2, but without that game's novelty, great pacing, or skillfully executed 
 action sequences. On top of that, while the new developers at Third Law have copied Monolith's 
 design, they haven't done it closely enough, and they generally screw up the parts that worked 
 in the original.   

  For example: In both Aliens Versus Predator 2 and Primal Hunt, the first alien mission involves 
 scurrying through the level as a face hugger attempting to find a suitable host. The original made 
 this into a sort of interactive cutscene with a clear but cleverly camouflaged path through it. 
 Primal Hunt, on the other hand, attempts to turn it into more of an action sequence with dismal 
 results. In the original, you had to avoid humans, whose overheard conversations not only added 
 some color to the mission but also gave you an indication of what they were likely to do, so you 
 could plan when to move and when to stay hidden. In Primal Hunt, you're avoiding predators, who 
 communicate using uninteresting and indecipherably monotonous shrieks. The level consists of avoiding 
 the apparently arbitrary movements of these predators while searching for the often disguised cracks 
 and vents that will lead you to the next section of the ship. The humans in the original were all 
 either unreachable or in tight groups, making them clearly unsuitable targets for face-hugging. 
 In Primal Hunt, it's entirely possible for a solitary predator to get separated from its pack, 
 at which point you can pounce on it and attach yourself to its head. But unless it's the single 
 correct target at the end of the level, you'll simply die, even though, by all appearances, you've 
 successfully face-hugged a victim. There's one rigidly enforced path through the level, but the 
 design is so sloppy that it becomes a save-and-reload drill as you try to figure out exactly what 
 the developers want you to do.   

  For the human marine campaign, Primal Hunt eliminates the creeping dread of the best parts of the 
 original and instead focuses on an extended running battle. Rather than setting up some cunning 
 action sequences, the game primarily relies on one trick used over and over again -- dropping aliens 
 either right on top of your head or right behind you. This is especially frustrating both because 
 the humans are so fragile and because their weapons are primarily useful at medium to long range. 
 Your survival ultimately hinges on saving and reloading enough to memorize where the aliens are 
 coming from at any point, turning the entire human campaign into a grim, futuristic homework assignment. 
 Conversely, the predator's levels are the most consistently entertaining in the game, though not 
 because any one thing stands out as surprisingly good, but simply because nothing in them is especially 
 bad.   

  The graphics and sound are all about the same as in the original. Most of the environments, in 
 fact, appear to be taken almost directly from Aliens Versus Predator 2. Three new monsters have 
 been added, though they all look too goofy and cartoonlike for their surroundings. As sort of an 
 acknowledgement of their weakness, two of them are really utilized only once or twice. The third -- a 
 big worm that, in a really annoying reversal of the developer's alien strategy, arbitrarily pops 
 up from directly beneath your feet -- is used too often.           The multiplayer isn't much different, 
 or much better.    

  Four completely undistinguished multiplayer maps are included in the expansion. No new game types 
 have been created, and none of the four maps can be used in the overrun or evac modes. The humans 
 get a new short-range 360-degree motion detector, a double pistol, and mountable turrets, the predators 
 get an unexciting flchette gun and a really underpowered suicide detonation attack, and the 
 predaliens can now bite heads. None of these subtle changes will make an impression on anyone but 
 the most hard-core Aliens Versus Predator players.   

  Improbably, Primal Hunt suffers from copying the original both too much and not enough. The original 
 Aliens Versus Predator 2 was a much better game, and you'd be better off going back and playing 
 it again instead.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sorvos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  I said this a hundred times before and I don't mind saying it again: Aliens vs Predator 2 is such 
 a revolutionary game, that not only reinvented the gameplay, but provided a satisfaction and an 
 experience that can't be equaled. It is just perfect!
  When I finished it, I was really dying to play a sequel. The fun I had with AVP 2 was something 
 I've never experienced so obviously, I wanted more. And then I was rewarded with Aliens vs Predator 
 2: Primal Hunt Expansion Pack. Although not as majestic as the original AVP 2, Primal Hunt is still 
 an awesome game that is a must for everyone that is a fan of Alien and Predator. 
  
  As you might expected, the plot is once again a very important factor of the game. Just like in 
 Aliens vs Predator 2, it is meticulously built, with tonnes of details, that all have an important 
 role in creating the story. Of course, there are a few details that are left out, but that is done 
 on purpose, leaving you to discover them. Like I said, if you are a real fan of this series, you'll 
 love studying the story and putting all the pieces together. 
  The story is set before the events from Aliens vs Predator 2, some of the actions taking place 
 about 500 years before AVP 2. That should explain the title somehow: Primal Hunt.
  The whole plot is about an acient Predator artifact, that has powerful effects on Aliens when it's 
 activated.
  
  The singleplayer, just like in Aliens vs Predator 2, offers three campaigns: Corporate, Predator 
 and Predalien. Unlike AVP 2, each campaign has only three missions, but where it lacks in quantity 
 it has a lot of intensity. There are far more enemies to deal with and they attack in swarms. So 
 it should be a bit more difficult, although nothing to serious. The action takes place on LV-1201. 
 Just like in AVP 2, the campaigns have their own different endings and take place simultaneously, 
 many of your actions in one campaign can be seen in another. Also, all the campaigns are available 
 from the start of the game and you can't jump straightly to the Predalien one if you feel like 
 you can't wait to see what it's like.
  
  The Corporate campaign puts you in the shoes of Dunya, an exceptionally trained woman. You will 
 recognize her as being the one who punched Frosty in the back of the head in AVP 2. She is not 
 a marine and she only reports to General Rykov.
  Like always, the human campaign is the most difficult. However, it will not be something you can't 
 be able to handle. You will not get to fight an Alien Queen like in AVP 2 and you will not get 
 to use a pilot exo-suit. Instead, you'll fight legions of Aliens and you will get most of the weapons 
 from the first level.
  The Marine campaign from AVP 2 was quite scary until you got used to it. This is not the case in 
 the Corporate campaign in AVP 2: PH. There are almost no dark areas and you'll get to meet the 
 Aliens by fighting alongside with other Corporates in the first level. Also, the Aliens attack 
 in big numbers from the beginning, so you'll get used to them instantly.
  Your main objective is to retrieve the artifact and get it to Rykov.
  
  In the second campaign 
 you'll play as a Predator. Not a standard Predator, but an acient one. 500 years ago, you and other 
 ancient Predators landed on LV-1201 to hunt. As you collect trophies from the creatures inhabiting 
 the planet, you come across an Alien hive. So you and your mates prepare to hunt the mighty Alien 
 Queen. But the Alien numbers are so vast, that you are heavily outclassed. So the Predators activate 
 a powerful artifact, that Aliens develop aversion to. For 500 years, there were no problems concerning 
 the Aliens, but now a insolent human ( Dunya ) , found the artifact and stole it. Your job is to 
 get it back.
  The end is tragic for the Predator however. While trying to get the artifact, he was facehugged. 
 So at the end of the campaign, the Predator uses a human computer to send a transmission to his 
 mates. But he never gets to see them, for he is killed by the Chestburster inside him.
  As a Predator you have the same abilities as in AVP 2 and they all have the same effects.
  
 
  And once again, we get to the Alien campaign, which is without any doubt, the most intense and 
 addicting as well. But you are no longer a Drone ( standard Alien ) like in AVP 2. You are now 
 a more powerful Predalien. So if you wanted to know what's like to slay humans as a Predalien, 
 now you will find your answers. Yes, it is magnificent.
  You start your life as a Facehugger and you have to find a new host, a Predator this time. Like 
 in AVP 2, there is only one correct host, so your job is to find him. The Predator you facehugg 
 is the same Predator you play in the Predator campaign. That's why I said the Predator has a tragic 
 end. When you've successfully facehugged to Predator, you'll continue your life as a Chestburster 
 and you must quickly find something to eat. It is no longer an animal shelter, but a morgue. After 
 this life stages, you will be a powerful Predalien. Although it has almost the same physical resemblance 
 as the Alien Drone, the Predalien is bulkier and taller, has a Predator-like face with similar 
 dreadlocks, with no tongue, but powerful mandibles. 
  The Predalien's abilities are the same as the Drone's: can head-bite by using its mandibles ( although 
 this was not available in AVP 2 multiplayer ) , can pounce on enemies, but with much more power 
 over longer distances and has the same vision modes. Also, you must feed to regain health. This 
 action is the same as in AVP 2.
  As a Predalien, your main objective is to escape and return to your hive. The campaign shouldn't 
 be a problem as a Predalien.
  
  The weapons from the game are exactly the same as in AVP 2, except for the Predator's, who has 
 now received a new gun, called energy flechette. It is some sort of pistol action gun, incorporated 
 in your right hand. It also drains energy.
  The Corporate has now dual pistols.
  The Predalien is a weapon on its own and has the same attack styles as the Drone: head-bite, claws, 
 tail and a more powerful pounce.
  
  The AI is virtually the same, but the game throws a lot more foes at you. That's perhaps a minor 
 setback, because as a Corporate you are very vulnerable and medkits are now pretty scarce. On higher 
 skill levels, it gets really tough. Another small flaw is some kind of worm that pops out of the 
 ground. It can break out usually everywhere, although 95 % of the times it pops out right beneath 
 you. This is somehow annoying, but still not bad enough to spoil this great game.
  
  The graphics are the same as in AVP 2, although more attention is given to small details. The sounds 
 are also identical as in AVP 2.
  
  As a conclusion, Aliens vs Predator 2: Primal Hunt is a superb game that expands the story and 
 provides great satisfaction. It is something every AVP 2 fan should have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supergodzilla1
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  I walked out of AvP and AvP2 with the gloating satisfaction of the challenges I had overcame. From 
 slaughtering Aliens to sneaking up on Marines or vice versa. Even the multiplayer in AvP2 extended 
 the playability. Now there's the expansion pack Primal Hunt. I'll admit that I only play the Predator 
 campaigns but that shouldn't invalidate my dissatisfaction with the story and gameplay. 
  
  The first thing I noticed was the bizaare creatures I could hunt- although the whole hunting thing 
 is a lie since they know you're there and move to attack even when you're cloaked far far away 
 from them. Somewhat disappointing and I wonder why they don't attack each other when I have a miniature 
 legion of reptiles and wild beasts trailing me. So going past that we progress through the level 
 and fight some Aliens. Oh yes this feels great as I chop them to bits with my blades or try to 
 gun them down with my wrist gun. Of course I've been here before but it was all good. After this 
 short skirmish I ended up fighting more all knowing wildlife in the form of gigantic worms who 
 pop up beside me and give me a cheap whack over the head. What's worse is that I never know if 
 they're dead- they just keep popping up.
  
  I'll say this about the rest of the story and progression. It ends very quickly right when you're 
 getting into the game. They give you new things to mess with and take it all away immediately there 
 after. Now I'm sure being a Predalien in the Alien campaign would be fun, but the promise of the 
 campaign being short disuades me from trying it for more than an hour.
  
  At the end of the day the Expansion is not giving you anything more than what AvP2 gave. It's very 
 much not worth the buy unless you can ignorantly ignore the shortcomings. Another disappointment 
 was how fragile they set out to make the Predator in Multiplayer. The cloaks just don't work the 
 way they should. I think a bit more 'expansion' to the Expansion is necessary though it will never 
 come. Avoid the expansion, but continue to love AvP2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carnage1995
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  Primal Hunt is a expansion pack to the original game AvP2 made in 2001.
  
  Well graphics again. Its still the same as the original only that its been polished to make it 
 more nicer looking.
  
  Sound is still the same. Only Dunya and the PredAlien has new sounds.
  
  Now gameplay. When 
 I played as a Corporate, it didn't give me the fear and tension like the original. The Predator 
 is the same only with a new weapon and a new cloak effect and skin. The PredAlien was fun at first 
 then it started to get very confusing and stressful to play. The objectives to me weren't clear 
 enough, you had to spent hours on a single map just to fine the route you needed to go. But still 
 being able to pick up sentry guns is cool. But missions should be more. I mean I brought this expansion 
 pack just for knowing what happened before the events of AvP2 and new stuff and 3 levels each for 
 each species? I mean come on create more missions!
  
  Overall, its not good and not bad. If you want to know what happened before the events of AvP2 
 and want to play as the PredAlien and other stuff. Then buy it. I don't recommend you do. But if 
 you really want to complete the AvP collection then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OneNeo1
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is that the first AvP and its sequel AvP2 both sent chills up and down my spine when 
 I played them. Playing the expansion pack Primal Hunt, left me wanting. It felt almost like a thrown 
 together sequel, almost unfinished if you will.
  I am not calling it unplayable, in fact I did still enjoy it, I am the sort of fan of a genre that 
 more is better, even if it's not great.
  It would be at best to consider this game better suited as bonus material for the original AvP2 
 rather than an expansion pack. Which ironically is almost how I came across it, my copy of AvP2 
 came bundled with Primal Hunt. I think the high rating I did give it was rather more for the fact 
 I did not pay extra for it.
  But ultimately I prefer playing as the Colonial Marine versus the Predator or the Alien, I believe 
 that is where the chill factor comes from.
  But again I still enjoyed the game regardless of its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  AVP 2: Primal Hunt is a expansion pack for the original AVP 2 is possibly also a prequel. The game 
 was created by Sierra entertainment and hrid Law Int. The gameplay here is disame like the original 
 one except that this time, you play the same races except with three new characters. All of them 
 looks nice except for the Marines. The storyline in the game though isn't that good as the original 
 one but its still decent. The graphics are disame and didn't have much or any improvement at all 
 (its because its an expansion pack) . The frame rate is nice and smooth though its mostly depends 
 on your pc. The environments, objects, characters, and other stuff in the games looks nice. The 
 sounds and musics of AVP 2: Primal Hunt are good though they sound disame except for the music.
 
  
  While AVP 2: Primal Hunt isn't really as great as the original game, it still packs some fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkShadow-X75
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  The Primal Hunt expansion fo Aliens versus Predator 2 is in my opinion a perfect way to expand 
 the story of the game. the new content is wonderful. The Predator story you are now able to play 
 as an ancient, a predator forzen in stasis for 500 years. the ancient predator has a the energy 
 flechette, which is a rapid firing energy-based weapon attached to the predators right arm. This 
 weapon is perfect when used strategically. used unwisely it will drain your energy extremely fast. 
 along with that in the multiplayer the ancient is also a playable character. you also have the 
 new self destruct mode where when you are down to the last 10% of your health you can set the mechanism 
 and take a few people with you. The Alien story the facehugger, chestburster and the predalien 
 all have new abilities. the face hugger can pounce through grates. the chestburster can bite through 
 grates. finally you can break through those pesky grates that cause so much frustration. the predalien 
 now has the headbite ability. YESSSSSSSSSSSS!!!!!!!!!!!! That will make multiplayer and the campaign 
 so much more fun. The corporate is the new character for the humans. there are now turret guns 
 that can be used along with the ability to place and pick up remote sentry guns. you can also use 
 dual pistols and that gives the game a sort of wild west feel in a futuristic sort of way. in conclusion 
 i highly recommend this game. if you liked the game without the expansion you will love this expansion. 
 it just makes the game so much more fun, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rex97213
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  its alot like avp2 but more weapons new creatures dual wielding handguns and story its a prequal 
 to the second avp but more miltiplayer maps its even got same menue except slightly diferent background 
 the exact same graphics gameplay and sound but its still fun the story is you are either a predalien 
 a predetor or corprate the story is thier trying to get this artifact the alien campaign is realy 
 good and so is the predetor and corporate i havent beat the game yet but its realy good so far 
 its worth your money. some minor glitches nothing real bad overall its a great game and its better 
 than avp2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainBlaze
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  Dual Pistols... nice
  
  Pred-Alien... nice
  
  Blowing yourself up aswell as everyone else around you on multiplayer when your health is lower 
 and your gunna die anyway, but your attittude on online FPS games is If im gunna die im taking 
 you with me 
  
  PRICELESS
  
  (that was preds by the way....)
  
  seriously tho. some new story plot, some new weapons and gadgets, some more stages to play.
  
 
  no maked improvement on the original AVP2 but u dont need to improve a great game anyway.
  
 
  i liked it... but then again i also like it when hot girls tie me to my bed and.... well you get 
 the picture - to each his own, everyone has there own taste etc etc etc..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  I don't play too many PC games. I've always been more of a console gamer, but when I do get a PC 
 game, I try to make it something worthwhile that I know I'll like. Most of the games I own on the 
 PC have expansion packs as well because it gives me something to look forward to when I finish 
 the original. However, I don't think I've ever been so disappointed with an expansion pack. Sure, 
 the Painkiller expansion wasn't amazing, but it was still good fun. The Medal of Honor Allied Assault 
 expansions also weren't amazing, but it was more of the same so you can't argue too much with that. 
 After really enjoying the original, I played this and I came to a very simple conclusion. Aliens 
 Vs. Predator 2 deserves better than this.
  
  Let me start by saying that this expansion isn't terrible. It does have some fun moments in it 
 and I found that there was some enjoyment to be had. But there are so many possibilities with a 
 franchise like this that you just can't help but feel that the developers are laughing at you for 
 being such a sucker for purchasing their game. I mean this series has two of the greatest sci-fi 
 creatures around, so why settle for mediocre? It's clear that there wasn't much enthusiasm going 
 around the offices when this poorly executed expansion was made.
  
  Just like in the original AVP 2, you can play as 3 characters: a Marine, a Predator, and an Alien. 
 But instead of having a good 6 or 7 levels for each character, Primal Hunt gives you a scarce 3. 
 This makes the game way too short. You can complete each character's levels in about an hour and 
 a half, so multiply that by 3 and you'll have about how long this game is.
  
  First up is the Marine. Just as in the first two AVP games, your tasked with running around and 
 shooting every Alien and Predator in your path. It still works fine, but the problem is the pacing. 
 Although I lot of people found AVP 2 to be quite scary, I didn't. But even so, there was still 
 a moment or two where the pacing helped set up the atmosphere and made the game feel real. Here's 
 a good example. At the start of that game, you simply ran around and tried to complete your objectives. 
 You didn't so much as pull the trigger for a good while. However, all during this you would hear 
 sprinting footsteps above you or an Alien screech coming from behind but looking around revealed 
 nothing. It wasn't particularly scary, but it was a great mood setter and it helped the ambiance 
 of the game tremendously. You won't go 20 seconds without pulling the trigger in this game, at 
 the beginning or otherwise. The Marine portions of Primal Hunt are nothing more than a very generic 
  game, except you're shooting Aliens instead of humans.
 
  
  The Predator levels are pretty much exactly the same as the Marine levels. Honest to God, I used 
 one weapon through all 3 levels. Only one. That just goes to show that there was virtually no effort 
 to make the levels strategic in any way, shape, or form. In most first person shooters, there is 
 usually a certain weapon that is clearly suited best for the situation at hand, but that's not 
 so in Primal Hunt. All you need is one weapon and that's it. How fun. You still have your cloak 
 and it's still pretty much useless. These Predator levels play no different than the Marine levels 
 besides the fact that you can cloak and jump higher. When you peel back the layers, the weapons 
 for each character work the same and they both play practically identical.
  
  The Alien levels at least try to differentiate themselves from the other two. And that's about 
 as far as my compliments go. I loved playing as the Alien in AVP 2. I thought the levels were geniusly 
 designed to make the player seem like they're exploring and figuring out where to go while still 
 making it fairly straight forward. That's not so in this game. I can't tell you how many times 
 I was stuck because I couldn't find my way out of a room. Usually, the grates that you had to knock 
 open were either hidden or blended in with everything else. Sometimes it would be in the only dark 
 spot of the room in a place that just simply doesn't make sense for a grate to be. Other times, 
 every grate in the room looked exactly like alike, but only one broke. So it was nothing more than 
 a simple trial and error of hitting grates until one broke. This takes you out of the role of the 
 character a lot and it makes the whole process tedious.
  
  Another problem with the Alien segments is that it's just too short. I was extremely happy that 
 the other two character's segments were short because I was so bored with them, but the Alien ones 
 needed to be much longer. In AVP 2, you started as a facehugger in the first level and found your 
 face to attach to, then moved up to a chestburster and had to find food to grow, and then you became 
 the full fledged Alien and it was awesome. It really made you feel like you were in control of 
 your own destiny and by the time you actually gained control of the full grown Alien, you felt 
 unstoppable and it was very fun. But since there are only 3 levels in Primal Hunt, this isn't a 
 positive factor anymore. The first level is still a facehugger mission where you must find a solitary 
 Predator while the second level is still the chestburster mission where you have to find food to 
 grow. By the time, you reach the 3rd level and have grown, you're almost done and there's no reason 
 to get excited anymore. Plus, you don't actually play as the Alien. The regular Alien creature 
 is much more interesting than the lame hybrid PredAlien you play as.
  
  The graphics are the same as the original AVP 2. They look like an early Playstation 2 game which 
 isn't all that bad really. But the environments weren't nearly as interesting to look at as they 
 were in the previous game. Maybe it was because nothing in this game was particularly interesting, 
 but I have a feeling that it's because it wasn't very creative and nothing was extensively detailed.
 
  
  The sound isn't nearly as good as it previously was. I loved how the Alien and Predator sounded 
 in the original incarnation and I still do in this one, but it's just not around enough. The Predator 
 sounds great, but his war cry still happens far too often. Since you don't play as the actual Alien, 
 the sounds for the PredAlien do sound just a bit different which is a let down since the Alien 
 sounds the best of them all. The voice acting is terrible again -- surprise, surprise.
  
  I have a lot of hate to spew at this game, but I did enjoy it to some extent and I don't think 
 it's as terrible as some people say. I've come to expect expansion packs to not be nearly as good 
 as the first game. After all, if a game is getting an expansion then it means that it was a very 
 good game to begin with and it's difficult to create a simple add on that meets or surpasses the 
 bar set in the original. But I've never played one that has changed the whole feel of the game 
 as much as this one. The atmosphere was completely different (despite playing through some familiar 
 areas) because of the pacing and the gameplay was tedious because of the unfair way enemies would 
 pop up behind you constantly. Usually at the end of a review of mine for an expansion pack, I'll 
 recommend it to anybody that has played the original because most people who have played the original 
 will like it's expansion. But I just can't recommend this one. Unless you can play it for free 
 or really cheap, take a pass on Aliens Vs. Predator 2: Primal Hunt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyuubiNaruto666
Rating: 4
Date: May 3, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  In almost every aspect Alien versus Predator two was a blast from start to finish, and it made 
 you glad you put in the effort to play it. The expansion pack from a year later how ever is none 
 of the greatness that it's mother game delivered. The expansion is better left alone, so unless 
 you picked it up for free as a had-me-down from a friend, or found it laying the dumpster, stat 
 away.
  
  Much like the game that this originates from, you can play as an alien, human, or predator. However 
 unlike like the original this has none of the flare that the original offered. At best primal hunt 
 is a boring retread of the original title, and really feels like it could have been a short leg 
 in the original. In other words this little expansion pack feels like. more of a piece that was 
 left out of the original then a whole new experience. Throw in the flaws of being too short, as 
 well as lacking any sense of accomplishment at the end, and you have a game play that just plain 
 hurts. The graphics and sound are pretty much the same as the original, which though is not a bad 
 thing it just adds to the over blandness of the expansion pack. Having some better graphics over 
 the original might have helped spruce up this little title some.
  
  With it's over baring set of flaws, stupidly hard missions, confusing level set up, and just plain 
 blandness this game struggles to make an average score. There is nothing in this game worth making 
 it a good playing experience over the original, and overall you feel that your time has been wasted. 
 Any good points that this title could have had are shrouded by it's lack of anything new, and lacking 
 substance. Overall even if you are a die-hard fan of the Alien versus Predator series you aren't 
 going to find much to adore about this title. All but the most hard core fan boys should steer 
 clear of this title unless it's a gift, and even then you might want to consider tossing it instead 
 of suffering through it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  This game kicks AvP1 out of the water! Frankly, I could never get AvP1 to run correctly and to 
 have a sequel that runs perfectly and still has multiplayer servers is just too good to be true.
 
  
  AvP2 has excellent graphics.. still aging very well
  
  Gameplay is just perfect.. the alien is hard to control but you get used to it in time.. also its 
 a cool feature.. something Prey took away from.. The storyline is a bit obscure but it gets threaded 
 out in the expansion.. this gives one incentive to buy both the original and the expansion, just 
 to see how things pan out. Not to mention to extend the game!
  
  The expansion really is a game unto itself.. but it is shorter than the original.. considering 
 the overall length of the original that goes without saying that it is also kinda short. The ability 
 to play 3 different styles really kicks up the gameplay.. each race has it's own way of playing 
 and function very well together.
  
  Value: the value is with an excellent singleplayer and a strong multiplayer component you will 
 be hard pressed to find a great combination like this in most modern FPS games. I give this game 
 a 10 for both the expansion and the original game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PredDaChande
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 9, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  the animals in the first predator level and a part of the corporate were pretty cool except the 
 worms hated the worms...... the energy flechette was actually pretty good for some things not all 
 though i preferred speargun. the double pistols are cool too. But the greatest improvement was 
 probably the predalien headbite. i mean it makes the predator even more deadly than before which 
 i didnt think was possible. the graphics are almost exactly the same but i mean it an expansion 
 pack its supposed to look the same. i thought it was cool how the alien and predator stories met. 
 ur actually inside the predator that you be which is a first. and it explains how the predators 
 in the orignal got there and why one of the pods was down. i thought it was good but thats just 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamakanBrudda
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  When I saw this in the shops, I thought it was going to be awesome. Don't get me wrong, it had 
 some good concepts such as playing as a predalien, the new dual weild feature for the corperate 
 and the inclusion of a few of the original games characters, such as Rykov and Dunya. But it seemed 
 a little glitchy, the levels didn't seem to have that much thought put into them, and the game 
 itself was far too short. Just when you think your getting into it, it ends. So a little dissapointing, 
 probobly not worth paying full price for, but still a decent little add on to AVP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eberkain_basic
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 10, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  As far as expansion packs go, this one doesnt have a whole lotta content. There are some new single 
 player missions for all the species, but beyond that, there is little else. Which is not entirely 
 bad considering the game was fun and all. 
  
  Buy it, dont buy it, if youre only into the online gaming, then you can probably just skip it 
 and not loose any sleep. Not much value for your money if you just play online.
  
  This game does provide some memorable moments, like when you are running around as a chestburster, 
 but then again, that particular mission is hard as hell. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkluver3152
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Primal Hunt is just an expansion of AVP2. Graphics, sound and all that is the same. The only thing 
 that changed is the story and a few weapons where added. The story is that there is a ancient artifact 
 that has the abilty to do something to aliens ( i think to keep them at bay) . As a human you want 
 the artifact for your own purposes, as a predator you want the artifact to control the alien hive 
 and as an alien you want to destroy the artifact so no one can do harm to your nest with it. The 
 new weapons and equipment are: Humans= dual pistols, sentry guns, turrent gun, 360 degree motion 
 tracker, Predators= energy feltch and self destruct, Alien= Predaliens get the headbite move. Multiplayer 
 in this game is awsome since now the predaliens can heal themselves and preds can self destruct 
 to kill enemies around them, sentry gun ruin game balance because they kill you quickly and there 
 is no limit to how many r put on the map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666net
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 30, 2005 6:18 am PT
Review:  So far AvP provided a very exciting multiplayer as 3 deadly (in fact, human isn't deadly) species. But 
 the PH, has just very little changes comparing to the main edition. Even though, PH still pushes 
 the AvP players to another crimax of AvP multiplayer game, so I think this game just doesn't deserve 
 a 5.5.
  Maybe 6.1 :P
  
  By the way, there are only 3 campaigns on each races. Comparing to the original AvP (7 campaign on 
 each race) , it gives the player a feeling of "incomplete expansion". So, don't shout for the walkthroughs 
 on PlanetAVP!
  You can simply complete the 3 campaign by yourself :P (expect human, the human campaign are always 
 scary) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S7ATER
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 26, 2005 11:44 pm PT
Review:  To be honest with AVP2 the game didn't need a expansion. The game was perfectly great without an 
 extention. But Sierra decided to and to be honest i felt it to be a mistake. In the Marines campain 
 you got to be a annoying Russion chick who thinks she is hott stuff and can kick ultimute butt, 
 when personally i felt her to be just a complete joke. When you have a ship full of aliens people 
 would freak out her but not miss "IM HOTT STUFF LETS RIP THEM A NEW ONE" Predators and aliens didnt 
 seem to have much of a plot in this expansion pack, the game mostly conncentrated on the marines. 
 The multiplayer had many issues, lag, glitch, clipping, etc. Graphics, sound, gameplay never changed 
 as Sierra expanded the AVP series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoLamb
Rating: 5.4
Date: Dec 12, 2004 2:03 am PT
Review:  First thing first. This is possibly one of the most horrible expansion packs in the history of 
 gaming. The singleplayer missions are underdeveloped, and boring. The game feels like it was rushed, 
 or as if it's a mod you could have downloaded for free. The only ups of this game is that it adds 
 a couple new classes and weapons to the online play.... that is if you can find anyone to play with. 
 While people may have bought this, there still playing regular AVP because really.... it's a much 
 more worthwhile experience.
  
  If you can help it, run from this game like it's the plague. You'll thank yourself for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrackZero3369
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 1, 2004 11:53 pm PT
Review:  I picked this up for the same cost of the required original title. However I found the campaign 
 quality in this not to be up to the par of the original. The story ties back in to the original, 
 though concentrating on different characters.
  
  The level design though seems like it was slapped together in a rush, and forces you to take single-paths 
 everywhere. Overall the design is basic and not well thought out. The new content in enemies and 
 weapons are simply horrible, they'd have been better of just using the original content and concentrating 
 on the story and level design.
  
  This expansion is simply not worth the time or money. Which is sad, because this expansion did 
 have some decent story elements to it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
