-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Alien Shooter: Vengeance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/alienshooter2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great pace and intense action.
 Nicely revives a long-dead genre.
 Fantastic retro feel for nostalgia buffs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 One-note shooter.
 Maybe a bit too self-consciously retro for some.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 469 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Sigma-Team
Genre: Action
Date:     Feb 16, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Retro shooters don't get any bloodier or more intense than this. 

  Painfully generic name notwithstanding, Alien Shooter: Vengeance is no Brand X game. That title 
 is both blah and misleading, as this Sigma Team effort is actually a gung-ho retro take on the 
 action-packed isometric shooter genre that had a brief moment in the sun about a decade ago, not 
 the second-rate FPS that the box cover implies. The game may be a little too self-consciously old-school 
 for some, but the action is so fast, furious, and blithely bloody that it's hard to resist getting 
 swept up in the carnage.  

          You're surrounded all the time in survival mode.     

  Old-timers will quickly note 
 that Alien Shooter: Vengeance resembles the two Crusader games, No Regret and No Remorse, that 
 shot up DOS PCs way back in 1995 and 1996. For those of you who haven't got enough gray in your 
 beard to remember that duo, the simple concept behind those games saw the viewing perspective of 
 a standard kill-everything-that-moves FPS switched to an isometric, third-person camera. Sigma 
 closely follows that template here, keeping the focus on the action but also adding some interesting, 
 light squad tactics along with character creation and RPG elements similar to those seen in the 
 likes of X-COM and Jagged Alliance.  

  The story itself is pretty bare-bones. It's the postapocalyptic future, you're working as a mercenary 
 for the MAGMA Energy Corporation (described as "the leader of many things energetical," whatever 
 that means) , and a lot of ugly aliens need to be blown away. Chances are you've heard this sort 
 of thing a few times before. This skeletal framework is sufficient to support a game where you 
 do little more than smear ET blood all over the walls, and Sigma has done great work with the RPG 
 aspects of the game. Rolling up initial characters is spiced up with the ability to pick a special 
 perk. These options are fairly limited, encompassing just eight different choices, but they include 
 some nifty ideas modeled after what you could give your character in the Fallout games and are 
 given similarly humorous descriptions. For instance, you can be a vampire, with the ability to 
 suck health out of enemies, or a hypnotist, who gets to take over the minds of baddies. Beyond 
 this, though, the RPG personality of the game is limited. After picking a perk, you choose from 
 between eight premade characters, although at least during gameplay you level up and can apply 
 experience points to buff typical shooter skills like the ability to use pistols, shotguns, and 
 machine guns.  

  Not that any wimpy RPG stuff is necessary. Frenetically blasting aliens is Alien Shooter's sole 
 reason for existence, so in this respect the title is dead-on. The game's personality is a cross 
 between Robotron, DOOM, and Serious Sam. Pretty much every mission is a corridor crawl to find 
 some item, rescue a few trapped buddies, or simply kill a big bad. You regularly get trapped in 
 rooms and swarmed by thousands of bugs (literally -- the game tracks your kills and they seem to 
 go into four digits each and every level) . Many areas are dimly lit or pitch-black, so you have 
 to move forward carefully using the narrow beam of a flashlight to pick up any aliens scuttling 
 your way. And the carnage is typically so intense that by the time you've finished with a room, 
 you'll have painted every last inch of the floors and walls with alien blood and gore. It ain't 
 pretty, but it sure gets the adrenaline flowing.  

  Aside from the killing, though, there isn't much here. The nonstop blasting gets a bit numbing 
 after a little while, so the game is best taken in short doses. There are lots of secret areas 
 to discover, but little to find in them aside from power-ups, weapons, and ammo, and these items 
 are so prevalent in the main sections of levels that you don't need to do any wandering to pick 
 up more of them. Most of the exploring is pretty simplistic, too. Generally, if you see something 
 green, you should run up to it, as it's likely a power-up or a button activating a secret door. 
 If you see something red, that means no-go, or that you need to find a key to open that particular 
 door. You can jazz things up by skipping the campaign for survival mode, which comes in a last-man-standing 
 variant where you blast bugs until you drop, and a career option spread over five levels. Neither 
 option changes the complexion of gameplay, of course. The same can presumably be said about multiplayer, 
 although this couldn't be tested as it only supports LAN and direct IP connections.  

          Finish up a wave of aliens and it'll usually look like you've just painted the walls a 
 none-too-appetizing bright red.     

  The look and sound of the game are totally retro. While there are supposed to be more than 50 types 
 of alien to shoot, most look like typical variations on praying mantises, slugs, and a couple that 
 seem sort of like dinosaurs. Movement and animations are clumsy, although this ultimately helps 
 reinforce the game's throwback flavor. Explosions are just fantastic, however, and colored lighting 
 gives many levels a suitably eerie air. Audio is limited. When the lights go out or the doors close 
 and you get gooned by a phalanx of bugs, you get the stereotypical driving heavy metal tunes that 
 have accompanied shooter shooting since the early '90s. Other than that, though, the dialogue is 
 as sparse and as roughly delivered as you'd find in an old Sega Genesis cart. Again, this seems 
 entirely intentional, so you'll get a kick out of the sound if you remember playing games like 
 this back in the day.  

  You probably need to have the nostalgia gene to really get into Alien Shooter: Vengeance, but you 
 don't have to be an old fogey to get some base-level enjoyment out of this gleeful shoot-'em-up. 
 Look past the dumb name and give it a shot.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (22 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cathad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 8:08 am PT
Review:  great game, thow it could have been better, and the story a little more complex, the game is a 
 great way to relax your self, a great way to take out all the angry thoughts and ideas on the alien 
 masses inside it.
  it has quite a catch, because once u started playing u can't let go, why I don't know (I'll let 
 u figure it out)
  the bosses are quite easy, until u reach the ending, it can be quite enoying because the last boss 
 is real hard to defeat considering the fact that "it" can summon lots of alien hoardes, but if 
 u have a good weapon and armour, and some health packs it takes about 15 minutes to defeat him (u 
 make verry little damage)
  and it has a funny and comic way of splatering all the alien guts on the floor, and wall.... and 
 when I saw the way my character looks in the power armour, just like a bear with a plasma minigun 
 in his hands, I started laughing.
  what can I say more, just play, save us from the invading aliens, and u will be pleased 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdespe
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  The ultimate guilty pleasure when it comes time to just unwind and blow off steam. Absolutely satisfying 
 to turn off your mind and shoot anything that moves. Weapon and equipment upgrades are just enough 
 to keep things interesting. No deep plot, no complicated commands, just a great hack and slasher 
 everyone needs from time to time. I found the graphics decent enough and it is always a blast marveling 
 at the carnage of a battle. Just don't go in looking for super deep and meaningful game play. I 
 usually prefer RTS and some FPS but this was a nice diversion. Game kinda gets crazy hard at the 
 end but overall a great experience. I have a number of games that are obviously technologically 
 more advanced but Alien Shooter fits a nice niche. I found myself playing this cheapo game considerably 
 more than my $50 ones mostly because the time commitment is a lot lower. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gartak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Even though Alien Shooter Vengeance has some flaws its one of the best in its genre. Before you 
 can start the game you will have to select a special skill and create a character much like you 
 would have to do in any RPG. But dont expect all to much from RPG side of this game though, its 
 fairly basic and its almost impossible to go wrong with it. 
  Right from the get go you are faced with hordes of aliens that would just love to taste your blood, 
 fortunately they are easily disposed of with one of the many types of guns at your disposal ranging 
 from simple handguns to futuristic cannons. 
  As you work you way trough the sixteen missions you can upgrade your gear at shops or if you get 
 lucky you might find something better, though my experience is that it doesnt happen often and 
 so you mostly rely on the shop for equipment upgrades. 
  One of the bad sides of this game is that you can play trough it in 4 hours give or take and thats 
 rather short in my oppinion, im used to games giving me atleast 40 hours of gametime and here is 
 where Alien Shooter Vengeance disappointed me a little. They do however offer a survival mode in 
 which you can try to set the highest score holding out as long as possible against an endless stream 
 of aliens, but that just doesnt quite cut it either.
  The game has a nice storyline though be it simple, it even has an alternate ending, it does lack 
 any cinematics but does pretty well without them nonetheless.
  
  Overall a very good gaming experience and definately worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  Alien Shooter Vengeance is an ultimately fun brainless shooting experience for those retro shoot-em-up 
 lovers. Along with the usual heart-pumping techno soundtrack, the advanced graphics including beautiful 
 particle systems and more detailed textures made it a decent enough game to stand side by side 
 with other premium games.
  
  The main campaign itself is rather short even with 15 missions, which are a bit repetitive, but 
 if you fancy the old-school isometric look and feel of video games, you will find this worthy of 
 your collection. I certainly hope this genre would not die off.
  
  Lastly, one other great feature is the upgrading system played like an RPG where the character 
 that you choose has a special skill along with a variety of attributes that you can upgrade. The 
 great arsenal of weapons in the game is also one of the main highlights. They look cool and great 
 to hold (if they are real) and makes the entire shooting adventure more wholesome and awesome. 
 In another words, this is a worthy and very affordable collection for fellow gamers who grew up 
 with Nintendos and Sega systems.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-Megalodon
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  So after Diablo and Diablo 2 has come and gone, good, solid and really fun RPG's like Diablo were 
 hard to come by. Then suddenly I came across Alien Shooter. The first one was mediocre at best, 
 but this one... This one is quite fun to play. It has a slight element of "been there done that", 
 but I think Old School shooter would suit it better. 
  
  Story is definitely not one of this games strong point. After so many products of similar timelines 
 etc etc, Alien Shooter's storyline doesn't seem original anymore. Basically set in the near future 
 where you are a soldier drawn into a plot -with very familiar and relatively predictable plot twists- 
 where you basically kill aliens that are bent on world domination. Heard it from somewhere before? 
 Quite a number of places from here and there actually. And the storyline is very short, only about 
 15 missions and you're done.
  
  So storyline isn't one of the games strong points, its the gameplay that is. For those who like 
 intense action, a variety of awesome guns and lots -and I mean lots- of blood and aliens to kill, 
 this is definitely the game for you. Even Diablo didn't had this many demons to kill in a single 
 sitting! Which is why there are a huge variety of guns to choose from. 
  
  Music from this game can shift the mood while playing, like for example sometimes when you engage 
 a huge hoard of aliens the music will shift to a rock/heavy metal one to suit the mood. Graphics 
 are quite well done and nicely polished, details are good as well.
  
  All in all, an arcade style RPG (amount of lives, can't save during game) that is best for hardcre 
 RPG gamers, gamers who love lots of action, blood or gore and those looking for time to kill. This 
 game is best played in short doses though, since it is very repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helldancer
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Firstly, GET THE DEMO NOW! Its free, its small in size, and gives you a great idea and view about 
 the game. Its better than reading over 9,000 reviews.
  
  Do you know these kind of games where you know it isn't well polished, yet you keep playing it, 
 and you're very drawn to? This is one. I finished this game 3 times up until now, 3rd time was 
 on 'Impossible' (the hardest difficulty) . I and I usually just finish games one time, so you get 
 the picture. 
  
  The Bad:
  
  # No story (weak as they come) , bad voice acting, zero character background/development.
  
 
  # Repetitive, objectives are designed just for the sake of being there. Run and turn something 
 on.
  
  # Text exceeds the margins, meaning there's more text than the box can handle, so it starts showing 
 below on other stuff. Yeah, I know, its highly unprofessional. I had to say that because this might 
 give the impression that the game was made in 5 days.
  
  # A couple of bugs: AI sometime get stuck -where it shouldn't-, Text doesn't match what the character 
 is saying, There is delay in the voices (will say a paragraph, then say the next after a period 
 of time) , and one time a paragraph of the briefing is said twice.
  
  # SHORT. Finished it in one sitting. Don't expect a week worth of gameplay or something lol. It 
 has a replay value tho, due to the RPG element. You can try out different builds (rocket, power, 
 shotguns, or a hybrid of a couple) utilize different implants to give you different stat boost 
 (speed or health) . 
  
  The Good:
  
  # If you have played Serious Sam you know what it feels like to wipe out 2,000 Aliens per level! 
 And frankly its BRILLIANT. There's nothing better than annihilating 80-something Alien with one 
 rocket, or constantly whaling your rail-gun/mini-gun to obliterate waves and waves of them as they 
 come. mmmmmmmm.
  
  # The RPG element: ZOMG man, indeed the RPG is at its simplest and most naive forms. However, its 
 what makes the game so much fun and addictive. RPG is the one thing that makes you once you beat 
 the game, go and beat again to try a different build, then again to try another, then again to 
 try a hybrid, .. etc. You have your stats: Health, Strength (doesn't affect damage) , Aim, Intelligence, 
 Speed, Perk (Equivalent to Skill, you only choose one. Affecting health, money or others) , Armor, 
 and one for each weapon class (boosts the damage) . There's really no complex system here at all, 
 the Implants (equivalent of Rings and Amulets) come with the same stats, they minorly re-roll every 
 level. Weapons, armors and the rest of the equipments are always with the same same stats.
  
  # Bosses and Mini-bosses. I've always had a thing for fighting bosses, can't really explain 
 much here. You have like 5-6 Bosses in the entire game all in ONE level (kinda sucks) . And lots 
 of Mini-bosses.
  
  # Weapons Galore. A lot of fancy looking weapons to choose from.
  
  # Great BGM, there's both ambient (1-2 good tracks, and a total of 3) and Heavy Metal Distortion 
 (3 great tracks, and a total of 11) .
  
  # The ending is non-linear, and there are about 3 sidequests throughout the entire game.
  
 
  Survival mode sucks, haven't tried it Co-op. Haven't tired deathmatch (and prolly won't, useless 
 imo) .
  
  Being just out of a JRPG streak, I needed something fast paced, and I am glad I found this game. 
 My idea of a retro shooter is Doom and Wolf3d. I've never played this type of shooter before (apart 
 from the NES' Alien Shooter) . Yet I loved the game, so it doesn't matter if you're a fan of this 
 genre or not. If you find this game cheap/free/rent/borrow GET IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  While the first person perspective on combat games has a relative iron grip on the genre at this 
 moment, in early days it was the top-down or isometric view that was the norm. Commodore 64 classics 
 such as 'Who Dares Wins' and 'Into the Eagles Nest' are remembered with fondness, and there was 
 the 'Crusader' games of some years back, but other than the Shadowgrounds couplet (the recent one 
 certainly worth your time) , this is now a genre barely used. And that is a pity, because Alien 
 Shooter: Vengeance shows that it is a genre that provides plenty of retro thrills and spills with 
 it's simple yet engaging gameplay.
  
  You play a Hitman for the MAGMA energy corporation, with the role of investigating (i. e shoot anything 
 that moves) a mysterious alien outbreak at their base and nearby surrounds. But who gives a hoot 
 about the story as it is just a vehicle to load up 15 levels of mindless, frantic alien shooting 
 mayhem. You'll do most of the work on foot, though there is a couple of vehicles to operate along 
 the way and as you get further into the game you will receive more powerful weapons and pick up 
 more enhanced skills through a simple but not wasteful RPG system. And whilst the first 13 levels 
 are quite easy (though chaotic) , expect a serious jump to the Premier Division for the final two 
 levels when  surprise surprise  the real foe of the story isn't a scaly, salivating alien.
  
  The graphics worked fine for me. The darkness of the levels built a sense of atmosphere and 
 the environments are well defined, whether pushing through corridors and bases, out in the open 
 or finally through cave like constructs. The isometric view works quite well, and as long as you 
 can stay in roughly the centre of the screen, you'll see most of what's coming. The aliens are 
 many and varied and they do look like the stereotypical aliens of fictional television. They bleed, 
 too. Expect to see a red carpet of remains once you've disposed of a horde. My computer did have 
 trouble keeping up with the mother of all assaults on the final level, but before that the game 
 was lag-free, even when there were dozens of foes wanting a piece of my avatar. Certainly, the 
 graphical representation paved the way for the action-packed gameplay.
  
  The sounds are OK. There is a soundtrack that varies from level to level, a touch of techno here 
 and a raucous romp of metal there, but you will barely notice it once the aliens start coming. 
 From there it is basic weaponry fire and the odd 'roar' of the larger aliens as they exhale their 
 final breath. There is some simple but effective voice acting during the game but not much else 
 to speak of. 
  
  The gameplay is classic retro mayhem. It's simple. Get from Point A to Point B, but expect hundreds 
 of aliens to be between those to points. And whilst on the first level you'll start with a hand-gun 
 and a few insects that would probably drop with a spray of Pea-Beu, by the later stages you are 
 armed with every possible weapon imaginable, only to be offset by a seeming endless horde of critters. 
 The left-mouse button will get a serious work-out.
  
  The game does a useful job in increasing the difficulty, with new, bigger aliens coming at a time 
 you are barely equipped to deal with them. When you add to this the other foes nipping at your 
 heels, it can be a tricky dodge and weave affair. The most used construct in combat gaming  the 
 exploding 44 gallon drum  helps on occasions to deal with this but there are very few places to 
 run and hide. These foes most be dealt with head-on and by the dozens. And the satisfaction in 
 clearing a room is a guilty one, with nothing left but the red sheen of alien remains on the floors 
 and walls. Re-stock, Re-load, go to the next room and repeat. But it's great fun.
  
  The vehicle levels do present a different perspective, and there are objectives from level to level, 
 including retrieving lost data and rescuing trapped colleagues, but ultimately the goal is the 
 same  smash those aliens. 
  
  There is also an RPG element to the game, and levelling up leads to an increase in some fundamental 
 skills. You can also choose a special 'trait' at the beginning which provides a natural advantage 
 in a particular field. It is a simple but useful idea and interface, and the benefits are experienced 
 as the game progresses.
  
  But in the end, this game is about shooting aliens, they way we've always been shooting aliens 
  top-down, horde after horde and with serious powered weaponry. If I had a criticism, the game 
 is perhaps a bit too easy (though not boring) for the first 80% of the campaign. However, the last 
 two levels are real tests of stamina and concentration and giving there is no quick-save, the unexpected 
 jump in difficulty may annoy some folk.
  
  Special mention goes to the 'Last Man Standing Mode', which simply has you shooting an endless 
 assault of aliens until you drop. Stronger weapons appear at the time tougher aliens do, and by 
 the five to six minute mark you have a serious screen of aliens on your case. It's a quick distraction 
 and ultimately quite addictive, as you try and knock over your best time and score on the high-score 
 table.
  
  The campaign is not going to take much longer than six hours to complete and I guess there is some 
 replayability with the higher levels or different RPG traits. Where there is genuine further gaming 
 time is in the other gaming modes. Alien Shooter: Vengeance cost for AUD$30, and was pretty hard 
 to find (online shopping has its advantages) . I'm happy with that, especially as it remains on 
 my PC for the quick and dirty 'Last Man Standing' Mode. 
  
  I don't necessarily think you have to be an old codger like me to enjoy the simple and retro action 
 the Alien Shooter: Vengeance serves up. It's a no-holds-barred trigger-happy alien blast-fest and 
 it's a lot of a fun. Some simple but addictive games modes give the game extra life after the main 
 campaign and it is likely to appease the action fan in anybody. It's a prefect example that keeping 
 up with the Jones' isn't necessary if you can get the gameplay right. Enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Alien Shooter: Vengeance is, at heart, a game in the same vein as Crimsonland or Smash TV. There's 
 an incredible amount of onscreen enemies coming at you from all directions and you're the guy in 
 the middle trying to survive. The main differentiating feature is a campaign mode that has you 
 cleaning out alien-infested bases and caves and locating secret stashes of equipment. This is where 
 the majority of the RPG mechanics can be found. During the campaign, you will be able to develop 
 which weapons your character excels at using, as well as enhancing other attributes (such as speed 
 or durability) . You will also accumulate money that you can use at kiosks that allow you to buy 
 and sell weapons, ammo, armor, and other items. Buying back occurs at 100% of the value of the 
 items, so you can basically customize your character within the limits of the current net worth.
 
  
  Aside from the campaign, there's two survival modes. These are greatly stripped down action modes. 
 The career survival mode has a very simple RPG mechanic that also lets you choose a weapon when 
 you level up. The stand firm mode does away with RPG mechanics entirely and just throws increasingly 
 tougher monsters at you along with the occasional boss that drops a considerable weapon upgrade. 
 Unlike the campaign, neither survival modes can be won, it's just a matter of getting the highest 
 score.
  
  There's five types of weapons: Pistols, Shotguns, Machine Guns, Rocket/Grenade Launchers, and Power 
 Arms (Flame Throwers/Lasers) . Each type performs somewhat differently, with some types having more 
 than one kind of weapon, so this introduces a bit of variety into play. There's also a few useful 
 gadgets like implants (which grant skill boosts) , radar, sources of illumination, and floating 
 defensive bots.
  
  Alien Shooter: Vengeance is nothing to write home about, but it does have quite a bit of visceral 
 action as you gun down seemingly endless amounts of slavering aliens. It's a $20 game but, rather 
 than being an excellent deall, it's more like that's about what the game is worth.
  
  This game has multiplayer support over a LAN. I've yet to try it, but it might be fun. I've heard 
 that it does not play coop over the campaign and, if so, its application may be limited. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidi1234
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 28, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  I am a curious guy.... unfortunately. I started the game out of curiosity and 3 hours and 19.000 
 bugs later... i felt like i had dunked my brain in a vat of toxic waste...
  Its a game that you cant really put your mind around. The complexity of a point and click isometric 
 rpg combined with the fast pace of a shooter, a world brought to its knees by a being focused on 
 conquering it with an army of ancient insects and reptiles. A brave (but silent) hero who outguns 
 the entire US fleet, is bent on stopping the malevolent being... will he succeed?
  Joke aside now... the only thing you need to know about the game... is SHOOT!!!
  Shoot anything, 
 everything. Dont think just shoot, shoot, shoot, SHOOOT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_an
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 7, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Alien Shooter: Vengeance is a game that I'm always looking for. There are not that many birds eye 
 view shooters or isometric shooters around and a good game like this, come far and between in this 
 category.
  
  ASV has some really solid old school gameplay. The game is all about action. Pretty much the camera 
 is in a fixed view showing your character in third person. You move around the map (if you've played 
 Fallout, the style and graphics may remind you of it) and have a crosshair to aim at baddies. Five 
 different weapon slots are available to use and all of the weapons are fun to use and have a good 
 feel. The difference in a lot of the weapons in the same category for the most part isn't that 
 great all the time but for the most part, the shooting works great.
  
  There's also an RPG element to the game. There's quite a few stats that you can increase when you 
 level up (which happens by completing tasks and killing monsters) . Some of the stats are kind of 
 useless and some are very important. Later on in the game the equipment you get increase your stats 
 so much that it really doesn't matter what points you went in as long as you have the required 
 intelligence to equip your loot.
  
  Despite the game having a fitting RPG system for the game, the story and voice acting are something 
 different. This is okay because the game isn't about story whatsoever. The acting is sometimes 
 really awful to the point where it almost makes you laugh but some of the acting is actually descent. 
 The main issue with the campaign though, is that it could have been a bit longer. It doesn't take 
 a whole lot of time to complete and can be done pretty easily in one day, considering you play 
 the game at an appropriate difficulty setting. The campaign survival mode will also add another 
 hour or more to the game which is a good way to add value to the game. However, the survival mode 
 doesn't add infinitely replay value since it doesn't change that much as you play it (campaign 
 mode) and the lack of perks or stats doesn't make the other survival mode as fun as campaign.
 
  
  Overall, I really enjoyed the game. There are not enough of these to go around. I really like this 
 rare old school gameplay and I wish there were more of these. Some of the graphics and animations 
 aren't that great and the game could have been longer but it still has neat effects like explosions, 
 lasers, and lighting. The style of the game is also nice and somewhat reminds of the Fallout series. 
 I recommend downloading the demo to see if you like this type of gameplay (it may throw some gamers 
 off) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arc_salvo
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 5, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of twitch action games and retro shooters, especially ones with rpg-style levelling 
 up like Crimsonland or Shadowgrounds, but I unfortunately found Alien Shooter: Vengeance to be 
 far from comparable to those games, or other good games in this genre.
  
  I played and was highly disappointed by Alien Shooter 1 (the previous game in this series) although 
 it was fun at first in the same way this game was fun at first, and thought that Alien Shooter: 
 Vengeance looked greatly improved over its predecessor when I first played it.
  
  In terms of graphics, sound, and the quality and quantity of character upgrades, Alien Shooter: 
 Vengeance is much improved, actually. Gameplay wise however, it's pretty much the same, except 
 for the fact that you have new weapons at your disposal, and prettier armor.
  
  The big problem with AS: V is that after the first few levels, the difficulty goes up -dramatically-, 
 to the point where it's not fun or even -possible- to play anymore. I'm actually pretty good at 
 action games and shooters, but on normal difficulty, I honestly couldn't finish this game without 
 cheating.
  
  Also, after about the midpoint of the game, the designers don't even try to give you new and interesting 
 gameplay anymore. All they do is throw hordes and hordes of the most powerful monsters they have 
 in their menagerie at you endlessly, and these monsters really aren't intelligent or fun to kill. 
 They're just bullet soaks that require a rote amount of strafing and a hell of a lot of fire to 
 bring down. And I don't mean a substantial, but reasonable and satisfying amount of firing. I mean 
 Zomg, when will this thing die already, it's been 3 whole minutes I'm so #@$@ing BORED amounts 
 of firing, even with the best weapons. It just gets to the point where it's a huge hassle to fight 
 the bigger beasts (and the swarms of smaller ones reinforcing them) and you just sigh and plow 
 through it just to see what happens next.
  
  Near the end of the game you get the feeling that the developers just stopped trying to make a 
 game with any sense of pacing or inherent fun at all. There's no Rhyme or reason to the aliens 
 attacking anymore, and you really don't need any tactics to win, just lots and lots of patience.
 
  
  This is not a game like Shadowgrounds which requires some planning and tactics, and rewards you 
 for playing intelligently, using the right weapons, and for learning enemy patterns. This is a 
 game where stupid, tough enemies run straight at you and get stuck on walls because their AI is 
 nonexistent, and you have to shoot at them for a minute straight with your strongest weapon, and 
 you wonder why you're even playing anymore.
  
  Honestly, having played it through to the end, I just can't recommend this game for the same reasons 
 I can't recommend its predecessor: it's very boring and repetitive, and even the visceral and instinctual 
 act of shooting isn't satisfying because the gameplay is so dumbed down and unengaging on even 
 the most primal level, that it just becomes work, and frustrating work at that due to the needlessly 
 high difficulty level.
  
  If you want a fun, twitch-based action game with rpg-style leveling up... I'd recommend Crimsonland 
 or especially Shadowgrounds instead of this game.
  
  Hell, even Quake 4 if you have the hardware and like playing from a first person perspective.
 
  
  Just anything besides this boring, grindsome mess of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmed_ai80home
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  The game is wonderful it makes easy when play i
  the first part was good but this one is great
  just need o chek almost nothing
  thanks .
 
  Alien Shooter 2 - is a large-scale sequel to the first part of Alien Shooter. This is the unique 
 alloy of arcade action and RPG elements which combines well-established world of classical games 
 and unmatched dynamics of the first part. The player will find well-built plot line with several 
 ways to pass, many additional quests, ability to choose and upgrade the character. The most impressive 
 technical innovations are: - dynamic shadows and lighting; - about 10 000 monsters on each map, 
 showing up to 100 monsters simultaneously on one playing screen; - natural phenomena (fog, rain, 
 water) ; - NPC characters; You will also find: - more than 50 types of weapons - now you can not 
 just kill but also burn, freeze and even diminish the enemies; - more than 20 types of useful gadgets 
 - from flash lights, radars and medkits to battle drones; - 3 game modes: Campaign, Survive and 
 Network game; And, to crown it all, dynamic music and sound effects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daword
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 9, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  im played 100-130 pc games and i know what is good or what is bad game...
  
  now i have to say this is good.. maybe one of the best games what u can get in ur hands
  
  gameplay 
 is so great and easy that u will enjoy it... there is many i mean Many dif. Weapons...
  
  there is some good Rpg elements in the game u can raise u healt, streght, int. speed, weapon handlings 
 and many more
  
  but best part is that u can take off u brains and start playing because u need only good mouse 
 hand and aiming eye and just have fun.... Graphic is great i cant say nothingmore... dead bodys 
 not disapear and there is nice shadow and light effects
  
  there i good multiplayer to and survival and coperative game modes also.
  
  buy this game u 
 will like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NUTTY_POO
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 6, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  i was very impressed with this. just what i wanted. a non stop shooter. i was expecting it to be 
 a second rate FPS but was pleasantly suprised. it has awesome explosions and bulletfire but the 
 rest of the graphics arent anything special. the sound is suitably oldschool. rack up thousands 
 of kills with a wide selection of fun weapons. i took extra pleasure in the plasma minigun, automatic 
 shotgun, and desert eagle. you can also go hand to hand with the horde if you got the guts. i cant 
 say enough how much fun i got out of this. so simple. but so cool. ive never felt compeled to write 
 one of these before, but god damn. this game throws me back. i love it. give it a shot if you feel 
 the need for a solid adrenaline fix. it kinda reminds me of smash tv. an old arcade game. ive played 
 a lot of mame emulators so its right up my alley. anyways. give it a shot. enjoy. peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bonsaiii
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  You stand in the thin corridor with four guys and you empty clips of 7.62mm bullets in to the waves 
 of aliens, blood splatters and you laugh. 
  
  Thats what came in to my mind when I smiled and shot aliens to pieces
  
  The game of course 
 is an Diablo clone , and this of course doesnt make the game bad, the game is really funny when 
 played in multiplayer mode. But the singleplayer is as enjoyable.
  
  So in the start of singleplayer you get to choose a character, either a guy or a chick and there 
 are about three choices for both genders. You get to pick some skills and you start the game.
 
  
  First you should read the long long long background story because the singleplayer campaign starts 
 straight from where the story ends. You are a mercenary and you are recruited by M. A. G. M. A (a mega 
 corporation) to help people in need in one of M. A. G. M. A's plants. Not for too long after you enter 
 the plant you get to shoot some aliens, now thats pretty funny since there can be a lot of those 
 mofos coming at you and the blood splatters to walls and floor. By the time you have killed all 
 the aliens you are standing in a pool of blood and shells.
  
  You get to buy guns, ammo and armors. There are quite a lot of weapons in the game too, so anyways 
 thats about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodnut
Rating: 2.9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I really dont understand why people are giving such big scores to this game. as a freak of these 
 types of games I cant believe I wasted my precious time on this game, let me explain:
  
  For some reason you dont you are dumped at some base to fend off some things and you get to customize 
 your character like in Diablo games. but that's where the good part ends.
  You go on shooting really infinte numbers of mostly the same arachnid monsters all the time and 
 just collect more stuff 'till your backpack is full and you have to sell everything. everything 
 is so boring, you go one room, kill tones of monsters with thousands of bullets you alone carry 
 on yourself just to go a little further, open a door to the next room and again your swarmed, so 
 again: very lame.
  Also The enemies arent smart enough to go around corners and just keeping walkting into the wall 
 while your behind it and the graphics is a joke, we are in 2007 and the game is prerendered backgrounds 
 and 2D character sprites.
  This is by far the worst game of its genre.
  
  My advice except to simply stay away from this game is get games like Shadowgrounds or if you own 
 a copy of Unreal Tournament 2004 then find an excelent award winning mod called Alien Swarm, truely 
 one of the best there are im almost every aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_soda_guy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 26, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Alien Shooter: Vengeance is the kind of game you play at home or at the office to kill time, or 
 aliens. You can pick from an array of characters with different preset skills, choose from a variety 
 of weapons and classes ranging from handguns to a futuristic power type of weapon (forgot name) . 
 The main campaign is pretty straight forward, kick ass and save the world from assured destruction. 
 But it also has a variety of other modes. Plus, in the end you can compare your score with friends 
 to see whose better and killing aliens.
  
  The main downsides are that the game really isn't that long, you can beat it in a day or two if 
 you have time, and also it doesn't really go in depth. Of course, thats not really the point of 
 the game either, but maybe more pieces of armor or something would have been nice...
  
  All in all its a fun game to play when you have nothing better to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 21, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm relatively confident only a handful of people have played the freeware series of top-down survival 
 shooters entitled Phobia, but I have. The games give you weapons and throw an impossible amount 
 of creatures at you that must be exterminated until, at long last, you die. Alien Shooter: Vengeance 
 has more depth than that, albeit slim, and is much more polished, but make no mistake: the comparisons 
 are obvious. AS: V is equal parts Diablo 2's isometric hacknslash (or run n gun in this case - moving 
 via right mouse button and attacking with left) and Phobia's endless swarm of creatures with equally-massive 
 quantities of blood and gore. While the graphics are lacking as far as technological advancement 
 go, the amount of minute detail put into the environments is more than enough to make up for the 
 shortcomings of the dying isometric shooters. Sound does get repetitive within the confines of 
 ten-minute thousand-creature gun battles, but that is to be expected; the voice acting is stale, 
 but who cares? If you have AS: V, all you really want to do is blast aliens. There's also a weak 
 RPG system with levels, stats, and skills, but none of that has too much impact on game style. 
 I highly recommend for fans of Phobia or those who want a guilty pleasure, but for others, wait 
 for the bargain bins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 21, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This game kind of caught me by surprised I installed it expecting to delete it a few minutes later 
 but this game is pretty decent. Its a third person action sci-fi horror shooter. It feels a little 
 bit like Fallout but not as tactical, its pretty straight forward mass killing of enemy waves with 
 crazy weapons to your disposal. Your character works for military and the worlds been invaded by 
 swarms of horrific aliens slaughtering everything in their path. Your character gains levels and 
 you can upgrade to a wide variety of weapons, armor, bots and implants. Graphics are decent not 
 amazing though, sound is good having all dialog spoken. Game play is good as well. Fun factor, 
 well its defiantly entertaining and a great way to kill some time. Ive put about 3-4 hours into 
 it, the missions are usually one main for the story line and its usually you got to go in this 
 area and kill a million aliens and than 1 sub missions having you gather an item that will be used 
 to your benefit, one mission you get to kill a ton of monsters with a military vehical with machine 
 guns, was fun. Worth playing if you enjoy the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreddlock907
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  Alien Shooter is your typical Hack'n'Slay game, only - and here's the catch - you don't hack and 
 slay.
  
  The game is set in something of a near future and starts off with a rather lengthy text intro. 
 You can easily skip this and jump right into the fray as you won't be needing any of the explanations 
 or story to enjoy or understand the game. You get to choose between a number of typical gun-toting 
 mercenaries (male/female) that have minor differences in their stats and perks - yes, you heard 
 right - this action game has rolyplaying aspects. I will leave it at aspects , because that is 
 all you get.
  
  You can invest points that you receive for level-ups into your stats, however these only make a 
 minor difference to the gameplay. Do not expect a variable stat tree as in Diablo 2 - this is simple 
 stat pushing. You upgrade your intelligence to use better implants, you upgrade your aim for better 
 aim, etc. As you explore military bases, underground labs, etc. you encounter legions of hostile 
 aliens which you - you'll never believe this - shoot with various real life and fictional weapons. 
 The weapons are fun to use and usable in various patterns (weak pistol, medium pistol, powerful 
 pistol; weak shotgun,...) . Aliens also come from small spiderylike thing to big menacing and powerful 
 alien. Now don't go about expecting suspense or air-vent-creeping monsters as seen in the famous 
 Alien movies - this is a non-stop action shooter, where you slay hundreds and hundreds of aliens 
 each level. This is amazingly funny and thanks to the awesome graphics also very nice to look at. 
 There are few things less enjoyable than using your newly bought weapon on dozens of slimy aliens. 
 The graphics are not always great, some of the animations seem a little awkard, however this does 
 not really weigh in much. The surroundings are fallout-style-gritty and usually covered in viscera, 
 blood and alien guts quickly. There is nothing like entering a clean room and leaving behind a 
 gore-splattered room after killing all the aliens in it.
  
  The sound is also very nice, but nothing special. Most characters you interact with or solve quests 
 for have spoken speeches which add to the atmosphere with the voice-actors doing a good enough 
 job. Music also gets very fast paced when action reached its climax and dozens of enemies come 
 rushing at you, which sometimes gives away traps, but mostly makes you enjoy the action movie feeling 
 even more.
  
  Overall this game is highly addictive and will leave you playing late at night, muttering just 
 one more level to yourself as the sun slowly sets in the real world again. Gameplay might get repetitive, 
 but similar to Diablo 2 seldomly gets boring. The game is not that deep, but from time to time 
 it's great to just get out there and Hack'n'Slay ... err ... I mean Splatter'n'Slay. Now get in 
 there, mercenary and splatter some aliens for the heck of it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokezz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 12, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  The first Alien Shooter was something new.. you kill aliens get power-ups and money to buy new 
 powerful weapons. But the game was too easy and simple! The same team made second Alien Shooter 
 and far more tastier than first piece. In this game you can choose a perk at first with nice advantages, 
 in the campaign you gain levels and you can edit your stats. In missions you can find a lot of 
 secret places with money , ammo and nice powerful weapons. In most of mission you can shop armor, 
 implants, 5 categories guns which each one includes at least 10 weapons. The game is not as easy 
 was the first AS, if you will not be careful you can die fast. You must use tactics and your brain 
 to defeat the aliens. The part which I like is that you have to fight very often about hundreds 
 of aliens at the same time, and the screen is full of them!! There is nice massacre! you can also 
 get in vehicles which are very powerful! This is enjoyable game where you can unleash your anger!!! 
 The thing I did not like was that there are some bugs like aliens very often stuck into obstacles! 
 But in overall the game is success!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Alien Shooter is a diablo clone placed in a distant futere when human kind must face fierce alien 
 monsters. You take the role of the hero and start killing hundreds maby thounsands of monsters 
 in a violent and very familiar way ( like in diablo body parts get throuwn everywhere) . But it's 
 not all clone ... it has some different elements like the flash light or the weapons. The skill 
 tree reminds me of fallout and the skill points system is a weak imitaion of the same game. The 
 military car is great... don't want to spoil. The story is decent but a little to thin and impersonal. 
 You can't save in mission and any progress is lost if you don't finish the mission. Arcade element 
 : lives (you have a number of lives and can respawn when killed) . A fun game for a few hours. Easy 
 and relaxing... if you enjoy slaughtering hordes of evil alien monsters. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
