-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Allegiance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/allegiance/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 26, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.4, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 75 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Mar 31, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Its real-time strategy elements and its focus on cooperative piloting tactics are so central to 
 its gameplay that Allegiance can be very challenging to learn, but it's well worth the effort. 
 

 Allegiance is an impressive online game that fuses space combat simulation with elements of strategic 
 military planning and command. It's exclusively playable online, and while it has an interesting 
 premise, there's no real context to the actual battles you'll participate in. If anything, its 
 lack of a single-player campaign merely clarifies the distinction between Allegiance and all other 
 space combat sims - its real-time strategy elements and its focus on cooperative piloting tactics 
 are so central to its gameplay that Allegiance can be very challenging to learn, but it's well 
 worth the effort.  

 Allegiance's depth and complexity are veiled by its clean, effective graphics. At most times during 
 play, you'll be looking at your ship's first-person heads-up display, which depicts all pertinent 
 information regarding your ship and your surroundings. Like many aspects of Allegiance's interface, 
 the various readouts on your HUD aren't particularly intuitive - it'll take some time to be able 
 to distinguish all the onscreen indicators. However, after you spend some time flying around in 
 the game, you'll find that the initially overwhelming amount of information on the HUD is actually 
 presented very well. Allegiance's minimal HUD graphics leave plenty of room for all the dozens 
 of different indicators you might see onscreen at any given time, which point to all friendly and 
 enemy ships, as well as miscellaneous space objects, missiles, stations, and more. There's a small 
 space left up top for communications between players, and a floating minimap, which you can toggle 
 off, that shows you where you are relative to the rest of the battle. It's a lot to take in, but 
 Allegiance's graphics do a great job of presenting all the relevant information you need without 
 actually cluttering the screen, which leaves you with a perfect view of the game's impressive 3D 
 space combat.  

 Allegiance's 3D engine is surprisingly good. The various ship designs are attractive and original, 
 and Allegiance's version of outer space is filled with bright-colored gasses, plenty of stars in 
 the distance, lens-flare-casting suns, gigantic tumbling asteroids, and more. The ships are highly 
 detailed and have pulsing warning lights on their wingtips. They leave long, colored contrails 
 in their wake, which provide a useful visual cue in the heat of battle. They burst into big, bright 
 explosions but don't leave a lot of debris behind. In fact there's very little visual excess in 
 Allegiance - the game's weapon effects look fairly simple, while the game's special effects for 
 wormholes and such are attractive but never gaudy. Allegiance can sometimes look a little sterile 
 as a result, especially since all the ships look similar from the inside. But it's all worthwhile 
 when you get dozens of ships flying around all at once with a smooth frame rate and typically without 
 much lag.  

 The game's no-nonsense graphics are complemented by its clear but generally forgettable audio, which 
 provides spoken cues for important events on the battlefield. You're able to issue preset verbal 
 cues yourself with just a couple of keystrokes so that you can quickly request assistance, give 
 orders, or even taunt your opponents. Some of the sound bites are pretty funny and thus inconsistent 
 with the game's generally serious tone, but you can toggle off the speech if it bothers you. In 
 contrast, the game's symphony-and-techno musical score is suitably intense and dramatic.  

 Although Allegiance looks about as good as the latest space combat sims, it doesn't look better, 
 and it really doesn't look all that different. However, the game does have a distinguishing mark: 
 It isn't so much that Allegiance is an online-only simulation of space combat, but rather that 
 it's also a fully realized simulation of strategic space combat. The strategic elements of Allegiance 
 are every bit as complex as those in the latest popular real-time strategy games - your team needs 
 to gather resources in order to expand its territory and improve its technology. You'll need to 
 defend your mining ships as they harvest resources from special asteroids, and you'll need to deploy 
 probes to detect enemy incursion. You'll have scouts to gather reconnaissance, fighters to gain 
 space superiority, interceptors to defend your installations, and bombers to destroy the enemy's 
 base. What's more, the action takes place in a number of large, interconnected sections of space 
 that you can jump between using swirling wormhole-like portals, referred to in-game as alephs. 
 You also have a fairly extensive technology tree that you can research, and it has several viable 
 branching paths that will make all the difference in the long run. You'll need to become familiar 
 with all the game's technology in order to understand how best to breach your enemies' defenses 
 and how to counter his attacks. You can play Allegiance as a plain deathmatch game, but hardly 
 anyone ever does, because the strategic elements lend so many different options to you and so much 
 variety to the game. You can assume any role in an Allegiance battle. Ultimately, someone will 
 need to coordinate the war effort and play commander. The commander sees the action take place 
 on a top-down tactical map, which is actually generated using the game's 3D engine. He can zoom 
 in on individual ships or jump into the fray at any time, but his essential role as commander is 
 to oversee the battle, to issue orders to his pilots, and to make strategic decisions. The commander 
 can easily order ships to defend miners and stations, to mount an attack against an enemy installation, 
 and more; meanwhile, the pilots in those ships need only push a button to toggle the autopilot 
 that takes them to the allocated destination. Pilots can opt to ignore orders, but their teammates 
 probably won't appreciate a loose cannon; at the same time, if the commander's doing a bad job, 
 he can easily be ignored and promptly replaced. For the player in the commander's position, Allegiance 
 plays out much like other real-time strategy games, only with the very notable difference that 
 all his units are being controlled by other human players. As such, a good pilot will do a lot 
 of good for your team, but your chances of actually winning an Allegiance match are slim without 
 a capable commander calling the shots.  

 While one player can choose to become the commander, another player can opt to become the team's 
 investor and to oversee resource allocation for new weapons and technology. But most often, you'll 
 inevitably end up piloting the various combat spacecraft in Allegiance, from lithe scouts all the 
 way up to lumbering capital ships. As if the game's underlying strategic elements weren't sophisticated 
 enough on their own, Allegiance also features a fairly unconventional spaceflight physics model. 
 The game simulates deep space inertia, so any change to your velocity will be more or less gradual, 
 depending on your ship. It feels like you're sliding on ice, but as you get more accustomed to 
 the game, you'll be able to use the inertia to your benefit and learn key strafing maneuvers and 
 evasive tactics. It isn't easy to get used to Allegiance's flight model, and the game's long-winded, 
 semi-interactive tutorials are at least as intimidating as they are beneficial, but you'll gain 
 all the experience and teaching you need out in space flying alongside veteran pilots who'll be 
 happy to lend you a hand. Allegiance is a complicated game that's attractive for its sophistication 
 as well as for its action, which means you'll likely find yourself playing in games with more of 
 an upper-crust kind of crowd than you might be used to in online action games or online role-playing 
 games. On the other hand, you won't find as many people playing Allegiance overall.  

 If you host the game, you can customize an Allegiance match however you choose. You can opt to play 
 with just a few or many dozens of players simultaneously, set the maximum number of lives for participating 
 pilots, set the number of teams, and also restrict the game to players of a particular skill level. 
 You can play Allegiance as a strategic space combat game, but you can also opt for capture-the-flag 
 rules, pure deathmatch, and other variants that encourage you to gather more resources or find 
 more artifacts. The game rules are highly flexible, and there's a lot of variety within each game, 
 from all the different ships you can fly to the different miscellaneous roles you can assume. Allegiance 
 lets you play over a network or the Microsoft Gaming Zone and also lets you join the Allegiance 
 Zone for a nominal monthly fee, which keeps a record of your stats and offers unique game types 
 and scenarios and more. It's an evolving service that's well suited for hard-core Allegiance players 
 but not necessary for all of them. In general, you can jump into an Allegiance game with just a 
 couple of clicks, whether the game has just started or is already in progress.  

 Allegiance is at the forefront of an increasingly popular type of online game that encourages cooperative 
 competitive play. Although the game features all of the excitement of a first-rate space combat 
 sim, thanks to its great graphics and its variety of spacecraft, what really sets the game apart 
 is how it meshes real-time strategy elements and various support roles together with the dogfighting 
 to create an original experience. It takes a while to get the hang of Allegiance, but the payoff 
 for mastering all its nuances and applying those time-honed skills alongside a contingent of likewise 
 seasoned pilots and strategists is suitably rewarding.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 2, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  The Bad: Terrible voice acting, tutorial, boring gameplay, graphics, minor crashing and or glitches 
 and bugs.
  
  This is one of those games that you enjoy for the first few minuets then you get tired of and rather 
 get rammed by a goat than play it some more. To be honest I didn't enjoy Alligence at all. Hardly 
 anyone ever plays Alligence why does Microsoft still keep it online? Pitiful voice acting it sounded 
 like someone was talking to you on the other side of a vast cave, I couldn't understand the instructors 
 in the tutorials with that echo, which brings us to tutorials, half of the time the tutorials were 
 not quite clear because it told me to do something that I have never done before in the game and 
 it didn't say how it just said to do it. The gameplay is real bland, there are no missions except 
 for the tutorial missions. There are far better games in this genre that I would rather play than 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendokid891
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  I downloaded this game a while ago and I still love it! This game is amazing. It counts on a lot 
 of team worrk. What really is amazing is that you can be a commander and command around 5-50 people! 
 Here's my review.
  
  GAMEPLAY- The gameplay is great. Its an amazing game because of the way it is layed out. It's simple 
 also. You load your ship with weapons. You go out. You blow the braind out of everything and everyone! 
 Very fun.
  
  9 out of 10
  
  GRAPHICS- The graphics re amazing! These are some of the best computing gaming I have ever seen! 
 I was so amazed by the graphics!
  
  10 out of 10
  
  SOUND- Good sound effects, but little music. I like when you switch on auto pilot though because 
 that computer (female) voice comes up and says "Auto Pilot Engaged".
  
  7 out of 10
  
  LEARNING CURVE- This game is just right to learn. Just try it! There is basicly a 30 minute learning 
 curve. The tutorials are good. But you should read all og the info in the help menu.
  
  0-30 Minutes
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrbje
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 8, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  This is no an old game no doubt about it, and old games despite good qualities usually dont hold 
 water for most player after 7 years, but i would argue this one does,, big time!.
  
  I started this game way back in beta stages and stayed with it until it was dying. It was one of 
 the first true online only games, and a good one at that, it has loads of gameplay qualities that 
 are blatantly missing from many of todays titles.
  
  So whats all the brewhahaha about this dead old forgotten title then?, well this is not some old 
 fart remembering how much better things where,, this game is alive again, for free!. A while back 
 MS made the source for the game public and a handfull of brave souls set about releasing the game, 
 for free and has the ambition of further development.
  
  I recon this is the best free game out there today. Sure it might be a little hard to get into 
 and the graphics are clunky, but the game is revarding on so many levels that you wont regret investing 
 some time into it and make due with the graphics. Check it out its a small download and you will 
 be off in no time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
