-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Alliance: Future Combat
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/alliancefuturecombat/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some value as comic relief.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Ridiculous plot with vague mission instructions and loads of grammatical errors.
 fog of war hides enemies until you stumble right into them.
 terrible pathfinding makes it virtually impossible to coordinate attacks.
 exit bug brings down Windows on a regular basis.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.3
Critic Score: 4.8, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 83 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: G2 Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 8, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Alliance: Future Combat is less a look at the future and more a history lesson on what not to do 
 when making a real-time strategy game. 

  Settle into a real-time strategy game called Alliance: Future Combat and you naturally expect a 
 little sci-fi. The name of Serbian developer Gameyus Interactive's wannabe epic evokes thoughts 
 of cataclysmic battles taking place many years from now, a feeling emphasized by a box emblazoned 
 with space-age soldiers and jets that look like Vipers, as well as a plot about genetic engineering. 
 But not so fast. All of this "future combat" actually takes place in the distant year of 2008. 
 All of the fighting is done by contemporary-looking soldiers and tanks. And the gameplay takes 
 you back in time to the days when RTS programmers had yet to figure out such intricacies as pathfinding, 
 level design, and visual presentation.  

          DRND terrorists attack under cover of darkness so black that they can't even see each other. 
     

  The absurdity of the plot is the least of this game's flaws. And that's saying a lot when you consider 
 that the storyline deals with the United States setting up a secret military base to make genetically 
 enhanced supersoldiers in a new Middle Eastern nation called the Democratic Republic of North Dzombystan 
 (DRND) . Granted, there have been goofier stories in other RTS games, and the two campaigns that 
 follow the saga from the perspectives of the US and the DRND are a proven staple of the genre. 
 But no other games have ever tried to present such an outlandish saga taking place a mere 14 months 
 from the present. Gameyus might as well have set the game next Tuesday, robot tanks and all. This 
 absurd saga is all you get, too, as there is no skirmish option (unless you count the ability to 
 replay finished campaign missions) and no multiplayer modes.  

  At any rate, the ridiculous story doesn't matter much once the game begins, as the plot isn't developed 
 at all. You're given the barest of details when it comes to motivations, and you're typically plopped 
 down in a generic RTS map in each mission and told to go from point A to point B, killing everybody 
 you meet along the way. There is neither resource gathering nor much else to manage, aside from 
 the regular appearance of reinforcements. Instructions are spectacularly vague, though, so it's 
 probably good that the gameplay is so simplistic. Mission commanders appear in little pop-ups at 
 the top of the screen and issue orders that are always either complete nonsense due to the game's 
 translation problems ("Learn few things!") , or so terse that it's better to ignore them entirely 
 and suss objectives out on your own.  

  But doing so isn't all that easy. Almost all of the maps in Alliance are composed of pixelated, 
 muddy terrain (that, incidentally, looks more like Western Europe than anything in the Middle East) 
 and grimy towns that make it very tough to spot enemy units. Soldiers are so tiny and dark that 
 they vanish into the landscape like camouflage-wearing Waldos. Vehicles like personnel carriers, 
 tanks, and mortar trucks are a bit easier to eyeball but still blend into the background, as they 
 are clothed in slate gray and brown. Many missions take place at night, as well (particularly in 
 the DRND campaign) , which doesn't exactly improve the situation.  

  Making matters even worse, the fog of war has been cranked up so high that it is actually more 
 of a thick pea soup of war. This visibility issue is a one-way street, because it only affects 
 the Americans. Even though the DRND troops remain invisible to you until you're practically falling 
 over them (which makes a bit of sense, as they're supposed to be terrorists) , they have no problems 
 spotting you from long range and opening fire. So when playing the Yanks, you're constantly hammered 
 by rockets and machine-gun fire from enemies that you can't see and can't target.  

          Now there's an armor column that would have given Patton nightmares.     

  Missions 
 are constructed around these blind ambushes. Levels are typically artificial constructs where you 
 need to follow a winding, narrow path from the start to the finish and deal with lots of enemy 
 units set up to bushwhack you around every turn. Cutting across country is often flat-out impossible, 
 due to impassable terrain (although a lot of these verboten sections sure look like gentle, rolling 
 hills) and atrocious pathfinding. Go off-roading and units instantly start playing demolition derby. 
 They slam into each other, backtrack and stop for no apparent reason, and even ignore commands 
 in tight spots. Coordinating an attack across fields or hills is pretty much hopeless, as is even 
 moving across the map in an orderly fashion. Even if the controls cooperated, there are no formations 
 and no way to make speedy units keep pace with slower ones. So confusion is difficult to avoid 
 unless you micromanage every step of the way. And most missions feature such a staggering number 
 of well-armed enemies (you'll quickly grow to despise the rocket-propelled-grenade-armed rocketeers) 
 that victory is extremely hard to achieve.  

  Finally, just to rub it in a little bit more, Alliance crashes and/or locks up Windows on every 
 exit and features the most annoying death "Arggghhhh!" ever included in an RTS. You don't need 
 to look back from the far-flung future of 2008 to know that this game is going to be remembered 
 as one of the worst of the year.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: thecat1310
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 5, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  probably not it got good graphics, to many, shadows, i cant find the voice commands (because the 
 tutorial is very good) , no difficulty level choosing (because it really hard!) , no base building 
 and worst of all its not online if it were online it would be at least a bit better and skirmish 
 would be good to have at least be able to pick our units before the battle. when i bought it the 
 game shop said if i bought it for a test run it for them they said they would give me far cry 2 
 and they didn't. so i brought the cheesy thing for nothing! 
  
  
  it kinda you wanna play C&C: generals even though its nothing like it if you go to some other web 
 sites they usually have this to say:
  * 20 action packed tactical/combat missions.
  * Take command of AEGIS troops or play as the leader of extremists.
  * Control futuristic vehicles, 
 next-gen commando units, advanced aircraft and more.
  * Over 100 types of units: Robotic vehicles, Unmanned aircraft, Snipers, Spies, Engineers.
  * 
 Numerous combat environments: Urban, Rural, Desert and Mountains.
  * Diverse weather and lighting conditions  Fight in fog, rain and in darkness.
  * Voice Control: 
 Order your troops with spoken commands.
  * Special options: satellites, laser guided missiles, plasma rays, air strikes and artillery.
 
  * Most detailed vehicles in a strategy game ever.
  * No resource gathering, all action all the time!
  
  all of it may sound cool but...
  DON'T 
 BUY IT DUDE! (you have been warned!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donoghu
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  OK, I'm at work so I can't write a full review like always.
  
  The answer is : Yes
  
  This might be seem as one of the worst tactical made until now, but I have seen lot worse.
  
 
  The graphics are Ok
  The sound are Ok
  The gameplay lack a little in controlability.
  The story... there isn't really one big...
  
  But if I would choose between 8 chocolat bars 
 and this game... I would eat the chocolat bar and play this game XD.
  
  It takes time to actually "like" this game. You will most likely find it easy to complete BUT I 
 doupt you're trully doing it right on the first run... It's hard to keep any units alive and act 
 fast enought so you can retreat or exchange units positions... (the CTRL+Number is your best friend! 
 More than the mouse since you can play with vocal command... even if I never tried XD)
  
  But HEY! This game gave me the option I didn't thought I had with my new computer : Total control 
 with voice over even Windows Vista. (Yup, it fully compatible with Windows Vista)
  I wrote a couple of story (except there are a lot of "change *text*" to use while narrating) with 
 it. 
  
  If you want a game that you can play for only 15 minutes or for hours and which is simply "Search 
 and destroy" in a tactical control over units, this game is for you.... for a tiny little price... 
 ( I have not even paid 5 bucks for this game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ST10
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 3, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  When I first played it I was very intrigued by the interesting variety of units such as the special 
 soldiers and AEGIS tanks, but after about and hour one huge problem I found was the the enemy AI 
 actions and tactics were as inspiring as a bucket of fish; they sit there doing absolutly nothing 
 unless you walk right into their attack zone, and even then they are late to respond. Another problem 
 was the lack of formation and co-ordination of your own vechiles. You have six tanks for example 
 and send them down a road, they all try to take the same path as each other, pilling up and eventually 
 getting stuck together. The lack of voice overs during gameplay and the random characters that 
 appear in the HUD are slightly confusing and misleading as well, are they signiicant people or 
 random? Over all this game is an example of how real time strategy should not be done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yu252002
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes, people who make games should not be afraid to say to themselves that their game just 
 isn't good. It would spare us money and time and perhaps point them in another direction which 
 could potentialy help them make a better game. Sometimes their pride just makes them go on, just 
 to prove something to themselves or perhaps to the world. Only thing that is proven here is that 
 they can't make a good game, not even ordinary.
  Developers should ask themselves what makes a great RTS . Don't be afraid, buy starcraft, buy Dawn 
 Of War, buy Company of heroes. Play those games and learn from them. Innovation is good when you 
 really have something groundbreaking to offer, but until then, stick to mimicking. After all, it's 
 the best form of flattery ;)
  Sometimes in the future, Serbian developers will learn how to make normal games. Until then, they 
 should stick to learning some things about game design, storytelling and playing truly great games 
 which define RTS genre.
  Stay away from this sad game and pray it will be forgotten quickly, before it ruins some programmer's 
 career opportunities because it reas its nasty head on his CV 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lnenad
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  Nice graphics. Good time-line. It will grow on you.
  
  At first the game isn't much (except the graphics) , but later on the game will grow on you! You 
 will enjoy commanding forces in this nice RTS game!
  Enjoy in this nice made game from g2 games. I fairly recommend this game to all RTS game players! 
 It is a game that you will wish to play when you're bored, eating pizza :) and doing other non-interesting 
 stuff!
  
  (Pizza with Alliance: Future Combat - the perfect combination)
  
  I don't know what more I can say about the Alliance: Future Combat except TRY THIS GAME ... You 
 will like it in the end. And to contradict the other reviewers NICE GAME! Play it, like it, enjoy 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodnecron
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 12, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  this game suck. but tell you the truth, the graphics is fine but not good. i mean, why would the 
 publisher even bother to make this game. wast of people time, wast of money for the creator. i 
 would say not buy this game. i bought this game cause of the rating for this game and for curiosity. 
 why would they even created this game, i bet the star craft is 99.99% better then this. even though, 
 i like most of shooting game, this its going to the garbege can! ill give it 5.0 to 5.5 because 
 ive seen worst game then this although, this game is pretty bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 1.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Keep walking past the shelves and or bargain bins on this one. Complete waste of time, and money. 
 The overall feel of the game is that you are a Beta Tester of something that has not been remotely 
 completed for tester versions. Field of vision throughout the game is terrible. So many shadows, 
 even if you turn them off. More like a 20 yard visibility range. G2 Games will not last too much 
 longer if they keep pushing the releases of un-managable games. I don't think I can say anything 
 else bad about this to even fill up the rest of the character requirements for this posting. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
