-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Alone in the Dark: The New Nightmare
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/aloneinthedarkthenn/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  9, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 7.0, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 390 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Infogrames
Developer: Spiral House
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Jun 25, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a clumsy port, but what's even more disappointing is that it's a clumsy port of only a middling 
 console game. 

 In the early '90s, something happened that changed computer gaming forever. It's an upheaval that 
 can be traced to a single focal point: France. In games like Out of This World, Flashback, and 
 Alone in the Dark, French game developers created an entirely new genre -- the action-adventure game -- and 
 opened new vistas for future game developers to explore. But while Out of this World and Flashback 
 featured stunningly lifelike animation, polygon graphics, and environment-based puzzles, it was 
 the original Alone in the Dark that left the most lasting impression on gaming. Inspired by the 
 horror stories of H. P. Lovecraft and featuring a constantly shifting cinematic third-person perspective, 
 Alone in the Dark's blend of gunplay, tension-filled exploration, 3D characters, and intricate 
 puzzles made it an instant classic. It's been six years since the previous Alone in the Dark game, 
 so longtime fans of the series have every right to expect a top-notch product that melds the latest 
 in graphics with the same sort of atmosphere and gameplay that made the original a classic. Unfortunately, 
 everything about this new game -- from its infuriating save-game system to its awkward keyboard controls -- shows 
 that it was primarily designed for video game systems, which it was. It's a clumsy port, but what's 
 even more disappointing is that it's a clumsy port of only a middling console game.           As 
 Aline, you'll have to solve various puzzles during the adventure...    

  Though the game's resolution is locked at 640x480, the in-game graphics are generally crisp and 
 convincing, and have plenty of detail and good lighting effects. The only exceptions are the game's 
 washed-out skyscapes and inexplicably blurry close-ups of inventory items such as maps, blueprints, 
 and photos. Also, the video used in the intro is extremely lackluster -- the whole thing looks as 
 though someone smeared petroleum jelly over the camera -- but at least the characters' lips move 
 when they speak in this sequence; during the rest of the game their mouths are locked shut as they 
 carry on conversations.   

  In The New Nightmare, Infogrames has abandoned the 1930s ambience of the first three Alone in the 
 Dark games for a present-day setting in which you play as either private eye Edward Carnby or anthropologist 
 Aline Cedrac. You might think these two might have a rendezvous with Scooby Doo since they're both 
 headed for Shadow Island, a moniker almost as cheesy as the game's subtitle. Cedrac's been sent 
 by a couple of shadowy figures to assist Professor Obed Morton in the translation of some tablets 
 left by a tribe of Native Americans called the Akbanis, and to ensure she makes the trip, her contacts 
 have given her reason to suspect Morton might actually be the father she never met. Carnby's ostensibly 
 tagging along to watch over Aline, but he also wants to find out more about the death of his friend 
 Charles Fiske, who was found dead off the coast of Shadow Island. After their plane mysteriously 
 crashes, the two are separated, and the game proper begins.           ... but as Edward, you'll 
 often just have to find keys.    

  Carnby and Aline are both cut from the standard video game character cloth: Carnby's flowing hair 
 and trench coat make him look like The Crow minus makeup, while Aline is a busting-out babe who 
 was poured into her jeans and tank top. Each character takes a different path to the game's finale: 
 As Carnby you'll spend much more time fighting, while Aline has more puzzles to solve. Although 
 you communicate with the other character from time to time via walkie-talkie, these are generally 
 scripted events -- the only time you actively use the walkie-talkie is during a silly puzzle in which 
 Carnby must follow Aline's directions and radio back what he sees. Unfortunately, this is also 
 where you'll encounter a bug: If you use the menu system to access the radio, Carnby can't contact 
 Aline; you instead must use the radio hotkey to get past the scene.   

  You play from the same type of constantly changing third-person perspective that debuted in the 
 original Alone in the Dark -- which means the same problems with combat and exploration that were 
 lodged against that game are still intact all these years later. That is, it's too easy to get 
 trapped in a spot where you can't see what your character's doing, and the keyboard-only control 
 (you can use the mouse only for a third-person "free-look" and to aim and fire weapons while stock-still) 
 means you'll watch in agony as your character slowly turns around to face an attacker. Also, the 
 decision to use the same key for actions (opening doors, picking up objects) and firing weapons 
 means you can accidentally pop off a round as you explore with your gun in the aiming position. 
 That's not good, since ammo can be a scarce commodity for Aline.    

 Even if the combat interface were flawless, it still wouldn't offer a lot to get excited about. 
 Except for zombies and a couple of boss monsters, the polygonal creatures cruising around Shadow 
 Island simply aren't very terrifying. Success in combat is merely a matter of turning quickly enough 
 to aim and having enough ammo to pump into your target. But that first part is harder than it sounds: 
 The designers apparently decided the only way to give the monsters a fighting chance was to have 
 them materialize out of thin air behind you or to plop them directly behind doors so they'll be 
 on top of you the moment you enter a room. It's true you'll probably start the first time a monster 
 appears out of nowhere, but shocks aren't the same as suspense, and these encounters quickly turn 
 into dull surprises -- just another event to deal with. Further deadening any sense of tension are 
 the game's mediocre voice characterizations. When you hear Aline say "It seems that Alan Morton 
 is... diabolic. Yes, that's the word!" or the witch doctor Edenshaw mumbling his lines, you won't 
 exactly be engaged in the story. Thankfully you can turn off the dreadful soundtrack, which veers 
 between 1960s Hammond-organ soap-opera music and primitive, grating synthesizer riffs.         
   The game suffers from awkward controls.    

  Exploration in the game isn't exactly enjoyable either. Despite the presence of glowing orbs that 
 indicate where important items are located, you'll still find yourself painstakingly scouring every 
 nook and cranny using what the box refers to as "sophisticated flashlight technology" -- that is, 
 a flashlight -- for that one missing item or hidden device you're having trouble finding because 
 of the switching perspective. Poor collision detection means you can get stuck on invisible barriers 
 that surround plants and furniture or get lodged in what seems to be an open doorway. What's even 
 more maddening is having to find just the right spot you need to be in to push an object or pick 
 up an item. At the start of the game, for example, Aline tells Carnby to push a dresser aside so 
 he can enter a bedroom. I spent a good five minutes hitting the spacebar and manipulating the directional 
 arrows just to pull off this simple little maneuver. And it took nearly 15 minutes just to coax 
 Carnby into pushing a statue along a walkway later in the game. The challenge should be in figuring 
 out you need to push something, not in performing keyboard acrobatics just to make it happen.  

  Yet perhaps the most disappointing aspect of the gameplay is in all the backtracking you must perform. 
 When you play as Carnby, the game might as well be called Keyquest, since the bulk of his adventure 
 is spent finding keys and then returning to see if they open locked doors, cabinets, or chests 
 you stumbled across earlier. When he finally does move outside the Morton mansion and nears the 
 conclusion of the game, the pacing once again slows down as he's forced to work his way through 
 a maze that's chockfull of monsters (and which looks like a rip-off of H. R. Giger's visual designs 
 for  Aliens ) . Even with all the legwork, Carnby's game is rather short, and even shorter if you 
 decide the finale isn't worth navigating that tacked-on maze.   

  Aline's game lasts longer, and she doesn't get the chance to test out as many keys as Carnby. Her 
 biggest challenge is building a high-tech drilling machine from almost indecipherable blueprints, 
 but even she doesn't solve puzzles as much as engage in aerobic exercise. While exploring a fort 
 near the Morton mansion, you must guide her from top to bottom of the massive castle several times 
 in search of important items -- and on the final trip to the basement you must defeat a boss monster 
 in a silly timed battle before racing downward against another timer, as a host of creatures blocks 
 your path.   

  You can't help but wonder if these sequences were included to make a short game longer, a sense 
 that's bolstered by other frustrating problems. You can't bypass cinematic cutscenes (you can only 
 skip one character's lines at a time) , you can't stop a long-winded tape recording, and I won't 
 even go into the numerous and consecutive ladders you must watch Aline climb despite the fact that 
 the game pauses and asks if you want her to climb the ladder. If the game asks, why not just make 
 her appear at the top or bottom after you consent?           The New Nightmare lacks the qualities 
 that made Alone in the Dark so great.    

  The horrendous save-game feature makes all this even more frustrating. The manual says, "The actions 
 you previously carried out in the room you save in must be redone," which is a fancy way of saying 
 that saving a game resets the entire level. If Carnby dies fighting a midgame boss in the library, 
 it takes you about two minutes to run around and do everything needed to try again even if you 
 saved just before the battle began. If the timer expires during Aline's mad dash to the basement, 
 you've got to repeat the process from scratch. There are only four save-game slots and no way to 
 name a saved game; there's not even a picture for saves, just a terse location description (lobby, 
 west bedroom) . Whether it's the result of laziness or indifference, this is the kind of stuff that 
 gives console ports a bad rap among PC game players.   

  Alone in the Dark: The New Nightmare has its moments, particularly in its story. But in the end, 
 about the only noticeable improvement it offers over its predecessors is in its graphics -- and you 
 should expect more than that for your money.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  If you're scared of the dark this is for you. If like things that go bump in the night this game 
 is for you. Survive! If you can just survive till the end and it will be worth the wait. Alone 
 in the Dark is just that. You're alone in the dark with just the light and the shadows. Explore 
 this deserted island you got stranded on for clues to a mystery you have been following. You'll 
 meet up with a woman that you team up with to solve this case. As a detective your learning the 
 difference between the light and darkness. It seems to tie into this ancient civilization. Can't 
 tell you everything or there would be no need to play. Search this over sized castle and the whole 
 island for different clues, artifacts and other items that are part of the bigger puzzle. Once 
 you put everything together you can solve the case you're working on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathmatt
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 30, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  With the Alone in the Dark series being a classic, this eagerly awaited instalment was met with 
 some high expectations. The initial overall mood places an on the edge feeling in one's stomach.
 
  The lighting effects immediately give you a sense of fear and as the game progresses a distinct 
 excitement builds.
  The player movement is hampered by a clumsy control on the keyboard, but after an hour skill takes 
 over and the game commences swimmingly. I particularly loved the basement scene and the water effects 
 are very realistic.
  The sound effects serve to set a very chilling and unnerving atmosphere.
  I love the genre and 
 think that future games in this line will be very popular.
  For the time of its release, it really took a place of honour in my collection. The puzzles in 
 this instalment are generally good and an enjoyable gaming experience all round. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moonscream
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Inspired by the work of H P Lovecraft, the first Alone in the Darkhas won critical acclaims for 
 its groundbreaking graphics, immersing atmosphere, and intense gameplay. Unfortunately, sequels 
 after the first installment have not lived up to the great expectation raised thereafter. Now, 
 8 years later, the fourth game in the series, subtitled The New Nightmare, attempts to regain 
 the lost reputation for the franchise. The game was somehow very hard for me personally and I had 
 a hard time adjusting to its pace and game play somehow. This hasn't happened often after this 
 game. :) The camera is strategically fixed so the game play offers that cinematic quality. Edward 
 Carnby (our original hero from the previous Alone in the Dark series) or Aline (female) uses a 
 flashlight to light his/hers way through the darkness but also to scare away the light sensitive 
 creatures that dwell on the island. I must say the graphics were fingerlicking and the monsters 
 and creatures were genuinly creepy. And thank God there are no laughable zombie clowns or cowboys 
 as there were in the previous installments. The sound is very good and contributes in building 
 up the tension, atmosphere or a prequel to a good scare or even a clue, which makes this subgenre 
 intresting.
  Thankfully, the puzzles in this game are more sophisticated than those typically found in other 
 survival horror games. Some puzzles are a little too obscure and others are a bit tricky and require 
 some clever thinking. As much fun as it can be playing as Edward, I personally find playing as 
 Aline to be more satisfying because of these puzzle elements. You can save the game at any time 
 by using the Charm of Saving which you can find in limited numbers scattered throughout Shadow 
 Island. The only catch is that once you save a game after entering a new area, everything you have 
 done in that area must be repeated again when the game is reloaded. This can be an annoyance, but 
 it can also be a blessing if you want to quickly reset a puzzle after messing it up. Reflecting 
 its console origin, there are only 4 save game slots. Interesting to mention is that Infogrames 
 has never officially referred to this game as Alone in the Dark 4. No matter, Alone in the Dark: 
 The New Nightmare stands firmly on its own as an enjoyable title in an overcrowded subgenre. Terror 
 is abundant and well implemented in this action adventure. There are many moments when I nearly 
 jump out of my chair as an enemy appeared out of nowhere. This is a game that is guaranteed to 
 make your heart skip a beat. This said, I recommend this game to all admirers of the survival horror. 
 You are bound to have a nice scare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  I don't know how i loose this game... why is so unpopular and so expensive to play it. Even is a 
 game made in 2001 really vying with all games adventure-horror-survival. And i mean ALL, including 
 Resident Evil, Silent Hill or Cold Fear and Obscure... the best games horror for my estimation.
 
  
  Anyway... i play this game... night, with all lights off... i think it's a bit strange how some certain 
 game come in your life and make the differents. Alone in the dark 4 didn't that and is a unbeliveble 
 and incredible GOOD game! I feel like in the past years, when i play my first game, Resident Evil 
 2 and then all my pc-gaming-life follow this game and this genre... Great game and remember when 
 i kill first zombie... my all skin feel a creep and trembling for many times. A game that makes you 
 feel that is a good and great game and , yes, Alone in the dark 4 was a great surprise in that 
 sense.
  
  Atmospheric talking... is the good game i ever seen for this genre like RE2 or SH2,3, or 4, maybe 
 much better even RE4 and SH4. With all sounds and music so eerie and ghastly and all apparitions 
 phantasmagorices makes you think if someone or something maybe is in your room aback and fear comes 
 in your heart... What the h*** ?!??!? :)
  
  Grapichs are good to very good and great gameplay. Carnby and Aline look good and control easy. 
 Some problems with combat if you don't move aptly. Good puzzles and mirrors! Good game! If you 
 love this genre and don't play Alone 4 , play it now! PS: Gamespot review&amp; score for this game: 
 ABYSMAL : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PierrotSorel
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  When you finish a game you know that game brought you something. The story here is a follow up 
 to the Alone in the dark series. You have a mission to do, find what happen to a scientific and 
 the tablet he was experimenting with. From the moment of the crash of the plane you know that all 
 hell break loose. The graphic in the game could have been better, but where a lot better than the 
 resident evil series. The control are good and permit to react swiftly. The sound is the best part, 
 when you got a story that bizarre ,sound could become a let down if badly done. But it this game 
 the sound atmosphere serve the game well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 4, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Carnby and Aline are both cut from the standard video game character cloth: Carnby's flowing hair 
 and trench coat make him look like The Crow minus makeup, while Aline is a busting-out babe who 
 was poured into her jeans and tank top. Each character takes a different path to the game's finale: 
 As Carnby you'll spend much more time fighting, while Aline has more puzzles to solve. Although 
 you communicate with the other character from time to time via walkie-talkie, these are generally 
 scripted events -- the only time you actively use the walkie-talkie is during a silly puzzle in which 
 Carnby must follow Aline's directions and radio back what he sees. Unfortunately, this is also 
 where you'll encounter a bug: If you use the menu system to access the radio, Carnby can't contact 
 Aline; you instead must use the radio hotkey to get past the scene. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coelho5
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 9, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  Alone 1, alone 2, alone 3 e finalmente Alone in the Dark 4 de titulo The New Nightmare. Os clssicos 
 eram de qualidade. Boa jogabilidade, segurana e dificuldade... faltavam os grficos. Assim este 
 novo titulo da srie apresenta-se com as mesmas caracteristicas dos anteriores, mas o grafismo 
 passa a ser fenomenal. De um detalhe pormenorizado fantstico a uma histria muito bem conseguida, 
 Alone in the Dark proporciona horas de jogo escuras e arrepiantes para quem gosta deste tipo de 
 jogos (survival horror) . Assim o utilizador pode iniciar o jogo escolhendo 2 personagens ( Eduard 
 Carnby e Aline Cedrac) sendo que as histrias complementam-se uma  outra, havendo partes em que 
  necessrio o parceiro surgir para ultrapassar determinados obstculos. O jogo apresenta-se com 
 um grau de dificuldade relativamente elevado, mas mais da perspectiva mental... os inimigos so 
 faceis de abater, mas os enigmas nem por isso, podendo no entanto o jogo ser completado em cerca 
 de 12 horas por ser tambm muito longo. Enfim um jogo que eu recomendo a amantes do gnero . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaotixGTX
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jan 9, 2005 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Just about the only things that scared me in this game was that thing in the sewer. I wasnt expecting 
 it. And then there were the cutscenes. Those were horrifying. Then the realization that this game 
 wasn't going to get any better the more I went on. That was scariest of all. 
  
  Gameplay: wait, this is a game? Sure fooled me. I thought my computer contracted a major virus 
 and I was controlling it.
  
  Graphics: The surrounding environments are creepy. And thats ok. But it gets to be a real pain. 
 The camera angles suck (can I say suck?) to no end. And the cutscenes are nothing but a joke. The 
 characters dont even talk, their mouths arent moving.
  
  Sound: Its almost as though you expect a man in a sheet to jump out and say boo. That would be 
 more scary than the noise coming from this game. And that moaning you hear? Thats you because you 
 cant believe youre playing this game.
  
  Value: Im not sure how long this game will last you. I stopped playing it after a key I needed 
 suddenly disappeared from my inventory. Plus I constantly came back on GS to look for the walkthrough. 
 All I can say is that the movie better be better than this horrible piece of nonsense that should 
 have never been unleashed unto this world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamvego
Rating: 5.9
Date: Sep 13, 2004 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I remember owning Alone In The Dark II for the Playstation some time back. It wasn't mind-blowingly 
 amazing, but it wasn't bad either. It had it's own unique atmosphere, which was due partly to the 
 music that accompanied each section of the game. All in all, it was an enjoyable, and suitably 
 difficult experience.
  
  How disappointed was I when I played Alone In the Dark: The New Nightmare for the PC. Okay, I bought 
 it on budget, but still, it feels like it's trying to be Resident Evil, and doesn't owe any of 
 it's playability to the previous Alone In The Dark games. A lot of the game involves very dark 
 and unclear pre-rendered backgrounds, and I can never be sure if I'm meant to be investigating 
 things or not. The voice-acting is a new addition to this series, and was actually better without 
 it.
  
  The story isn't particularly inspiring either, and I don't really care about the characters. I 
 guess I can't really complain too much abouit this game for the price. It's okay, but that's all. 
 The only people I could actually recommend this to would be those who have still got a low-powered 
 PC (like Pentium II 300 Mhz with 64 meg RAM) or those who have a lot of patience for games that 
 doesn't necessarily promise a lot. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
