-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: American McGee's Alice
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/americanmcgeesalice/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  8, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 8.3, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,961 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Rogue Ent.
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Dec 6, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While you'll undoubtedly enjoy the imaginative artwork, you might end up disappointed with just 
 how straightforward the underlying game really is. 

 It isn't a huge secret that Lewis Carroll's Wonderland books, Alice in Wonderland and Through the 
 Looking Glass, have a dark subtext of insanity and violence. Since 1907, the year the copyright 
 lapsed, various artists have freely retold Carroll's fable while elaborating on the story's intrinsic 
 darkness. Now, thanks to Rogue Entertainment, Electronic Arts, and lead designer American McGee, 
 gaming has its very own entry in this time-honored practice that suggests, "Alice in Wonderland 
 is actually kind of creepy!" The resulting game is polished and often looks really great, but American 
 McGee's Alice is undermined by straightforward, uninspired gameplay sequences that detract from 
 its overall appeal.   

  In the game, Alice has lost her mind due to a traumatizing childhood experience. To reclaim her 
 sanity, she must fight for it through the perverse Wonderland of her imagination. In this way, 
 the game basically has the same plot as in games such as Sanitarium, as well as this year's disappointing 
 Earthworm Jim 3D - but in Alice, of course, you play as a girl instead of a worm.   

  Powered by id Software's impressive Quake III Arena engine, the game's fully 3D depiction of Wonderland 
 is definitely its best feature. Many of the levels, especially in the game's first half, are remarkably 
 well rendered. Though the art direction relies less on anything very shocking and a little too 
 much on depicting what's essentially a dimly lit version of the conventional surrealism found in 
 most platform games, the results are undeniably slick. A few of the levels - most notably the White 
 Queen's black-and-white kingdom and an environment that features a realistic, normal-looking house 
 perched atop a hellish mountain of lava and rock - are great looking and very original. However, 
 some of the other scenarios, like a sequence of giant, rotating gear levels, settle for just being 
 great looking. It seems that the designers' inspiration dissipated a little by the later levels, 
 as many of these are mostly made up of traditional castle corridors that are simply tricked out 
 with the occasional cockeyed door frame.   

  The character design in Alice is even better than its environments. From the effectively flat-looking 
 card guards (whom Alice can rend into two bloody halves with her trusty dagger) to the ugly, baby-tossing 
 Duchess and the giant monster you'll face at the end of the game, every character in Alice is unreal; 
 yet, thanks to the incredibly fluid animation, every single one is believable. The skilled animators 
 who created the characters even managed to bring chess pieces to life. Alice herself doesn't even 
 look much like you'd expect her to. She's a sullen, doe-eyed, realistically proportioned teenage 
 girl. It can be fun watching this relatively plain-looking character running through the game's 
 strange environments. Since you'll be staring at her throughout the entire game, you'll be glad 
 to know that she's as fluidly animated as the rest of the characters.   

  The visuals are excellent, but whatever disturbing ambience Alice manages to create is due largely 
 to the soundtrack by former Nine Inch Nails member Chris Vrenna. Among other things, it's a mixture 
 of a toy piano, bells, and a girl's choir. It effectively punctuates - and often is all that keeps 
 you reminded of - the atmosphere of dread the game strives for. The voice acting is also generally 
 good, particularly that of the emaciated Cheshire Cat, who delivers his lines in the manner of 
 Anthony Hopkins' Hannibal Lecter from Silence of the Lambs.    

 Though the sound and graphics are top notch, Alice unravels in the gameplay. It's a pure third-person 
 shooter - it has none of the exploration elements traditionally contained in 3D platform action 
 games such as Nintendo's Super Mario 64 or last year's outstanding Rayman 2 for the PC. However, 
 what it does have in common with those games is lots and lots of jumping sequences. The third-person 
 camera perspective is placed behind Alice, and operates like the mouse-driven free-look control 
 scheme in any recent first-person game. The camera lags slightly behind Alice, as if it's always 
 trying to catch up to your mouse movements, but fortunately your view never gets obscured, even 
 when Alice's back is to a wall. Though there's a lot of jumping, the control is precise enough 
 that it doesn't get cumbersome. There are even little footprint silhouettes that show you where 
 you're going to land. Also, the quicksave and quickload features are almost instantaneous, which 
 makes retrying missed jumps less of a burden. Add to that the fact that Alice can grab onto ledges 
 if she just misses a leap, and you have a jumping game that's perfect for players who don't like 
 tricky jumps.   

  Though there's an occasional simple puzzle to solve - one that usually involves flipping a few 
 switches in the correct sequence - every level is an otherwise strictly linear progression from 
 an attractive point A to an attractive point B. In theory, there's nothing wrong with this, as 
 there are plenty of excellent linear shooters. But the problem is that the combat in Alice is simplistic 
 and slow-paced, as if it's meant to be an ancillary element rather than the central activity. Though 
 some of the weapons you'll find are interesting, like a fire-and-forget swarm of killer jacks, 
 the enemy characters you'll face aren't very intelligent. Also, there are three types of power-ups 
 available throughout the game that briefly transform Alice into a powerful demon, a fast grasshopper 
 woman, or make her invisible, respectively. The special effects and animations that accompany each 
 of these are interesting, but the power-ups themselves don't really affect the game in a big way, 
 and they're rarely even important for completing a level. Overall, the battles in Alice never manage 
 to create the sort of frantic tension necessary to maintain interest throughout an entire game. 
 Fortunately, the graphics should be able to hold your attention whenever the gameplay itself fails 
 to do so.   

  Alice is a fairly standard shooter wrapped in a very attractive package. It offers none of the 
 complexity of a nonlinear 3D platform action game with vast environments, and it offers none of 
 the fast, intense action of a first-rate shooter. And since it takes less than 15 hours to finish 
 the game, it's also pretty short. Alice is completely linear, and it has no multiplayer option, 
 let alone any additional challenges that would help keep you involved in the game after you finish 
 the main quest. The only real incentive in revisiting the game is being able to see some of the 
 impressive scenes for the second time. American McGee's Alice certainly looks good - but the creativity 
 found in the graphics doesn't spill over into the actual gameplay. So while you'll undoubtedly 
 enjoy the imaginative artwork, you might end up disappointed with just how straightforward the 
 underlying game really is.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (76 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TinyCthulhu
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 31, 2009 8:44 am PT
Review:  The story is told from a much stranger mind than it was originally produced from, and is meant 
 to be a sort of "continuation" from Alice's first experience in Wonderland. All of the beloved 
 characters appear throughout the game, and each of them holds their own unique grotesque look.
 
  
  You play though the story from the perspective of Alice, who has lost touch with reality due to 
 a tragedy in her life and now resides in an insane asylum. She recoils into her own mind and slips 
 back into Wonderland, and finds it in a much different shape than it was before. It's up to Alice 
 to save Wonderland from the Queen of Hearts, while simultaneously saving herself from her own mind.
 
  
  Even though the graphics are quite dated at the time of this review (the game is a little over 
 eight years old now) , the art is still interesting and I never found myself concerned with the 
 quality of the graphics because the world looked so wonderfully strange. The voice acting in Alice 
 is often very well done, though sometimes I felt that the sounds were a little rushed or didn't 
 fit the source; the strange grunt that Alice makes while jumping would be a perfect example of 
 such an incident.
  
  Weapons feel a little too static at times, but are fun to use either way. The weapons you're provided 
 with sometimes feel a little less than useful, and I often found myself wishing there was another 
 function of certain ones. Additionally, some of the weapons felt a little underpowered, deterring 
 me from using them unless I felt that it was fitting to the fight.
  
  More than a few times through the game I found myself frequently getting frustrated with the controls, 
 specifically in zones that required a lot of jumping. There were times when I was so upset with 
 the control functions that I left the game entirely; in my eyes this flaw is easily the worst aspect 
 to the entire game.
  
  On one last minor note, I feel like I should state that the boss fights in American McGee's Alice 
 were a little under stimulating. While I did enjoy the fights, there was little to no strategy 
 needed to finish them; I mostly felt like I was just running around and trying to survive. Though 
 this is something of a negative point, it should also be stated that each boss is uniquely weird 
 in their own way and still fun to look forward to.
  
  There are a lot of features to this game that could make it feel like "just another game," but 
 with the combination of the brilliant design, unique plot and creepy setting, you'll find yourself 
 enjoying American McGee's Alice through the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhaed
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I love Lewis Carol's Alice's Adventures In Wonderland, and Through The Looking Glass And What Alice 
 Found There. Most people know of the book as Alice In Wonderland. The original title, however, 
 was not called this, and additionally, was divided into two books, as I named above. Disney's adaptation 
 of this classic piece of literature was a horrendously bad, untrue to the books, straight up childish 
 piece of trash.
  
  While Lewis Carol's intent was to create a tale for children to enjoy, it was by no means as delightful 
 and cheerful as the cartoon. The style of writing is old-fashioned and somewhat complex given that 
 the reader is of this day and age. The books are not nearly as dark and violent as American McGee 
 has shown us here, but the original text leaves space for re-imagined ideas and thoughts in which 
 Disney's cartoon disposed of entirely.
  
  The game begins essentially where Through The Looking Glass left off. The story, as far as Lewis 
 Carol was concerned, was over. But American McGee has created an event that has called Alice back 
 to Wonderland, only this time things are not quite as they were. The Queen has gone mad, well, 
 madder than she was before. She is now a psychopath, murdering and killing any who oppose her. 
 Her twisted rule has retaken Wonderland, controlling and destroying it alongside the Mad Hatter 
 and other familiar re-imagined baddies.
  
  Without giving away any of the story, Alice experiences an unfortunate event that tosses her back 
 down the rabbit hole. Through her journey she discovers just what has happened to Wonderland, and 
 why it has happened. She is forced to fight her way through the denizens of the Queen using a creative 
 array of weapons based off items you would typically find in relation to the subject matter. For 
 example you find a deck of cards that you may throw at enemies to dismember them, a jack-in-the-box 
 that explodes like a bomb, a clock that stops time, and many more.
  
  The gameplay and combat is extremely straightforward and simple, but that's not the point here, 
 the point is to be immersed in a dark atmosphere with stunning visuals and a memorable cast of 
 once familiar characters gone horribly mad. All of the characters from the books are here, only 
 this time they have become deranged and twisted both in appearance and personality.
  
  The graphics, for it's time, are amazing. The game is beautiful. The attention to detail is astounding. 
 I think that Alice has captured the best of what the Quake III engine has to offer. The screen 
 shots only do the game partial justice; you must play it to achieve the full effect.
  
  The music is also the best I've heard in a game, period. It is composed by Chris Vrenna of Nine 
 Inch Nails fame. It sounds professional, dark, dreary, and morbidly soothing.
  
  If you like the original works of Lewis Carol and are willing to look past the simplicity of the 
 game, American McGee's Alice will quickly become a game you may never forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fif1189
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Although the graphics don't match today's standards this game still looks pretty dang good. The 
 game play is awesome as is the story and characters. The voice acting is a bit flat at times but 
 it's nothing to be worried about. However, the music and sound effects make up for any shortfalls 
 in voice acting and the Alice actor does a very good job.
  
  The game features Alice, now an insane mental patient, returning to Wonderland to save it from 
 the evil clutches of the Queen of Hearts. Wonderland is now seriously demented, as is everything 
 else about the game. Many of the characters and locations will be recognizable to anyone who has 
 read the original Lewis Carroll book. Anyone who has only seen the Disney version will also recognize 
 many characters and places. So, if you have a dream of running around Wonderland with a wide array 
 of weapons and hacking up basically everyone you see, this game is for you. 
  
  All in all it is a very good buy, especially since you can now find it at very cheap prices given 
 it's age. It also plays on Windows Vista quite well. I have yet to have any problems on my 32 bit. 
 I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DianaHewie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  It's been at least 7 or 8 years since American McGee's Alice was released for the first time. At 
 the time, the graphics and sound were above anything that had ever been seen before... making it 
 a must-own game for many people.
  
  Most likely, the graphics are now rather outdated in comparison to other games out there. But even 
 still, they are very good to today's date. The music is still just as eerie and the characters 
 are well thought out with excellent voice acting.
  
  The battle system? A little choppy at times but unless you're /very/ picky, it's not a big deal 
 and is rather easy to handle. The enemies are all so unique and correspond to the story very well.
 
  
  The story itself, while seeming a little bland at first (Wonderland goes bad, Alice has to go back 
 and save it) , becomes more in-depth as you progress through the game. It is very dark and will 
 more than likely send chills down your spine.
  
  Though it is now a difficult game to find, I highly suggest you find a way to track it down. It's 
 also pretty cheap now, most places. A very good game that deserves more recognition than it gets. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paranoyia
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  Even though a great dreamer, Lewis Carroll could never possibly have been able to imagine how low 
 his one and only child of Alice could fall. From a cocaine inspired fairy tale to a disastrous, 
 most depressing and utterly bloody. Alice had a long way to go.
  
  Even though most of the gameplay in American McGee's Alice is as straightforward as a TPS can get, 
 its storyline is so compelling, so deep and profound, so philosophically challenging that to lay 
 aside all the gameplay flaws is simply a must.
  
  The story starts some time after the books. Alice living peacefully with her parents until late 
 at night her beloved cat Kitty stumbles upon a lantern thus accidentally incinerating the place. 
 Alice is the only one that survives this terrible tragedy, but at a cost of her own sanity, alas. 
 Some time after the incident, a familiar rabbit with a pocket watch comes for a visit. It appears 
 not all is well in the Wonderland, something ultimately evil has poisoned water, ground and air. 
 The nice, if somewhat loony inhabitants of the Wonderland started to mutate into terrible nightmarish 
 creatures. Only few of them have kept a bit of their remaining sanity, but none the less they all 
 are very hard to recognize.
  
  Once again Alice begins her adventure by following the white rabbit. Once there the old good friend 
 of hers, the Cheshire Cat (that looks more like an ex-con by the way) blesses her with an adorable, 
 yet so a bit terrifying smile and his good sense of cynicism. Seems like the dreaded Queen of Hearts 
 has taken the full control of the kingdom of dreams. The only way to restore the Wonderland to 
 its original self is to destroy the Queen.
  
  A little banal beginning, wouldn't you say? Looks like something from Sanitarium: all elements 
 are there. Main character on the journey to save the last pieces of his mind. The eternal struggle 
 within. And both are crazy as hell. The storyline is somewhat predictable. Yet it delivers so much 
 more than just a straightforward plot. It has so many gradations and dimensions. Paradoxically 
 enough the characters are so bright and full of life, even though they all stand on a verge of 
 total and uncompromisable annihilation. And the atmosphere is so wacko, that the predictability 
 of the storyline doesn't spoil one bit of its tale.
  
  Well, let us not spoil any more of it. Alice's tale is truly one of a kind. And should be observed 
 and analyzed subjectively. Like any good piece de cuisine d'esprit.
  
  Considering gameplay, it is fun most of the time (battles and bosses especially) . Sometimes it 
 is annoying (water levels) . And sometimes it's just downright stupid (most of the puzzles) .
  
  Puzzles are mostly way too simple. In an old "break that, go step on that or press this tiny 
 little button" fashion. It is only natural to expect something more from such an intelligent piece 
 of art. But it can't all be good unfortunately.
  
  The artworks, the world and the character design is beyond all criticism. Rarely something as stylish 
 comes from the US developers. This time the Japanese rivals with their giant GoBOTS, shiny fantasy 
 swords, and eyes that take half of the face are beaten without much of a trouble. Alice's eyes 
 are big as well. But they give her that badass sinister and smart looks, which really suits such 
 a wonderful young lady.
  
  Music is nothing special unfortunately, but it does help to shape the atmosphere. And this is very 
 important for an almost horror game. Speaking of which Alice does never frighten directly. In fact 
 the game does so indirectly through the atmosphere and a loss of the main heroine. A terrible sadness 
 of her faith is truly terrifying.
  
  Time for a final conclusion. First of all forget all that had been said in this review. Alice is 
 just something everyone should decide and comprehend on his own. No words are ever going to be 
 able to express just how colorful and diverse it is. And just about how controversial it actually 
 is as well. After Disney's filth of a cartoon, that destroyed and raped about every single one 
 of Alice's ideas, this game is literally a feast for a thought. A feast that is serious and at 
 the same time is not. Only for that it should be played and finished. And after it's finished even 
 if one didn't like it, it will only prove its point even stronger. Love it or hate it, take it 
 or leave it. There is no other way. No person alive can ever be cold to Alice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I'm writing this review about Alice a few years after I played it last, but I will be playing it 
 again in the next few days. When American McGee's Alice first came out, it had to be one of the 
 most revolutionary games of its era for the PC, up to that point no other game had taken full advantage 
 of 3D graphics as Alice did. To prove this point, it is still recommended and supported on Microsoft's 
 newest Vista operating system and also takes full advantage of Nvidia's newest SLI game graphics 
 technology. That's a "Wow" in my book.
  
  The game, Alice, explores the underlying dark, sinister side of Lewis Carroll's Alice in Wonderland 
 and Through the Looking Glass. Even though you'll recognize the character's from your childhood 
 memories, they'll definitely be presented in a new light. The storyline is really good, an insane 
 Alice trying to regain her sanity and her travels through a "different" Wonderland to do so. The 
 game plays smoothly with very simple controls. You'll be fascinated by all of the brilliant colors 
 and superior animated graphics. A lot of attention was given to detail when this game was made 
 and why it will remain a classic for years to come. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackenedSky719
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has so many glitches, and its a bit odd. I love it though. I think its a beautifully 
 crafted image and story. The twist is exactly what Alice always should have been.. its dark, and 
 twisted and oh so perfectly wicked. I've always loved Alice in Wonderland and this game has made 
 me smile oh so many times. Its really a wonderful idea I'm sure if it were redone and rereleased 
 now it would do wonderfully and the graphics could be amazing. I wouldn't so much like to see a 
 sequel as to see it remade for the time and clean up all the glitches and errors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_lilpyro_x
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  Oh my god where do I start ... For a 2000 (the year it was made) game, the graphics are breathe 
 taking. The sound it great too & so are the voices & such. But it is the storyline that adds the 
 little twist to the classic tale from Lewis Carrol's tale of Alice In Wonderland. Its great how 
 it goes from her childhood as the courius little then it explains how her parents died in a fire 
 then how she goes into a mental hospital. It is one of those games that will be remembered for 
 a long long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mothkin
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I will start off by saying that i have played alice more than perhaps any other game. i have played 
 over and over and over and have loved it each time. but all that is really just because i personally 
 love alice and wonderland, and the great artistic feeling in the game. but from a reviewer's perspective, 
 this game is less than perfect. the game play can get repetitive, even though there are some really 
 cool and fun and creative weapons to use. the story line is great, especially, if you've read alice 
 in wonderland. the graphics are fine (for a game made in 2000) . in conclusion, i personally LOVE 
 this game, but in all actuallity, its just great, but nothing outstanding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrawnkkar
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Lets get one thing right, this game does everything in the atmosphere department right. Everything 
 is twisted beyond what you remember that Disney classic being. Dark and mentally unbalanced are 
 the rules of the day. The art direction and story line are a perfect match. Whats even more interesting 
 is the fact I think this game is much closer to the book then the Disney movie could ever hope 
 to be. The issues come up in the fact that the game feels shallow. You dont get much in the sence 
 of accomplishment when you finish this game, especially when you see the twist ending (before those 
 were in ) . Does that make this game bad? Heck no, I recommend it to anyone that wants to take a 
 trip down THE YEAR TWO THOUSAAAAAND!! ok, that was lame, but seriously, if you can stomach graphics 
 that are now almost 8 years out of date, I recommend giving this short, but good game a spin. Plus 
 Alice is a hottie, even when shes a sociopath. I just wish they would have followed through and 
 made the American McGee's Oz. It would have been interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roadtoady
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 8, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Gave it it a pretty good shot thru a majority of the game, certainly can't complain about the art 
 design/graphics (given the time a few years back, when the game was published) , sounds/music was 
 atmosperic at first and then begin annoyingly repetitive. Voice acting acceptable but nothing special.
 
  
  Gameplay was the main issue, gamespot indicated that it would probably be a very linear experience, 
 and they were certainly not wrong, there was one and only one way thru the game, when you got to 
 a bottle-neck you got stuck. Although I'm not a consoled afficianado, this game seems to me to 
 be much geared toward having the best hand-eye-mouse coordination, rather than looking more at 
 the overall strategy aspect. Trouble was, when stuck in one tough location, there was no other 
 option but to reload/try again, reload/try again, reload/try again, ad nauseum. While it was a 
 definitely challenge, it became more of chore than a past time to get thru the more difficult areas. 
 Not exactly my cup of tea, at my more mature age. This one seems to be more aimed toward toward 
 the younger PS/Xbox crowd (a few years back at least) . Not saying that it was a universally bad 
 offering, just not suited to me. I think that Gamespot's rating of Good is about exactly right, 
 some folks will have liked it some have not. Was stable for me and no crashes running on the up 
 to date version of Windows XP SP2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS: superb music composed by CHRIS VRENNA founder member of Nine inch nails {one of 
 the best aspects of the game.} , perfect dark atmosphere and good graphics {for its time} are also 
 one of best aspects of the game, a whole arsenal of killer toys that you can get, good gameplay {a 
 bit unappriciated by gamespot my opionion} stunning third person action,3d action based on a enchanced 
 version of quake 3 technology.
  THE BAD POINTS: a bit short of you know the game.
  
  CONCLUSION: a brilliant retelling of carrol's alice in wonderland, and surely my favorite pc game 
 together rayman: the great escape. its a classic in the pc game historybecause of its dark atmosphere 
 and superb music, i also very like the gameplay. it will keep always a special place in my heart 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Palette_swap
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  American McGee's Alice is most likely the former level designer's best attempt (and I don't mean 
 attempt in a bad way) at making his own game. The visual and audio aspects are superb, yet the 
 gameplay aspect is a bit on the generic side.
  Taking place in a now hellish wonderland that seems to grow more and more grotesque and sinister 
 as you go on, the story centers around an insane (and now teenaged) Alice who's family perished 
 in a fire seemingly a short time after Through the looking glass (the second Alice book, for those 
 who don't know) . The story is original and a nice change of pace, though there isn't really much 
 plot development after the game starts. However, there's enough story given at the beginning to 
 carry it to the end without ever feeling confusing or plotless. However, it could have benefited 
 greatly from some extra plot development, or insight on the world around you.
  
  Nitpicks aside, however, this is a very good game. The art design is beautiful. The levels are 
 varied enough that it always moves on to something different before it gets boring (although with 
 such interesting enviroments that would take a long time) , and (coupled with the disturbing soundtrack) 
 can be downright eery, especially if you've read the books.
  Ranging from gloomily colorless towns inhabited by living chess pieces, to blackened mountains 
 made twice as perilous by numerous lava rivers running around them. Even if the rest of the game 
 were horrible, it could quite possibly still be worth playing just for the magnificent levels alone.
 
  
  The characters look good as well, and not a lot of them are particularly happy with the way wonderland 
 is these days, either. The designers took a smart aproach when changing Alice from a seven year 
 old to a teenager, making her look more mature without simply sexualising her. Instead of giving 
 her a short miniskirt and high-heeled boots as some inevitably would have, they gave her the same 
 old dress/skirt (I never could figure out which it was) , but gave it a darker twist by adding a 
 skull bow to the back and long black (but old fashioned looking) boots. This more intelligent redesigning 
 of the characters really shows and just adds to the game's wonderful visual style.
  
  The enemies are for the most part creative and often very challenging to fight. From the simple 
 Card-gaurds (literally playing cards with limbs and a head) to the ghoulish Boojums, some are just 
 particularly grim reinventings of characters from the books, while others are completely original, 
 in a few cases just using names of characters from Carrol's books (not just the Alice books, either) 
 who were referenced but never made an actual appearance.
  
  The audio is just as great as the visual style. The sound effects are good and for the most part 
 aren't overly generic, although the SFX for the game's enemies is where it's non-musical audio 
 really shines.
  Also, Chris Vrenna's soundtrack is second only to the game's art design for being the best part 
 of the game. The only way to describe it without writing an entire paragraph would be to imagine 
 nursery rhyme-esque music written by Marilyn Manson. It fits the game very well, using a large 
 variety of sounds and instruments, and helps create the creepy atmosphere which really brings the 
 levels to life.
  
  The voice acting is also one of the game's finer points. The actors fit the characters almost perfectly 
 (Alice's voice in particular) , and it really complements the grim redesigning of the cast.
  
  However, the game isn't without it's shortcomings. As wonderfully haunting as the rest of it 
 is, Alice's real problem is in it's gameplay. It takes virtually no risks, and so it ends up feeling 
 very bland in that aspect. While it's much easier to forgive (and much harder to notice as well) 
 because of the game's great atmosphere and visuals, it would have been nice if the gameplay was 
 as creative as the visuals that support it. While there's generally no large problems with the 
 gameplay (besides some weapon issues, which I'm getting to) , it (in contrast to the rest of the 
 game) isn't much different from other third person shooters you may have played.
  
  Another problem is the weaponry. While it's nice to see an arsenal of weapons (which are actually 
 an arrangement of dangerous toys, interestingly enough) that doesn't just consist of the same old 
 guns and chainsaws, the way they work in-game could have been a lot better. The deck of cards burns 
 through your energy bar, yet does very little damage at all, making it less desirable than your 
 first weapon, the knife, which can be thrown (albiet at a slower speed) at no cost of your energy 
 bar, and does much more damage. The weapons you receive past that point don't have any extremely 
 large problems, although once you acquire better weapons they become dramatically less used, and 
 it could have been a good idea to add in additional things to make each weapon more useful in certain 
 situations, instead of just pulling out your most powerful weapon and using that 90% of the level.
 
  However, this seems to be fairly obvious in many games, and isn't really something you'd think 
 about during the game as a design flaw.
  
  And so, in conclusion, I'd like to add that this may not be your thing if you like games that have 
 unique and inventive gameplay, because Alice's gameplay isn't like that. It's essentially a generic 
 third person shooter (with some good puzzle solving thrown in for variety) dressed up in pretty 
 visuals, and sports a great soundtrack. However, if you enjoy games with interesting enviroments, 
 that maybe take a little emphasis off pure gameplay and focus on style as well, then you'll have 
 a very good time with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afpabon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  Alice is a great game that depicts a strange reality that Alice faces in her own subconscious mind, 
 and as such, is filled with dreamscapes, a lot more nightmarish than pleasant, but still jaw-dropping. 
 The sole use of such great artwork grants Alice a place as a great game.
  
  However, it's not without it's flaws, and unfortunately, these aren't slight flaws. The camera 
 suffers from great difficulties, and it often hides Alice from the player, at the most awkward 
 times. Also, even if it's a good action game, half of the weapons don't get used ever, so it's 
 got serious game-balance issues as well.
  
  Anyway, I would recommend anyone to give it a try, if only for the great scenery from the start 
 'till the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokikitty
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  I originally picked up this game because it looked like a dark and twisted take on an already twisted 
 story. I wasn't expecting the sheer amount of boredom and frustration of the game itself.
  
  The Story: After Alice's original adventures, everything in her life gets destroyed. She loses 
 her house and her parents in a tragic fire, and then is sent to an institution. She is despondent 
 and retreats into herself. Then the White Rabbit comes to her and asks her to come back to Wonderland, 
 which has become a place of horror. She is charged with putting things right again. As time goes 
 on we see that her success is linked to her real life state of mind.
  
  The Gameplay: Mostly platform jumping and general fighting. Some of the platform jumping requires 
 real skill, and I have to say I'm not that good at it, so I may be biased.
  
  The Graphics: The graphics make this game. I love the character models for the most part and the 
 backgrounds are amazing for it's time. The sheer beauty of the floors, the walls, well everything 
 were a joy to behold. I liked them so much I downloaded the skins for the Sims game, just to see 
 them in a game that I played a lot more often. All in all, not a bad game. It's just not a very 
 good game either. A must for fans of goth or who really like jumping around a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlfolkman
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Even though I am generally an RPG guy, I had GREAT fun with this game. Sadly, my PC crashed some 
 time ago and I never got to finish the game. It has a nice mix of setting, action, and characters 
 (both friend and foe) . Your weapons range from throwing a simple knife, to deadly ball and jacks 
 that ricochet off of walls, slicing your enemies, to a strange wand-like weapon that freezes your 
 enemies in their tracks. Overall, a very fun and well made game... it combines some of your typical 
 platform challenges (most notably difficult jumps) with some good action elements (again, the weapons 
 in this game are a blast) . If you have an older PC and enjoy some of the older games, you should 
 definitely pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Somewhere, Charles Dodgson (a. k. a. Lewis Carroll) , the whimsical author of Alice's Adventures in 
 Wonderland, must be spinning in his grave. If he were alive today, seeing his beloved Alice -- 
 known for her innocence and gentility -- transformed from na&iuml; f to sullen, angst-ridden killing 
 machine in a third-person action/adventure would surely send him straight back to the hereafter. 
 This isn't Lewis Carroll's Alice -- it's American McGee's Aliceand the tea party is over.
  
  Several years have passed since Alice's first trip to Wonderland, and as the entrancing opening 
 cinematic tells us, since then her real life hasn't been quite so wonderful. Though the details 
 are left intentionally fuzzy, a fire has consumed her family, leaving her alone, catatonic, and 
 institutionalized. Lying strapped to the bed of her padded cell, she's once again drawn to Wonderland 
 by the Rabbit (in the guise of a stuffed animal) , who warns her of a great crisis.
  
  Alice isn't the only one who's changed since her last visit; Wonderland itself is a nightmarish 
 vision of what it used to be. The Red Queen of Hearts rules with an iron first, and has turned 
 most of the inhabitants against you. The Cheshire Cat, who acts as your cynical tour guide and 
 advisor, is mangy and ear-pierced. The Mad Hatter isn't so much quite mad as quite homicidal, happier 
 to fling fiery bombs than crumpets. Now a true lunatic, he's made the Dormouse and March Hare more 
 efficient by subjecting them to bizarre Borg-like surgical experiments. Even the once-thoughtful 
 Centipede and the oafish Tweedledee and Tweedledum can't wait to send you six feet under. Alice 
 needs all her wits to defeat the Red Queen and free Wonderland's inhabitants from tyranny.
  
  If Alice's maturation has been torturous, then this new Wonderland's hideously fractured fairytale 
 visage perfectly reflects her shattered psyche. Visually, this is the most amazing game I've ever 
 played -- each level is such a centerpiece of fiendish hysteria that it makes you wonder what the 
 level designers were smoking and where you can find some.
  
  The Quake III engine has never seen this kind of workout before. Meshing the creepy, playful, ominous, 
 and childlike, each new area looks absolutely nothing like those that came before it. You'll happen 
 upon a quaint schoolhouse teetering in space in The Vale of Tears; clamber through the mechanical 
 clockworks of The Queen's Domain; ride a leaf down the raging rapids of the Mushroom Forest; and 
 even transform into a living chess piece in Chess Village. And that's just a sampling.
  
  What's disappointing is that despite the brilliant locations, the underlying third-person gameplay 
 is rather ordinary. Super Mario 64 and Tomb Raider paved this road years ago, and Alice offers 
 a similar assortment of impossibly huge level bosses, jumping puzzles, lava rivers, slippery slopes, 
 and brain-damaged enemies. Most bosses can be defeated with a combination of circle-strafing and 
 rapid weapons fire, and nearly every enemy's AI is so simple that they run straight toward you 
 kamikaze-style when activated. Maybe the Queen's oppression will do that to a guy.
  
  Controlling Alice with mouse and keyboard is easy enough, and the blue cursor used for aiming is 
 unobtrusive. Weapons are like those you've seen a thousand times before, but gussied up enough 
 so that they almost seem fresh. The basic knife (here called a Vorpal Blade in a nod to Dungeons 
 &amp; Dragon) is your starting weapon, and can slice enemies in close quarters or be thrown from 
 afar. The Icewand is handy for freezing enemies or creating a temporary ice blockade, and can be 
 one of the most potent toys in your arsenal -- especially against fire-based creatures.
  
  Your deck of cards can be thrown at enemies, homing in on them from a distance; jacks create a 
 (rather weak) cutting attack; there's an exploding jack-in-the-box; and a pair of Demon Dice open 
 up a dimensional rift to a creature that can either attack your enemies or, if you're alone, you. 
 My favorite weapon, however, isn't really a weapon at all, but the Deadtime Watch that literally 
 stops time in its tracks. It's as if you've taken a screenshot -- with everything, including weapons 
 effects, completely frozen -- and then can walk amongst the characters, beating them senseless.
 
  
  The moody musical score is both eerie and enchanting, conveying a Fantasia gone terribly wrong. 
 The sound effects are likewise spooky, and sometimes downright disturbing, such as when Alice enters 
 an insane asylum occupied by crazed children. The manic giggles and sharp slap noise they produce 
 smacking themselves in the face with their own fists may just haunt you come bedtime. Alice's voice 
 is perfectly suited to a petulant English girl capable of mass destruction, and you can almost 
 hear the smirk on the Cheshire Cat's roguish lips.
  
  While Alice isn't exactly revolutionary, it's definitely a fun-filled ride. It simultaneously disorients 
 and intrigues; I desperately wanted to know what was ahead even when I'd lost all sense of time 
 and direction. The story's subtext of emotional self-discovery offers few surprises, but once you 
 get into the game you won't really care. Alice is a grand experience from beginning to end, and 
 a fit of inspired madness that I'd wish on anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonvieta
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  A big fan of the original Lewis Carroll, I was initially attracted to this game by it's promise 
 of a different kind of Alice - a darker and more mature Alice. And I wasn't dissappointed... not 
 very much at least.
  
  Graphics: The first thing anyone could possibly take notice of in this game is it's viduals... which 
 are stunning. The visual direction is striking and creates a completely (and always nightmarish!) 
 atmosphere from level to level. The Looking Glass level, done almost entirely in blacks, white 
 and reds, particuarly stands out. It's eerie landscape will stay in your mind long after you turn 
 the game off. Aside from the in-game visual and stunning backgrounds, there are the characters 
 designs. And these are some of the most unique character designs you'll ever see in a game! The 
 cheshire cat is a far cry from the fat purple disney creature you might remember from your childhood, 
 and is instead a grisly, grinning and suitably evil-looking beast. The hatter and even alice hereself 
 have all been re-envisioned for the game, and all are a treat to look at. The in-game character 
 models hold up well, even compared to the phenomenal promotional images. There's certainly no disappointment 
 in the graphics department.
  
  Gameplay: Arguably the most important part of a game, good gameply is essential - unfortunately, 
 here is where the game's weakness show up. While not a failure by any means, the gameplay is a 
 relatively simple and very standard action-adventure formula. There is a healthy mix of platforming, 
 puzzling and combat... all achieved with a simple, though at times, clunky, control scheme. This 
 is the same type of play you've seen mass-marketed in games like, Harry Potter. While some fairly 
 innovative things happen with the weapons - known here as toys - there's not much else to say in 
 this area. While I never found myself disliking the gameplay, i never really found myself thinking 
 anything about it. It was simply there.
  
  Sound: Here is another strength of this game - and here it shines yet again. With delightfully 
 eerie and atmospheric music all composed and performed by the former NiN drummer Chris Vrenna, 
 'Alice' scores a win in terms of music. The levels wouldn't be half as endearing or creepy if it 
 weren't for the fitting music. Voice acting too was suprisingly top notch. Notably, the Cheshire 
 cat has a memorable voice and a penchant for morbid rhyming that will have you loving every minute 
 he speaks. No expense was spared in creating the perfect dialog here.
  
  Overall: Alice is a game that's 70% Atmosphere and 30% game. More an experience than a game really, 
 you can't go into Alice expecting a roarin' good adventure game or anything innovative for that 
 matter. But it's simple and tried-and-true formula is still fun and addictive.... muchly so beacuse 
 you're DYING to get an eye and earful of the next desliciously nightmarish level! Play Alice with 
 expectations of a unique experience for the senses - not so much for your fingers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otomayim
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 3, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  If you ask me what makes a game being a really good one i would answer gameplay. Good gameplay 
 is the basis of a brilliant title. And then there is the replay value of it or the time that you'll 
 spend in order to finish it. These are the rules -at least in my case. However sometimes there 
 are a few exceptions and American McGee's Alice is one of them. So this review is going to be a 
 bit contradictory like the title that i'm going to talk about. ..
  
  Graphics - Frame rate, draw distance, texture- quality, lighting and other effects, character animation... 
 there is no point in talking about these things in this case. There is no point in analysing Alice's 
 graphics with technical / technological terms. Simply put this is one of those rare titles that 
 is going to look good to people even after 50 years from now , since the design of the graphics 
 from an artistic view is simply ground breaking and that's what it really matters. In 2000 the 
 title had some of the most advanced technologically graphics in a video game and an artistic presentation 
 that was unparalleled by that era's standards. After 7 years the game remains one of the most unique 
 visual experiences ever created. Everything in this title oozes with top notch creativity and unbelievable 
 surrealistic touches reminding me a bit of Salvador Dali's masterpieces ( the time loses its meaning, 
 stops, confuses) , M. C. Escher's extraordinary and complicated environments or Victor Vasarely's 
 geometric abstract art. The artists of Alice raised -or better transfered- the bar in this area 
 into another level -or another dimension if you prefer-, very different than the ones that i was 
 used of seeing and playing (talking always about the 3D action / adventure genre) . You could even 
 take pics and snapshots from this game and create a very nice exhibition in a museum or sth... 
 it feels so psychedelic, bizarre, unique at times... it's just like being all the time in a magical 
 place, filled to the maximum with fantastic creatures and imaginary environments, taking part in 
 an interactive fairy tale. This isn't just graphics... this is art imo. It's THAT good...
  
  Sound - Great original soundtrack that sounds a bit weird at first but fits perfectly to the 
 title. The sound effects are also amazing contributing -like the music- to the psychedelic feeling 
 - emotion - experience that is called American McGee's Alice + the voice acting is at the same 
 level of greatness. .
  
  Gameplay - Sometimes i wonder if the monumental graphics make me to underestimate the true value 
 of Alice's gameplay. And the answer is no. Alice has a simple combat system with some extraordinary 
 indeed weapons (they are mostly toys... but very lethal ones) that aren't balanced as well as they 
 should be (although they create some of the most spectacular effects in the title) . There is a 
 nice variety, most of them have a secondary option, but some of the weapons (f. e. the Cards) seem 
 a bit useless in comparison to the others. What's more the enemies -although great in appearance 
 and with excellent animation- have an average AI... they 'll see you and then they'll attack with 
 one or two different patterns. It's a bit boring and since the usage of every weapon costs you 
 magic energy the battles become repetitive, too long at times and don't feel as satisfying as the 
 rest of the game. .
  
  The graphics and the whole atmosphere support the gameplay not only with their beauty and immersion... 
 there are times when you 'll see the whole environment around you changing shapes and structure, 
 creating a more complicated playground for your gaming tastes. Other times the levels will seem 
 very complicated -cause of their architecture and detail- although at the end (most of the times) 
 things 'll be easier and more linear or straightforward for you to accomplish. Solving those simple 
 puzzles/ action-jump sequences 'll make you feel like you succeeded in sth more difficult than 
 it was actually. There are a few gameplay twists and different gameplay mechanics here and there 
 that add variation to the title ( Hint: Alice has 2 or 3 different animations for each weapon -some 
 of them are very funny... just let her to stand still while holding them for a few seconds) . ..
 
  
  Value - Another shortcoming. Alice is a very linear game and not a long one. 15-20 hours is the 
 average play time. However these are going to be some of the most immersive gameplay hours of your 
 life + you 'll want to play again this title for 2 reasons : .
  
  1. there are lots of levels, however most of them are quite small. This means that there are so 
 many different things in the title that you won't remember many of them after you complete the 
 game. It's so full of bizarre environments and characters and moments that make the whole experience 
 so mesmerizing and worth repeating. .
  
  2. The ending of Alice -the final confrontation + the ending video- is going to give a deeper meaning 
 in your whole experience. This isn't just a sick twist of the well-known fairy tale. Everything 
 in the game (the environments, your allies (?) , the bosses ) have an allegorical and metaphorical 
 meaning... after you see the ending (you can also read the booklet that is included in the game, 
 it's really helpful) you 'll see the whole experience from another perspective. There is also a 
 feeling of purification (there is, in the ancient Greek tragedy, the word catharsis that describes 
 better this emotion) that i 've never felt before in a video game. In that aspect the multi-dimensional 
 story of Alice (talks about your fears, your guilts and your fight in order to overcome them) makes 
 up for the very linear gameplay.
  .
  Final Thoughts- Alice is a very contradictory title, a game that is difficult even for professional-journalists 
 to review. A great looking title with fantastic sound and a great story or a game with average, 
 repetitive gameplay and boring enemies? An amazing experience that stays in your mind and soul 
 or a very brief one that 'll rarely be remembered? A nice fairy tale for adults or a sick nightmare 
 of our childhood's stories? A game in which you are playing into a young girl's mind or a title 
 that is playing with your own one? Since the game is very short i suggest at least to rent it (in 
 case that you care more about the action and not the graphics etc.) . However -imo- this title deserves 
 to have a place in your library since you'll definitely want to repeat it again and again. A truly 
 remarkable and unforgettable achievement that proves that games can become a new kind of art if 
 there is the imagination, the will, the inspiration and the talent for a vision of this magnitude. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  American Magees Alice is a gothic adventure platformer, its well drawn the graphics are good although 
 rather dated at this point (directx 7) . The specifications to run the game are low, any pc built 
 in the last 8 years will gobble it up, even my laptop with intel graphics had no trouble.
  In this game Alice returns to wonderland to find it twisted and gothic, though to be fair it was 
 a pretty bizarre place to start with; even the knot on the bow on Alices dress is a skull!! There 
 are suggestions of mental illness and drug abuse but the overall effect isnt that dark, so dont 
 let that put you off if that sort of thing doesnt float your boat as it were.
  The plot is up to par and the game is quite compelling once you get into it, the controls are a 
 little awkward at first, I had to increase the mouse sensitivity to max and remap a few of the 
 keys but despite a few awkward timed jumps theres nothing frustrating. The platforming element 
 isnt too challenging once you get used to what you can do, there are swing ropes that you can 
 climb or swing on, jump pads, and air vents etc it all works fairly well as platformers go. The 
 adventure element (in the computer game sense) is minimal, at any point you can summon the Cheshire 
 cat to give advice (usually of minimal use however) and he pops up now and then anyway to give 
 the game direction, there are one or two puzzles but they dont really feature in the game
  
  Theres a fair bit of combat involved with the various creatures that populate wonderland and 
 of course the card guards, in addition to authentic bosses and action scenarios that require good 
 timing. There is a wide array of appropriate weaponry including for example the croquet mallet, 
 most of the weapons have a second fire function and all take getting used to before you can be 
 really effective with them. A lot of the more potent weapons work on a mana type system, in the 
 game screen you have the traditional two bars, one red for health and one blue for mana, performing 
 various attacks drains your mana but each time you defeat a foe they drop a diamond or a heart 
 with will restore some of your health and mana.
  
  The game progresses across the whole of wonderland much like the original books, introducing you 
 to all the characters from the books along the way. Between game areas there is a map screen which 
 fills in areas as you get to them working like a jigsaw puzzle, each of the game areas is quite 
 unique and memorable and the game is a decent size.
  
  On the whole Alice is a competent action adventure which is definitely worth a look if youve enjoyed 
 the genre before or indeed enjoyed the books, what really makes the game stand out is the well 
 captured abstract weirdness of Lewis Carrolls original work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Electroctoo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  American McGee's Alice is a perfect game. Two things that I liked most in this game: the story 
 and the environment. Pay attention to ALL of the background music of ALL the levels.
  
  The idea of making a darkened, twisted, consumed-by-madness Wonderland was amazing! Despite the 
 complicated levels of the game (like Mystificking Madness - my God that level made me crazy!) , 
 the creepy plot let you imaginate what's happening inside Alice's mind. I have an own story of 
 all the game, but it's not good to be posted in a game review.
  
  Trought the game, you'll be experiencing some feelings that you never felt in all your life. Those 
 places in the Fortress of Doors (level name: Beyond the Wall) are SO impossible... This is a sample 
 of some fantastic environment, the "another dimension" place (with twisting background and that 
 crazy door that opens when it aproaches the floor!)
  
  P. S.: I'm sorry if wrote somethings in bad way... I'm brazilian! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dvader0086
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  Alice is a game where you find yourself back in the adventures of Alice in Wonderland... Created 
 by one of the people that made Doom, American Magee's Alice is a game I find to be challenging, 
 yet somewhat easy... I saw the game and wanted to play when I got it... All you have to know is 
 the game limits physically and then you can play with ease... If you love games that are a little 
 old and not that graphically enhanced then this is the game for you... It uses something similar 
 to the Quake 2 (or 3) engine... If you like fantasy game then you might like this... But then again 
 you may be one of the ones that thinks it's strange, like me for example... But, I grew to love 
 it and my friends like it too... If you find it in a store or on ebay for $9.95 or less then pick 
 it up. I recommend it highly... It starts of as a little weird but you may grow to love it too... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  American McGee's Alice is a very strange breed of action games. Take The Story of Alice in Wonderland, 
 add the textures and evil feel of the original Quake game, take some LSD while designing the levels, 
 and you'll get the strange walk through the horrors and pleasures of American McGee's Alice. It's 
 also a very hit-and-miss game: If you're looking for deep storyline, there really isn't that much. 
 If you're looking for a gothic lucid-dream exploratory version of Alice in wonderland, you'll genuinely 
 enjoy it as I did. The graphics, at the time, were very well done: The FPS rate is very consistent 
 with no annoying graphical glitches or anything like that. The Music is eerie and certainly memorable, 
 it most certainly helps drive you further into the strange world inside Alice's Head. The Gameplay 
 feels like a very strange 3rd-Person shooter: You get weapons that seem innocent - Deck of Cards, 
 Jacks, and a Jack-In-The-Box. However our developers weren't afraid at all to go full out evil 
 on some of these: Demon Dice, Vorpal blade, etc. Some might find the massive killing spree repetitive, 
 but with the wide choices of weaponry (including secondary attacks) and every other visual feat 
 to distract you, it's hard not to like every playing card guard that gets brutally cut in half. 
 This game is not for everyone. If you like the dark side of life, a little goth or emo, or you 
 j ust want a game that seems like one long acid trip, this willl easily fit you. If you're a gamer 
 who wants a massive killing spree with something other than the traditional weaponry you see in 
 most other shooters, give it a try, It's likely to sell pretty cheap around these days anyways. 
 The $20 or so is most certainly worth it just to see the visually stunning levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doors69
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 3, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  a day after i joind the army a frind gave me a call and said a new action quest is out and it's 
 the bomb!!! on my first leave i took it from him and to be hounest i didn't expect a lot, but there 
 i was wrong.
  amazing game!!! just hard enough to try again and again, amazing graphic, kick ass sound track 
 and the story line... well... louis carol probrbly roll in his grave but it sure made me a happy 
 little scout!
  every chance that i had i played it and once in a while i give it another turn! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 27, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  Alice (of Alice in Wonderland) has a small psychotic break after her parents die in a house fire. 
 You need to restore her sanity by following the white rabbit through the trials of Wonderland.
 
  
  Graphics: The technology behind the graphics engine is dated, but the images themselves evoke all 
 the gritty, creepy, and unsettling feelings American McGee intended. The result is an atmosphere 
 of dread, like everything around Alice has been abandoned and poisoned. Even her allies are ragged 
 and sinister in appearance, despite their efforts to help her. Everything about the appearance 
 of the game is great, from the ways the characters move to the details in the clocks. The artists 
 committed to Alice in a labor of love for the macabre.
  
  Sound: The special effects sound are good. The voice acting is appropriate without sounding hokey. 
 Sound effects are muted but match their respective triggering activity. The weapons, like the jacks, 
 sound like jacks. The music is appropriately moody, but nothing spectacular.
  
  Gameplay: Despite its creative environments, characters, and atmosphere, Alice plays like a standard 
 3d platformer. Alice needs to move about the 3D environment, dispatching enemies with an arsenal 
 of odd weaponry while trying to find the way to the next level. Honestly, there is nothing really 
 special about the gameplay itself you wouldn't find in Ratchet &amp; Clank, Mario 64, or Sonic 
 the Hedgehog. But if you enjoy those games and are into the macabre, you'll love going through 
 the paces with Alice.
  
  I enjoyed Alice. It was creative and moody, while presenting enough of a challenge to keep me highly 
 entertained. There is little replay value once you've gotten through the game, but is worth a play-through 
 if you find it in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kajqrd
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 26, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  American McGee's Alice has been slammed in a lot of reviews (including the one here at gamespot. com) 
 for having too simple a gameplay. And I think that is a fair accusation. The gameplay is actually 
 quite close to games like LOTR: Return of the King and the Harry Potter games: Console-like gameplay. 
 But where these games all fail Alice prevails: The story of the game is in fact interesting. And 
 it doesn't hurt that the game has the best graphics both technically and artistically of its time. 
 The characters of the game are simply amazing and the way it's twisting a well known children's 
 story is quite ground-breaking. To sum up what Alice is actually about it is more about plain old 
 storytelling than gameplay. And as such it succeeds marvelously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moti_Biran
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 31, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  The premise was great, a retelling of the Alice in Wonderland story originally written by Lewis 
 Carroll, in which Alice is a mental patient that returns to a deformed and gothic wonderland. A 
 great premise, but I was greatly disappointed of this game, the graphics were not all that good 
 at the time it got out, and the game play was also disappointing, easy and frustrating.
  Maybe I had high expectations of this game; after all it was an American Mcgee game. Maybe it is 
 a good bargain now, if you can still find it as a second hand purchase, I don't know.
  I really didn't (and don't) understand what the fuss was all about.
  Not the sharpest tool in 
 American Mcgee's Chandelier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 8, 2007 12:41 am PT
Review:  If you're at all familiar with the recent crapfest of American McGee games then you should have 
 a healthy skepticism of his take on Alice in Wonderland. This is actually his best effort... yeah, 
 I know, like topping Bad Day LA or Scrapland represents a monumental achievement, but since this 
 game is dirt cheap by now you may as well give it a whirl. Alice is a third person action game 
 at heart (like Soul Reaver) , and there's nothing revolutionary about it's gameplay. You interact 
 with quite a few of the characters in the game which is a nice break from the mindless shooting 
 of most action games of this ilk, but this game is totally on rails and any breaks in the action 
 are purely for show. What makes this game worth playing is it's overall aesthetic. The classic 
 world of Lewis Carrol's books is given a darker twist... sure, it's the sort of darkness that one 
 would run across at a garden variety shopping mall or the same sense of foreboding that lurks in 
 the diary of a teenage girl who cuts herself and wears black lipstick, but at least it hasn't been 
 done in a video game before. For instance; in American McGee's Alice the Cheshire Cat has a pierced 
 ear and a tribal tattoo - on his fur, WTF... anyway you probably see where this is going; the whole 
 setting for this game looks like something that Mr. McGee hallucinated after going to a goth rave 
 while tripping on shrooms and ex, and then reading some kid a bedtime story. There's a sort of 
 goofy charm that pervades every level of Alice. Lewis Carrol's characters were satirical in nature 
 and American McGee stays true that intent while putting his own slant on the story. If anything 
 could be called novelty horror it would be Alice. Characters are dripping with personality and 
 the gameworld actually seems like it's taking place in the damaged psyche of Alice as opposed to 
 just looking like every other fantasy setting. Things do get repetitive after a while, but that's 
 the nature of the beast in action/adventure games. Overall, the positives far outweigh any negatives 
 and Alice is worth a look if for no other reason than it's an interesting take on a familiar tale. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MizzGMC23
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the linear-ness of this game, having just finished a couple of games which had me hunting 
 obscure places, re-searching and back tracking, I was glad of a game that led me so obviously onward. 
 It didn't detract from the fact that there was still some skill involved going up against the enemies, 
 and some of the floating jumps were quite difficult at first. I loved the story as a kid and felt 
 that Disney had managed to crucify it, so I was glad to find this dark tale from my childhood re-live. 
 It was a dark tale too - a small child falls down a deep hole, suffers from hallucinations, panic 
 attacks, powerlessness.... of course it should be dark and grey and menacing and straight out of 
 the head of a mental health patient! Easy gameplay on PC, you don't need three hands to play it 
 (as one game I've played recently seemed to demand lol) . Maybe it's just for true die-hard Alice 
 fans who are wondering what happened after she returned from Looking Glass World. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordofwarX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  the is one of the best games ive ever palyed. i mean its a masterpiece. who could ever think of 
 a game that potray's the dark side of alice. its like frank miller's version of batman, but more 
 bloody and gory. i like it. i recommend this game to anywone who likes action and twisted adaptions 
 of children's stories
  probably the only thing that lacks is the animation. but it doesnt really matter. its still good 
 enough to sastify a gamer like me. this gamne has an amazing story though. u play as alice who 
 is struggling inside her mnd and goes on a journey to return to her normal sane state. u can help 
 but like her and her ambitions. get this game right now. its classic, and its definity worth your 
 time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nears_puzzle
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 30, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Alice is the story of the young girl who trailed in Wonderland years ago. Now she returns after 
 the death of her parents. There is something strange as she enters the rabbit hole though; imprisonment, 
 violence and a world changed by the Queen of Hearts. This game is very well done using many different 
 creative weapons to attakc your enemy. Also the story is very gud and creepy. My favorite characters 
 are Mad Hatter and Tweedul-dee and Tweedle-dum. Alice has also changed into a violent murder as 
 she takes her parents death out ont he world of Wonderland. A very interesting game and a soon 
 to be movie! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarki983
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  Alice
  
  This game, Alice, is a classic from my point of view. I has everything that you'd love if you're 
 a horror addict. But if you're not, I'd still reccomend it. It's one of the only games I like that 
 are gothic. Actually, that's the only game that I've played that IS gothic. If you liked this game, 
 don't worry, you'll be seeing more of Alice. I've heard a couple months ago that This might become 
 a movie. I'm definetly seeing it. Ayways, down to buisness.
  
  Gameplay
  
  I loved the gameplay on this, you have very, very odd and unique weapons. Alice may look different 
 from alice in the old disney movie, but screw that. Gameplay is the most important part of any 
 game. If you turned T. V. show into a game, or a book, or a movie, they usually suck. Not always, 
 but I've known many. Alice is not one of those games. Well, this isn't what Alice in Wonderland 
 was really like in the old classic book, or movie. In fact, why did they make it a movie? The Author 
 was a drug addict when he wrote it, seriously. So that's probably why It's so screwed up. But, 
 Anyways, Alice has the familar cat, whatever it's name is, I haven't seen the movie in a long time. 
 But anyways, It has the cat to help her and you along the way. Your enemies are usually cards.
 
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are great for a 2000 game. It is 3D and has alot of good detail for an early game, 
 I really like the blood when You kill a card. Please don't ask why cards have blood, lol.
  
  Difficulty
  
  The difficulty is what I'd call, Freaking hard . I don't have much to say 
 about the difficulty, so nevermind.
  
  Storyline
  
  Okay storyline is kinda creepy, but really creative.
  
  Okay that's my review on Alice I gove 
 it a 9.2 =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vlad_an_impaler
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 15, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I just finished this game and all I can say is whoa! For a game from 2000, This game is highly 
 underarated and I loved every minute of it. It is both challenging and eye candy. The twisted nightmare 
 vision of the game makes it all worth the while. I must say I am very glad I picked this one up. 
 You start from where the book leaves off with Alice caught in a nightmare, after being sent to 
 an insane asylum after her family is burned to death in a fire. Poor alice blames herself for the 
 tragedy and attempts a suicide. Sent back to Wonderland, She faces off against some old foes as 
 well as a few surprise new ones. I dont want to give away the plot but please take my word and 
 pick this one up... you'll be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodorigin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  This is no childs game. American Mcgee Take the classic Alice in Wonderland, Alice returns to Wonderland 
 after her mother and father die in a house fire. Alice feeling the world sliping away from her 
 finds herself back in Wonderland. And Wonderland has changed from the happy place it once was. 
 So with her knife by her side... maybe some old friends, she will cut out the evil from wonderlands 
 dark heart. Only to find she might be to blame for all the evils of this once place of peace. Can 
 she save wonderland and still have a tea party with the Mad Hatter? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 13, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
   American McGee (who is an amazing level designer, and ex-employee of id Software from the Doom 
 era) created this game with the same type of idea and twisted design. The levels are out of this 
 world and the twisted thought behind it is just eerie and creative.
   One of the best PC soundtracks every created. It's really dark and adds the final touches to 
 making the game a gothic horror game.
   Very creative story about classic American tale of Alice in Wonderland. Basically, her parents 
 die and she ends up crazy, following the rabbit deeper into the hole.
   Making a movie out of this game... c'mon, guys! (Oh, well. I hear we're getting an American McGee's 
 Oz so that's cool.) .
  
  :Bad Idea:
   It's pretty repetitive after a good while. Basically, kill everything and do the basic jumping 
 puzzles.
   Some of the weapons are pretty boring and almost duplicates of themselves. The devil dice seem 
 to be a little flawed.
   No multiplayer! They could have had a decent multiplayer game out of this and left for some replayability. 
 The only replay value you get is showing it to your friends.
  
  :Overall:
   A solid game with a lot of crap to spook you and a lot of stuff to entertain the heck outta you. 
 It's a great twist on a child's book and American deserves a big thumbs up for making a great story 
 and game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UmaSama
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 31, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  First the upsides of the game:
  - Great lookings, the graphics are outstanding for a game from 2000, the environments are spectacular, 
 the imaginative artwork really does an impressive job at inmersing you into "Gothic" Wonderland, 
 it's just a shame that I didn't got the game 'till it was a litlle outdated so the looks didn't 
 had the same impact that they would've caused on me back when it was released.
  But just as said by Erik Wolpaw on his review of the game: "It seems that the designers' inspiration 
 dissipated a little by the later levels" maybe it's because the first sorroundings were too impressive 
 that the later ones couldn't make the same effect, but sadly as it is the best feature of the game 
 slightly vanishes by the end of the game (keyword: slightly) .
  - The sound, along with the graphics the other outstanding feature of the game, my congratulations 
 to Chris Vrenna for an excellent soundtrack, that really sets the mood of Alice own "Gothic Wonderland".
 
  
  The Grey Spots:
  - Gameplay, it's ok, easy controls that while being more complex than the ones of other plataformers, 
 just doesn't get to the point of most action games.
  - Puzzles and level exploration, though there are puzzles on almost every level, they're just too 
 simple, to the point that it doesn't even require mental effort to solve them. As for level exploration, 
 that's a feature that developers worked really well, because at first you'll get the impression 
 that the levels are huge, but that's just an illusion, product of the smart use of the environments, 
 such as multiple corridors that lead to the same place, dozens of door of wich only a few open, 
 but in the end the illussion fades and you realize that the levels are all kinda short and greatly 
 straightforward, so it balance itself to stay as a "grey spot".
  
  The Downsides:
  - Combat, by no means fast paced nor immersive, it gets xtremely repetitive, and allows almost 
 no strategy, except for the fact that you'll find a few weapons to be more effective against some 
 foes, but probably you'll just use the same weapon 'till you get one better.
  - Just way too straighforward, no open ended, you don't get to choose the outcome of the history, 
 while the story it's really interesting, the game just railroadyou through it, and the story itself 
 it's at the same time interesting enough and xtremely linear, there's no backsteps on it, there's 
 no deception, no deadends, no surprises. It's a shame the developers didn't emphazice on this aspect 
 of the game, for they would've got Classic on their shoulders.
  
  The Veredict:
  A fun straighforward plataformer, with impressive graphics, outstanding background music & sound, 
 and an interesting premise that didn't reach it's potential. So if you don't mind the lack of open 
 ending on the story, the unappealing combat system, nor the simple puzzles, then you'll love American 
 McGee's Alice.
  So my veredict is: "Worth playing". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToddHagen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I found AM's Alice very well done, both from a design side and also based on story and graphical 
 representation. I also never had a problem with the game from a control, graphics or stability 
 aspect.
  
  The pacing is very good, with diverse puzzles and play throughout. I also liked the drastically 
 different "realms" on has to traverse to get the the final goal. I heartily recommend the game 
 - it isn't painfully long or drawn out, but offers a very rich set of experiences during its length.
 
  
  I also have to say that unlike the game's representation in the box art, I didn't find the game 
 to be too gory or insane - just a lot of fun, and relatively tough.
  
  I would recommend the title to anyone that wants to have a great time and explore some unusual 
 territory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  American McGee's Alice- how so much i love hearing the name. I had bought this game from hearing 
 the main theme and knowing Jessika from Jack Off Jill helped with the music. Only knowing this, 
 i was not expecting much of anything from this game. I was most deffinately surprised when i played 
 it. 
  
  You play this game as Alice, from the alice in wonderland books and movies. I can not say much 
 of the story as it could ruin all the fun. I will just say Alice returns to neverland, as the red 
 queen of hearts is more evil than ever, so alice must put a stop to the red queen once and for 
 all. You meet strange looking, but very likable characters in this game that help progress the 
 games story. Alice herself is a character, you may or may not like at all. She, and everyone else 
 also, has a certain way she talks. Alice talks in such a way that it almost sounds like riddles. 
 She is a much more mature character than her "Alice in Wonderland" disney counter part, though 
 also more evil as well. 
  
  Onto the gameplay. This is the part of the game, that could make or break it for you. Alice moves 
 very quick herself, but using her weapons she does not do so quickly. Take the first weapon you 
 get, a knife. You swing it once, but it takes about a second before you are allowed to use it again. 
 This means you will almost always have to rely on throwing your knife, which regenerates itself, 
 or using some sort of magic to kill your foes. If you just go in and try to kill an enemie, you 
 will most likely die after using this tactic. There are fairly simple platforming elements in this 
 game, though they are easy to get past by. 
  
  This game surprised me with its one amazing aspect, immersion. Yes i know this game will look a 
 bit outdated compared to the new games coming out, but trust me when i say it means nothing. The 
 music in this game, draws you in to this demonic and crazy wonderland. The music is filled with 
 many enchanted hauntings, little bell sounds, and simple orchestras. The art style is awesome as 
 well which makes up for the graphics. The art is done is such a way, you would have to see it to 
 believe it. Screenshots and movies dont do this game justice. The immersion factor alone more than 
 makes up for any gameplay problems within this game.
  
  A very impressive game this is by all means. My only complaints are that its pretty short clocking 
 in at around 8 hours and that there are some gameplay shortcommings. Though i bet you will want 
 to return to this game many times after your first play through. It puts you in the game so much, 
 you will forget about any shortcommings in this game. Do not judge getting this game by only playing 
 the demo though- as its level design was changed in such a way you wont like it as much as the 
 full game. Though if you have not played this game, at least download the demo to get a since how 
 the full game is. A very under rated game this was, though thats probably because the ps2 launch 
 was right before it and that it was released right before christmas. Though, with all this greatness 
 said, i do feel like something was missing. I'm not quite sure yet what it is, but i just can not 
 rate this game in my top 3 game series. Even still, this is a highly reccomended game from me and 
 i know this game is hard to find but please do play it all the way through it at least once. This 
 is one of the best games of the millenium, and THE best ea game ever to be released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omegabustr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Yes.. I was one of those ppl who first bought this game after going to Costco and looking in awe 
 at the box art. It was later that I would realize that the box art was fascinating because the 
 GAME was FasCinatinG!! This game is one of a kind and has a superbly done gothic style. Everything 
 just looks so awesome. You just have to love how creepy and freaky and twisted this game truly 
 is. Unfortunately the gameplay is definitely a downside. This game was unusually hard for me to 
 get through in terms of a learning curve and the gameplay is average at best. I wouldn't call it 
 fun although your attacks are kinda cool with these toys and all but seriously.. If you strip the 
 game of its polish and gothicness, you have in the core a bad game. Adventure element is meh.. okay 
 but the game is super linear. It's pretty much the definition of linear. No sidequests, ways to 
 get out of doing the main objective, extra places to go to, notta. Everything's going on a determined 
 line which really cuts the game down. Graphics are good with the theme going on and soundtracks 
 are awesome to make this an even more atmospheric game. This game seriously gives me mixed reactions. 
 Hey wattayaknow... that's one of the gamespot review classifications... I'll just select that. The 
 gameplay is really not all that fun and pretty average yet the gothic theme is just so well done. 
 I guess that overall makes a good game though. Even though my 7.5 for this game isn't all that 
 great I still really recommend this game. If I could rate the gothic theme and atmosphere and goody 
 goodiness of this game it would be a 10 or something, so you should seriously try it out and just 
 spend some time gawking at the environment, looking at twisted card ppl, and enjoying the awesome 
 voice acting which is top notch btw. This game is truly something and will leave a big impression 
 on you.... even bigger than say those 10 rated games because for this game, it's about the experience 
 you get... If only this theme were put into a movie or something...... WHA?? there's gonna be an 
 Alice MOVIE??? That'll be great!! WHA??? Sarah Michelle Gellar is Alice??? Crap now it sucks..... Oh 
 well The Grudge was okayish.... toodles. PLAY THIS GAME. You will not forget it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erie_enigma
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 13, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Wow.... I played this game through a while back and I think it deserves a mention. For the time, 
 the graphics, the sound, the feel, the theme, the whole package was trippy, like a bad acid trip 
 turned video game with a psychotic Jeffersion Airplane's white rabbit as source material or something. 
 Yes, I am listening to Pink Floyd as I type this, so bear with me...
  
  The game was one of the few that begins with someone's name (ala sid Meier) . I had never heard 
 of American McGee prior to this, and there's been scant offering since (did Oz ever come out?) , 
 but this game deffiantely had a certain style and polish not alwasy seen...
  
  It takes place in Wonderland... a more twisted than the original wonderland actually... full of mistrust, 
 slaves, mutated somethings, and sick laughing school kids that just need to stop already -- I haven't 
 yet mentioned that this game is trippy, have I?? Well, let's add disturbing to this also... but 
 not overly so.
  
  You Have to battle your way through wonderland to take down the red queen (who's much different 
 than Disney or the book portrayed, I must say) using at first a kitchen knife and later other powerups 
 such as slicing and dicing playing cards, a croquet mallet that shoots a ball of energy, a crazy 
 exploding jack in the box, and... the blunderbuster as the ultimate weapon. Using these at the right 
 times and on the right enemies are all key, as most of the attacks use a 'magic' type gauge that 
 must be refilled. All weapons have a primary and secondary fire mechanism... the knife has a throwing 
 component, for example (don't worry, it will reappear in your hand in a short time... but make the 
 throw count then!) .
  
  The music is all very crazy and fits the EEERY mood quite well. The graphics were great for the 
 time and are... well... okay I'll say it again... Trippy... with flying multicolored backgrounds as 
 you hurl through some crazy space with clocks and giant doors flying about and swallowing you as 
 banshees wail and scare the be-jesus out of you and little crazy laughing school kids hit themselves 
 all the while the less disturbing attacking ants well... attack....
  
  The gameplay is pretty solid althought not always the smoothest. I believe this uses the quake 
 III engine so it had a solid foundation... but really the theme and the feel attracted me the most.
 
  
  I say give this game a look if you are in for a wild ride if not the most in depth experience. 
 Sure, there's some bad jumping/platforming parts but just save often and keep your patience, and 
 don't get frustrated if you die a bunch of times... oh... and look for the powerup that makes you 
 a crazy half-demon thing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  If the gaming medium's main focus was on the art direction and production values of a game, Alice 
 would be a classic by now, and noted as a revolutionary and revered game. Unfortunatly, this industry 
 is built on innovation and leaps in cinematic immersion, and while Alice delivers visual appeal 
 in spades, it offers a rather average gameplay experience.
  
  If you've seen Alice in Wonderland, you would've noticed that while the movie was rather kiddie-centric, 
 it had some very dark undertones, and if you have a rather adept mind at interpeting movie below 
 their fleshy layers, you would've notice that it had some disturbing allusions to current events 
 (in the days of the film anyway) McGee's Alice captures that essence, and builds its visual style 
 upon the darker themes of Wonderland.
  While Alice is set after Wonderland the film, you're still introduced to the same characters that 
 were featured. The Chesire Cat is back, so is the Hare and the Mad Hatter.
  
  Although... not in the way you would've imagined.
  Chesire is emaciated and sickly, with a rather 
 sinistar look, and the Hare seems even more mad than he had before. You see, while Alice had been 
 gone from Wonderland, the Queen of Hearts had made quite a change of scenery, and had delivered 
 the everyday inhabitants into petty slavery. 
  
  That sets up the basic storyline of Alice, although the game doesn't elaborate on it much, as it 
 focuses more on tense gameplay and interesting level design.
  That brings me to the best part of Alice, its level design. 
  Alice certainly has a great look 
 to it, and for the first three quarters of the game, that great look will be shared with equally 
 great level design, from the smoggy dark underground, to the large and fascinating world above 
 as Alice is shrinked down to puny size, Alice offers a large variety of scenery. 
  Despite its graphical prowess, Alice plays like nearly any other shooter, and unlike Max Payne 
 or Conker: Live and Reloaed it offers no extra appeal to its rather bland gameplay. 
  Alice is extremely repetitive, and while the level design keeps you from growing poor, the rather 
 poor levels of the last quarter of the game start to show the seams of the lackluster and unoriginal 
 playstyle.
  
  Thankfully, despite its rather dry well of innovation, Alice does offer a interesting repetoire 
 of weaponry. From Jack-in-the-Box to a Blunderbuss, Alice turns seemingly innocent toys and cartoonish 
 weapons into violent murderous weapons. You'll be seeing the carnage as well, as you cut the Card 
 Soldiers in half with the Vorpal Blade or decapitate them with a well aimed razor sharp throwing 
 card. 
  And Alice's gory and satisfying arsenal does save it from plummeting into mediocrity.
  
  Alice's 
 sound is quite good as well, atmospheric sounds and voice-acting are very well done, and the only 
 missive could perhaps be that some voice-acting is rather poor compared to the rest, otherwise, 
 the sound is just as appealing as Alice's graphics.
  
  If you don't mind shooters, or a game that will have you doing the same thing over and over, Alice 
 should be right up your alley. And if you aren't that interesting in action, Alice should be at 
 least worth a used purchase for its interesting graphical style alone. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deines75
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 24, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I first discovered Alice through the demo version. Immediately, I fell in love with it. The top 
 of the line graphics, the awesome music, and the wonderful, yet creepy touch put on everything 
 in the world of Alice make it an extremely playable and addicting game.
  
  The game is centered around Lewis Carrol's classic Alice in Wonderland, and Through the Looking 
 Glass, but there's a twist. Everything in Wonderland has become contorted and menacing because 
 of Alice being in a coma. Alice was in a house fire and watched and heard her family burn. She 
 has been in a coma for over 10 years. To revive Alice, you must put Wonderland back into proper 
 order by overthrowing the Red Queen.
  
  I personally like the style of game play in Alice. Some may say that its straight forward, but 
 I really like the fact that you dont have so terribly many options to choose from when playing 
 the game that you get sidetracked from the main quest. The game doesnt suffer from the you got 
 one door open, now go find the key for the next 10 syndrome, which causes a drag in game play. 
 The few large quests are fairly simple in theory, but become more and more involved as you get 
 toward the end of completing them. The only problem some new players of Alice may have is with 
 her jump. Alice, for being in a coma for 15 years, has a remarkably powerful jump, which you get 
 accustomed to after playing the game for a while. One recommendation I have is to use the footprints 
 the game shows you when executing a jump for the first few minutes, until you get comfortable with 
 the controls of Alices movement.
  
  The graphics in Alice have yet to be bested by anything I have yet to see in a game. Even though 
 published in 2001, Alice still stands out in my mind as a bar to judge everything else by. From 
 the Lake of Tears, to the Fungiferous Forest, to the Mad Hatters Lair, to the Red Queens Palace, 
 Alices graphics are stunning in all of her levels. Even Alices appearance is remarkable. You 
 dont notice things at first, but after watching her through the whole game, you see some extra 
 things you didnt at first (like the skull button in the middle of her bow, and that she is wearing 
 hooker boots : ) .
  
  Alices sound is amazing. It adds tremendously to the game play and overall freakiness factor of 
 the game. If you are playing this game on mute, you really are missing out on something. I was 
 especially impressed by the synthesized girls chorus that plays in the background of the levels 
 where you are tiny. When you are fighting the centipede, the sound gives you the feeling that you 
 may actually be in a pit of insects that are crawling all over you. A good test for most PC games 
 is to close your eyes and think about what the music might be trying to portray. If a mental picture 
 comes to mind of what you are actually doing, then the sound quality of that game is good. This 
 doesnt work all the time, but is a generally good test. I love the voices of the characters the 
 most. Alice and the White Rabbit speak with a clean British accent, the Cheshire cat with a seductive 
 American one.
  
  Ive heard some people complain that there was no multiplayer addition to Alice. After I played 
 the game completely through, I couldnt imagine playing Alice with more than one person. What would 
 you do in the multiplayer? There are some games that are meant to be single player. Alice is one 
 of those games.
  
  Overall tilt of Alice is extremely high for me. I cant stop playing it. Though the plot doesnt 
 change each time you play, the subtle differences between difficulty settings is enough for me 
 to want to go back and play it again. Also, because of the awesome boss levels, you sometimes just 
 want to go back and watch the Duchess sneeze her head off!! Multiple times, Ive gone back just 
 to see the awesome graphics in some of Alices levels or show some of my friends. Another thing 
 Alice is good for is anger management ^_^ . Slicing through some card guards is always fun and 
 good for preventing you from slicing through your computer or some other inanimate objects.
  
  Alice is a game that can satisfy any gamers qualifications and usually surpass them. For the 
 best graphics, superior sound, and top of the line, fun game play, Alice is a game that you wont 
 be disappointed with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naomi_Nakamoto
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 16, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Amazing! I just can't believe it this is the sequel from ALice in the Wonderland! This game is 
 so DARK! Another side by Alice!
  
  I, Myself love the storyline, it is so dark! Also the image of wonderland i was known before, its 
 totally changing when I played this game! Not colorful Like I was known but Dark 
 
  
  The graphic itself is great for the game from year 2000!
  
  Known Catshire? The Fat cat which can disappear and just left the eye and mouth? Well It's totally 
 different from that image! Still disappear with just left eye and mouth but............. Not fat, 
 Skinny and........... more like evil I said!
  
  Actually this one of my fave game, I've ever played 'till now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnrulyX
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 28, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Great game for it time and now. Very creative & dark. Play it in the dark, by yourself, in you 
 attic during a thunderstorm and I dare you not to sh! t your pants!!! I pull this on out my collection 
 once a year. I wish they would come out with a sequal. A movie based on the game is in production. 
 Sarah Michelle Gellar is the only cast member to sign on so far. The director will be Marcus Nispel. 
 He has directed mostly commercials and music videos but his most notable work is "The Texas Chainsaw 
 Massacre." Hopefully this movie won't crap all over the games reputation & fan base. Buy the game 
 now before the movie hypes the game and it is back to its original retail price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks. There's no better way to say it. I am biased for anything to do with Alice in 
 Wonderland, but this game really didn't need that bias.
  
  The visuals are stunning, and the sound makes it even better. Going through the game and recognizing 
 places/characters that were in the book is an awesome feeling.
  
  This game plays like your normal 'Legend of Zelda' or your 'Rayman' games, in which you have to 
 guide your character around, collecting powers/weapons as you go. 
  
  The levels are large, but not too large to get yourself too lost. Sometimes, when the point is 
 to get lost, you will get lost, but often you can find your way fairly easily. The one stage I 
 had difficulty in was the one in which your stuck inside the Mad Hatter's house/dream. I really 
 didn't catch what it was supposed to be.
  
  The horror versions of the characters inside the book are well done, which added a great twist 
 to the story. The actual dream was really a nightmare, and this game capitalized on it to in a 
 wonderful way.
  
  The gameplay is easy to learn, even though some things are a bit challenging to pull of exactly 
 right, which I suppose should be. I liked the different items in the game had exact correlations 
 with the book.
  
  I can't stress enough how close to the book this game is. Yes the Jabberwocky is a machine, unlike 
 in the book, but then again, it was a cool twist. The Cheshire cat was just wonderful, him being 
 your spirit guide, as he was in the book as well, to a certain degree.
  
  If you have never tried this game out, I would suggest you do. At least rent it, see how you like 
 it. It's one of my favorites, and it doesn't even have a multi-player, and that's saying something. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  American McGees Alice is a game for any collection. A dark, arty and gothic tale laced with tragedy 
 and humour in the beautifully distorted world of Wonderland. Even though the game play is elementary 
 and at times repetitive, the games presentation, style and story will see you through to the end.
 
  
  The game is based around Lewis Carrolls fairytale and includes some of the characters and scenes 
 of that book, but the world of Wonderland was gone all wrong and is now at the mercy of the Queen 
 of Hearts. Enter Alice, who has spent years in the loony bin after the death of her parents, 
 to right all the wrongs  both past and present.
  
  If you break it down to the basics, American McGees Alice is a rather elementary third person 
 platform / shooter. With a variety of weapons, enemies, bosses and levels that leads to an ultimate 
 showdown, you run, jump, swim, dodge and shoot your way through the game, with a few puzzles thrown 
 in for good measure. If the game didnt have the qualities Im about to wax lyrical about, it may 
 have just ended on the run-of-mill games scrapheap.
  
  Built on the Quake 3 engine, even today Alice looks magnificent. The levels feature some beautiful 
 and imaginative graphics and environments where at times you be looking around at this world, rather 
 than playing the game. A lot of details went into the best artwork (while there is some that looks 
 a bit rushed  or maybe thrown in for good measure) and youll enjoy the trip from the mines of 
 Wonderland all the way to the Queens Castle. While the game is linear, there is a lot of different 
 environments, from caves to indoors, underwater, wonderfully detailed industrial sites and plenty 
 more for you to be amazed at. Your friends and foes are also very well detailed and the cut-scenes 
 are well placed and well executed.
  
  The sound is also excellent, with the music suitably disturbing and sparse and the cast of characters 
 and there voices very well done.
  
  But it is the story that really wins the day. With the use of the cut-scenes, you are treated to 
 a wonderfully creative and twisted version of the fairytale classic. This is not a happy story, 
 and there is tragedy at most turns, as Alices past and the state of Wonderland is cleverly and 
 creatively delivered. Youll see Alice in tears more than jumping for joy, and many of her comrades 
 fall in the line of duty. The story intertwines with the original and uses the same characters 
 and locations, but does so in a truly gothic and macabre way. You do find the game play at the 
 periphery as you progress through the game  as it is story more than anything that keeps you going 
 until the end.
  
  Alice is not exactly hard and takes a little over 10 hours on the default level. It is also not 
 the type of game that youd normally replay again. Some of the puzzle levels are tricky, and there 
 is a useful and original array of weapons at your disposal  from exploding jack-in-the boxes to 
 the freeze wand - which is probably the weapon youll be going for the most. The box of die is 
 a useful distance weapon as well.
  
  Youll probably find yourself using the quick save feature a bit, as some of the levels do require 
 pixel perfect jumping, or its a fall into eternity. Some levels are also a tad frustrating, but 
 others  especially swimming with the turtle  are just truly beautiful.
  
  I purchased American McGees Alice for $AUD12 (plus $6 postage) late last year, so I think value 
 for money is just about right. I know my wife wants to play this as well  so we do will good value 
 from it.
  
  You see many comments about American McGees Alice being 'Style over Substance. I agree with the 
 statement. But hasnt the game got some style! - miles and miles of it. The style lifts it from 
 a run-of-the mill platform game to a truly enjoyable gaming experience. If you want a unique gaming 
 experience, and dont mind a bit of gothic styled tragedy, Alice comes strongly recommended.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  When I saw American Mcgee's alice a few years ago I was one of the biggest Alice in wonderland 
 freaks in my neighbourhood., needless to say I wanted the game. I picked it up at future shop for 
 20$ and it came with another game, that I gave to my friend, I believe it was the undying. Anyways, 
 as soon as I started playing the game I was addicted, the graphics were a liiiittle sketchy but 
 when you look at the time it was made it's still an impressive game. A few of the levels will bring 
 you right back to parts of wonderland, and there's so much more to get from this game if you watch 
 the movie first. The characters are played perfectly, especially the Cheshire cat, who thankfully 
 only comes forward with his advice if you ask of it, he's rather unhelpful but still fun to watch. 
 The bosses are hard but not too hard, and the levels, while straight forward are still very fun 
 to play. I can only hope that American Mcgee comes out with more games, but Alice is definetly 
 the best choice. For 20$ it's an absolute steal, I'd suggest this game to anyone and everyone, 
 especially fans of the movie/book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyric_shekai
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  We all know the story of Alice in Wonderland, or as some might know it Alice through the looking 
 glass. Well anyway this girl goes down a rabbit hole and finds herself in a wierd world where she 
 ends up angering the card based Queen of Hearts. She escapes with her head and it is a happy ending 
 right?
  
  NOPE!
  
  Apparently when she got back to the real world she finds her parents died in a fire and she is 
 in the nut house. After years in the horrible place, The Cheshire Cat finds her, and tells her 
 that for her sanity and the safety of Wonderland she must venture there again and find the Queen 
 of Hearts. 
  
  Well that begins our story which finds Alice in a much more demented Wonderland than the one she 
 left. The people are oppressed the cat is tattooed and starved, and the Queen is the cause of it 
 all. Armed with a butcher knife Alice sets out in her once childhood paradice and slashes blows 
 up and reaps down anything in her way. she finds some old friends, like the griffin and some enemies 
 like the jabberwocky. 
  
  the graphics on this game fit it perfectly it is dark, and tweaked. the flatness of the characters 
 faces (which are due to my not so great graphics card in the computer) actually fit this deranged 
 world. I liked the battle system which is like Doom just throwing jacks and and slashing with a 
 knife. 
  The story is one of salvation and facing you inner demons. 
  
  This game is a must play for anyone who loves action and story!
  So says the monkey! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  I'm not to much on pure puzzle games, but this one is kinda cool. I've had this game for a long 
 time. I skimmed through it pretty easily. I love the boards. A very good imagination! The colors 
 throughout this game are cool. The monsters could be a better choice, but it's Alice I guess. This 
 at first was a little creepy, but as I progressed it wasn't to bad. (Not that creepy!) I just can't 
 get over the uniqueness of this game. The visuals, and graphics were ok. Very short game at that. 
 I'd by this for a little kid in my opinion, but at the time I didn't know what to expect I suppose. 
 It's in my collection to stay, but I will probably never play it again!... lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  I got this game hoping for a load of fun with some wicked toys. What I got was a 3rd person action 
 game with a few cool toys, some annoying puzzles, and a few annoying spots where you need to get 
 the 3rd person action just right. I can't say that this is really fun, but for some, it appeals 
 more than mindless first person shooter rampage. 
  
  The graphics are done well, and the movement isn't too bad once you get used to the camera angles. 
 The environment really makes you feel like you're in a twisted land where nightmarish gouls and 
 creatures are just waiting to pounce on you at every corner. 
  
  I only wish there would have been some sort of Multiplayer added into the game. This really would 
 have made it much better in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gloomysunday
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  The game Alice, is one of the most bright, witty, and somewhat thrilling game, anyone will ever 
 play! The game features a macabre, and somewhat un-heard of realism to the classic Novel: Alice 
 in Wonderland. The game centers around a girl who is submitted to a mental hospital, because of 
 her stories of mythical wonder. Her sanity is soon broken, when a very clever white rabbit, lures 
 her into a rabbit hole, and the game begins. It is so wonderful- the scenery is lush, the dark 
 feeling of the game was just brilliant! The music is absolutely breath-taking and a treat for the 
 ears. The obstacles are so strange, but are truly unique. The bosses are very unusual, and give 
 everyone the feeling that "the Hatter is truly MAD!" I have absolutely nothing bad to say about 
 this game, nothing at all. I just wish more games were created by American McGee! 
  The game deserves so much praise, and anyone who is able to buy this game, will not regret their 
 purchase!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DezoPenguin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game in 2004 as a Wal-Mart discount buy, packaged with "Undying." Platformers/shooters 
 are not my particular favorite (largely because I suck at them) , so it was definitely the dark/goth 
 take on Alice that got me to snap it up.
  
  I was definitely glad I did!
  
  A number of reviews have characterized Alice as being "style over substance," and to a certain 
 extent that's true. The path through the game is basically linear, and there's limited interactivity -- basically, 
 you either stand on something, swing from it, shoot it, or don't get run over by it. What these 
 reviews miss is, as with much in the Gothic genre, the style is the substance. The fun of the game 
 is to immerse yourself in the twisted vision of Wonderland, full of macabre imagery from beginning 
 to end. The theme of "corrupted innocence" is strong throughout, and seeing just what American 
 McGee has made of one of the icons of children's literature is extraordinary. The story hangs together, 
 the graphics (while a bit choppy by today's standards) are excellent, and the sound, including 
 the positively unnerving Chris Vrenna soundtrack, makes the game immersive. You constantly find 
 yourself wanting to move forward to see what twisted truth you uncover next.
  
  Level design is wonderful. In an age when repetitive, boring levels are the Achilles' Heel of many 
 an action game (*cough* Castlevania: Curse of Darkness *cough*) , Alice offers constant variety 
 in how it presents the various areas you explore. From twisted mockeries of a mining village and 
 a school ("skool") to woodlands infested with evil bugs and attacking fungi, to underwater environments 
 to chessboard cities to mechanical towers, it isn't necessarily that the levels are themselves 
 insanely innovative (though many of the decorative touches are both innovative and genuinely disturbing... my 
 personal favorite shudder-with-creepiness moment is when you discover what has become of the March 
 Hare and Dormouse) , but that you never find yourself doing the same thing over and over for more 
 than one or two levels in a row -- horizontal jumping, vertical jumping, moving platforms, low-friction-coefficient 
 ice levels, "run" levels, swimming levels, levels that mix elements, floating-on-air levels, all-out-brawl 
 levels -- you won't find yourself having to do the same exact thing again and again. Likewise, combat 
 is livened up considerably by the new weapons and new enemies that are introduced at a steady pace, 
 though most of the bosses aren't particularly tough (honestly, the worst part of fighting the Red 
 Queen at the end was the fact that it's on a series of  platforms, 
 not the Queen's attacks) .
  
  I suspect that hardcore gamers with mad platforming skills will find Alice somewhat easy, even 
 on the hardest of the four offered difficulty levels, as I myself was able to adapt quickly to 
 the easier settings. Being able to quicksave and quickload instantaneously at the touch of a button 
 makes it possible to get past the especially tricky spots effortlessly. I suspect some may consider 
 this "cheating," but believe me, when an all-thumbs klutz like myself takes six or seven times 
 to make a particular jump without falling into the lava or to the floor of a steam-jet tower, this 
 is a deeply appreciated feature... especially when it took three or four minutes just to get to 
 that point in the first place. Control was the only weak spot... as someone more familiar with console 
 gaming than PC gaming, I spent most of Alice aching desperately for a Bloodrayne-style control 
 system and a PS2 controller. My left hand always seemed to have too much to do (move with WASD, 
 reach down with the thumb to the space bar to jump, change weapons with the number keys, quicksave 
 with F4) , but again, the fact that I was able to start operating fairly smoothly.
  
  All in all, Alice provides a fun, creepy experience, and if the gameplay isn't anything that you 
 haven't seen before, it's at least done well, and in an environment that makes it a pleasure to 
 move through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BruteDux
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  First time I played that game, I saw that well made engine, of Quake III. It had at least a menu 
 that scared. But in game, there was no fear, but the ironic places, the comic enemys and the blood... 
 that substituted the fear I hoped for. The game is really cool, have great scenaries... simplely 
 a great game. It's a noble art game. The graphic is really good, and the musics and sounds are 
 really good too. And if you stop and see Alice In Wonder World, you'll feel much better playing 
 that game. But if I was you, I wouldn't let a kid play, at least the kid would have a trauma (lol) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrayBlades
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  When i wake up i see that face, you know what face im talking about, that smile still gives me 
 the shivers. Letting aside the overall feeling of the game, witch is by the way unique as i like 
 to call it, i'm having the impression that Alice is not seen as it should be by the critics, not 
 in the good way anyway. Well then let me tell you something, this game is one of the those games 
 that will always be in your mind and soul because the key ward here is "feeling" and i'm talking 
 about that unique feeling that you will never forget: cotton fear.
  American McGee's Alice is a rare thing this days, one of the best feeling per minute game i ever 
 plaid. Its a masterpiece of level design blended with great elements of fear and immersion. I don't 
 want too sound over in-loved with this game coz i know he has his week point: good things don't 
 last forever... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Speedfreak_R
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  American McGees Alice is one of those games that didnt meet a great audience, but really is worth 
 mentioning. Its not the best but when you find this one on Ebay for a couple of bucks then its 
 worth the try. 
  
  The story starts with Alice parents being murdered and shes sent to a mental institution. One 
 night she receives a cry for help from Wonderland and when she returns she finds out that nothing 
 is the same. Some strange force has made Wonderland into one big nightmare and thats when the 
 game starts. 
  
  The controls are a bit like a FPS, so you aim with your mouse and move with your keyboard. I found 
 it easy to adjust to since I was playing a lot of FPS at the time. The graphics look great and 
 very colorful, but I guess thats just the work of the powerful Quake 3 engine. But nevertheless, 
 great graphics! The music sounds most of the time very eerie and the SFX sound very realistic. 
 So this also is great! 
  
  I havent beaten the game so I cant say if this gameplay is kept up the entire game, but the part 
 I have played Im very positive about. So I guess Im recommending this one only if you like horror-adventures 
 and if you see this one for a friendly price.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ch3sh1r3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2005 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I have played this 4 different times, and I LOVE it. This is the first PC games that I really enjoyed! 
 I still have it, and I will always keep a copy handy. Because I love the graphics, and the story 
 is great. My favorite weapon is the Blade! Being a woman that loves knives, man this game grabbed 
 me and wouldn't leave me alone! There were nights I couldn't sleep because I had to play this! 
 I have gotten several people involved in this game, some hate me, because it's addictive, some 
 love me, because the graphics are their style! I work in a tattoo shop, and I have seen MANY of 
 the characters come to life in people's skin! This is a MUST have for anyone that enjoys adventure! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: messtimeteacher
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 17, 2005 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I' ve been very enthusiastic about playing Alice and kept talking about what quality you get for 
 that amount of money (cheap that is) . It's been my favorite game since I started playing. I Progressed 
 quite well for my being.... till my HDD deceased (sob) . Oh well, reinstall and play the game all 
 over again... 
  That has been more fun as when I played it first (!!) and for the other games I had installed I 
 did not give a damn, as for Alice I now been enjoying the storyline and the environment more than 
 eagerly trying to achieve the next level (although that slashing with the cards is still quite 
 satisfying) .... :-P
  
  There's great music in this game (gives the good insane feel to it ) and the sound effects are 
 ok as well, but the jumping ' coughs' Alice makes are sometimes a bit annoying.
  
  It's a great game and I'm trying to find something equal, but not found yet. But oh well, what's 
 more wicked than converting a lil fairytale into a horror game.... I think that's what growing up 
 should be.... (any suggestions ?)
  
  When's the expansion pack released ? :-P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammml8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:44 am PT
Review:  The color in this game is fantastic. Couple that with the interesting characters and enemies and 
 this becomes a really good game. Many aspects of the game are just different enough to make it 
 quite entertaining. The weapons are much more interesting than the standard fare of guns found 
 in most first or third person shooters and the level design is usually fun though on occasion it 
 felt a bit too much like a platform game for my taste. 
  
  If I had to levy criticism against the game I would have to say that the jumping challenges proved 
 frustrating for me. They reminded me of playing Sega and trying to make that last tricky jump over 
 and over again. Though this was frustrating it was probably because I'm not a jumping master! All 
 in all, great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supidam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 7:09 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't played this game, then your missing out BIG  
 It truly is a very fun, yet a scary version of the Disney Alice, fun game.... It really has an 
 interesting plot .Its just plain fun!! I've also heard there might be a movie based on this game.... I 
 would LOVE to go and see it if one ever came out. This game is really a masterpiece!!!!!!!!! I 
 hope for those of you who haven't played this game, will because it IS a fun and very hard to describe 
 because its so good. It is violent game but its nothing to worry about for kids because its not 
 all that bad.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: analogeist83
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 29, 2005 7:19 am PT
Review:  American McGee's Alice looks good even by today's high computer graphics standards. The reason 
 it succeeds in this area so well is because the game has a very unique psychedelic style to it. 
 Also, the ingame music is fantastic. No doubt this is thanks to Chris Vrenna, formerly of NIN, 
 and his minimalist creepy atmospheres that he creates. I enjoyed the bizarre take on the popular 
 story of Alice, although at times the idea did get a bit monotonous. The plot follows bits and 
 pieces of the original story, but with a Goth twist. Fortunately, in the large box PC version of 
 this game, a journal is included that adds more depth to the insane asylum story. The gameplay 
 is decent for a 3rd person computer action-adventure game, but certainly not revolutionary. There 
 are a good variety of enemies, and many fun weapons that you can use to dispose of them. I ran 
 into a few physics problems, e. g. getting stuck in walls and falling through the floor, but these 
 were few and far between. Unfortunately, this game does not have much replay value. There aren't 
 really any secrets to speak of. You can get to hidden areas, but this usually yields nothing more 
 than health that you don't need. Definitely worth a bargain bin buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilromimi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2005 6:41 am PT
Review:  I love the warped world of alice. Alice is a mental patient dragged back to wonderland to once 
 again save it. I found this game to be really original and interesting. I love the art work and 
 thought the levels were challenging so ended up playing the majority of the game in easy mode. 
 The controls on the PC are not great so this game were it updated would probably be better suited 
 for a console. Anyway in wonderland alice has to battle her way through decks of cards, avoid the 
 ground that falls away beneath her and destroy chess pieces before they destroy her, she has to 
 defeat the duchess and is constantly guided by the creepy cheshire cat who appears with words of 
 wisdom and then just as quickly disappears. This game is brilliantly insane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarthvader
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 4:12 am PT
Review:  Ok, I know this is a little late to write this review.
  First of all this game has one of the best graphics I have ever seen. Probably the best use of 
 the quake 3 engine. The artwork is just masterful. The scenery and the character design, the level 
 disign is just a treat to watch. The game runs well on even the slower systems.
  The sound is amazing aswell. I love the music, its fantastic. Other background sounds and character 
 sounds and weapon sounds are quite nice. I have to say that the dialogues for the chechire cat (something 
 like that) were really really nice.
  All of this good work suffers from gameplay. The game is just too difficult for this kind of gameplay. 
 The keys are not responsive, and thats something you're gonna pay for in complicated stages. I 
 dont like the weapons a lot, even though its a wonderland.
  At the end all I can say is that this game is just not the one to play. It looks awsome, but plays 
 awfully. The gameplay suffers from unresponsive controls. Play if you have nothing else to play, 
 or better, dont play it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patente101
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2005 8:06 pm PT
Review:  A game based on Alice in Wonderland ? Bah, it's good for kids... What ? She slices her foes in 
 two in gerbs of blood and she have blood stains on her dress ? Now you got my attention !
  
  That game is without a doubt an unforgettabble audiovisual experience. Even if the graphics 
 doesn't hold up to today standards (it's been 5 years, dont' forget) , they are still as creative 
 as they were back then. And the musics are first class. They are gorgeous, and they have that slightly 
 childish side that makes them spooky.
  
  The gameplay have some innovative ideas, but it's not very original all in all. Besides, its simplicity 
 may be attractive to some people (like me!) .
  
  The game isn't very long, but you'll want to play it in medium and hard mode. It's just a shame 
 it's so linear...
  
  This game is incredible. I will never regret buying it, and you wont' if you do ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joetd
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 3, 2005 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Alice is a good game. Most of the work the developers put into Alice, went into the game's "style". 
 The dark look and twisted style of the game works very well. It looks like a Tim Burton Movie (im 
 probably the million'th person to say that) . Its wierd & dark, but not gorey or too bloody. This 
 is not a "horror" game, its meant to be more weird then scarey.
  
  The game takes place, a few years after the story of "Alice and Wonderland". Alice is a little 
 older, and befallen by tragety in the real world. Then she is forced to return to Wonderland. A 
 dark wonderland.
  
  The weapons in Alice are lethal childerns toys.. Like deadly jacks, or sharp-edged playing cards. 
 Everyone in Wonderland is crazy, wild, and usually trying to kill you. But some are friendly and 
 need your help.
  
  The controls are the basic FPS setup ("AWSD keys" and the mouse) .
  
  The style of Alice is really good. The lite childern's music playing in the background, is slightly 
 erry, and fits perfectly. And the voice work also fits 
  
  Its the actual gameplay, thats where the game falls down. You run, jump, and have a couple basic 
 attacks (stab and shoot) . The odd ball weapons put a little visual twist into the combat (like 
 killing someone with a jack'in'the'box) . But the animation of the characters is stiff, and it doesnt 
 seem life'like at all.
  
  And in the end, its rather dull gameplay. Platform jumping, shooting, and lots of puzzles. The 
 puzzles are generally, the activate items and open a door, or align things in formation which opens 
 another door, or collect things and return them to a certain spot, which starts the next level. 
 Its all rather ordinary. Too bad the gameplay does not measure up to the game's artistic style.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torch101
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 22, 2005 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Adventure games can sometimes be boring and not that eciting at all. But AM's Alice is an exception 
 to the problem. This game has plenty of potential and i'll tell you how.
  
  O. k. so the game starts off like after she returned from wonderland and few years later she goes 
 back and the once beautiful, colorful world turns into a dark, living nightmare and the Queen is 
 behind this so its up Alice to stop her, o. k. got it. This story is actually great, it makes a 
 perfect sequel because it picks off after the original alice. And not only its a game, its kind 
 of like a movie if you play through the game so thats definetly a plus for me. Graphics, on the 
 positive side, the gaphics look good but they could've been better, but they did put textures in 
 ttoo to help the graphics show more so thats another plus. The gameplay is fun and good to play. 
 You'll see side of alice like you've never seen before, wild side, she may look innocent but she 
 can pack a punch, or even worse, kill. You can use a total of 9 toys or weapons whatever you want 
 to call them to help get rid of the badies trying to stop like the knife (my favorite) , a mallet, 
 cards, some demon dice, and ice wand (another favorite) and many more. The levels are great although 
 they are kind of tricky you should figure them out. The sound is great. The music while you're 
 playing is amusing so you'll get some entertainment there. The value is great but the gameplay 
 can get repetive on the way.
  
  Now that i've made my point, you should know that Alice has plenty of potential and it gave its 
 100% into making a great adventure thriller. If you want some exciment, i recommend you get this 
 game, its worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikromouse
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 6, 2005 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Alice had one of those Marketing ads that most companies only dream about. A thin, waifish girl 
 holding one wicked carving knife. And get this: The in-game models actually looked like the concept 
 art!
  
  I enjoyed playing Alice for a few reasons. One, while the game was inherently flawed, the graphics, 
 the presentation were not. I loved finding these twisted characters from the book warped by American 
 McGee in the guise of Alice's tormented past in the orphanage. I loved the use of particle effects, 
 lights, refraction, all things that are somewhat special effects in 3D engines used to great degree.
 
  
  Secondly, the music was c-r-e-e-p-y. Jebus! Bells and softly singing choral arrangements... I have 
 to say that year, it completely outdid my expectations for music in a game.
  
  Thirdly, the game had style. I'd never seen anything like it before and turned my attention towards 
 American McGee in rapture, waiting for a new game (although that's a different review) .
  
  In the end, the game, based upon the Quake 3 Arena engine (I believe) was over and done and I had 
 little to no desire to beat it again. It was fun and remains on my shelf to this day. If you haven't 
 played it, do yourself a favor, shell out the 10 bucks and give it a shot. It should play quite 
 nicely on present-day systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asla
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2005 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I'm disappointed by American McGee's Alice. The game has indeed good graphics and sound, and levels 
 often show that a lot of inventive and imagination has been put in by the designers, but the action 
 is terribly flat and repetitive. It's lack of dynamism ultimately makes confronting the enemies 
 a boring and unenjoying activity. Even if weapons are exotic and well fit to the game atmosphere, 
 using them doesn't deliver any sense of "hitting" or inflicting damage. It's the way the game moves 
 and acts, that seems more suited to an action adventure RPG game than a full action one. A pity 
 for such a visually beautiful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 16, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  So most people know Alice in Wonderland or have at least heard the song from Jefferson Starship 
 (yeah there are probably better references such as Disney, but its my review so get over it.) One 
 thing I want to say right away is this is NOTHING at all like what you think of when you think 
 of Alice in Wonderland (unless you did listen to the Jefferson Starship song on Acid and had a 
 really bad trip.)
  
  You are basically Alice, and after a tragic fire that kills your parents you are wracked with guilt 
 and somehow end up back in Wonderland. This time around everything is warped and I mean warped. 
 The Cheshire cat is skinny and sporting some new piercings, The white rabbit looks like a demented 
 crack bunny from "Watership Down" (yes crazy references will probably keep appearing) and most 
 of Wonderland is dark and foreboding. You run around with a knife and collect other weapons and 
 slice up crazy cards and other mutated creatures in the attempt to find the Queen of hearts and 
 set the mutha correct since she is the one warping all of wonderland. I don't know about everyone 
 else but when I played the game there was no cutscene after beating the end. Big disappointment 
 since the back story called for some crazy cinematic to me given Alices clear lack of mental stability.
 
  
  The graphics are pretty dated at this time but the story line will usually help you look past a 
 lot of that. The game play is your typical jump, run, slash and retrieve puzzle setup with an emphasis 
 on jumping, running, slashing and puzzle solving.
  
  The story line I felt was pretty good at times and other times ok. What was really annoying sometimes 
 was when the cat would show up and explain how your new gizmo worked or how some new in game feature 
 you unlocked was supposed to work. He sure as heck didn't stick around long enough to give you 
 much back story. Which I guess is typical for the cat.
  
  The voice acting was pretty good in most cases but the background sounds I felt were just ok. I 
 think that if there was one thing that could have improved the most in this game, its the background 
 sounds. Some times it was creepy and other times it was just droal.
  
  I did experience some glitchy game play at times and while most of this I could over look it was 
 still disappointing to see, especially on a game that I was hoping would create a wonderful story 
 telling event.
  
  So my recommendation is to try it out. I am sure its in a bargain bin somewhere by now. You might 
 appreciate the story more if your into dark gloomy atmospheres based on childhood novels that were 
 already twisted and bizarre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaotixGTX
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 2:47 pm PT
Review:  To some people, the thought of a little girl lost in a strange land full of wonder is a sexual 
 pleasure. To American McGee, it was an idea to twist and mold into his own freakish and completely 
 awesome video game. 
  
  The storyline is something that not even Shyamalan could have thought of. Alice is back in wonderland, 
 after having suffered a housefire and being... you'll know about it if you buy the thing, its hard 
 to explain. Anyway...
  The gameplay is awesome. A platformer with enough violence to satisfy your deepest cravings for 
 bloodshed. the puzzles are simple once you learn them. The violence is just a plus.
  
  The graphics are freakin awesome. Dark, gothic, twisted structures thats real fun to play with 
 the lights off. The characters are well put together and dont have any glitches in them. The level 
 designs are vast and numerous and will leave you wanting more of them. Its fun enough to go back 
 through once youve beaten it just to look at it all again.
  
  The music is eerie and haunting; Chris Vrenna has done a spectacular job with it. The sounds are 
 full, from Alice throwing her knife to her death to the splooshing of your enemies blood. Just 
 thinking about it makes me want to play it again.
  
  Ive done all I could with this game. Ive tried downloading some new models, but I couldnt figure 
 out how to install them. Once youre finished with it, and beat it numerous times, it tends to get 
 old. But after a while you start thinking about it and how good it is. Then you want to play it 
 again.
  
  If only my computer would install the thing again, Id be happy. But for some reason the uninstaller 
 messed it up and I cant do anything with it. But thats ok, I'll just have to wait until I get my 
 own computer. Then I'll install this game and never take it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zechis
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 8, 2005 9:10 pm PT
Review:  You are the Alice as Robert Louis Stevenson perhaps meant: gothic and macabre. You have returned 
 to 'Wonderland' after being committed to an insane asylum. The guilt from surviving the house fire 
 that killed your parents is what landed you there. The Red Queen has decimated Wonderland and turned 
 it into a bleak place where none of the inhabitants are happy. It is my belief that the entire 
 place is in your head and the Red Queen is the embodiment of your guilt that you must destroy.
 
  
  A third person game based on the Quake 3 engine, you play as Alice and you must solve the puzzles 
 (which are loosely based on Alice's quests from the book) in order to proceed. Your weapons are 
 unique: a deck of cards, a flamingo croquet mallet, jacks, dice, and a dead time watch. 
  
  This game is great! I wasn't expecting much from a game whose major selling point was that it was 
 designed by an ex-level designer for Quake. The art was incredible - very psychedelic - the theme 
 put you in the mood as did the dark music score. The levels were imaginative and gorgeous. The 
 puzzles are not terribly difficult and the story is linear which means there isnt much replay 
 value. You also develop a heavy reliance on quicksave and load, otherwise you will end up doing 
 large portions over and over.
  
  + Story
  + Art
  + Music
  + Level design
  - Fairly straightforward puzzles
  - Heavy reliance on quicksave/load
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edric1980
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 12, 2004 4:22 am PT
Review:  I think the game is a dark and twisted theme of Alice that rehashes the story but spices it up 
 in a very interesting adventure. The music defiently feels right for this game as well as the art 
 design. The animations are good but nothing that can compared to now in 2004, but was impressive 
 in its time. The Quake III engine has been used on hit titles as Return to Castle Wolfenstien, 
 Star Trek Yoyager: Elite Force and also other titles (Heavy Metal anyone?) . The game is hard to 
 control at first cause getting used to the camera system was not always, in my opinion, responsive. 
 The control layout is pretty basic for third person and didn't really push any inovations to stand 
 out for originality. The puzzles while not really hard, still kept me entertained. My final opinion 
 would be that this game has a nice package in both art and sound, need some work on the control, 
 but a good game that is dirt cheap now. Now I can never look at Alice the same way again. And that 
 damn cat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cousin_eddy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 2, 2004 11:22 pm PT
Review:  American Mcgee's Alice, Is an excellant game. It takes the novel from most peoples childhood, and 
 gives it a severely wicked twist. It makes makes Lewis Carroll (its original author) seem lighter 
 then day. Afterall, the original book itself was actually quite dark. But enough of that, I must 
 get back on subject. When I got the game a few months back, i first wondered about its gameplay. 
 I thought "Can you really do a gothic and dark version of this classic sotry?" But then you have 
 to think Alice in wonderland (and Through the looking glass) always had a darkness to it. But this 
 game was taken to new dark hype, and it is a blast to play.
  Allright lets get a bit into the story. Alice' house burns down right smack at the start of the 
 game. You see torn pages of the Alice in wonderland book, and you hear screams of Alice' beloved 
 family. You then see our heroine Alice, in an asylum. She apparantly was the only survivor. Since 
 she was reading Alice in wonderland and passed out, she wnet kind of... crazy. She falls asleep 
 at night int he asylum, and has dreams about wonderland. Then boom just like that you're in wonderland. 
 Is this a piece of your insanity, or is it real? Only you can find out. Anyways, like in the classic 
 Alice in wodnerland story, you meet all of its characters but with a dark twist of course. Alice 
 was given a gothic makeover. She now has brown hair, a prissy attitude, and a big treacherous butcher 
 knife you slay wonderlands demons with. Of course you also meet the wickedly genius chashire cat, 
 the psychotic mad hatter (who runs an eerie asylum which you must progress through) the quite jittery 
 white rabbit, and so many more. 
  Everything in the game is fantastic. The blood effect is nicely done, though it could of been bloodier. 
 The monsters you face are odd, but stick close to Alice in wodnerland in its own unique way. The 
 stages are very dark and depressing, and give you a Nightmare Before Christmas vibe. Of course, 
 the game sticks close to both Alice in wonderland, and its sequal through the looking glass. Seeing 
 the chess world, is one of the greatest things in the game to see, as is the Mad Hatters asylum. 
 But enough of that, lets get into the games other features.
  There are a variety of weapons in the game, such as a bloody butcher knife, a croquet mallet, and 
 the diabolical dice (which summon demons to kill your foes, and possibly you) along with many others. 
 My personal favorite weapon is the ice staff. The monsters come in varieties like the card soldiers 
 which belong to the queen of hearts of course, little morman things which are easy to kill, but 
 get annoying, and killer mushrooms which taunt you with hearts to heal you, but can devour you 
 alive, along with many other oddities. 
  The game is very challenging at times. It is a adventure game with a dark twist, and can throw 
 many puzzles at you at any moment. The puzzles are nicely planned, as is everything else. The graphics 
 may look a bit "playstationesque" for the PC, but in my opinion they look great. The game isn't 
 scary, but it is very fun to play.
  There is one more thing I'd like to add, before i end this. If you've played the suffering, you'd 
 knwo that you could transform into a ferocious monster. In Alice, you can do that as well. If you 
 reach a certain item, you can transform into a red eyed, monsterous demon. be careful though, because 
 it doesn't last forever. Thats all i have to say about this games details.
  In conclusion, I reccomend alice, to someone who likes dark plots, or superb adventure games. Maybe 
 even all the Tim Burton heads would get a kick out of this game. Expect more from American Mcgee 
 in the near future.
  
  oh and the soundtrack (done by Chris Vrenna of NIN and Tweaker fame) is one of th ebest things 
 about this game. Adds both a fantastic gothic feel to the game, and just makes it plain creepy. 
 Atleast play Alice for its soundtrack.. trust me its that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rijorat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2004 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Traumatized knife wielding Alice cuts a bunch of card soldiers to confette. No Disney fairytale 
 here. The objective of the game at it's core is to hack and slash your way through several Wonderland 
 inspired levels crawling with legions of the Queen of Hearts Minions. While not very hard to master, 
 the combat system isn't very advanced either... however it is rather amusing through the use of 
 various "toys" such and the knife, a croquet stick, and a deck of cards. But what makes this game 
 really shine is the atmosphere created by the ingeniously twisted level design. Various elements 
 of Wonderland are recreated in very interesting detail from a haunted school (Many parts move while 
 you attempt to navigate through it) to a mirror maze (Complete with reflections of reflections) 
 to a black and white chess inspired castle (Includes several puzzles involving lifesize chess peices) . 
 The chesire cat gets a make over and comes out looking like an dingy pirate, rather creepy. All 
 these elements combine to create a rather unique style that is definately well worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drydyn
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2003 10:21 am PT
Review:  OK, ill make this short since few will ever read this. This is a beautiful game, period. The graphics 
 are amoung some of the most inspired and beautiful I have ever seen, and im playing it 2 years 
 after its release! From the loading scenes (spellbinding!) to the imaginative levels, this game 
 is a powerhouse of graphical presentation, though it wont really tax your new PC. Its nothing like 
 Half-life 2 mind you, but for the time that it was made, it was pure genius. Some textures are 
 simple but done in a way that you can really susspend disbelief, and the colors are RICH deep hues 
 that will have you thinking of flower arrangements and sunsets somehow. The music and its quality 
 are amazing, the score of the game will blow you away if you let it affect you. When I first loaded 
 the game up I spent 5 mins. entranced at the opening options scene. The sound effects, while not 
 as good as the score, are still noteworthy and contribute to the experiance. The voice acting can 
 range from enlightening (Ex. Alice: What should i do? Cheschire Cat: Let your need be your guide, 
 supress your instinct to lead, pursue rabit.) to corny. I personaly did not like Alice's voice 
 actres, though she is good (same woman who does kate archer from NOLF) . I though an actual little 
 girls voice would have been better. So this area of the game is kinda spotty, but still good. Ahh 
 what next, oh the controls, a most cruicial element. The controlls are good, you can generally 
 hit what you aim at, and the camera is one of the best ive seen (read: it gets the hell out of 
 the way and lets you play the game.)
  Alice moves and jumps in predicatable ways and the inventive plaforming scenes will have you feeling 
 ready to take them on, instead of despising the event like some games. Make no mistake, this is 
 a platformer, and you will put in alot of time navigating the enviroments, as well as chucking 
 Big knives at warrior ants, floating hell spawns, and whatever else seems to annoy you at the wrong 
 time. The combat... mmmm.... it is fun, though somewhat straight forward. It is not to deep, but 
 there can be some cool battles that will have you breathing in your chest when they are through, 
 but on the whole, the fighting is a 8, thanks to the good control and camera. So there you have 
 it, a full review! Actually, this game is really an 8. The core of the game is not inspired from 
 a gameplay point of view, some of the levels are not as imaginative and can drag on, and some of 
 the voice acting and writing is corny. But this game is more than the sum of its good and bad parts. 
 Like life. Its elements come together synergistically the create an unbelievably surreal gaming 
 experiance that will stick with you for the rest of your life if you let it affect your mind and 
 heart with its inspiration. For that I give it a 9.1. And really, the game is 5/10 bucks at wal 
 mart. It would be a crime to let this game go unplayed at that price, even if plaforming isnt your 
 favorite genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qball145
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 30, 2003 1:02 pm PT
Review:  This is another review that is over two years old. I recently picked up a copy of American McGees 
 Alice from the bargain shelf. I was compelled to write a review having played the game. 
  
  The actual gameplay is so-so. Some of the battles with the card-guards, the underwater sequences, 
 and a few of the jumping/floating sequences were quite entertaining. But other parts had some playability 
 problems when played on the hard setting due to problems with collision detection and control. 
 The Vale of Tears section was particularly frustrating  a crying shame because its a graphically 
 beautiful section of the game which I found myself desperately wanting to enjoy. 
  
  Instead of relying on dodging, well timed and controlled jumps, and marksmanship to progress through 
 the game, too much of the game is a save/load festival. At least on the hard difficulty it is (you 
 are not allowed to change difficulty settings without starting a new game) . When you get down to 
 it, it is a rather short, simple 3rd person shooter. 
  
  But in terms of sound, music, and graphics ... WOW!! It wasn't the gameplay that kept me going. 
 It was the need to see what was around the next corner. I had recently finished Tron 2.0; I felt 
 Alice easily holds its own despite its age. 
  
  Roque Entertainment clearly put a lot of tender loving care into the graphical elements of this 
 game. The game features innovative and often spectacular level design, scenery that is both beautiful 
 and creepy, and wonderful attention to detail. Both the voice acting and the soundtrack by Chris 
 Vrenna fit the ambience of the game perfectly. 
  
  This is one of those rare games that is truly atmospheric with many memorable scenes and moments. 
 Ill probably play the game again just for the audio/visual treat. It may have been a mediocre 
 value when released, but if you see it in the bargain bin, go buy it. Youll probably find it to 
 be a short & sweet shooter you may want to play more than once. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19boomer58
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 4, 2003 10:35 am PT
Review:  I know this review is over two years behind, but i have to say of all the games i have ever played, 
 Alice is by far the most impressive and entertaining. I have purchased 3 copies myself, (one on 
 the pc and two backups) as well as several for gifts. By far, this is the finest game ever released. 
 The combination of level design and music, along with the constant forboding presence the game 
 radiates, consistently brings the player to the edge of reality vrs fantasy. The aforementioned 
 qualities thus makes its replay value priceless. I have been thru this game nearly 10 times from 
 start to finish, and i am constantly finding new textures, nuances, etc. In closing, Alice will 
 ALWAYS be the game i turn to for both that "need to escape" and also for pure enjoyment. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
