-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: American Chopper
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/americanchopperthegame/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good license.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bad use of good license.
 Generally bland and repetitive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  4, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 5.2, 5.1 Review (s)
User Score: 5.1, 255 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Developer: Creat Studio
Genre: Motorcycle Racing
Date:     Dec 22, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a classic example of a game that appears to have little purpose other than to cash in on a 
 hot license. 

  It's possible that there's a great idea for a game buried somewhere in the Discovery Channel's 
 hit reality TV show  American Chopper . Each week the Teutul clan's members, Paul, Paul Jr., and 
 Mikey, scream at one another while working against the clock to design and build a custom chopper. 
 If there's a decent game to be wrenched out of this concept, however, Activision's American Chopper 
 isn't it. Lacking both the volatile charm and the compelling technical details of the series, it's 
 little more than a halfhearted racing game that features some appearances by characters and from 
 locations you've seen on TV.  

          Paul Sr. is about to blow his stack.     

  You'd think a game based on a TV show about building custom choppers would focus on, say, building 
 some custom choppers. Well, in this case, at least, you'd be wrong. A bike-building thread runs 
 through American Chopper, but it's so simplistic and disconnected from the rest of the game that 
 it feels like an afterthought. At the end of each chapter, you get to add a couple of parts to 
 your bike. For instance, your first two decisions are between solid and skinny front ends and a 
 chromed or ribbed motor.  

  Are the differences between the available equipment purely aesthetic? The game doesn't say, and 
 since the parts don't feature any relevant stats, the choice is completely guesswork. You do eventually 
 get to show off your custom bike, but given the game's license, there's no excuse for such a lame 
 customization feature.  

  With bike customization firmly in the background, the gameplay is focused almost exclusively on 
 bike riding. The game consists of 10 chapters with two detours to chopper shows in Daytona Beach, 
 Florida, and Sturgis, South Dakota. Each chapter features five or six challenges, roughly half 
 of which are optional. The other half of the challenges are required to be completed before you 
 can unlock the following chapter. The challenges actually represent a pretty good variety of goals. 
 There are straight checkpoint races, drag races (during which you must shift gears manually, regardless 
 of whether you have the transmission option set to "automatic") , and some races against the clock. 
 American Chopper also includes some strange racing games. For instance, there's a modified checkpoint 
 race called a "poker race." At each checkpoint, you receive a card. Once you've hit five checkpoints 
 and have collected a full poker hand, you can either return to the starting point to end the race, 
 or you can continue hitting checkpoints (as long as there's time left on the clock) to get new 
 cards. The winner is the racer with the best hand. Later in the game, there's a race type called 
 motoball, which is kind of a frustrating mix of motorcycle racing and soccer.  

  The bike-riding challenges take place in one of two modes. In "open road" mode, you drive in one 
 direction down an unfolding stretch of traffic-clogged highway. "Town" mode lets you drive freely 
 through a fictionalized version of Montgomery, New York, which is home to Teutul's Orange County 
 Choppers. In both modes, you accrue style points by completing various tasks, such as scaring pedestrians, 
 driving without incident for a certain period of time, nearly crashing into other vehicles, and 
 losing the cops (who'll give chase if they see you going more than 50mph) . These style points can 
 be used to unlock either extra parts for your bike or bonus missions. In some cases, they are required 
 to complete a challenge. Unfortunately, there isn't a whole lot of incentive to play the main game, 
 much less worry about unlocking bonuses. The bike control is stiff and unsatisfying, and although 
 you're given a variety of challenges, by the second or third chapter you'll get the sinking feeling 
 that you've seen everything the game's roughly nine hours' worth of content has to offer. You do 
 get to drive a dozen or so choppers from the series, such as the POW/MIA bike and Mikey's ridiculous 
 blues bike. But, again, there aren't any stats available for any of the bikes, so unlocking a new 
 one is mostly a cosmetic reward.  

  You play the "new guy" who must run errands for the Teutuls. The real Paul and Paul Jr. provide 
 their own voices, but the aggravation that characterizes most of their interactions on the show 
 is replaced here by a kind of monotone boredom. If they were enthusiastic about this project, it 
 certainly doesn't come through in their voices. Similarly, the choppers themselves make more of 
 a rattling buzz than the deep-throated roar you'd expect. The visuals are competent, and, as expected, 
 they're much crisper on the PC than on either of the two console versions. However, they're completely 
 devoid of any kind of personality, so neither the towns nor the open roads feature anything very 
 interesting to look at.  

          Driving down the tropical, palm tree-lined streets of upstate New York.     

  The PC 
 version's "customize controls" option appears to be perpetually unavailable. No combination of 
 accessing the menu at any time before, during, or after a mission would unlock it, and both the 
 readme file and the manual completely lack information on it. Compared to the other things that 
 are wrong with the game, though, this point is minor.  

  A development team in St. Petersburg, Russia, developed American Chopper. This may explain why, 
 for instance, a mission that sees you driving from Montgomery to Albany, New York, takes you through 
 what appears to be Florida, and it may explain why another part of New York looks exactly like 
 Death Valley, California. This disconnection between source material and final product extends 
 to the game design, which completely fails to capture any of the show's appeal. American Chopper 
 is a classic example of a game that seems to have little purpose other than to cash in on a hot 
 license.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: StealthBlade100
Rating: 1
Date: May 17, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  This game is a joke. I rented this title thinking it may actually follow the TV show and you would 
 be building the bikes and things of that nature. Well I was way off. You play as this new hire 
 that does all the runnning around for the shop. Some of the stuff you need to do is ok in general 
 fun (races) . What I have the biggest problem with is.... First of all, the graphics are garbage. 
 They are blocky. Second your bike sucks. One of the first things I did was race this other guy 
 around town. YOU CAN'T TURN AS TIGHT AS HIM! Your opponent is making turns that you swear is 90 
 degrees. You on the other hand are going off into the trees and bushes. Third, while running from 
 a rival biker gang, the game requires you to drive over these one dimensional neon green outlines 
 of a wrench. By the time you see them you are past them. To make all this worse, the menus before 
 you even begin the game are clumsy and awkward to scroll threw. 
  
  sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastercuffe
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 8, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  This game is a joke. I rented this title thinking it may actually follow the TV show and you would 
 be building the bikes and things of that nature. Well I was way off. You play as this new hire 
 that does all the runnning around for the shop. Some of the stuff you need to do is ok in general 
 fun (races) . What I have the biggest problem with is.... First of all, the graphics are garbage. 
 They are blocky. Second your bike sucks. One of the first things I did was race this other guy 
 around town. YOU CAN'T TURN AS TIGHT AS HIM! Your opponent is making turns that you swear is 90 
 degrees. You on the other hand are going off into the trees and bushes. Third, while running from 
 a rival biker gang, the game requires you to drive over these one dimensional neon green outlines 
 of a wrench. By the time you see them you are past them. To make all this worse, the menus before 
 you even begin the game are clumsy and awkward to scroll threw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JP656
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  Im usually a fan of motorcycle games but this isnt too addictive, I played it for maybe about 4 
 hours before i realized its horrible!! The sound isnt good at all, the graphics suck, And the gameplay 
 is not too good either. I guess if ur really into the choppers thing The game wouldnt be that bad, 
 but if ur just a fan of regualar old free style motorcyleing, do NOT buy this game without renting 
 it first! I bought this game for like 4 bucks at a school auction wich made it worth buying, But 
 its not a game that anyone should buy for anymore money then that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minten215
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:55 am PT
Review:  american copper is a good motorbike racing game.
  
  you will have to race bikes.
  solve puzzles on a bike.
  even create your own!
  
  the graphics are good.
  the gameplay 
 is mild.
  the sound is perfect.
  its good value for money.
  
  the controls are easy.
  the movies are prefect to.
  
  you can see "american chopper the series" on t. v. to 
  on the 
 "discovery chennel".
  its really funny (the t. v. show)
  
  my name w. minten.
  
  sorry for the spell errors :)
  
  in a review you have to rite at least 100 words.
  that s*cks
 
  
  so....
  
  game game game game game game game game game game 
  word word word word word word word word word word word
  and so on
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
