-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: America's Army
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/americasarmyoperations/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 23, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.2, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 4,421 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: U. S. Army
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Aug 28, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
At best, it can be an unusually intense game that in many ways rivals or surpasses the top commercial 
 tactical shooters. 

 America's Army: Operations may very well be one of the most ironic games ever. More than a few American 
 politicians have bolstered their careers by condemning violence in popular entertainment, particularly 
 in video games. Now the US government, by way of the Army, has produced a computer game that's 
 all about realistic, deadly combat. While this odd turn of events raises interesting ethical and 
 political issues, many gamers probably just want to know one thing about this online shooter: Is 
 it any good? The game was launched in a more limited form on July 4 of this year, but the launch 
 was plagued by embarrassing problems, including bugs and too few official servers. Fortunately, 
 the Army now seems to have gotten its act more or less together with this game. Now there are more 
 servers, and America's Army is generally more stable, which means you can more easily enjoy this 
 exciting tactical shooter.           You'll have to do what you're told if you want to play online. 
    

 Right off the bat, America's Army has one thing going for it that retail games don't: It's free, 
 assuming you don't count the purported millions of US tax dollars spent on the game's development. 
 The only thing America's Army is likely to cost you is a fair amount of time as you download over 
 200MB of game files, though the game is also available on CDs that can be picked up at US Army 
 recruiting offices all over the country.   

  America's Army aims to educate you about the US Army and its career opportunities and values. As 
 such, if you want to enjoy all that the game has to offer, you're going to have to do things the 
 Army way. You won't be able to simply install the game and head online to start blasting people. 
 First, you need to log in to create a game account that tracks your progress and lets you access 
 the official servers. Then, you'll need to pass at least four offline basic training missions: 
 rifle marksmanship, an obstacle course, US weapons training, and training for MOUT (military operations 
 in urban terrain) . After these missions, you can optionally progress through advanced training 
 for snipers or airborne troops, for example, which will in turn open up new online missions and 
 gear.   

  These offline training missions might sound like a chore that gets in the way of the real fun online. 
 Actually, they can be moderately entertaining and challenging in their own right, and they teach 
 you a little about Army history and procedures in the process. They certainly help draw you into 
 the atmosphere of the game by putting you in meticulously re-created sections of the infantry school 
 at Fort Benning, Georgia. There you'll find no-nonsense drill instructors, fellow recruits on the 
 firing range, and tall pine forests as far as the eye can see.   

  The obstacle course training mission is really just a way to instruct you on the use of the game's 
 movement controls, which are generally similar to those of most shooters. The other training missions 
 are more interesting since they focus on the game's weapons. For instance, the marksmanship lesson 
 actually requires a surprising amount of skill, thanks to the game's unusually realistic weapons 
 and ballistics modeling. You'll really need to aim carefully and quickly to hit as many targets 
 as possible. How well you do determines whether or not you can qualify for sniper training later, 
 but don't worry if you don't score well the first time -- you can retake the test as many times as 
 you like. Unfortunately, while these offline training missions teach you the basics of movement 
 and firing in the game, they teach you nothing about successful tactics.   

  For that, you'll need on-the-job training in online matches, which you can join using an integrated 
 server browser. While there are many more official Army servers than in the past, you'll find that 
 the network code still has a major, albeit intermittent, problem -- namely, the way the game can 
 refuse to properly connect to open servers.   

  Assuming you can connect, you'll engage in battles between the US Army and OpFor, a generic opposing 
 force. No matter which side you choose, you and your teammates always look like US soldiers, while 
 the enemy always wears ski masks or other garb that marks them as terrorists. The number of maps 
 is currently limited, though the Army plans to keep releasing free content for the game, and the 
 maps you get are tactically and visually interesting. You'll fight on a huge snow-covered bridge 
 littered with the burning wrecks of cars, raid a camp in the middle of a night-shrouded forest, 
 and battle in an Alaskan pipeline pump station, among others.           America's Army is unusually 
 detailed, from the guns to the graphics.    

 The actual gameplay is based on the proven (and aging) Counter-Strike model, in which both teams 
 have opposing goals -- usually assaulting or defending an area -- that they try to complete during 
 short rounds typically lasting somewhere around five minutes. If you die during a round, you're 
 forced to sit out and watch the action as an invisible spectator until a new round begins. This 
 can be boring when you'd rather be fighting, but it can be still be fun to watch other players 
 at work without the stress of having to avoid enemy fire yourself. Yet whatever its weaknesses, 
 this round-based combat with only one player spawn per round is surely the best design for this 
 type of game. Death should be something you avoid on the battlefield, after all. With infinite 
 respawns, it would be too easy to take things casually and use unrealistic tactics.    

 While the round system and single spawns call to mind Counter-Strike, America's Army doesn't have 
 much in common with the arcade-style gameplay of that game. At its best, America's Army is an extremely 
 intense game in which you really need to rely on your teammates if you hope to avoid death and 
 accomplish your objectives. It's a game in which player movement speed is moderate at best and 
 single shots can kill enemies outright, as they can and do in real life. You'll treat every little 
 scrap of cover and concealment like it's a rare treasure. You'll aim carefully, squeeze off a few 
 rounds, and then hit the dirt to avoid having your skull ventilated by a well-aimed bullet. When 
 the tracers start flying, you won't even consider running around wildly and hopping all over the 
 place like some players do in less realistic shooters. Unfortunately, even if you play smartly, 
 a match can easily be lost because of unskilled teammates. Appropriately enough for a game meant 
 to teach Army values, finding a good team is of paramount importance if you want to enjoy the game 
 fully.           Assume different roles and carry different gear into battle.    

 To help you survive on the battlefield for more than 30 seconds, you'll be able to lean around corners, 
 crouch, and go prone. In an unusual twist on the standard shooter movement options, you'll be able 
 to switch from the default running speed to a full-out sprint, but your weapon will be temporarily 
 lowered to prevent it from accidentally discharging. In another unusual touch, you'll also be able 
 to roll quickly when prone, as well as make use of the usual side-to-side shuffle when crouching. 
 It's great to have so many movement options, though you can't always use them when you need them, 
 since the game's scenery, doorways, and other objects have an annoying "sticky" property and will 
 occasionally catch you and prevent you from moving when you really need to.   

  One of the most impressive elements of America's Army, and one of the obvious benefits of having 
 real-world experts behind the game, is its detailed weapon modeling. You'll find predictable tactical 
 shooter details like the way your rifle kicks when fired in bursts. Then you'll notice things that 
 other shooters don't always model or model as well. Crouching or going prone dramatically improves 
 your aim, for example, in part by reducing the effect breathing has on the steadiness of your crosshair. 
 For increased accuracy, you use the gun's actual "iron sights" instead of the unrealistic crosshair 
 for aiming when zoomed. The game also realistically switches you out of the zoom mode whenever 
 you assume a different firing stance or make other major movements. Another neat touch that adds 
 to the ambience, if not the actual gameplay, is the way a soldier visibly thumbs the switch on 
 his assault rifle to toggle between semiautomatic and burst firing modes.   

  During play, you'll be able to carry up to two weapons at a time, and you can drop weapons to pick 
 up others from the battlefield. The game's arsenal isn't particularly large since the focus is 
 on actual standard-issue Army weapons, but the firearms are all carefully based on the real things 
 and can even jam. You'll get to wield the well-known M16A2 rifle and its shorter M4A1 variant. 
 You'll also get use the M203 40mm grenade launcher, which can be attached to either of those rifles, 
 as well as the SAW (squad automatic weapon) for laying down continued fire. "Trained" snipers get 
 access to the 7.62mm M24 SWS and the .50-caliber Barrett M82A1. You can also pick up weapons dropped 
 by fallen OpFor troops, like the AK-47, and you'll get to throw fragmentation, smoke, and flash-bang 
 grenades, too.   

  Along with its unusually realistic weaponry, America's Army features unusually detailed visuals 
 powered by the latest version of Epic's Unreal engine. Other than some occasional clipping and 
 the lack of lip-synching for your training instructors, the game generally looks superb. The models, 
 textures, and visual effects usually match or surpass those found in today's top shooters. Attention 
 to detail abounds, from the little patches on a sergeant's uniform, to the moths swarming around 
 an outdoor light at night, to the sophisticated reloading animations. The dense clouds that spew 
 from smoke grenades and the brilliant firearm muzzle flashes also look unusually realistic. One 
 thing that's conspicuously and ironically missing, though, is any gore, presumably so the game 
 could earn a T rating and maybe even to sanitize combat for the potential recruits the Army hopes 
 to woo with the game.           Every bit of cover counts.    

 Not surprisingly for a game so focused on realistic and immersive details, the weapon sound effects 
 in America's Army are top-notch -- easily among the best in the genre. From the reports of rounds 
 being fired, to the casings clattering on concrete, to the click of a fresh magazine being inserted 
 into a rifle, all the sounds draw you into the action. Even more than the visuals, they help you 
 feel like you're really in the middle of brutal firefights. Even the game's ambient sounds, like 
 the birds and cicadas in the pine forests of the Fort Benning training missions sound spot-on. 
   

  America's Army: Operations clearly has a lot going for it, not the least of which is a level of 
 realism that's constantly palpable and brought to life with very high production values. However, 
 at this point, the game is limited by its focus on small-scale engagements between foot soldiers. 
 You'll find a limited selection of weapons, no usable vehicles, and a limited number of maps. Some 
 players might be turned off by the mandatory training missions, the lack of significant innovation 
 or offline play, or the US Army's real motives for releasing the game. Still, if you're a serious 
 shooter fan, you should at least give America's Army: Operations a try. At worst, you'll lose some 
 time downloading it. At best, you'll get an unusually intense game that in many ways rivals or 
 surpasses the top commercial tactical shooters.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (172 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ariadarabi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for some 1 year now, and I can say that it's fun and addictive, especially 
 when all the players are on one side versus bots. One bad thing about this game though is that 
 it's really hard to set up. If you've downloaded the game earlier, then deleted it, then downloaded 
 the game again, there seems to be an error with Punkbuster. Another bad thing is that when you 
 die, you must wait for the end of the round which is around 5-10 minutes in length. So if a teammate 
 accidentally kills you in the beginning of the round, all you can do is wait another 8-10 minutes. 
 They should have a better respawn rate, that's all. Training was one of the best parts of the game. 
 Just like a real soldier, you must go into training before you can go to war. That being said, 
 it could take a day or so to complete the training and you cannot play online until you have completed 
 the training. But yet, the training could provide useful, you could learn to parachute IN A GAME! 
 Now that was one of the features that caught my attention, although you cannot parachute in multiplayer 
 mode. But round-after-round can make you tired of this game and you simply delete the game off 
 of your computer. It's like any normal FPS game where you walk around, shooting everyone you see, 
 and the last team up wins. It's REALLY annoying because of the respawn rate. It's less like war, 
 more like hiding in little crawl spaces and waiting for your prey to come, then once they come 
 you've got to attack them at the right time to kill them. Still, you should try this game out at 
 their official website. Just type the games name out on google. It's 100% free to play. Enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2009 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok ever wanted to feel Like you were a soldier? Well this game is the closest you are going to 
 get without actually joining. This game takes you through B. C. T Basic Combat Training and A. I. T 
 Advance Individual Training. You advance in rank online. Has a good teamwork system, Communication 
 and teamwork are very important on this game.
  
  In B. C. T you do Obstacle Courses and Weapons training, you can even Jam your gun on this game and 
 have to clear it. Once you get past B. C. T you can go farther and go Airborne and train for that, 
 you can try for Special Forces, and more. Once you get a certain High rank you can be in Special 
 Forces, and Customize an M4 Carbine to you Liking. 
  
  This game is the Best "In My Opinion" Military Shooter. What do you have to lose go try it, its 
 free and you can Download it from gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitzan1006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 10:03 am PT
Review:  America's Army is a nice game.
  He got nice things from all, there are a lot of people in this game, the game has no people that 
 scam other people.
  there are no people that yelling and crusting anyone.
  
  Ok now the graphic
  The graphic is really nice but not such good.
  There is a place to improve 
 it but when i first ran the game i was surprised to see that the graphic is like that because the 
 graphic is looking great for the time that the game was realised.
  
  The sound is very nice
  The sound of the guns and all the things is not so surprising but its 
 also very good so its almost perfect for me and I really like it.
  
  The game play is very nice but its also very hard, the sniper is finding place and its realy hard 
 to find him but its realy exciting and fun to kill someone and play this game.
  
  The game has also trainings missions you will have to pass on first.
  The missions aren't so 
 hard, there also missions to do to get other maps and to be on boarding special forces and more 
 things like it.
  
  Finally the game is very nice but its really hard to kill someone and if you die on the 1-5 first 
 minutes of the game so it will be really boring because it will take a lot of time until all the 
 team will be dead.
  
  I give this game 8.5 because he need an improve.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ww2gamereviewer
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Americas army is an mmofps made by the US Army. Its a good game with tons of content. It took me 
 about 45 minutes to download. So, once you get goin, you have to go through training to play multiplayer. 
 Thers about 15 training missions you can do from airbourne to medics. Then once you finish, you 
 can play multiplayer. Modes vary from amp to map. Theres also a few co-op maps.
  
  Good: The graphics are pretty good and so are weapons. Theres about 50 maps to choose from. Theres 
 so many player and servers to play on/with. The game has so much content form like i said with 
 maps and training. Training adds a fun touch to the game. Its a good way to get started.
  
  Bad: The only real bad thing i think is that its hard for beginners. I found it difficult to find 
 matches that would let me play. You cna die quite often and fast in this game if you dont work 
 as a team. Another thing is if you die during the misson, you have to wait till its over to spawn. 
 You can easy get bored waiting to play again if you die fast.
  
  Overall I think Americas Army is a good game to download. Its got a good amount of content, fun, 
 and its free. I strongly recommend downloading this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  The good: Put's you into the boots of a fresh Army cadet.
  
  The Bad: No respawn's, player honor's.
  
  The is a great game but it has a lot of aggravating 
 issues, first off you can't respawn, you die once and you have to wait eternity to get back in 
 to play, I died once and I waited for like 15 minuets to get back in to play, that's not fun at 
 all. Then there are the cursed player honor's, the player honor's prevent you from playing the 
 game because these player honor's are points you have to have enough to play each level the problem 
 is I'm at a 9 and I can't play on any servers what so ever, and there is no way to gain player 
 honor's if your to low. This game is definitely up there with Combat Arms, America's Army has greater 
 qualities and worse qualities, the worse qualities are the no respawns and player honors, the greater 
 qualities is that this game has 5 times as much maps than Combat Arms and you can keep the weapons 
 you buy but how do you buy weapons in America's Army. The server rooms and interfaces are outdated 
 and crude but efficient. Sense when does the U. S Army develop games? They did a great job for there 
 first game. -1.0 No respawns, -2.5 player honors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmaster12
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  The training missions did suck me into the game, but I expected there to be actual offline missions. 
 I was wrong. The online play isn't as fun as it used to be, thanks to spammers and hackers who 
 suck every last drop of fun out of it. If someone has an aimbot that automatically shot you, no 
 matter what distance, wouldn't you be a little ticked off too?
  
  Adding to the multiplayer mode's problems is the fact that most players will want to play selfishly, 
 so they won't coordinate with you and teamwork is almost never an option.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, but the sound effects are where the game truly shines. Great reloading 
 animations and sounds, as well as great gunfire. The one-spawn rule is kinda annoying, especially 
 if there are hackers, because you'll need to wait for a long time just to be killed in the same 
 manner. I guess, then again, that infinite respawning isn't realistic, so the army did make a good 
 point there.
  
  OK, but not much else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballintinius
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  While visting my son and daughter this holiday season, I found out they both play America's Army 
 online from thier respective bases. So, my soldier daughter showed me the ropes. I was very impressed.
 
  
  The game is by far a step above the usual first person shooter game as it has a very realistic 
 spin to it. With the fact that, as it is told to me by my kids, that it has also a true to life, 
 but simplifed, take on what is expected by soldiers in the field.
  
  I have to give it credit, I beileve that tax dollars spent on this game, which is a recruiting 
 tool as well, was well spent. I had a blast going though basic training, simpliefd, again. Requalifing 
 with a weapon with smart mouth Drill Instructor hassling me over shoulder was a nice touch.
  
  Over all... it was a good expeience. I far and away think that this game rates... and for the 
 price, which is free to everyone... it's an excellent deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pesadilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I was in the military for four years and I have to admit  THIS IS A PRETTY REALISTIC GAME. A little 
 TOO realistic. It brought back a lot of memories going through the "basic training" part of the 
 game.
  
  I am not going to get into the "how to" because you can get that from other reviews or the cover 
 review. I am going to say that if you want to join the military this is the PERFECT game to play 
 to get some sense of what to expect.
  
  I like this game because:
  1) It is ULTRA-REALISTIC (I can't emphasize the realism enough)
  2) The graphics are OUTSTANDING
 
  3) It is FREE
  4) You can get this game from any recruiting station or download it for free
  5) It is constantly 
 being updated through patches.
  
  I DON'T like this game because:
  1) Unlike any other shoot-em up game, you HAVE to pass basic training in order to play the actual 
 game.
  2) It is obvious that the military is using this game as a recruitment tool  guess I can't blame 
 them.
  3) Even though it is realistic, the emotional trauma in soldiers in a war zone is left out. In 
 this game, when you are tired of it you can just turn the computer off and do something else. In 
 real war, that is not possible.
  4) This game just shows "how" - not "why"
  
  This game has over 8 and a half million registered users making this one of the most played first 
 person shoot-em up games in history.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorkaBonum
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 13, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Americas Army, a free game developed by the U. S. Army, so, does it have any touch of propaganda? 
 Quite a significant lot, and I don't know what they were supposed to win by launching it. Would 
 recruitment increase? Perhaps, but just as well more leaving when they realise Army Training isn't 
 just climping ropes and shooting guns. 
  
  Anyways - for the game itself. This is to be considered somewhat a simulator due to many things; 
 the realism in the actions itself, even if the visuals and sounds ain't too realistic, for example 
 weapons will jam at times, slow-paced action, groups, etc. But is that for any good? Well... if 
 you like slow rounds and having the risk to wait for 9 minutes if you die early in the game playing 
 with anymous morons not finding a spot on the map while beeing unable to communicate in any way, 
 then go for it. I've been playing the game for about three years - not in an active manner, but 
 from time to time.
  
  The game is updated a few times a year including a few new maps and potentially some new basic 
 technology or sound. But as the core technology within the game went stone-age about two years 
 ago the *awesome* U. S. Army should spend more time into rebuilding the game rather than doing worthless 
 updates or doing ports with Ubisoft nobody will ever buy. There's not even basic VoIP support which 
 makes communication impossible as the built-in in-game audio commands are hard to manuover and 
 is just really unaccurate and bad as nobody will ever listen or respond to you any way. 
  
  And another terrific thing to include is the PunkBuster... Wow, from time to time PunkBuster needs 
 to reload/update which will take about 3-7 minutes before you're able to play while the PunkBuster 
 doesn't really do anything. For a anti-cheat service PunkBuster is one of the most hated due to 
 its poor functionality. 
  
  All and all, the game has terrific value, 'cause it's free. More than that it is very up to you 
 if you're going to like it or not. If you're used to play fast games in the era, such as Battlefield 
 2, you'll start screaming only after a few minutes as everything is extremely strict and slow just 
 as the movement (American soldiers seems to run real slow) . Give it a try, it works for shorter 
 periods of gameplay if you're playing online with anymous people but will work alot better when 
 playing localy with people you know - which is a great con for this game, it's very accessable 
 as it is free and easy to download, yet quite massive in size, but most computers and even solid 
 laptops will be able to play this game in a solid way with shaders turned down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIack3r
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Yes it has been out for many years now but I have to review another one of my all time greats. 
 I have played Americas Army from the get-go and I knew it was always going to be a hit. The not 
 so amazing graphics makes this game unique as you don't have to have the best graphics engine to 
 be such a success, the highly detailed maps and the hugeness of the game makes it one of the most 
 popular online fps shooters ever. I have had many great times playing this game and have been in 
 some of the best clans ever. Long live Americas Army! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volcomstoned013
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  It is an ok game with some potential for fun in the multiplayer. There are many annoying things 
 about it though. Everyone is almost always playin the same maps, and there are not enough people. 
 Since it is free im giving it a 7.5 rather than a 7. If you have room on your computer, give it 
 a shot. otherwise, it really isnt worth it. If it cost money, id say dont even bother, but since 
 you've already payed for it (US army paid for it, they get there money from...... take a guess..... 
 you) you might as well try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandg23
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  first of all thank you guys for reading my review
  
  lets begin with the vehicles, theyre not highly detailed and you dont drive them that well
  
 
  in multiplayer the character is too slow and in some point you hear its non-stoping breathing 
 which is pretty annoying.
  
  it has a bad control also it gets confusing when youre trying to change a weapon and it can cost 
 your life because its too slow and you may not select what you wanted.
  
  it has a bad hud and when you kill someon and he's on the floor it takes a while to kill him, i 
 was shooting a guys head for 2 min and not even a single drop of blood came out of him and to shoot 
 someone you must get the zoom beacause theres no indicator i mean what ....... shooter game does 
 not put that dot or something to tell you what youre shooting at
  
  i think this game was made to make gamers enroll army cause its got alot of publicity and interesting 
 facts about army and many young and old soldiers with some kind of biography
  
  by the way dont loose your time playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lurenceo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  What the game focus's on is the realism of it all but it really fails at that but its real enough 
 not to dance around out in the open. The weapons in Americas Army are preety great you will have 
 the realistic outcomes of it like jams long reload time and a single/burst fire. But if you have 
 recently played games like CS and BF it might take you awhile to get us to. One thing im preety 
 annoyed is the way the many players of Americas Army dont appciate new commers and team kills and 
 so on. They can get prety mad but when you are a fully expirenced player of AA you will be respected 
 and mabye even join a clan. There is not much game types in AA but theres alot of maps that are 
 preety addictive and chalenging. In a map you will have lots of options to do like guard this bridge 
 hay il follow this guy or even go in the middle of a base and go rambo. The teamwork in the game 
 is surprisingly good as you and others in the game must understand that the only way to win is 
 to work together. adding to the team work you can get healed by a medic if u call for him after 
 running into cover only with a few shots to the legs and you can even swap weapons with players 
 and give out orders if you are commander. For most missions you may need to do the training for 
 it first. its even realistic in training. like the medic training for example. you will have to 
 listen to this teacher for 10 minutes about what to do in this situation. Then you will have a 
 sheet on your desk which is the test. So you will have to listen!! One of the other bad things 
 about the game as you may of already heared of is that the game is advertisement from the American 
 Army it self to encourage others to join up! So Americas Army comes out to be a good multiplayer 
 FPS but it doesnt quite capture the taste of the real fighting going on today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  AA has been around forever and like any game by the government the quality is lacking a little. 
 But you can't complaining about a free game! This game has one feature people hate.... realism. 
 Most people play it and complain like the game is bad when its actually them. Everything in the 
 game is difficult because they really use it as a recruiting tool regardless of what they say.
 
  
  The game like many games has you level up but in this game you get panelized for doing bad things 
 like killing a friendly or even hurting them.... even if its as simple as throwing a nade at them.... even 
 if it bounces of them. This game is more of a simulator then a classic shooter. This game also 
 relies heavily on teamplay. If you think of being a lone soldier good luck because people won't 
 put up with it and you can be voted off. Everything requires teamwork. From being a medic, to what 
 gun you choose, to what class soldier you choose, to even how you fire a shot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROXLYDE
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  I played this game right when it released in 2002, and I gotta tell ya when they dropped me onto 
 that virtual firing line at Ft Benning I almost croaked! Reminded me a lot of some of the firing 
 lines I had been to in the Army. Of course the drill sergeant talked a lot more sweet than any 
 of mine ever did, but still had a good sense of military bearing. The game was great fun. It has 
 the best military feel of any game in that it is all set in the task, conditions and standards 
 format for ANY mission, which is the Army way of course. The fact that it is free to play, makes 
 it the best free to play game EVER in my opinion. Evokes the Army high sense of competition, missions 
 are organized and give in the operations order format. The graphics are pretty good. I give gameplay 
 an 9.0. Graphics a 8.0 and they are of course not set too high to allow more machines to play it 
 smoothly. I give audio an 8.5. And I give it a technology score of 8.5. It definitely a recommended 
 game by me for any first person shooter addict. Good realism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rancus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Not having been able to play it until a few months ago this game is, for the bugs it has, is actual 
 really well done. The weapons look good, flash's are nice, and the variety of weapons make things 
 interesting. The 50 cal. sniper rife is new (real and game) and is one of the more powerful guns (I 
 mean come on, what body armor?) . RPG's and TOW's can get rather deadly because they have the speed 
 of rockets and about twice the bang of a grenade. Graphics could be better but they can get pretty 
 nice when you see four black craters in the ground (well there went alpha squad) . Bullets spang 
 off walls and you can get hit by glances ( dangerous in air vents I might add) . You can tell a grenade 
 goes off because a cloud of smoke, a flash, and a rather large bang. The sounds rock and when someone 
 gets hit because you can hear the bullet impact on them. Guns sound good and when your walking 
 on a metal catwalk you can actual listen to your steps (so can that guy around the corner) . Some 
 doors squeak when you open them. So overall it's a really good game for being totally free (yes 
 free) and I will see ya on the field. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kca89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Americas Army is an amazing game considering its free. Its like taking all the other FPS out there 
 and combining it into a game that gives you a different feel by implementing more realism.
  
  Gameplay: Simply amazing. The multiplayer is great and there are plenty of maps to enjoy. There 
 are bugs here and there which can be annoying at times but the game in general is still very fun 
 to play.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are a bit outdated compared to other games out there. This is in part due 
 to the game using the Unreal 2.5 engine. AA 3.0 will use the Unreal 3.0 engine and will roughly 
 be out within another year or so.
  
  Replay Value: If your into a more realistic style FPS and are man or woman enough to go through 
 the training, I'm sure that you will find this game to be very fun and you'll play it for months, 
 maybe years to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppelin1977
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  AA is one of the better Military FPS Multiplayers out there, and the best part is it's free, yep 
 thats right free theres no download charge, no monthly fees nothing.
  The Graphics in this game are as good if not better then games such as Battlefield 2.
  The multiplayer 
 is fantastic and is really realistic also the training levels are very detailed and very good, 
 especially the medic training, the SF training can annoy you a bit but still.
  
  Over all i'd rate this game a 9.0, for being free, great multiplayer, Brillient Graphics and the 
 like, If you like the battlefield seris or Counterstrike then this game is for you even if you 
 can afford the above 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limbodrive
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I am still irritated using Windows Vista for games and general security issues new to the Operating 
 System. It is no different for America's Army. I figured the new patch would take care of my problems, 
 but I have the same bugs as before. We get new maps to experience. I basically have been happy 
 with this game until the issues stated with Vista occurred. This game tends to have more problems 
 than most of the games in my collection. They changed the situation where more maps can be played 
 without the required training. That could be nice for the newbie players who just want to experience 
 the game and not put a lot of time into preparation. This game takes a lot of familiarity before 
 you can play at a level to compete. Otherwise you will be spending most of your time observing 
 after just getting shot down. Either I haven't figured out the layout yet or they need to work 
 on the XBOX 360 controller for Windows setup. I see the joystick enable button, but I still need 
 the keyboard to do most activities. Maybe after October with the XBOX 360 version coming out, it 
 will be taken care of. Send a note if I am wrong on something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avivadler
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Great game, it may take a while to download, but worth it. Before playing online, you have to first 
 finish training. It's really life-like, but it's all really about how good your skills are on the 
 keyboard :) . Now that you're down with that, you go to play online. The good part: Very realistic, 
 you can have alot of fun, and if you play just right you may be able to avoid alot of damage or 
 dying. You can pick bewteen finishing objectives or killing everyone on the other team if your 
 want to win a round. You can also pick what weapons you want if you get enough honur points (you 
 get the from making kills or completing objectives) . You can also interact with your team in diffirent 
 ways, for example: Instead of typing in your message (If I am right you hit either the g or v button) , 
 you send out a certain message of your opinoin and its much faster than typing something and finishing 
 the sentance right after your teammate dies.
  
  Once your dead, instead of waiting and looking at your screen and thinking; Hey, did my friend 
 just run out of ammo? Hey, did that guy just die? What the hells going on?! . No, it lets you go 
 around looking around the field, or look at your teamates from a 3D or first person veiw.
  
  The bad part: If your too confident you could usually go somewhere without if know who's on 
 the other side, making very likely you would stop playing if your not pateint enough. Once you 
 are dead you can still talk to your teammates and also you maybe could look at some from a 3-D 
 point, making much easier for the player to spot enemies (so whats so realistic in that?) . You 
 can be on a cheat server sometimes and you don't even know it (which makes the round sometimes 
 unfair and not fun at all) .
  
  There's some very bad glitchs (if you look at the wall with your gun, instead of your character 
 pointing his gun up it may sometimes go through, revealing your position) . You could also be in 
 a position where you're staying by a wall and on the other side someone throws a grenade, instead 
 of hitting the wall and not you the blast may sometime hit you.
  
  New players will have a hard time adjusting (those who played shooters and those who didn't) , and 
 may sometimes follow other players making follow the same route every time (for those who don't 
 like to die) or a quick death.
  
  In all it is a good game, those who like guns or reality should think about trying this, and you 
 can find sometimes to lighten up your day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hollywood6258
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  America's Army is a first person online shooter that was created to simultaneously give the player 
 a good mmofps and show a brief glimpse of how great the army is (yeah... really great...) . Yes it 
 can be said that it is propaganda for the army, but really on a gaming sense it really has great 
 gameplay. One of the things i love about it is the fact that when i use a sniper rifle or any weapon 
 i have to compensate for my breathing, especially with the larger ones (i. e. m82 .50 caliber anti-material 
 rifle) , which from my experience with real weapons its hard, its kind of a nice thing to have in 
 a game. I also found myself in a love hate relationship with the grenades; i loved the realism 
 of them, if i am close to a frag grenade when it goes off i'm going to get hit, also the flash-bang 
 grenades i was glad to see the fragments of grenade hitting me (yes it sucked) when it exploded 
 in my face. One thing that many people have gotten annoyed by is the initial basic training. Yes 
 you want to get right to the killing people, but not only is it a great way to familiarize yourself 
 with the weapons and controls but guess what, this is an army game and in order to be in the army 
 you need to go through basic training. The only problem i had with the training was sitting through 
 the medic classes, sure it taught me how to treat a wound (yeah...) but i didn't need any of that 
 information in order to be a medic (just press E or whatever your action key is set to) . I didn't 
 really have a problem with the SF training but i had to give up on it (its really really hard and 
 it takes forever) . Aside from that i found the training a good way to get familiar with the game. 
 The actual gameplay i found to be well done when you get shot you bleed (fair enough) and it gets 
 harder to move fast or shoot accurately (try shooting with a bullet in your arm) . A medic can patch 
 you up but cannot heal you completely (again fair enough) , the only thing i found bad about this 
 is that if the medic can't get to you then you can either bleed to death or become red (critical 
 condition) . The game has its problems, the chat system sucks, no real friends list, the recoil 
 on the M-82 is unrealistic (on futureweapons i distinctly remember him commenting on the low recoil) , 
 sometimes the grenades in the M203 don't explode (not sure if its a glitch or just that the grenades 
 are duds) , also a built in speech chat system would be awesome. Overall though it is a great game, 
 its free, very realistic, pretty good graphics (good enough) , lots of missions. A great game for 
 anyone who likes the fps genre or doesn't have enough money for $15 a month. Just go and get it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedude404
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I dont know what to say about Americas Army. I cant argue about the price thats for sure, afterall 
 it IS free. Amercas Army has lots of realistic and sometimes dull training, glitches, and may lack 
 some intensity. So the question is, what makes it one of the best online war games on the computer? 
 Simple, its gameplay and maps. The gameplay is superb but may need time getting use to. The maps 
 are very interesting as well as the missions. Depending on your team and the people on AA, that 
 is what determines what you think of AA. Most of the time, the teams and people are fair. Pros: Great 
 settings and graphics, superb sound effects, missions and maps are interesting, realistic weapons 
 and training, ranking system is pretty fair
  
  
  Cons: -Some glitches, A little difficult in the beginning, If you have a crappy computer than your 
 out of luck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E3BigC
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  America's Army is of course a game created by the United States Military. While they may aim to 
 use it as a recruiting tool, honestly, I don't see how this will make people want to join the Army. 
 Perhaps it exposes you to what to expect, should you join, but there isn't any real message in 
 there telling you you can do cool things in the Army. 
  
  Besides the political aspect that many seem to focus on, this game is good as just a game. It behaves 
 for the most part very realistically, except for the ability to jump on top and walk on paper thin 
 fences, or the way a gun with 500 additions hanging off of it is just as accurate as a gun with 
 a scope and nothing else.
  
  Training missions, which sometimes involve just sitting in a classroom and taking a test, help 
 to weed out those that are unwilling to complete them. Unless you finish medic school, you can 
 not be a medic, as is the same with the sniper class.
  
  Weapons behave well. Guns recoil and force you to realign your sights with every shot. Grenades 
 have large blast radii, and even if the primary blast doesn't kill you, it's possible that the 
 shrapnel will. Flash grenades are annoying as they last around 15 seconds if you are stunned by 
 one, although distant flash explosions can cause only minor damage.
  
  The graphical aspect of America's Army is nothing special, but it does what it needs to. The lighting 
 is good and the feeling of gravity is ever present, especially when you see a body go plummeting 
 off of Bridge Crossing and hit the ground at a very high velocity.
  
  The sound in the game is immersive. Bullets can be heard whizzing past your head, pinging off of 
 rocks and walls, and they have a unique sound when they hit a person. The guns themselves sound 
 powerful, and the silencer actually has a realistic effect on the volume of the gun. The only downside 
 is there is no in-game VoIP support, which can make it difficult to communicate with teammates 
 when you are in the middle of a firefight. Ventrillo and Teamspeak can do the job, but this involves 
 an honor code that people do not ghost, which unfortunately is common in games.
  
  America's Army is an exceptionally good game, especially considering the fact that it is free. 
 Anyone who is looking for a good military shooter should without a doubt at least give it a try. 
 The basic training missions are not tedious or difficult, so simple play is no difficult feat. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeberwood
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 6, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  When I downloaded America's Army, I was expecting a fun, intuitive, realistic experience. However, 
 problems dogged me from the start. I first had trouble creating my account. Then, I had trouble 
 downloading the retarded PunkBuster which supposedly stops the use of cheat codes and hackers. 
 Despite repeated efforts, I have not been able to download it to this day. Well, that wasn't a 
 problem at first. I simply played on non-PB servers. Back then, there were plenty of them. Until 
 America's Army started to update, and required downloading of patches just to access servers. Then, 
 there where maybe 1 or 2 non-PB servers out if hundreds. And even then, hackers overran the servers 
 with their stupid hacks. Suddenly, everyone was firing heat-seeking bullets and were flying across 
 levels at the speed of sound. Now, my version of the game is so under-patched, that I cannot get 
 ANY servers. Not one. Hey, at least you can go to the hospital-training area and use weapon codes 
 to do target practice! (sigh...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex_o
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  To start off, the download took a long time and loading in between training missions and other 
 missions simply took too long. Although my computer is considered slow (1.75Ghz) , nearly all the 
 games I play can smoothly and loading times aren't much of a problem. But for America's Army it 
 took about 1 - 4 minutes just to load a training mission, if you fail that mission, except another 
 1 - 4 minutes of loading.
  
  If you're patient enough to wait for the loading times, the training missions were quite useless. 
 Since sometimes when you're playing online with other players, theres bound to be one person who 
 thinks he's rambo and runs guns everybody. The training missions did get you acquainted with the 
 controls though.
  
  The sound in my opinion was pretty good, guns were loud and explosions were pretty good becuase 
 I cranked up the volume.
  
  Graphics, if turn the resolution up very high expect very good graphics. But obviously , for slower 
 computers if you put it on 800 x 600 res or 640 x 480 res don't expect top notch graphics.
  
  Overall I do recommend this game to people who have faster computers but for me I'll never 
 play this game because I'm not patient enough for loading times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andymarrs
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 22, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  America's Army is a wonderful game, Overriding other Shooting games with Advanced online play and 
 different classes to choose from, It's a perfect game, Lots of different maps, Many online groups 
 and clans, Great for Army lovers, 10+. Sound is great, M203's sound like one hit your house! Guns 
 sound right on the money and enemy speaking is great with the other languages. AI is very fun, 
 bring a team and face off against computerized Tanks and Enemy soldiers, threw hard terrain deserts. 
 If you go and play the game and don't listen to the instructor your going to run into many problems, 
 Listen to what he says, and you will do great! They have there own IRC channel and much more, Americas 
 Army is a 10+. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vangaurdius
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 13, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, the only reason this is getting good reviews is because it is by the American army. 
 Hell, they probably told people to rate it well. I must say, it is pathetic to try and brainwash 
 your people with video games that encourage you to join the army, though thats not surprising because 
 it is American, and their leaders are known for using propaganda. Now, the game is utter crap.
 
  Graphics:
  Horrible, when this game first came out the graphics were horrible for its time and even worse 
 today. Character models are all the same, environment is bland and repetitive. The explosions are 
 now where close to realistic.
  Gameplay:
  Okay, the training this is just ludicrous, its called a video game. Some are easy like the first 
 4 missions but when it comes to quizzes its boring as hell and very frustrating, not because its 
 hard, but because you just can't pay attention because it is a game and you don't want to listen 
 to that crap to play online. I did fine on all the tests you could do without fully completing 
 the special forces test, I couldn't pass because no matter where I went I got spotted, I am wondering 
 why you don't get good camouflage, I guess the goal is to piss you off to the point of giving up 
 on trying to be able to play as a sniper. Is it just me or do all the people playing it have 56kb 
 internet connections? All the servers have absurd amounts of ping. There is something called high 
 speed internet, which I have but it doesn't help because the hosts have horrible internet connection. 
 When I actually did manage to play the levels were horrible, they were either to big to actually 
 find your enemy, or to small allowing you to kill people so easily. Also, um, why do you only get 
 to customize one weapon? That is ridiculous, and the customization options are just dumb, what 
 about different ammo types? different scopes? different clip sizes? When you play as the terrorists 
 why do they only use a ak47 model? They should have had a large variety of weapons to choose from, 
 such as weapons taken from dead soldiers, weapons purchased from around the world. I guess its 
 just propaganda saying that they don't have good weapons, even though realistically they would.
 
  Sound:
  Not realistic at all. Since when did a grenade sound like a toy? The rifles don't sound like they 
 actually should. Basically, they are louder, and sound slightly different, just enough to notice. 
 Basically, the only people who actually think this piece of crap is good are Americans who think 
 this is what war is really like, and also because it tries to glorify them. Nothing more then a 
 bunch of **** propaganda, and as a game it is just pathetic. This game should be removed from use 
 because of what it is aiming to do, and that is just sadistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erik1116
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I first played americas army about 2 years ago and i was in love with it. I played it all the time, 
 getting my ranking up to a good 46 which is pretty good in the game. I was obsessed what can i 
 say?
  
  But Americas Army is a fun game. Which requires a lot of time if you dont want to be called a Noob. 
 Haha
  
  If you're new to the computer. And you dont own any other games. This is the game to play. But 
 if you've played battlefield or Call Of Duty 2. Do not Buy this game. I repeat do not buy it. I 
 mean get it for free online if you want. But do not buy it. All in all americas army is strictly 
 multiplayer and is a great game to play when you dont have any other fps games. Have Fun With It.
 
  I did...
  once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCaller
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very good war game, it is fun, a bit realistic, and burns time when your bored, 
 This game is excellent, but it does need a few features, To be able to drive in tanks in multiplayer 
 mode, etc. The training lesson is alright, it might take time to complete it tough, but its worth 
 it. But i think this game is VERY hard. But it is an excellent game. And i forgot, The maps just 
 makes the game better and better. Oh and this game is not like everyone going crazy shooting around, 
 you actually have to play serious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -R4zi3l-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely realistic but disappointing all at the same time.
  Im a long time counter strike fan, so when i played this at my friends house i saw that it was 
 just a way for the military to appelle to the gamers.
  
  It does offer somthing unique though, you have to go through training to access levels to play 
 on, this was acually kinda cool, but than again it was all about the military. it did acually teach 
 you about real stuff to again kinda cool. The gameplay was very realistic and fun at times. But 
 getting to acually play the game takes a few hours of going through repeitive training.
  
  All and all this game had its moments but i wouldn't go out and buy it, sadly... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 9, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Story- There is no story, but this game was used to train US soldiers Graphics- The graphics of 
 this game are awsome. They are pretty average for PC games though. The use of night vision is maditory 
 sometimes and the smoke is very real. Sound- The sound in this game is average for PC FPS. You 
 here bullets flying and your teammates radio chatter, Control- The controls in this game are average 
 for PC shooters no complaints here. Multiplayer- This game is multiplayer. I knew that when i played 
 the pipeline level I was made for this. To chicken to be in the Army, this is your answer. Replay 
 Value- It will take you a long time to get as good as your enemies so you'll be playing for a long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat151
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Great game, realistic missions weapons vehicles and maps the only thing that stops its from getting 
 a 10 are the graphics that suck compared to most games but the gameplay is very realistic a great 
 thing is that its FREE perfect game for anybody who loves millitary pretty good community and moderators 
 but every few months you haveto download a new version which stinks it is a great game with a few 
 flaws but if you like realistic tactical shooters it is definelty worth it and this is a perfect 
 game for you the training is very boring but once you play online you see that it is worth it it 
 is also very diffrent from games like battlefield 2 so it will take a while to get used to my rating 
 , 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  America's Army, pretty popular FPS with good graphics, gameplay, sound but still lacks in a few 
 points, one big one being the players that still have the ''All men for theirself!'' attitude, 
 which doesn't work to well in most situations.
  
  Gameplay:
  You'll be playing thru a big realistic tutorial to learn how to move thru obstacle courses, how 
 to use certain weapons, how to jump out planes and open parachutes and how to become a medic, if 
 you do tutorials like the weapon-aiming tutorial extra good, you can do some special sniper-tutorial 
 which makes you unlock the sniper weapon, you can do about ten more multiplayer maps if you complete 
 a house-tutorial, which makes you get thru a hourse filled with wooden paintings of terrorist, 
 if you shoot enough in a certain amount of time, these will open up for you.
  
  Online play is great for the first time, in the first few hours of the game you'll see that you 
 can custimize you're own weapon, coming from if you want a grenade launcher on it or a stand for 
 better aim, a normal ironsight or laserguide and such.
  
  Theres also positions of the game, like in some games, only a few people can position the class 
 Grenadier, grenadiers will get a normal weapon with a grenade launcher on it, and normal soldiers 
 will go out with a few flashbangs, thermite grenades, frag grenades and flashbangs, snipers will 
 go out with a pistol and sniper rifle, and commando's can go with their custimized weapons, I've 
 been in some encounters where I wanted to be a certain class and I coudn't, which makes the game 
 tedious since always the good classes are always taken.
  
  Altho, there are Attack and Defend teams, attack just goes in for a attack and one player of that 
 team needs to get to a certain place on the map to trigger the next round, while defensive sides 
 needs to protect that spot, mostly by camping, it gets annoying here since all players mostly camp.
 
  
  For the weapons, about 5 shots to the body can get you killed, grenades have huge, huge splash 
 damage and flashbangs take about 10-20 seconds to get to you're own vision and hearing again, maybe 
 its the aspect for realism, I don't know.
  
  Doing training like medic are just.. crazy, in the beginning you'll go into a classroom and just 
 watch a screen going about the basics of medic, just like any other soldier gets, and you can just 
 look around you and see other future teammates do the same thing as you, it just looks so snazzy 
 and is just a nice feature to the realistic-aspect to the game.
  
  The game and its servers encourage medics (people that did the medic training) to help teammates 
 in danger, its good since with the M button you can scream for help, medics mostly do this good, 
 but sometimes rarely people just give you the finger and get back to dying.
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  For a free game, the graphics are great, the unreal engine does great for the 
 game, bodies drop dead like the should do.
  
  Although, I love some maps of the game, like the Bridge map, there is one bridge Attack-side needs 
 to get thru, its just a basic map that are quickly played out, which is what everybody wants in 
 the game.
  
  Sounds are great, ranging from bullets hitting puddles of water and tree's and stone, from the 
 bullets zooming around you're ears, the bad thing is that the game doesn't have shellshock, even 
 tho the explosions sound great, theres no shellshock.
  
  Tho, some textures look rather pixelated, the game does a great job.
  
  Is it a good FPS:
 
  Good game with military aspect, some good features in the game work great, but sometimes players 
 that lack in motivation ruin the fun.
  
  Give the game a download if you have the diskspace, the game is a few GB's bigs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alensolman
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  It is the best game ever, when you start playing you cant stop. I am playing it for three years now 
 and it is still the best. I think it is the best and most impressive on line game out there. Today 
 version is 2.8.1 and it is superb but I think it is time for better graphics. I hope it will come 
 in new engine, maybe (Unreal 3) or some other. Today PC machines have graphics cards with Direct 
 X10 and this game must be better. The game is the same like she was four years ago. I hope the team 
 working on it nows that we players want nicer and better looking game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaydough
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 23, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Okay most of us like the training, it's very realistic and fun, but, the game itself is way too 
 similar to some bad games. It is like counterstrike in that if you die you have to wait 1-5 minutes 
 to get back in the game which if any of you have lives (I don't but I'm just saying : ( ...) it 
 could really drag all of your patience down the toilet because you always have to watch 1 person 
 against 1 person and they're both camping. It's like Runescape because it really, really pressures 
 you into becoming a soldier as runescape pressures you into paying them $5 a month. If you really 
 want people to be a soldier, don't feed ideas into peoples head about it being awesome, (If we've 
 played Brothers in Arms or watched Saving Private Ryan we know real war is best left in video games) 
 tell people the truth! It very very much turns real war gore (which I don't want to describe) into 
 absolutely nothing. If you're honest we might start getting ideas of fighting for you. Also, It 
 is like any type of bad pizza in that the special forces training mission tells you that after 
 you finish this training you get all of this great stuff but when you finish it you say This is 
 it? I've spent 12 Hours avoiding people and get caught every time i move and all i get is a few 
 bad maps!? Also It's like bottled water in that bottled water is just tap water in a bottle which 
 we're already paying for. America's army is free but like tap water It costs tax payers $7 million! 
 Okay, I'm done with the bad aspects, now onto the good,
  
  As I said before, the training is very fun and realistic. It has basic training, airborne school, 
 field medic training, advanced marksman class, special forces school, and advanced personnel training 
 (I think that's what they're called) In basic training you get a basic overview of controls and 
 gives you a few helpful tips. In airborne school, you get to do 2 sort of fun activities in which, 
 you are tested on how good you are at timing when you should flare. Field medic training isn't 
 very fun but it's the only thing that might actually be helpful in real life. Advanced marksman 
 class is just 2 short missions were you get to shoot at targets downrange, not much can be said 
 about these, they're just plain straight-forward. Special Forces school is testing your patience 
 and how much you've learned, I guarantee that if you don't use you're binoculars you won't pass 
 the 2nd mission and if you do, it may take you up to 12 accumulated hours of game time. Advanced 
 Personnel training you get to try out driving a jeep (Not really your standard driving test...) 
 gunning down a few targets in CROWS, and firing a javelin missile launcher. As for the real gaming, 
 it includes a very realistic multiplayer based combat system forcing you to use your teammates 
 as something other that a (Don't try this at home) human shield. It may be dragged down by the 
 Counter-Strike style gameplay but it's realism is 2nd only to Brothers in arms. It also helps real 
 soldiers morale by helping them think thoughts like hmm... maybe they actually do care about us 
 being bored and scared to death at the same time... Although this game has plenty of good aspects, 
 it is over-weighted by some of the bad characteristics it has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: explicthangnail
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 14, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  The good: GOOD FREE GAME, Training is actually kinda enjoyable, Decent graphics, Realistic game 
 play makes you feel like you're actually there ( sometimes ) , Great sound, Weapons are the real 
 deal, If you can get on a decent server you will be amazed by the great teamwork, Has some kind 
 of fun-factor that's hard to point out.
  
  The bad: Graphical glitches, Flash bang is so realistic it can get very annoying.
  
  And the 
 UGLY: Online community is awful ( Almost like they're all eight year olds. ) 
 
  
  With the tough conflicts on the eastern side of the world, America needed something to get the 
 community's attention and say, Hey! Join the Army! . They then realised the sheer number of people 
 who played online First Person Shooters daily... Thus spawned the realistic war, simulation FPS 
 that is, America's Army. First, there is a very heavy tutorial system in this game, that's what 
 half the game is, training to play the game. But in my opinion, this is the best part of the game. 
 I just loved going through the different training sessions, it really did feel like I was a solider 
 in training. Just getting yelled at by the instructors is enough to download this game. Also the 
 graphics are pretty decent at high medium - high settings, but they are not gonna make you go Wow! 
 . Plus there are a few graphical errors, but they don't deserve to bring the game down. The weapons 
 are excellent, they all look and sound like they should. All of them. Sometimes so realistic that 
 it makes you wanna touch them for real, this is probably what they intended. I really want to touch 
 a rifle now, and what better way to do that then to join the Army? While the realistic gameplay 
 is great, it could also be your throw off. This isn't Battlefield 2 realistic, this is life-like 
 realistic. Your weapons can jam, you breath and it effects every weapon. And when they say flash 
 bang, they mean it! It's so annoying to get hit by a flashbang in this game, your character becomes 
 so disoriented that he practically can't walk until the worst is over. Which takes about 1 minute!. 
 It's realistic, but not fun.
  
  And while this may be an online game, the community doesn't do a very good job of promoting that. 
 They are pretty much made out of: Cry babies, Smart asses, and most are just down right dumb. But 
 not every server is like this, the good ones will be very enjoyable and you will feel like you 
 are in a squad fighting terrorism.
  
  Overall America's Army is a decent non-commercial game. You can download it, or go to your local 
 Army recruitment score and pick it up in a installation disk. See you on the battle field solider!
 
  
  HOOHA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trav3ice9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  I started this game thinking it might be worth playing for a little while. Now that I've played 
 it for almost six months, which is actually a major commitment for me, I realize how great of a 
 game it is. The detail is stunning and the difficulty is varying from easy to extremely difficult. 
 It is a game I highly recommend to anyone who enjoys having fun. It is the greatest multiplayer 
 I have ever played and the most realistic game altogether that I have played. It is funaminal. 
 I would gladly buy this game again to play it. It is simply amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eagersharp
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  America's Army is a classic the moment i started to play this game. I was instantly hooked to its 
 uncompelling realisim. No other free online fps can match up to America's Army's originalism. It 
 sets the bar too high for the future realistic fps shooters. Once you finish the training thats 
 when your boat start to move. Even though i got to admit this game is a very slow paced game; in 
 the end quality of the gameplay will overwelm that factor. The graphics are great and the sound 
 is just as good. The gameplay i warn you is very addictive and it will leave you guessing who is 
 right over the corner waiting to spray bullets at your very sight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buubua
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  At first when I heard about this game I thought that it sounded ok and that maybe one day I would 
 check it out. When I finally decided to download it I was amazed at how realistic it was!
  
  The graphics are great. You have to go through different types of training to be able to do 
 certain co-op missions and not all of your training is hands on, some of it is sitting in a classroom 
 listening to a lecure which really surprised me. It is very realistic from the training to the 
 squad layout. The AI is surprisingly very smart and it knows the best way to engage you. The only 
 complaint I have about it is that there is no single player for when you can't find a good server. 
 I must warn you though that if you want to play that you should have a really good video card. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick225
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  America's Army (current version - 2.8) is a great game. It's multiplayer only, except for the training 
 missions which you must complete before playing.
  
  the graphics are pretty good, they're not the best, but then again, they aren't the worst. it's 
 a very hard game, since you're playing against other people, and one or two well placed shots will 
 kill you. plus, you pretty much have to limit yourself to one or two maps at a time, so you can 
 master each. each map is different and unique, and you need to learn and use seperate tactics on 
 each. their are hundreds of server running the newest version and 50-70 running 2.6 and 2.7, so 
 you should never have a problem finding an open game, unless youre looking for a game on one of 
 the less popular maps.
  
  you really dont get to choose your guns, instead you choose your 'class'. if you are a rifleman 
 in your squad, you get a m16. the grenadier gets an m203. squad leader - m16 + binoculars. automatic 
 rifleman - m249 (SAW) .
  there are also several snipers, but to choose them, you must get above a certain score on your 
 basic firearms training and then complete sniper training. normally, there are two snipers on each 
 side, one gets an m24 and the other gets the barret.
  
  america's army is a great multiplayer game, and it's definately worth picking up, after all it's 
 free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infect999
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This game was the first online shooter i ever played, and to this day i have played nearly 1000 
 hours of it. It's addictive, and can be very exciting. The gameplay is pretty realistic. A lot 
 of work was obviously put into the realism. While the training may be a pain at times, its hard 
 to complain since the game is free. And the training is worth the rewards, which range from new 
 maps to more ways to earn points toward your honor level to being able to drive vehicles or fire 
 anti-tank weaponry in the new versions.
  
  The maps are well designed and fun to play. My personal favorite is Pipeline, which has a mix of 
 outdoor and indoor terrain, plus distant firefights and close-quarters combat. While the map Bridge 
 Crossing seems small, you will have a fun and long-lasting time trying to make it to the other 
 team's side of the bridge. The new map Steamroller (available on versions 2.7 and 2.8) is massive, 
 featuring 6 stories you can explore. The co-op maps featured on those versions of the game are 
 also exciting. The AI enemies you play against in these maps aren't half bad and can sometimes 
 prove to be a challenge to defeat.
  
  The overall gameplay is highly realistic and difficult, but a fun experience if you take the time 
 to get good at the game. When you first start playing the game you will probably be killed a lot, 
 but once you learn the pace of the game and excellent tactics, you'll be racking up kills. While 
 the gameplay can be very slow paced, its still very good. The game can get suspenseful as your 
 teamates die and you become the last member of the team alive, sitting in complete silence. Or 
 it can be exciting and feel like a real battle with players shouting out orders and reports over 
 the radio and people dying everywhere. The excitement builds when you're alone and you run into 
 an enemy and grenades and bullets begin flying. One of my favorite parts of the game is the rag-doll 
 effect when players die. A dead body will almost never look the same.
  
  In short, this game is a fun and exciting experience that is well worth the free download. The 
 army did an excellent job with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawkeye_89
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 27, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  AA is one of the few realistic shooters out there its one of my favorites for the reasons that 
 when you get shot ur health doesnt regain or ur shields dont regain like in halo or those other 
 games, you can bleed to death and it does affect ur precision when you shoot when you get shot. 
 I personally am addicted to this game because the people really know what they are doing when they 
 play ahd the honor system is fanominal to show whos got the best gunner hand so yeah in the end 
 AA is a solid great game btw its free lol go play it NOW!!! Hooah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andreagiallo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 21, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  The whole idea of the game is a good one also after seeing the images and screen-shots of this 
 game you will notice how well this game was made! And the best thing is that this game is FREE!!! 
 It might sound funny but believe me it is the truth if you are reading this review I recommend 
 that you download this game from the game spot download servers. This game helps also to encourage 
 young people who have ambitions to join the U. S Army and this also helps them in basic combat knowledge 
 and common sense. Before you can start playing which I think is a very good idea is that you must 
 first go through basic training to play the basic infantry missions but for those who want to get 
 in to cooler and more professional action to play the airborne, special forces and ranger missions 
 you first have to complete the special forces training. Now since 2.8 has come out there is also 
 advanced individual training such as Humvee licence and Javelin training. Also to use some weapons 
 in the game you must first complete the training for that specific training for example to use 
 the sniper rifle you must first qualify in the training to use this weapon in battle!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: audio972
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I have been playingsince 1.9. Ever since I have started playing I have been looking for a game 
 the will overcome the realism of America's Army. The only game that comes close is BF2. The only 
 downfall of this game is the training you have to do inorder to play certian missions. But, if 
 you think about it, America's Army was developed by the U. S. Army (greatest fighting power in the 
 world) as a training and recruiting tool. The don't just hand M-16's to civilian and send them 
 to war. I have play in clans and used ventrillio, and I'll tell you, when you are playing with 
 team work, the only thing that will kill you is a spam 203 or a crap load of luck. All and all 
 this is a great game to get into, not only because of the fact that is an all around great game, 
 but, its free.
  If you want to play my xfire is Chrisrack
  and my AA name is Rack_attack.
  
  Have fun guys.
  Army Strong
  [] - [] O O /\ [] - [] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkytown90210
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The training you take before you can play multiplayer is fun except for the MOUT shoothouse. 
 They are actually worth replaying IMO. They are all easy too except for the airborne drops. When 
 you get to real multiplayer i noticed that it's almost impossible to be sniper if you want to. 
 Compared to Battlefield 2 (My other favorite shooter) it involves some waiting and the action isn't 
 constant but that adds to the realistic feel. Guns can jam which doesn't become a nuiscance at 
 all. All the sniper rifles and heavy machine guns have bipods which can increase accuracy. It's 
 nearly flawless.
  
  Graphics: While it's been out for awhile, the graphics are up to par with most of todays games. 
 My only real complaint about the graphics is that the gun animations are a little lacking IMO. 
 9.0 Sound: Great sound qaulity, no complaints here.
  
  Value: Since it's free and it's not bad its a great value already. It's well worth the 2 or so 
 hour download for the new version at 500 Kbs that's like 2.8 GB. Bottom Line: If you like shooters 
 or teamwork based games this is for you. Has 1 or 2 small faults that only stand out becuse the 
 rest of the game is so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avp2167
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 15, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  This game is simply great.
  
  Everything about it is realistic. EVEN THE TRAININGS! You have to WRITE Exams!!!!!!! Its like a 
 virtual school!
  
  When i finished training, i went online to find plenty of servers. I joined one and admired the 
 loading (The American Army chant i think) When the game started, i enjoyed the realism and action 
 packed shooting. The death animation is RAG doll physics. VERY NICE.
  
  My guns also gets jammed sometimes and i have to unjam it!!
  
  This game is worth the download 
 times.
  
  Its FREE, its FUN, Its COOL!
  
  ITS WHAT YOUR gonna download.
  
  PS: You don't need a high graphic card to run this. My friend has a radeon 7000 and the game worked 
 fast with no lag at medium graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John5227
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 15, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  America's Army is a really great game. I've played many other FPS games, such as Battlefield, and 
 would have to say that America's Army is better in some ways. If you want realism, then America's 
 Army is the way to go. Even if you aren't really into the most realistic games, you should give 
 this one a try. After all, the game is free to play. This is, however, one of the most difficult 
 games I have ever played. That is certainly the truth once you begin playing. Many people already 
 have played a long time, so therefore you might be behind them in skill. One thing about the game 
 that can get quite bothersome, is the fact that when you die in the game you have to wait until 
 the next round starts. Besides that, the multiplayer is really immersive - and sometimes the waits 
 for kills can be quite long. The graphics are still amazing to this current day, but I would have 
 to admit that a few things could still be improved on. The sounds are also really great, and if 
 you have a sound card that is capable of HD or EAX, then you will really enjoy the sounds.
  
  Overall I think this game is great, even though it is really tough. Any savvy FPS player should 
 give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osadeghi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 6, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  So I've been playing this game since its fruition and time sure has flown. I intitially made the 
 transition from playing 2 years of Delta Force and finally made the move when the remaining members 
 of our squad agreed to a trial run. It was the best move and worst move at the same time. The main 
 differences between the older FPS games I played and Americas Army was apparent immediately, it 
 was the WAITING. Now if you're used to games like Quake, Counter Strike, or BHD like I was, A 2-8 
 minute wait will slowly make you lose hair from tugging through the remaining time in the game 
 until you can actually play. Yes, once your dead, YOUR DEAD. That was very apparent the first time 
 you go into a server as a n00b and get pwn3d . Once I got used to having patience the gameplay 
 between the Unreal Engine, which is constatly improved on, and the constant demand for intense 
 strategy makes this game what it is... and that just plain fun. So you get into the game the first 
 thing you'll bump heads with is the dreadful training, in particular the Special Forces training, 
 which at the time was what I thought the end of the world when I couldnt complete it. But have 
 some patience and next thing you know you will be done with all of your training and ready to focus 
 on gaining honor. So what is honor, well some say its a way to gauge how good of a player someone 
 is. So on a scale from 1-100 the 100 should be better than the 63 honor player, right?.... WRONG. 
 In my case in particular I lost an account through some mishaps at Pragmatic and had to start all 
 over from 10 when I used to have an 82 honor account. And me being 10 was taking a majority of 
 higher honor player to the cleaners. So the message of this would be to never underestimate a player 
 because of there honor, you might catch yourself yelling, HACKER , OMG , &amp;%$# .
  
  So if I were you and you actually read this, go download the game... oh yeah did I mention it's 
 100% free to play. That's ofcourse you don't go on and buy your own honor server. That will put 
 a dent in your pocket with server starting at $5 a slot. But forget about biying anything right 
 now, just download it and get your feet wet. You'll be coming in at a good time since AA has started 
 a new map editor and you never know, maybe your creation will be the next popular map.
  
  Frag Out, Krypto 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geitenvla
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  America's amry is a really tactical FPS. This is something different than all the others out there 
 because the goal of this game is to make battle as realistic as possible with modern technology. 
 This isn't really a game, this is more like a simulator and really requires you to think before 
 you act. Sure, you can run in with guns blazing only to find yourself waiting another couple of 
 minutes to try again. This can be really frustrating, especially if you're a new player and die 
 a lot. You really need battle expierence to play this game but once you get to know the map, the 
 good and bad spots and the game play - it is just great. As said before, this thing is more like 
 a simulator and that is also the games' excuse for you not to spawn immediately after death.
  
  A game like this is very sensitive to the server its being played on . A good server means 
 a lot of fun and a solid gameplay with lots a tactics and strategy. As for a bad server, you wind 
 up with cheaters, people cursing and every one calling anyone a noob. This is by far my only real 
 critism on the game. Most of the times I get a feeling I'm playing with people acting like 8 year 
 olds. Only way not to let this stand in your way is to ignore the ingame chat channel. But seriously: 
 the active playing community lacks respect big time. This can be very discouraging to new players 
 and my advise to all of them will be: have fun and ignore them.
  
  The game itself is a free download due to the developer being the US army. This is great 'cause 
 you get lots of support and the game is frequently updated. Despite the army denies this being 
 a recruiting tool, it shouts join the army all over. I don't have a problem with that, I think 
 it's kinda fun we can all see through that :) Also there are some ingame help channels which are 
 really helpful if you ever run into technical trouble with AA. (america's army that is ;) There 
 always seems to be people around willing to give you good advise. The graphics are detailed and 
 smooth. It runs on an unreal engine (3rd or 4th gen!?!? I'm not sure) The physics are really good... 
 bodies drop in a very realistic way although sometimes they hang around in impossible ways. Everything 
 feels really good, the walking, the recoil, the weapon handling... it is all done very well and 
 really contributes to the feel of the game.
  
  The sound is fair. All the guns sound like the suppose to but as this being a simulator, don't 
 expect any ingame music apart from the main menu. Ofcourse you can always play the game with your 
 own MP3s in the background, no crashing here. The replay value of the game is huge. There are lots 
 of different maps and every single multiplayer battle is different. Although some maps only work 
 best with certain tactics in order to be succesful. But you can always try and find another way; 
 it's endless.
  Ever since version 2.7 COOP maps are also implemented in to the game. These maps are fair but the 
 enemy AI is not really good. Only way for them to win is by outnumbering the human squad. No tactics 
 from their side whatsoever, they are just really good aimbots. Ofcourse, you don't have to play 
 these maps and you're best of sticking to the multiplayer maps. That is the real deal.
  
  The game supports teamspeak which I highly recommend. This adds a great deal of realism to your 
 battles and also makes the game more serious. If you play with teamspeak, you're almost certain 
 of a seriously playing team and really gives you an advantage over the other team. In my opinion, 
 this is the only fun and right way to play this game.
  
  In general, America's Army is really good if you like tactical warfare. Wanna run around like a 
 madman!? Try something else. Wanna be part of a tactical battle? Look no further, this is your 
 game! Install it NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedRebel5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  America's Army (AA) is an amazingly realistic game that lets you step into a modern day soldiers 
 shoes. It is made by the Army and is obviously a recruiting tool. Even if you don't plan to enlist 
 in the armed forces this game is still worth downloading. AA is set up so that you go through a 
 series of training exercises from basic training to special forces training. You must complete 
 these training exercises to be eligible to go up against real people. How ever a great thing about 
 this is that you don't have to complete all of the training exercises. For example, until you complete 
 advanced marksmanship training you can't be a sniper in real missions. You can however fight as 
 a normal rifleman. Once you are done with training you enter the actual game play. There are plenty 
 of maps that you play on where you try to complete various objectives while fighting the other 
 team at the same time. The game play is very unique and very intense. Unlike other first person 
 shooters in this game you are forced to use you sights and aim. This is because the game simulates 
 breathing and the gun actually moves up and down as you look down the scope. AA is a great game 
 that is worth looking into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SisSea
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, I rate it a 10. I think the best part is you get to play with other people and 
 it is free. The graphics are of the best I have ever seen. You can watch a team member after you 
 get killed and get to learn how other people play and their tactics, which is another plus, you 
 name the type of shooter you like and I promise you there is a map for you. This game rocks and 
 by far one of my favorites. I think the only downside I can think of is that you are thrown into 
 war with seasoned players after you finish basic training and you will take flack for being a newbie 
 on occasion, but that has nothing to do with the game it is just how people are. A lot of younger 
 people flock to this game 13-20's that is fine and well but if you are a tad older like I am you 
 are a rarity, but it is a plus in this game us older folks have an advantage we are smarter and 
 our reflexes are a bit slower than the youngin's so we live longer using our smarts the old adage 
 fools rich in. My favorite map is FLS, which is where you can play defense or assault, I love the 
 assault you get to jump out of a plane and get the objective after you take out the defense. Don't 
 be fooled non of the maps are easy you earn your ranks for sure, but I personally would not have 
 it any other way. Enjoy this game, nothing like it out there. The best thing about this game is 
 you have to complete basic training before you get to go on actual missions, you can choose what 
 training you want if it includes SF or being a med. I can go on but I will stop my novella, this 
 game rocks and you gotta try it. Download is huge and well worth it. I highly suggest you use head 
 phones when playing so you can hear approaching footstep thrown frags etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 9, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  America's Army: Special Forces (Which is now out) recently followed up on America's Army: Operations 
 to make the game even more realistic. In America's Army, you play the role of a soldier rising 
 through the ranks of the army. First you undergo basic training, then you can play the basic missions. 
 There more training available if you want to play more missions but training is time consuming, 
 boring, and you have to pass a test to complete it. America's Army is very realistic, includes 
 real US Army weapons, and places you in realistic scenerios.
  
  America's Army is a solid, realistic game. Few games compare with it when it comes to graphics, 
 sound, and of course price. Despite it's realism, there isn't as much action as you would find 
 in other games like Return To Castle Wolfenstein or other WWII Shooters. I recommend that, if youre 
 interested in army games, you give America's Army a try. If you have the patience to complete basic 
 training, America's Army is probably the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: townie4699
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 2, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This game was a blast and i highly recommend it. starting out takes some time to learn all the buttons 
 to hit but as you learn you appreciate the game even more. The multiplayer in this is nuts, i really 
 had a blast running around with my team and trying to kill everything else on the screen. if you 
 learn to work as a team, it makes it alot easier to kill the enemies. You start to become more aware 
 of whats going on around you, the action is a hit and i can say that you will love this game. the 
 graphic's are really cool also. I could not find one thing to complain about the game is a blast 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyamericansn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 11:17 pm PT
Review:  ... then look no further.
  
  Saying realistic to most gamers may varry from gamer to gamer, but this will probably just up to 
 that level are far off the scale, and to extreme for some. AA is reserved for those who seek such 
 realism, modern shooter that is, and maybe for those veteran FPS gamers. This can be proven wrong 
 by those annomalies in this small community of AA, since the overwhelming multi tasking you need 
 to do just to fight. The many protocalls needed to maintain a combat stance on the field will be 
 overwhelmming for even the more experienced.
  
  This maybe a deterant, but this may not apply to all, if you can't handle, don't bother continuing... 
 Although there are those who are just skilled at shooting, but are just needing that extra experience 
 to get down on the many actions that restrict you to fight in a fire fight.
  
  The gameplay is obviously only for the online players, the trainings are not realy 'trainings' 
 in which it will train you to fight, but more of a unlocking tutorial that may frustrate few who 
 can't master they keys that are needed to function on a battle field. But with the new 'Play as 
 a hero' choice, we will see alot of new gamers entering the community. Though I do have to criticise 
 that it would be much wiser to make that a demo, and make it a contain a small part of the full 
 game, thus just needing to install a second part to make it full for those who are not willing 
 to commit to the game yet. But that's just my opinion.
  
  The technical part of the game has been a rollercoaster ride through out all of the patchs. But 
 of late, (v2.4) the crashs have dramaticaly dropped, which is a start.
  
  New content from 2.4 is alot of fun. The new COOP mode is very interesting. AI is a little lacking, 
 make it non existant. The way the bots react is nothing to realism, but it proves to be a challenge, 
 as the wield the good old aim bot, so be prepared if you get head shot for no reason, just 'cause 
 you walk around a cornor. Though it is sometimes forgiving at times.
  The new map. Steamroller, is probably the first of it's kind. An extreme CQB map on a realistic 
 shooter. GRAW (Ghost Reacon Advanced Warfighter) is a CQB orientated game, Steamroller has alot 
 more leveled buildings, and roof-top snipers. After you run through all the maps a couple times, 
 everything gets a little more predicable.
  
  Some of the other maps do take your breath away, just because of the size. But this only builds 
 up to the illusion of infanate possibilies in a combat situations.
  
  The weapons is also decent. Although it only caters to the standard American used weapons that 
 are deployed on the field, it does seem like thats all you need. Although sometimes you feel like 
 you just want to see what the other weapons stack up like to the stock load out you get in the 
 game engine.
  
  With the new release of Gears of War and Rainbow Six: Vegas, they require you to hug your cover 
 with your dear life, AA has already emulated such real life situations in the game from the start. 
 Cover is your best friend. And that is no under statment. But the other factors do play in alot 
 in the game. Random rounds can accidentaly (or intentionaly) clip your head, and you've got to 
 wait for the round to end. Thus it does come down to the situation.
  
  This game is nothing like CS, GRAW, Gears of War, or anyother game realy out there. As said many 
 times, this is the most realistic Modern Shooter out there. (The most realistic shooter is probably, 
 Battlegroup Europe.) So be it you are ready to seatle down to a more realistic shooter, and getting 
 frustrated over the un-realistic physics of some games, or those who are just wanting a pretty 
 good challenge to build up that skill, then check this game out. Its totaly free for download, 
 or you can order the CD instead of waiting for a download if you have a slow connection, but if 
 you do have a slow connection, be advised that you will have a rough experience with this game... 
 So ya, check it out...
  
  -Opi
  -FPS Fanatic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scott666bad
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  America's army is an all inclusive knock your socks of game that comes with a awsome on-line and 
 just to make it all the better totaly free. Thats right you get an fps to rival the graphics of 
 killzone and halo with a gameplay to rival BF2 and you pay-to-play the small sum of zipp, zero, 
 nadda. all thought on its own its a good game if you get really into it (as i have) you'll want 
 to get yourself a clan just to make it all the better. One thing i dont like tho is that there 
 is no microphone support, but if you have a clan you can just talk to them on vent or teamspeak 
 wich are also free!!
  
  In conclusion this game is a must have and will always have the advantage of being free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 19, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  Being a big fan of FPSs and MMPs I downloaded this game after reading the excellent reviews posted 
 about on gamespot. This 'realistic' game is published by the US Army to make people understand 
 what is really going on inside the army and to encourage more people to join it.
  
  When they say realistic, I can hardly believe them. The choppy character movement and difficulty 
 switching positions. The constant jams and the irritating lag and bugs. It's a glitch of a game. 
 Enabling Punkbuster causing problems, kicking players who don't cheat, such as I. Also, critical 
 errors because the game can't play right, which means coding problems. Early versions included 
 deathly annoying netcode problems. Meaning on the HUGE maps, the bullets would stop and not reach 
 a selected target. Hm, that's certainly realistic. The worst part is the training. Although this 
 is realistic as far as military goes. It's a dud. C'mon, this is a video game! We want action! 
 Rather than sitting through training pulling off stupid assignments. It's difficult to do the jumping 
 and get into sniper course since the target's in rifle training disagree with physics and don't 
 fall when shot. When you're finally done training you get to go into the somewhat better online 
 play. Hurray? The graphics are good I will say, but on a map so big it causing choppy behavior 
 and irritating gameplay. Also the sound is again, realistic, and doesn't have anything wrong with 
 it. Although, no background music or interesting sounds make it sort of plain.
  
  Take my advice and stick out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silentshooter
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 17, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Americas Army is a Fps in which you play as soldier in the American Army though there is no storyline 
 and missions you can go on there are multiplayer servers in which you play with other people all 
 over the world.
  
  Americas Army is a very intense and fun multiplayer game. Usualy I would reccomend this game to 
 any FPS player out there looking for a free and terrific game. The game is so real you even have 
 to pass training before you can go out and join the fight against terrorism. All around America's 
 Army is a great, intense, widely played multiplayer game that will be enjoyable to anyone who plays 
 it. I recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xphunter1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 9, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome because it's graphic, reallisem, and the objective.
  It's like an ordinary game, like Battlefield 2, but just FREE, and with cool objectives.
  
 
  Each map has it's own objectives. In Pipline you need to shut 4 valves or the primary computer. 
 In Bridge Crossing you need to cross the bridge with data.
  Insugrent Camp is in the night. You should use nightvision and other cool stuff. Ect...
  
  
 The disadvantages of the game:
  1. Long rounds. If you die at the beginning of the round, you will probably have to wait about 4 
 minutes till the round will end.
  2. Hard to kill - Sometimes the shootings seems to be uneven... you can find yourself shooting accurate 
 at some1 and he wont die... and then he can see u and kill you in a sec. but that accure often...
 
  
  see scoring for more info. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 7, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  ive been playing this sinc it came out and i gotta tell you its the best game ever (realistic wise) 
 not only that but its free...
  
  the good: graphics are amazing and gameplay is just nuts not only that but it takes skill to be 
 good so dont expevt to get 22 kills like in those BF games.
  there are alot of really fun maps and some big ones for those who like to camp and take there sweet 
 ass time. the accuracy is AWSOME!!!!!!!!! so you shouldent really complain about that. you dont 
 have alot of weapons to use but with each patch they incluse new ones in some maps.
  
  the bad: you will come across stupid players that dont play as a team member... hackers... and 
 ghosters which is ppl who are using teamspeak or ventrilo... when they die and they are on the 
 other tem they go to each player and well tell the other person where they are... now that i just 
 told you that i think you will do that same... not alot of bugs and exploits becouse they fixed 
 pretty much all of them... the obj are fun to do and each map you play differently and approach 
 differently... but its not cool when ppl just go off on there own...
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  but hey its a free game and its great so i shouldent complain alot :) they did a great job and 
 you will notice squads now... if you know ppl or with a clan convince them to work as a SQUAD!!! 
 and approach each obj differently... it also gives you a great feel to it... and did i mention 
 its really realistic ^_^ you cant jump and shoot it takes time to go prone but it has a better 
 feel to it and alot of ppl enjoy it and you will too give it a shot you will love it without question... 
 TONS!!! of maps TONS!!! of fun www. americasarmy. com sign up create an account train and go on the 
 battlefield soldier... find them and shoot them complete objectives and go up in honor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  The creation and marketing of America's Army was a great idea for the US Army. By providing an 
 interactive environment in which potential recruits could undergo a pseudo virtual sampling of 
 what a soldier truly experiences, the US Army was able to showcase what it has to offer in a format 
 familiar to today's recruit.
  
  Starting the game at Basic Training was a great idea; it not only provided a perfect opportunity 
 to instruct the player on the game's controls, but it also followed the same logical progression 
 that new recruits follow. All that was missing was the drill instructor screaming at you at o'dark 
 thirty to get out of the rack.
  
  I was impressed that the physics engine in America's Army accurately represented (for a game at 
 any rate) the recoil of the weapons when fired, and the barrel movement when using a scope or the 
 weapon's iron sights.
  
  I recommend America's Army to anyone looking for as realistic a first-person shooter as I have 
 ever played, or for America's youth, who may be considering a career in the military. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lezdeppelin1249
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 30, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great multiplayer (obviously) , great sound , the honor thing is brilliant, lots of maps 
 to play, lots of styles and ways to play, each map has its own way to play (if you know what i 
 meen) , it takes tallent to be good at, very challeging somtimes.
  
  The Bad: Camping... people can find cheap ways to kill such as nurse camping and ghosting on pb 
 servers (that really pisses me off) admins need to shut up some times, not very intece whe people 
 camp on levels that arent made for camping, alot of the levels are boring.
  
  Summery: The game wins the best realistic war action out there. Ive been playing over a year and 
 a half now and im only at honor 59 i will get to 100. Anyways, this game takes alot of talent to 
 be good at it, lots of thinking and quick reactions so DAMLOAD IT&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; ITS FREE (link 
 below)
  
  www. americasarmy. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zappa02
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This game as greet multiplayer.... It real listit.... The sound of the gun sounds so real.... The 
 of training to teach you about how to play the game online.... And the difficulty is just right 
 on this game... And when you are playing online you can deid easy.... This game is about steelf not 
 run and gun....
  
  And you get to creator your won weapon too use online... That is the great part about this game.... And 
 when you play this game make share you do not team kill with you do you lose your ranck.....
  
  The great thing about this game its free......... And you should download it... The gameplay 
 was realy fun I injoyed it..... And the sound wasv the best sound I have ever hread in my live....
 
  
  Thats way I give this game a 9.0......
  
  Download it now...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamtastik
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Going more for realism than cartoon-ish AA makes a great game. Unlike other FPS's there is a penalty 
 for going rambo and such. When you die there is no re-spawn untill the next round. Forcing players 
 to work as a team. The only drawback to this is AA has a extremely high learning curve. However 
 if you hang in there you should eventually get better. I recommend staying on the leased servers 
 preferably those run by one of the main AC groups. ( AON, ACI, AASA, PsB ) This will ensure you 
 a fair playing field and keep the stupid script kiddies and lame cheaters away from you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --Magnum91 --
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 1, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  America's Army is probably very different from any other FPS you've played. Although it is basically 
 just a recruiting tool, it is still a blast to play. AA is like a breath of (free) fresh air amongst 
 other unrealistic shooters *coughCScough*
  
  The premise of the game is similar to CS. Two teams, opposing goals. They could eliminate the other 
 team, or complete their goal. Unlike CS, however, you are always a U. S. soldier, no matter what 
 side you are on. Your teammates and their weapons always appear to you as friendlies, and as terrorists 
 to OPFOR (enemies) . Obviously, the Army wouldn't want potential recruits to be killing off U. S. 
 soldiers. After all, AA is just a recruiting tool.
  
  That said, it is still one heck of a game. Although you probably won't find it in your average 
 pub game, teamwork really is the key to success in the AA world. If you can work together with 
 a few guys, you will usually dominate. Communicating is vital, and as typing out enemies positions, 
 strategies, ect. is time consuming, a mic will really help.
  
  When you first fire up the game, you will have to go through basic training before you get online. 
 This is fairly simple, and is really just to get you acquainted with the controls. If you want 
 to be a medic, do the airborne missions, be a sniper, or play the SF missions, you must go through 
 separate training for each. This is a really great addition, as you have a sense of accomplishment 
 when you complete them. This training actually takes a fair amount of skill and patience (some 
 more than others) . It's not uncommon to kill 30-45 minutes crawling your way around the SF training 
 course.
  
  Depending on how you do in a game, you will have an Honor level (1-100) . This really can't go down 
 unless you kill oodles and oodles of teammates or civies, but it's usually a good indication of 
 skill of a given player. You will get points for getting kills, winning a round, healing teammates, 
 and "leadership". Honor is great because it keeps you busy and gives you something to keep you 
 coming back.
  
  One of the best parts of AA IMHO, is the fact that it doesn't revolve around killing the enemy. 
 Although you do get rewarded for kills, to focus of the game is to accomplish the mission. Again, 
 this is where teamwork comes in. Working together, coordinating movements, and giving friendlies 
 a heads up when OPFOR is near is always a good way to go.
  
  Overall, AA is a great game that any FPS nut should have. Heck, anybody should have it, it is free 
 after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinese_man_guy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 28, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  So what if the graphics aren't the greatest. The gameplay may take a while to get used to, and 
 since some people have been playing since it came out in 2002, your probably gonna be horrible 
 at first. You only have one life each round, you have to make the best of it, you can't go guns 
 blaring like some kind of rambo, you have to think, and use strategy to actually play the game. 
 Thinking, yea that's something new. There's thousands of servers to join, and over 20 maps. Huge 
 updates come every 6 months with new maps and new features. It's definitely worth downloading. 
 You can't go wrong, it's free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VietN1nja
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 23, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  To start off, this is a totally free game, which is very cool, since it plays like one of the games 
 you buy. The graphics are pretty good, but the sound could use a lot of retouching. The sounds 
 of the guns all mostly sound the same, and don't give you the feeling of being in an intense situation. 
 The game online is a tactical based team game, but while there is usually no teamwork, the game 
 can remain as a fun experience for anyone. One point I would like to make though is that even though 
 this game is developed by the army, it isn't as tactical as I expected it to be. Sometimes, it 
 can take many shots to take down an opponent, and the fact that you can't control your breathing 
 when holding a sniper rifle is very annoying. If you're short of money or just want to try this 
 game out, I reccomend you do, because it is pretty good for a free game, and alright if it was 
 a commercial game, and the learning curve is clean and simple, the gameplay does get old after 
 a while though. Be warned however, there are many people in this game who are jerks, think they're 
 really good just because it's a supposedly tactical game compared to others, meaning they think 
 you will suck badly at first, but they end up getting owned after they're bragging, and when you 
 get to high honor levels, there are many haters and the game just gets boring. If you want to play 
 a free game, then this is the game for you, well, at least next to wolfenstein, and silkroad, oh 
 yeah, and warrock also. However, if yiou want fast paced action, or want another popular online 
 fps, such as counter-strike, battlefield 2, etc. Then I reccomend you either try this game somewhere 
 else or something like that, because if you have one of those amazing games, there is no reason 
 to play this game. Also, if you crave tactical games, then I reccomend you to try this game, and 
 also try rainbow six raven shield or swat 4, because they are much more tactical, and a lot better, 
 even if they aren't free. This game isn't bad, I consider it a good game, but compared to commercial 
 shooters, this game may be able to hold it's own, but only by a slight margin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faladore
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 19, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  The game is fun and free. You are probably thinking this sounds fantastic. Well read through this 
 first. I have played many FPS games including numerous years of counter-strike and was very pleased 
 to find an online game with rankings and stats other than simple name reputation or server stats. 
 The trainings are fun even though they bore you with the tests. They made it challenging enough 
 that finally went online to find how to get from checkpoint b to c without being detected ( there 
 are too many options of which your are nearly alwaysgoing to be detected and unless you have countless 
 hours at your hands you will also look for the walkthrough of the SF E &E) . Anyways i completed 
 all the trainings and began playing online. I like what i saw and first but it is slow. If you 
 are slow and methodic and dont mind crawling around this game is for you. I however seem to be 
 thegood oldrusher who like to point shoot and kill. There are several types of maps and you will 
 definietly find some that you like. 
  However, the gameplay is not very good! i could not figure out how to run it on my Geforce and 
 it only rand on direct 3d. Also the graphics are average and some aspects of the game are confusing. 
 It took me a while to understand that even if you choose the enemy team you are always a marine 
 and you will inevitably shoot your vip the first time you play. (at least i did) . 
  All in all its just way to slow for me to spend the time required by the game.
  But its free 
 so try and see for yourself.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamingod2272
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Other than that this game is great and shows what you actually have to do to get through army training. 
 From training to deployment and beyond. This game is NOT for fraggers and thank god. It's all about 
 accuracy here because you only get 1 or 2 frags in a game so no more random blasts :) . The cool 
 thing is you actually have to pass training to go to deployment. Although this training takes hours. 
 You start at marksmanship and end at Special Forces which is great. You get to learn about medics, 
 weapons, and vehicle identification. You also have classes like school. I'm not kidding you got 
 to actually pay attention so you can pass the test at the end of the class. You get all kinds of 
 weapons from RPG-7 to M-16 to an M-24 and even the M-429 SAW. That's right the big daddy ;) . You 
 can even get Terrorist weapons like the VSS "Vintorez", the AK-47, and the PK Machinegun. The really 
 cool thing in this game, at least I think, is the fact that you only get 1 life. That's right you 
 got 1. If you die you have to wait for the next round which can range from a few seconds to a few 
 minutes. 
  
  This game is great and I would recommend to kids, adults, and wanna-be soldiers. You really get 
 a feel for the reality of war and can have alot of fun if you take your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s-leya-s
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 11, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  AA - pure and ultimate fight. It is the best choice for realism freaks, for people sick to touch 
 world of realistic tactical shooter.
  
  Let; s start form the begging, AA multiplayer only, no AI. It gives us opportunity to match real 
 opponents, with all ups and downs in strategy and particular behaviour. Multiple servers are available, 
 majority fast and no lagging if you match proper part of the world and keep the eye on the good 
 officials and even better privates.
  
  Video - good, nothing fancy, but superbly clear and realistic - 8 score
  Sound is fair too - 
 7 score
  Physics - well, for nading 8, for the rest 4 is maximum.
  
  So why the hell, I marked it 10. Cause of whole realism, and 4 years of playing, 4 years of constant 
 game development, 4 years of growing together with the game. In the last 2 years, I spent more 
 then 1000 hours in that world, fighting enemy in the deserts, mountains, taigas, taking the control 
 for shipping and receiving, underground pipelines, tunnels and mid-night-camps. Hours of teamspeak 
 fun with friends and clan members.
  
  Anyway, it is my symbol of my love toward AA.
  H O A G H ! ! !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarbedBuffalo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 31, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfectly fine, there are no strings attached. 
  
  somebody wrote that you shouldn't put your real information in when you sign up... WHAT INFORMATION!
 
  
  you type an account name and give them your email adress so they can send you a password to sign 
 in.... 
  
  and they also said the army will recruit you in a draft....
  
  The draft ended in like vietnam... you can chill out... besides they arent going to throw you in 
 real combat just because you are good at playing a videogame.... sorry but i think your really 
 peranoid.
  
  
  My game review. 
  ____________
  
  the graphics are great, the scenery is breathtaking. 
  
  the guns are accurate, 
 heck it has the most accurate Machine Guns i ever used in a FPS since Counter Strike. 
  
  its realistic to a certain extent. If guns got Jamed as much as they do in this game, they wouldn't 
 use them in the army.... mine jam at LEAST once a round.... i doubt it happens that frequently 
 for anybody else... but it kind of makes the game a bit more thrilling, at least if you run into 
 an enemy and realize your gun is jammed, and run out of the way and live to tell about it.
  
  nice gun selection..
  
  good player skins,
  
  servers i been on so far have been newbie 
 friendly,
  i can't speak for some other servers.......
  
  the m16 looks cool when its reloading. I feel wierd for saying that but i like watching guns reload 
 in FPSs and the shotgun in The Suffering :)
  
  I wouldn't say the extencive training courses and book work before you start the game make it anymore 
 realistic than any other army game...
  because every other Army game out there has training before it. some people just choose not to 
 do it... think about it. Americas Army just choose to drag it out and assume it makes it more realistic.
 
  
  The Drill Sargent... I think hes a bit to nice... i think they should have made the drill sargent 
 a bit more realistic and make him a complete ass, that cusses like a sailor and makes you feel 
 like crap... THEN i could REALLY get into it. but he talks like,
  
  "Hello soldier, please walk over to the table and pick up your ammunition"
  when he should have 
 been like,
  
  "OK YOU PIECE OF SH** PICK UP THAT GUN AND MOVE YOUR STUPID A** OVER TO THAT GOD D*MN FIELD YOU 
 SQUIRMY LITTLE MAGGOT !"
  
  i woulda been like hellz yeah! but that was so unrealistic. Watch the movie Full Metal Jacket... 
 Then you will see what a real drill sargent would be like...
  
  But other than that the game was great!
  
  only requires your Email adress to sign up. 
  
 
  and its completely free to download the game client, recommend go on filefront and get the full 
 client off it. unless they have it here on gamespot... i got it off filefront :P
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 27, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Americas army is a really boring game after awhile. I like how realistic the game is and how its 
 free. The game has a lot of glitches it need to really work on before I can really say that this 
 game is any good.
  
  The game play is alright, its nothing special. The one thing I did like in the game was that youre 
 gun did in fact jam every once in awhile, this was a great aspect of the game, but at the same 
 time could also get you killed in the middle of a fire fight. The guns in the game as you can imagine 
 are very realistic and look very detailed. The reloading and animations on the guns looks good 
 and realistic. The game at time can be really boring and frustrating when you have to do a whole 
 bunch of pointless training missions, before you can even play online. I know its realistic but 
 in order to play online its sort of stupid. This game does have somewhat good fire fights in it, 
 but the online fire fights are indeed the best. This games gameplay runs down hill fast thanks 
 to its training missions that force you to play them before you can play online.
  
  Graphics are not to bad for the time it was released. The character models sort of look funny at 
 times, but most the times look good. The games sound is real good and are a nice add to the game. 
 This game does not have the best music, I think it has little points here and there but nothing 
 special. 
  
  Overall I cant recommend this game to even people that like realistic games. Its just to boring 
 and is not as enjoyable as it could have been. But it is free, so you wont be losing anything for 
 trying it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death5089
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Americas Army is a shooter used to train soldiers for teh US Army. It is Very Very VERY realistic 
 from teh sounds, detail one weapons and environment, and damage. this game is not a run and gun 
 type of game. u must execute ur mission with the most caution and work together to accomplish your 
 mission. It is perfedct in the sense taht u feel taht u r a real sodier. I love being tactical 
 but todays shooters are much to game leik and u have 2 get used 2 running and gunning. when there 
 is realism in this game u feel as if u r there. always crouch only stand to run. only run if it 
 is urgent or if u r crossing a road. to enter a building teh suport gunner covers the back while 
 others enter the building. Other ways of being tactical r tossing a grenade or flashbang into a 
 room before entering. Having a sniper cover while the rest of teh team moves up. What i leik is 
 tath the maps arent small and taht sniprs can hve a bit of freedom. A great thing about the games 
 engine is taht just one or to **** to the uper boddy can kill u. if this game wasn't free it wud 
 have gotten an 8.4 just leik gamespot rated it but im giving it a ten perefect because cuz its 
 the best and most realistic free game out there . i think its even more realistic then most games 
 out there that arent free. cya on AA my gamer name will be Jihad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireball2888
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  My friend was always talking about this game- it wasn't a whiel until he told me it was free though! 
 When he did, i went to downlaod it right away. i started off with the 4 glitchy basic training 
 missions, which had to be completed to play online. The second one was VERY bugged, and almost 
 made me quit. When i finished them, i went to see what it was liek right away, but was held back 
 by 20 minutes of punkbuster updates. I then got in, and for the next 3 days, i played NONSTOP. 
 Thsi game was beyond incredible. It got better and better every day, although the rest of the training 
 missions- which unlocked different components of online play- were near impossible due to the bugs 
 and glitches. It slowly dawned on me the fact that this game kept me addicted for hours at a itme, 
 yet was better than Battlefield 2. Yes, this game doesn't have vehicles or Aicraft, but besides 
 that, it owns BF2. 
  
  Gameplay- 9/10
  the gameplay is borign at first, and may even feel repetitive. But once you get the hand of it, 
 it just get's better and better. It's so realistic- you can't be brought back to helath, but your 
 bleeding can be stopped. Your always playing as the US Army, but your opponents show up as enemies. 
 This game is just so good, even better when you unlock mroe components, giving you the sense of 
 sucess. you don't get a crapload of points when oyu kill someone. instead, oyu get a crapload when 
 you or your team complete the objectives, which is much better.
  
  Graphics- 8/10
  Beign compared to today's top- rated shooter games, the graphics suck. but that doesn't hold the 
 game back, for it's still really good. Sometimes there are some unrealistic- looking components, 
 such as hiding in a wall, or the 2-d trees, but besides that, everything looks good.
  
  Sound-10/10
  This game has the best sound i've ever heard. It can't even be compared to other 
 games because it's so good. each gun has it's own sound. when a grenade goes off, you hear your 
 heartbeat. when your aiming, you hear only the silence of your breath. Bullets whizzing by your 
 head are so much more detailed, not like zzz! instead, oyur hear a variety of whizz sounds dependign 
 on your position and how close they are. 
  
  Value- 9/10 
  There are many players online, many of them being mature. there are tons of fan sites as well. 
 Thsi game may be free . but it still has good value. 
  
  Overall, this game is a great experience, that get's better each patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green101
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game considering its all free besides advertising to be in the army. I think this 
 game got boring to me fast because when u get in a game, u wait soo long for some action, and the 
 real good part about this game is it makes it feel real, like you are that soldier. Getting your 
 honor higher is pretty hard and takes a while even tho i think getting it higher does nothing besides 
 to show of... But in other words download it because you have nothign to lose and play it until 
 you get bored. Its free so you can just buy some other army game if this isnt boring to you.... 
 But requirements to play are kinda high but most computers can handle it... dont buy another graohics 
 card just for this game tho. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enaceo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 3:03 am PT
Review:  Ok, let's begin.
  Most of you might think that being a free game it sucks. Well, i thought the same thing when i saw 
 it for the first time, but i decided to try it ,and i have changed my opinion.
  
  Gameplay: This game ,while not to different from the "Counter-strike style" ,has some interesting 
 things that make is soo much different. First of all ,the game bases more on the realism, which i 
 find really good. Some people say this is bad and ruins the gameplay, but the realism here is imitated 
 in a really good way so as not to ruin the fun but provide a belivable experience.
  "Taking cover" in this game is more important than in Counter-strike ,as it is in real life. In 
 CS, you go to your enemy ,start shooting and jump around hoping he dies first. In this game ,you 
 find a good cover ,shoot your enemy once or twice ,take cover ,wait a bit and repeat. Going out 
 in the open is suicide, since one of the enemy's snipers (if they are lucky enough to have one ) 
 will kill you right away.
  The "game-style" is pretty much the same as in CS ,which again is pretty much the same with the 
 "Quake" game style. Two teams (one the soldiers, the other some sort of terrorists) spawn in different 
 places on the map ,and the battle ends when one team is killed or when the time runs up. Getting 
 killed will not respawn you instantly ,so you would have to wait untill the round ends.
  Teamplay is very important in this game ,so protecting your team and working with them is the key 
 to succes.
  Before you can play on-line, you have to register, and then finish some training missions off-line 
 ,which take some time ,but these help in keeping all the n00b players out .You don't have to finish 
 all of them, but doing so will give you acces to new guns and roles in the game on-line (for example: you 
 can only be a sniper if you get past the sniper training mission) .
  
  Graphics: while not to complicated ,the graphics look pretty good ,and they help keep your mind 
 on the game and your framerate up which is important in a game like this. The weapons are ,however 
 ,modeled very well, and the animations are also pretty good. The only problems you might run into 
 is clipping or just going trough walls and doors but this rarely happens.
  
  Sound: Nothing to complicated here -the weapon sounds are realistic ,the ambient sound is fine also.
 
  
  Overall ,this game is good if you like shooters and you are bored of counter-strike ,but it may 
 be too real for some people, like Operation Flashpoint is ,but this helps keeping all the idiot 
 n00bs off the servers.
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EntwineX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is solid and has some very nice details that add realism into it. The aiming system 
 is great, you can shoot like in most shooters, with the help of "the red dot" if you like, but 
 to hit something from a longer distance, you need to bring you sights up by keeping the r. mouse 
 button pressed. And just like in real life, running around and jumping makes your hands shake, 
 as does getting shot at, even if the bullets don't hit you directly. So the best way to get kills 
 is to wait in cover for your hands to stop shaking, and then make a short accurate bursts at the 
 enemy.
  
  The healt system is nice, when you get hit, you don't necessarily die instantly, you start bleeding, 
 and unless there's a medic to stop the bleeding, you might even bleed to death, but little bleeding 
 doesn't stop you from being "Rambo" and taking few of your enemies with you. You won't gain your 
 "healt" back even if medic heals you, they can ONLY stop the bleeding. Being wounded also affects 
 your aiming and movement speed.
  
  This game is not very "noob friendly", the difficulty is high, and you will die often in the beginning. 
 But if you're patient you will learn the tricks and start getting more kills than deaths.
  
  AA has honor system which will track your kills, you will gain "levels" for killing enemies 
 and completing objectives. You will only loose honor if you kill your own teammates. Each player 
 starts with honor 10 and starts working up from there.
  
  The graphics are a bit outdated, but the good thing about it is that you can run the game even 
 on a bit older machine. And the graphical quality is nothing that would prevent you from enjoying 
 this game, unless you're a class A eye-candy whore, then this game is not for you.
  
  Sounds are excellent, they actually help you while playing, with a good headset you can hear the 
 enemy coming from behind you, or grenade falling next to you. Guns sound, look and behave realistic 
 in all ways.
  
  AA is a team based game, with a good team the game is at its best, but playing with unexperienced 
 or impatient players against a clan can be frustrating. Finding a good server to play on is the 
 most important thing in AA. Some servers have too much lag, others too few players or are just 
 playing with rules that don't satisfy you. These days most servers seem to be using SF mods, meaning 
 everybody has 203 (grenade launcher) , and a scope attached to their M4s, this changes the game experience 
 completely, some like it more than others. On some maps it just doesn't work that well.
  
  Problems while playing AA are mostly caused by other players, they might camp, use dropshots, cheat 
 ect. But those people are around in all online games. AA itself is very stable at this stage, the 
 latest version has never crashed on me, neither have I been kicked out of servers for false PB 
 alerts or anything like that.
  
  The download is fast, free, and the file is relatively small, so it's definately worth trying out. 
 And don't give up after 5mins of playing just because you get frustrated in the training missions. 
 They can be annoying at times, but in the end they are quite quick to pass, tho I do wish they 
 would had added "skip BS" button in the start of those training missions.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HioMyMan
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  So about a year or two ago, a few of my friends played this game alot, and eventually they got 
 me into downloading it and i figured i would cause all i played was BF1942. I thought the fact 
 that you had to do the whole training crap was kind of stupid, no need to make a computer game 
 based too much on real life stuff, so the training was a pain in the butt. After i completed all 
 of that the first time i played it online i thought it was pretty cool, but it just lagged like 
 crazy, and i didnt even find the graphics to be all that great. I also dont really like that you 
 have to take an actual test and take notes on it just to become a medic, i find that absolutely 
 retarded and a waste of time. But the part that really, really got me mad and after it i uninstalled 
 the game from my computer, i killed one of my team members accidently, and then i got sent to fricken 
 jail.. i screamed, that was so retarded. That instantly made me stop playing the game. Americas 
 army could of been pretty good if they didnt make you take training, and then give you tests to 
 become certin classes. So im sorry, i just didnt enjoy this game whatsoever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dancinginthemoo
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 22, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  it took me about 30 mins - 1 hour to download this game but it was well worth it cause its really 
 good looking game and has a lot of intense action i could run it really well and a fast 600 MB 
 download (mine was) because i got a high end system that runs F. E. A. R. very well aswell
  
  presantation: 10
  
  i got this running at 1280 x 1024 resolution and it looks totally awesome 
 with some great awesome sound but the sound isnt as good as the graphics by a small bit
  
  gameplay: 9
  
  gameplay: the gameplay isnt as polished as the graphics and sound but its still 
 superb in every way but its a little slow paced and there isnt much cover so u can get killed a 
 bit easily and thats the same situation with ur friends and foes in americas army operations
  
  value: 10
  
  some of the offline and online missions are really tough at hardest and medium 
 and easiest. u can go through the missions again and again if u want to and u probably will no 
 matter how tough they can be and no matter how much people u are out numbered by in americas army 
 operations (the game also has a pretty steep learning curve to get passed / climb
  tilt / originallity:
  
  this and the gameplay are the weakest parts of the game but it dosent 
 mean they are bad, in fact, they are superb on their own merits but just arent perfect, just superb
 
  
  the tilt is really high cause' its cool when u got guys shouting at u telling u what to do which 
 is ultra cool and its got a lot of unusuality
  
  conclusion go download this game (yay my download of aoe 3 demo will finish in about 10 secs
 
  
  
  
  
  
  PS. i ) **SH hate croc and aie stands for age of empires
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 18, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  So you want to be a soldier? But you can't because your uncle Bertha didn't let you. Well, the 
 good boys in blue have helped you out once more.
  
  This game was developed by the US Military. It's as realistic as they come. From actually having 
 to qualify with your weapons, to smoke granades, flash bangs and 203s whizzing by your head, this 
 game is very addicting.
  
  The graphics of this game are amazing. Having to go threw the qualifiers to get different things 
 addes a great realistic feel to the game. Want to be a medic? You have to sit through medic 'school.' 
 When you are done with that, you have to take a test. If you pass, then you get it, if not... you 
 have to do the whole session over again, or just forget it for the time being. Want to be a paratrooper? 
 You have to do qualifying jumps to earrn it.
  
  The sound and interaction between the player and the instructors is obviously scripted, but this 
 doesn't take away from the whole feeling. But I'll forgive them.
  
  There are different maps, and I'm sure more will be added later. Some are better than others, and 
 some of them are hard to figure out what you are supposed to do. But after a few times of losing, 
 your buddies will probably tell you what you are doing wrong.
  
  This game, other than qualifying, is totally muti-player over the internet. You have to find servers 
 with the exact type of game you want, and play there. You gain honour with good kills, but lose 
 it with TK's and losing objectives over and over.
  
  There are a few types of levels. Two of them are real bullet levels, and laser levels. Laser levels 
 simulate the training that our soldiers do to get ready for the 'real deal' and the real bullet 
 levels are... well... real. There are objectives throughout the maps, and finding them and capturing 
 them is half the fun.
  
  So dust off that M16 and get shootin'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seblci
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 6, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  I live in Japan and decided to download this after reading all the good reviews. After the mind/spirit 
 crushing training I was excited to finally get into some action.
  
  I was not happy when I tried to connect to several servers with the lowest pings ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armygoose
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Not a whole lot to say, except this game rocks. The first ever US Army Officially produced video 
 game, and ITS TOTALLY FREE. I am in the military, US Army, and the likeness to real combat is awesome. 
 If the players used real tactics, like infantry squad movements, then the likeness to the real 
 thing would be uncanny. 
  I went through Airborne School, and the Airborne school they have in the game is really neat, but 
 short.
  Here's the gist of it all, if you've never played America's Army before. Players start out by going 
 through Basic Training, you then have the options of going to additional training after that. Right 
 now, you can go to Airborne School, Combat Lifesaver School, Special Forces School, and if you 
 qualified expert marksmanship in basic training you can go through Sniper School. All these schools 
 allow you extra abilities or unlocks special missions only accessible if you complete that training 
 required for that mission. Kinda like the driver's licenses needed in Grand Turismo.
  Every couple of years the Army produces updates to the game, all you need to do is to download 
 the upgrade patch, for free also. 
  There's no fees for playing the multiplayer game. If you become a huge fan, and want to blow the 
 extra cast, then you can rent a server that you and your friends can play on, and be the administrator 
 of that server.
  If not, you just log onto any of a number of servers out there, different skill levels, different 
 missions, it's all free.
  In some games you build up experience points. In AA you build up Honor points, same concept though, 
 just a different name so the Army can be a little more "politically correct."
  I hope this review affects your decision to play in a positive way. Thanks for taking the time 
 to read it.
  Now get your ass out there, download the game, and go kill something soldier! HOO-AH! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Col-Ancient
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 27, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  People who give this game a bad review just based on this game's graphics don't know what their 
 missing. I have played more than 600 hours of this game in the past year. It is fun filled and 
 VERY realistic. 
  
  Graphics wise this game is lacking but the fun gameplay blows many games out of the water. Realism 
 wise this game blows every game I have played out of the water. People who say it's not realistic 
 at all should really consider the fact that it's made by the people who are most qualified to judge 
 it (aka the U. S. Army) .
  
  All around great fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixbox
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 25, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Ever wonder how come there are only very few negative reviews about this game? YET every other 
 game on gamesspot there are ? i tell you because periodically all NOT GOOD reviews get deleted, 
 is this not make you guys a bit suspicious or paranoid ? Just look at other games and see the % 
 of positive and negative reviews and then compare it to this !
  
  a few of use take screenshots on a weekly basis and will post all those as proof on our website, 
 I can tell you this review will be deleted WITH NOR REAL REASON in not more then 10 days - but 
 probably in 4 days (the 25th) .
  
  Now to the actual review:
  
  This free game that is financed from tax money AND requires registration, i would NOT enter in 
 there my real information even if i would be play is actually bad game
  
  i understand that some of you have not much money for games but gave a little pride in your self 
 and dont give in brain washing. Because all this is made/intended for.
  
  Even more if you compare this game to other commercial games like battlefield2 this can not hold 
 water in game play, realism, fun, and graphic  ALL are all much better in practically any major 
 game released in this gene
  
  in addition the training that is really would not be necessary in this type of game is really boring, 
 so you do suffer and get what you pay for.
  
  If you really have no money play with the demo versions, even those are better, and you wont have 
 brainwashing involved in the process
  
  so why the problem with registration you might ask? You fill out that registration you will be 
 in an army database as possible future requites, let hope not but there is a war in the near future 
 and they implement draft in the U. S. who do you think they will daft 1st ?!
  Think about it ! This game has a price at least for the guys residing in the U. S. just not in cash.
 
  
  It is not only a bad quality game but degrading and politically incorrect.
  Many think this game should be banned for several reasons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacob669
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  i would recomend you download this game its a great game and its free when i first got it i didnt 
 have internet so i couldnt play anything but the first training............ make sure you have 
 internet and a good exspierience with a mouse beacus online it can be quite... well quick as in 
 5 seconds and YOUR DEAD onece i was on pipeline SF thare was about 13 players on each team i was 
 on defence and the admin said everyone fallow me into the tunnels...... and since i had the AR 
 spot i thought it was a good idea to run down and maby take a few kills... so when i went down 
 i opend the door and unloaded at least 150 bullets into the people infront of me.... i was scared... 
 then i hit tab to see how meny kills i got AND I WAS AMAZED. i killed 9 people probly in less then 
 15 seconds... 
  
  
  now thats what i call ownage 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Anti-Hero
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 22, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Americas Army...... What a game i play this a lot still, and probably will play on for a long time 
 to come. Even though this game has a couple annoying bugs like any game they do not interfere with 
 the fun and countless hours you can spend on it. The bugs are small things that can be fixed by 
 typing in flush or dumpcache in the system console (~) . the bugs are things like keys on the keyboard 
 will not respond to the assigned function and the mouse may also do the same. these occurances 
 are rare they may cause a slight inconvenience. The game is overall fun and fairly realistic like 
 your weapon jams, if you fall a certain distance you will sustain damage (the farther you fall 
 the more you take) , you can bleed to death if badly enough wounded, medics can prevent this though. 
 
  You do a good bit of training but in the end it is all worth it cause everything you do opens up 
 something new, such as levels or squad positions like the sniper or special forces, and maps. You 
 can mod a gun to be your own creation and set to exactly what you fight like. You can have a bi 
 pod for sniping and a long range scope, or a mid range scope and a bipod, or long range scope and 
 a 203 launcher or a mid range scope and a 203, or a close range scope and either 203 or bi pod 
 and you can have just the plain iron sights and all th sf mods have a silencer that can be added 
 on to the barrel by pressing L.
  The download of the game now comes with a server creator. This feature is good if you have the 
 ram for it. The games training gives you a sense of realism by how the people near you act for 
 example when you are in an exam room listening to a lecture look at the other NPC's and what they 
 are doing. Some move their feet some have their heads on their hands and some twirl pencils. The 
 sound is an important part of this game as well. There have been a few times when i have had trouble 
 perfectly finding where someone is but the sounds are good and they dont sound cheap or immitated. 
 The graphics arent too bad they are smooth and soft and the gun from your view is detailed. You 
 can change the color of the HUD in settings. the size of a server can vary from 8 to 26 and the 
 maps have just the right amount of space to fit these numbers comfortably.
  The maps are all in different settings and have different weather patterns like fog, snow, rain, 
 sun, night, day, dusk, and dawn. and some doors can be shot through which create a bit more tension 
 as you come up on a door cause you dont know if someone is behind it nad will shoot you through 
 it. Another cool thing is the fact that a grenade can break a window and go into the room and depending 
 on if it is thermite (incidniary-which creates a lasting fire and upon explosion blows up a lot 
 of area and covers it in fire) , or a Stun (Flashbang-blows up faster than most grenades and blinds 
 and causes deafness in whoever is close enough to it which gives the thrower an advantage) , a plain 
 grenade, or a smoke grenade.
  All in all i really enjoyed this game and i beileve anyone who wants something fun and free should 
 download this one at www. americasarmy. com and create an account cause this game is definately going 
 to be a classic. I hope to see you out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skinnylegz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  To start off, this game is obviously free, i think that's one of the best parts. The game doesn't 
 require a very fast computer but it's very detailed at high texture settings. It's pretty realistic, 
 you can see some dust and dirt flying around when you hit a wall or the ground, but not as good 
 as the FEAR effects. The game is only about 200mb which shouldn't take long to download and won't 
 take up much space on your hard Drive. In my opinion, it's not as good as Counter-strike but it's 
 free, more realistic, and the honour system (kind of like your lvl) gives more of a reason to play 
 than CS. Thanks for reading my review and i hope you agree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw Americas Army as a dl, i thought it would just be some waste of time, with 1 or 
 2 maps or so, but i was wrong. After a couple hours, I was confused, i wasn't sure what the boot 
 camp was for, but i soon found out. I thought it was a great idea, you have to complete your basic 
 training just to go on an online server with only one type of weapon available to you, (standard 
 M-16 w/ pistol and nades) . Then you could go to sniper training, if you wanna use one of those, 
 and medic training, which was very difficult to become a medic, and special forces to be ummm, 
 in special forces.
  
  I thought that the game was great, parachuting into battle, maybe misdropping right in the middle 
 of an enemy squad, teamwork was also a big factor in the game, just to win a round, you would have 
 to work together, covering fire, grenades, and flanking, etc. But if you "accidentally" happen 
 to kill one of your allies, you will be sent straight to jail, and lose some experience or honor 
 or whatever it is.
  
  Overall I thought that it was an excellent game, definitely worth the ummm... hardrive space... 
 and still can't believe it's free. But PLEASE DON'T START CHARGING MONEY FOR IT!!! with sugar on 
 top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnrealGuy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  This has the be the best "Modern US Army" style PC game out there at the moment. 
  
  
  The moment I downloaded this game on my PC, I never went a day without playing it. The weapons 
 are realistic, the have battlefield ranks that have different jobs and it's allways fun to play. 
 The training sends you through some of the Army's training from infantry solder to a Special Forces 
 officer.
  And when you play the game online, you see that working alone dosen't get the job done. When you're 
 hurt, you have to call for a medic, or you'll be taking a long dirt nap. You also have to provide 
 cover for your teammates and protect them. And if you think about going gung-ho, you'll be dead 
 faster than you can say what the f***. If you like military games and is too cheap to go buy CoD 
 2, this is a good game to download for free. Check it out. You'll have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Played this from 2002 to about 2005, when I finally dropped it off the hard drive. Game was great 
 at its time, but I for one, could not qualify for Airborne (Jump Qualification) for the life of 
 me so I just quit the game. 
  
  Gameplay is on it though, as you go up the ranks of the mighty United States Army and go through 
 different training classes and get certified thus unlocking certain new maps especially for your 
 class. (ie SF maps only for people in -- yes -- Special Forces!) If you could not get past to qualify, 
 well I guess you are not going anywhere soon! Ha ha! I trained to be a "medic" in this and had 
 to actually take a test too! Ha ha talk about authentic! It was fun while it lasted!
  
  Online you fight it out against alot of OPFOR, insurgents, non-convential etc etc the whole nine 
 yards. You do NOT fight against any major power's armies (Russia, China, Iran) but you will not 
 really care as the battles are short but memorable experiences! Got shot and killed? No respawn 
 for you -- gotta wait for the current round to end! Which was a drag but it added to the better realism 
 this game brings as opposed to um... COUNTERSTRIKE? 
  
  Online fools range from the idiotic to the sensible players out there and usually I had an enjoyable 
 time on their servers. Only problem I had was unless you were SUPER good, you will die and die 
 FAST in this game. It seemed to me the weapons here were innacurate as all hell and people looked 
 like they were taking more than 5 hits to go down but that is not possible from what I hear.
  
  Graphics still look good to this day to me and the sound was not bad. the gun effects though 
 seemed a bit off as I don't think they got the right sound of an AKM or for an M203 for that matter! 
 Oh well!
  
  VALUE is 100% because this stuff was all FREE and you got alot of great play for costing you nada! 
 Great game in my book! Just a tad bit hard, heh!
  
  Play today!
  
  "FRAG OUT!!!!!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and very accurate with weapon sounds and I absolutly like the Honor ranking 
 system. This game is worth the long download and time and time spent into training. I like the 
 way they made SF E & E very hard to complete for the average person. After all not every one is 
 qualified to be special forces. I like the way the guns handle and dont look like the Charecter 
 is holding a toy. I like the wide range of maps and ways to beat the enemy. This is the only online 
 game thats ever done this much this succesfully with over 18 million downloads and thousands of 
 members joining Americas Army every month. This game has very accuratly recreated map of Fort Benning 
 Georgia and other places as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 29, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  America's Army for the PC is a big difference from the awful Xbox version. The graphics are pretty 
 good and the gameplay is different from other shooters. Sound effects are fairly realistic and 
 best of all, this is free. Now I don't know about where anyone else downloaded America's Army from 
 but my download was free. If you have a fast internet connection and short on money try America's 
 Army out. You may like it or you may hate it but this is a game that requires time. Trust me if 
 you for some reason enjoyed the crappy Xbox version you will like this a lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shuiken_Blade
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 29, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  This game is all around good. The best part about it is the price; its FREE!!!!!! I took 1 point 
 off of the gameplay because you respawn after every round; you don't respawn right away. The graphics 
 are good for a free game. The weapon sounds are good. The value is obviously perfect since this 
 is a free game.
  This game is free because the U. S. Army thinks that this game will make people join the Army. You 
 can't go wrong with this game. I think that AA is a perfect game for all online gaming lovers out 
 there. Check this game out..... you've really got nothing to lose!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pemosan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  The main purpose is recruiting for the army, but I don't know how effective that is... Free games 
 are the best games, that's my motto! I love meeting new people and making new friends online, then 
 placing a nice bullet between their eyes after sending them a nice flash! I joined a clan that 
 helps me improve my game-play strategies and also FPS skills in general. Our clan is [SAO] , and 
 my sign in name is [SAO] _Pemosan. Contact me if you want more information about our clan. Oh, and 
 I reccomend getting Team Speak to go along with AA. Our clan uses it to communicate verbally with 
 one another during scrimmages, rather than having to stop and type, wasting time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a great modern day, tactical warfare game for the great price of free! Just go over to 
 americasarmy. com and download it.
  The gameplay is a unique twist of real world rules and fun FPS gaming. You have to go through bootcamp 
 training to play online, which sounds kind of stupid but it really gives a good tutorial to follow. 
 Just make sure you dont lose your user because then you have to go through training all over again. 
 The grpahics arent amazing, but they are decent enough to get away with. The sound is great, it 
 replicates what the rifles and grenades actually sound like. So thats always cool. There is no 
 single player besides training, so dont expect anything there. But can you really gripe considering 
 its free?
  So hardcore or noob FPSers should check this game out. Its deifnelty fun to play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceglacier08
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 6, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Once you are past the training exercises, this game is amazing. No crappy AI messing everything 
 up. There are always games, and always someone to play against. Unpredictable and fun. Its sometimes 
 annoying that you are stuck with a bad gun, but you can get a swap, wait for someone to leave, 
 or switch games. Grenade use is a little sketchy, but the detail on the weapons is amazing. Endless 
 maps, and special forces make the game really fun. More options could be added when customizing 
 guns for this, but its a good thing none the less. Thats all i want to say, so now i'm just writing 
 crap to take up space, because this has to be one hundred words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Americans army is a fun online 3D shooter that features many varieties of exotic environments, 
 the positive side of this game is that its totally free and the game is fairly realistic. The down 
 side of the game is that, is that for a beginner it takes a long time to adjust and figure out 
 your enemy's because everyone looks fairly the same from a far distance, the graphics are pretty 
 good, but there isn't much features in the beginning until you get more honour points as you gain 
 a higher class. But what i hate most about this game is that you can't respawn after you die, you 
 have to wait until the whole mission is over until you start over again. Other than that the game 
 is very solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximum_maximus
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  At first when I started to play Americas Army, the fact that there was no option for third person 
 game play was a bit of a let down; by now anyone who has read even one of my reviews knows that 
 I am not a huge fan of first person games. Never the less, and be that as it may, to be fair I 
 will admit that there are one or two first person games out there that were very enjoyable, surprisingly 
 enough, but back the matter at hand. The concept of progressing through training was a very good 
 idea after all its a game about the Army and it worked out pretty well. The training mission themselves 
 were not to hard nor did they take a long time to complete, however, at beginners level handle 
 the weapons especially the automatic weapons was a bit frustrating and to make matters worse, it 
 felt like the weapons handled very differently in the field than they did in training. The AI in 
 Americas Army was not bad at all, the enemy quickly locked in on your position if you were not 
 stealthy enough or if you fire your weapon, which is indeed a dead, give away. The enemy soldiers 
 affectively used any available cover and were very good shoots, they would also try to flank your 
 position and hit from multiple vantage points, no complaint there. At the same time you tame members 
 would actively hunt for enemy movement and alert the group of any hostiles in the area, no complaints 
 there. To sum all of the up for you, there are lots of thing that Americas Army does right, however, 
 due to the lack of a third person option and a few other details that made to game seem as though 
 it was missing something, I was unable to fully get into it and therefore did not enjoy it very 
 much. 
  
  So, there you have it, Americas Army is maybe worth a rental, and at first you will most likely 
 find it fascinating, but that will pass quickly enough and you will find yourself looking for something 
 to play. There are simply too many other first person war games that simply do a better job and 
 are much more fun to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scared_link
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  At first America's Army looks like an excellent shooting game, for a free online. But once you're 
 settled in, it's a whole lot worse! Usually army games have to have a tutorial. But this game just 
 takes the piss. They claim that "to complete the game, you've go to complete basic training. First 
 you've got to do a shooting obsticle. Pretty easy, completing that is the time that a usual game 
 would take, but then you've got to do an obstacle. This is a piss-taking thing that'll annoy you 
 'till you shoot yourself. Then there is the 'shoot house' which is just **** How on earth can you 
 shoot 90 targets in 10seconds with a rifle?! Get a low score you'll have to do it again. After 
 long agonising 3-hours you're done, or are you?! Once you go to the 'online mission' you've got 
 to do more training! This game is only for patient people, me I'd screw America's mother for all 
 I give a toss. It's free so download if you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strife4321
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Great FPS, great deal, great graffix
  One of the best FPS ive ever played fun online mode great maps good weapons great one player missions 
 I would recomend this game to anyone with a fast internet connection and a good video card it is 
 worth waiting sevrel hours to download great for gamers on a budget. Very good online mode with 
 over thousands of servers and good noob servers too. The model detail is amazing for a game that 
 is free this is on my top 5 list of favorite Fps's also there is honor you get it up and you gain 
 better servers and get to pick you spot on team first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kainenable
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a very unique game since the people who made it are not looking to make a profit from it. 
 Like I said, as a freebie game it is absolutly astounding. It has a solid counterstrikeish feel 
 to it. The graphics are very good and the gameplay is pretty responsive. If you dont have the money 
 to buy a tactical FPS this is the game for you.
  
  However I am not going to review it as a freebie game. I will review it as a regular game and how 
 it stacks up against the competition. If you look at the game from this point of view it is not 
 that spectacular.
  
  Firstly, the graphics are pretty decent. It scales pretty well and pretty much any PC can run it. 
 The sound is passable but is missing alot of subtletly. It is missing the sounds of your feet crunching 
 on the snow or bullets ricocheting. Not that big a deal, but something that is worth noting.
  
  The only problem is that this type of multiplayer game experience has been done much better 
 by other games out there. There is little variety in the gameplay so one level sort of melds into 
 the next. It is missing the fernetic action and variety of a battlefield 1941 or counterstrike. 
 The presentation is pretty bare bones and does not offer much in the way of customization or variety.
 
  
  The gameplay is very realistic almost to the detriment of the game. Counterstrike was also realistic 
 but they did it in a way which did not hurt gameplay. One example of this is how if you fall more 
 than 5 feet or so you take quite a bit of damage in Americas Army. Realistic, yes... but not all 
 that fun. 
  
  If you are looking for a solid free gaming experience Americas Army is a good choice. If you are 
 looking for the best multiplayer experience, pick up counterstrike or the battlefield series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief_123
Rating: 2.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This game seemed to focus more on realism than the game play. To put it simple, its not fun to 
 play. The training takes for ever and is no fun but you still have to do it to get to the actual 
 misions. The graphics are ok. I would have expected a better game with all the good reviews it 
 was getting but it doesn't live up to its title. But all i have to say is if you are reading this 
 review than trust me that this is a terrible game so dont rent, buy, play or even be in the same 
 room with this game because its terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  These offline training missions might sound like a chore that gets in the way of the real fun online. 
 Actually, they can be moderately entertaining and challenging in their own right, and they teach 
 you a little about Army history and procedures in the process. They certainly help draw you into 
 the atmosphere of the game by putting you in meticulously re-created sections of the infantry school 
 at Fort Benning, Georgia. There you'll find no-nonsense drill instructors, fellow recruits on the 
 firing range, and tall pine forests as far as the eye can see.
  
  The obstacle course training mission is really just a way to instruct you on the use of the game's 
 movement controls, which are generally similar to those of most shooters. The other training missions 
 are more interesting since they focus on the game's weapons. For instance, the marksmanship lesson 
 actually requires a surprising amount of skill, thanks to the game's unusually realistic weapons 
 and ballistics modeling. You'll really need to aim carefully and quickly to hit as many targets 
 as possible. How well you do determines whether or not you can qualify for sniper training later, 
 but don't worry if you don't score well the first time -- you can retake the test as many times as 
 you like. Unfortunately, while these offline training missions teach you the basics of movement 
 and firing in the game, they teach you nothing about successful tactics.
  
  For that, you'll need on-the-job training in online matches, which you can join using an integrated 
 server browser. While there are many more official Army servers than in the past, you'll find that 
 the network code still has a major, albeit intermittent, problem -- namely, the way the game can 
 refuse to properly connect to open servers.
  
  Assuming you can connect, you'll engage in battles between the US Army and OpFor, a generic opposing 
 force. No matter which side you choose, you and your teammates always look like US soldiers, while 
 the enemy always wears ski masks or other garb that marks them as terrorists. The number of maps 
 is currently limited, though the Army plans to keep releasing free content for the game, and the 
 maps you get are tactically and visually interesting. You'll fight on a huge snow-covered bridge 
 littered with the burning wrecks of cars, raid a camp in the middle of a night-shrouded forest, 
 and battle in an Alaskan pipeline pump station, among others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arvikatarn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:28 am PT
Review:  Ok. This game doesnt have some eye blinding graphics like CS: S but it is much better. I will not 
 start comparing it with CS: S but ill talk 'bout the game. Well it is an Online First Person Shooter 
 developed by The Army of United States of America so you might realize the game is very lifelike. 
 The guns are totally taken from real life and the realism of the game is just astonishing. There 
 are no Deathmatches. Just Team. vs. Team objective kind-of-thing. Basically your whole team sees 
 the same objectives and you try to defend an objective or destroy it (depens of what team youre 
 in) or just run to it (rofl once my whole team started running for the objective and most of us 
 died but we completed it. That was funny) .
  
  To wrap it up i say you HAVE to play it or just try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MTRazeR
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  This new version 2.6 is a large download, but one awesome game for those who like on-line shooters. 
 This game is as real as it gets without getting shot for reals. Gameplay is a 10, it is just simply 
 awesome, graphics are hot and sounds are kickin', and talk about value it's FREE. Don't worry if 
 you can't download it, I am sure there is a US Army Recruiter that will give you a CD, Just don't 
 shake his hand or sign any papers... "Like I did..!!" Well back to Boot Camp for me, besides I 
 have to get up early for PT.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltoicwm16ak47
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  America's Army is a great FPS. Here is the breakdown
  
  *ALL GRADING NOT EFFECTED BY THE FACT THIS GAME IS FREE*
  
  Gameplay: After learning how to 
 move, interact, talk, and shoot, you will be addicted to this game. The gameplay can vary based 
 on the map, weapon you use, and people you play with, so that there are plenty of combos to try.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty up to date. They are not the best ever, but they are nice and 
 there are updates every now and then, with small improvements.
  
  Sound: Every action that is worth noticing, there is a sound. When you run, the sound is louder, 
 telling your enemies where you are, realistic!! Silencers on guns help you stay stealth and so 
 on.
  
  Value: You will be able to play this game over and over and over again.
  
  
  The game is a multiplayer FPS that uses realistic army tactics to carry out missions.
  
  Now 
 if you are not Anti-America or Anti-Army you will enjoy this game
  
  People complain that it is "brainwashing people." So what, if you are smart enough you will not 
 join the army based on a game, if you are not smart, then maybe you deserved to be fooled.
  
  Playing the game is a choice, so grade it based on what it is, not what you assume it was made 
 for. The real question is "Did you have fun playing it?"
  
  So for this reason and the fact that I have played it since the beginning and have seen all the 
 large improvements, I am giving this game a
  
  9.6 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladragon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Amercans army is a fun online 3D shooter that features many varieties of exotic environments, the 
 positive side of this game is that its totally free and the game is fairly realistic. The down 
 side of the game is that, is that for a beginner it takes a long time to adjust and figure out 
 your enemy's because everyone looks fairly the same from a far distance, the graphics are pretty 
 good, but there isn't much features in the beginning until you get more honour points as you gain 
 a higher class. But what i hate most about this game is that you can't respawn after you die, you 
 have to wait until the whole mission is over until you start over again. Other than that the game 
 is very solid.
  
  Overall people should download it, its free come on who wouldn't want a free game. so check it 
 out. hooah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknot323
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Coming from the Army where they teach values some shouldve told some values who made this game. 
 Making us go through basic training bore. I know how to play a shooter game good thing Call of 
 Duty finest hour didnt make us do it. Wee first person shooter like action a good bang and lots 
 of blood get it right next time geeze. At least some more blood and better graphics so we wont 
 have to spend a lot of time getting patches will you. I spent more time getting patches then playing 
 time. I mean if i knew iif it took so long to long to download and so many patches wouldnt have 
 go the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dediedo8
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  this i the best game of shooting games i have ever seen i love this game
  certainly its a bit of cheating around the game but its a good game it smels
  like great insticts 
 lol but i play it and i dont pay it its totaly free :) i like the game i love the game i dont cheat 
 in the game and i dont scam in the game i am not idle and i am good in the game if you want to 
 play with me in the game download the game and if you dowload the game play it and i shoot you 
 in the game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_halo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is very fun. mostly because it can get suburban and the maps are great , its 
 also good online but u do go through gliches. But still its a must have game playing it will soon 
 get u addicted. trust me, if your into those fun shooting games get this game. on the bright side 
 you can go through military traing, playing online, and if you shoot someone like your teamate 
 or chief you can even go to jail. On the dark side when your playin online you go through some 
 gliches and you die with no explenation, but that happen once in a while. You could get dissapointed 
 by this game but I say you'd still want to play it if your into games like battlefield, call of 
 duty, and other games like that then I say u should give this game a chance. But also a bad thing 
 about the game is that u have to take hard freakin tests and sit through borin class etc.. But 
 the online is one of the best things about the game but other traing missions besides the classes 
 with tests are pretty good. But Americas Army is a pretty worthy game even with some bad things 
 I say you should at least play it then judge it dont just look at its release date and start judging. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ-Sephiroth
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 4, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  this is another amry game and It is brainwashing the youth of america to join the army. my friends 
 brother loves this game and now he is over in Iraq. this game should be banned because it is brainwashing 
 the youth of america to join the army.
  
  now the game itself is awful. 
  the game play is run, shoot, rinse, repeat.
  the graphics are not so good looking and the sound 
 is awful.
  the game is very repetaive and gets old after 1 minute. 
  the game is not worth buying or renting or playing or looking at.
  
  the game was even made 
 by the army!
  "that dosn't sound bad" says most gamers. "it'll be more realistic."
  the army made this game to get the youth excited about the army life by showing then it is fun
 
  
  I never liked this game and I never will play this game as long as I live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeshoe1121
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 27, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Americas Army is a freeware game, and for a freeware game, suprisingly fun and good looking. Running 
 of the UT engine, it delivers excellent graphics, a realistic set of sounds, and a growing community 
 that is fun to play with, it is an excellent game that is easily competining with Retail action 
 games.
  
  Originally intended to promote the US army, the game delivers a hard and intense action between 
 players. Bulding off current day weapons and stratgies, they game encourages players to work together 
 in order to win. No bunnyhoppers are found here, bunnyhopping throws your aim off completely, does 
 not allow you to reload and makes you the perfect bullet magnet. The health bar is also a non-existent 
 term. Every shot you take reduces your combat effectiveness, throwing off your aim, making you 
 run slower and increasing the chance that you will "bleed to death" A realistic physichs engine 
 also compliments the game. It features ragdoll physichs, and a acurate weapon properties. An example 
 would be the blast radius of grenades. In real life, grenades can often devastate anyone within 
 20 m of the blast. In AA, this is true, Standing anywhere near a grenade will almost certainly 
 get you killed. Blackbast from rockets also exists, making hiding behind rocket launchers a "noob" 
 thing to do.
  
  The community of AA is usually filled with experienced players. Using a "Honor" level system, it 
 allows players to see the level of experience the players they are fighting have. 10 is the level 
 you start at and 99 is the maximum. Most players average out at 20-50. You can lose honor by TK, 
 FF and even killing civillians often found on urban maps. For new players, AA can be extremely 
 frustrating. The higher honor level players often have access to Special Force Weapons, which are 
 far more deadly and often incorparate special mods. such as scopes, grenade launchers and even 
 bipods. These higher level players will often be able to find an excellent place to shoot from 
 and remove players with impunity. Being a tactical game, it is difficult for players with the mindset 
 for BF2 to get into the flow of AA. However, once the concept of no-god-like powers sets in, players 
 become far more cautious and calculating.
  
  AA is easily one of the best free-ware games circulating. If you have not tryed AA out yet, and 
 are into the FPS genre, this is definetly worth the download. CS and Half life fans will easily 
 feel at home 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vornagar
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 24, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is free however it does not do much from the standart FPS games. Actually this is a standard 
 army FPS game.
  
  Gameplay: You got your standart Army vs Terrorists matches. Add to that guns, gernades, mines, 
 and more and you got a fun game going. To go along with those people and guns you got nice and 
 big maps for you to roam around and eliminate your enemy on.
  
  Graphics: This game is visually impressive. Maps look realistic and very nice. Terrorists look 
 like terrorists and army men look like army men like they should.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is impressive. Standard army commands and terrortsts screams are 
 here along with the realistic sound of weapons. Seeing that this game was developed by the army 
 the weapons sound really realistic and are a fun to shoot.
  
  Value: This game is free so whether you are interested in it or not it costs you nothing to play 
 it.
  
  Conclusion: While this game does nothing different from other FPS games it is free and worth a 
 try in your books even if your not a fan of FPS or army FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgw798
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I own the demo of America's Army for Mac. It is a great game, incorporating multiple aspects of 
 real life training and war. The multiplayer is solid, but laggy at times. The campaign mode and 
 training are very interesting and give you somewhat of a real army experience. Theres not much 
 else to say about this game. I recommend that you buy it if you are looking for a game like this.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Solid game play, doesn't always run smoothly however. Works much like any FPS.
  
  Graphics: 
 8.0
  The graphics are good, but could be much better.
  
  Sound: 7.0
  The sound could be better.
  
  Value: 8.0
  This game is worth the price.
  
  Reviewer's 
 Tilt: 9.0
  I personally enjoyed this game, however it doesn't have very much lasting appeal.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediMan218
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect for all of you future soldiers. You have to go through basic training, to 
 play on servers. You also have the options of taking medic, airborne, advanced marksman (sniper) , 
 and Sec. Ops. Training. The completeion of these training missions will enable you to play more 
 and more maps (except medic training, this just lets you be a combat medic) . After your a trained 
 army... guy, youy can go on servers. They have a nice selection, 33 in all. 
  When you first go on the people around you will beat you into the dirt with the tasks they tell 
 you to do, even ones as simple as "kill that guy". Believe me, it took me MAAAAAANY rounds to kill 
 a single man, and often it was a guy in the wrong place at the wrong time. But after you raise 
 your honor (level) you will get more respect and will get a good number of kills. The only drawbacks 
 are that 1) you have to complete baisic training to play on basic maps 2) it takes a few hours 
 of playing to learn the controls, but you NEVER learn them ALL 3) since you have to hook up to 
 the internet there might be problems at their end, so some days you just can't play. I haven't 
 been able to play for over a week for that reason. But after those 3 major drawbacks, A. A. is still 
 a pretty good game, and it's free to download from gamespot if youre a member. just go to the demos 
 section and pick the latest one. This is the WHOLE GAME, not a demo, THE WHOLE GAME, patches are 
 added frequently to keep up w/ all the updates. So what are you waiting for? Go out there and kik 
 some @$$! And pray that I will soon be able to join you, Stupid internet connection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanana
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  America's Army is almost a perfect game. Halo and Halo 2 are believed to be the best shooters but 
 I would have to disagree for many reasons.
  
  America's Army is a one player per computer online game which means NO LOOKING AT THE OTHER PLAYERS 
 SCREENS (unless you hack)
  
  America's Army has a realistic amount of health and it does not take like 30 hits to kil someone
 
  
  America's Army has the most real training, gameplay, and graphics that I have seen in a long time 
 for a shooting game
  
  Games do not get much better than this but if there is no internet connection or you do not like 
 online games than America's Army is not for you.
  
  *As for the difficulty it depends on who you play* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt14500
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of America's Army I was excited. I'm a big fan of military shooters, and when 
 I heard it was free... I got even more excited. I downloaded the file and installed it right away. 
 I made my account and wanted to play online and it said that I had to complete the training ( which 
 I never completed to this day ) . 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The first training mission requires you to hit 23 targets or more out of 40 to qualify. So I did 
 that and passed. The second training mission is an obstacle coarse. You will go through the coarse 
 once and then go through it again but there is a time limit. This puts a ton of stress on you. 
 The whole time you're probably gonna think "Am I gonna make it?!" And if you make a mistake you 
 have redo the WHOLE thing and I mean the whole thing. This is extremely frustrating and stressful. 
 Anyway, I passed the second training mission.
  
  The third training mission is easy and you cannot fail it in anyway, well, unless you shoot your 
 drill sergeant, then you'll end up in jail. Back on topic; the third training mission will require 
 you to just pic up some weapons and shoot them at the targets. You will first pic up a machine 
 gun, shoot the targets and move on. Then you will you pick up a M16 with a grenade launcher and 
 shoot targets. Then you an leave.
  
  The fourth training mission ( the one I'm stuck at ) is a "shoot house" it requires you to clear 
 each room of enemies ( they're just cut outs of enemy soldiers ) and not to shoot some of your 
 own men ( which are also cut outs ) If you make one little mistake, again, you will have to redo 
 the WHOLE training. This is very discouraging and will make you not want to play.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  The graphics are really nothing special and very bland. The character models 
 are just OK. Textures are weak. The weapon models are probably the best part of the graphics and 
 even the weapons are nothing that special.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound in the game is very realistic. When you fire a gun, it really sound like you're firing 
 a gun. There is voice acting too and it is also good.
  
  Value:
  
  It's free. Of course I'm gonna give the value a 10/10
  
  Should you get America's Army? It's 
 hard to say. If you're up for the challenge and if you enjoy real tactical shooters AND if you 
 have the patience to not pick up your key board and smash it against the wall, then maybe this 
 is worth checking out... maybe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonaManson
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  well....... this is it... A Game Directly from the US army.. let see How they did...
  First of all the GREAT FACT about this game that it is COMPLETELY Free.... anyone can get it off 
 the net took me 12 hours to completely download it considering the first 3 hours was wasted cause 
 my broadband went down. Well, enough of my blabbering. This game is overall great. Graphics Are 
 nice gameplay is somewhat slow as for example when changing from one stance to another and reloading 
 your weapon. It Doesnt take THAT long to reload your weapon (provided it does jam) . Realism was 
 the main objective and they have done it here. From The Iron sight To The EastSpring button on 
 the M16 A2. Sounds are superb compared to BF 2. Though squad functions are somewhat complicated 
 at times. HEre comes the boring part. The Lectures. Although Not TOO long, it really shows what 
 the army might be when your not shooting or doing combat movements. It Can BE really BORING. Especially 
 the Medical lessons. The Maps are medium sized and can cater to any kind of person you are. Whether 
 you are a Close Combat person or a person who prefers Long range Engangements. It is missing one 
 kind of terrain though , Jungle terrain. There's no Jungle warfare present in the game maybe they 
 dont like jungle warfare ( cant blame them since they lost the Vietnam war) . One last irritating 
 aspect of the game is the presence of indigenous personnel in the special force team. Ouh well...... But 
 it is a good game compared to BF 2 and a misplaced use of US taxpayers Dollars ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShrpShot172nd
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:39 pm PT
Review:  The reality of this game is amazing. The qualifications for class is great. The M249 SAW (squad 
 automatic weapon) has exceptional features. Features such as recoils, bipods, and tracers every 
 5 rounds. The SOPMOD (special operations modification) is my personal favorite. You can choose and 
 customize your own M4 with aimpoints, ironsights, heatshields, acogs (4x4) , bipods and a flare or 
 granade launcher. Also, sniping takes skill. You have to go slow and stay low to avoid being caught. 
 Your breathing affects your aiming and your blood loss affects your breathing. You can choose from 
 modern day granades such as frags, smokes, flashes, and thermite granades. Gameplay is mostly online. 
 Cheating is forbidden is leased official servers. You can jump out of a c-47 in the airborne and 
 capture bases or sit tight and defend a bridge. The map range is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FourSwordsx4
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Overall AA is pretty good, for a free game developed by the Army.
  
  The graphics are decent, I have it running on max. The only graphical problem is the lack of antialiasing. 
 The game is full of jaggies.
  
  I really, really hate how if you accidentally kill a teammate you get kicked out of the game and 
 put in a prison cell. Realism doesn't always equal fun.
  
  The weapon sound effects are pretty good, especially if you have a subwoofer and turn the volume 
 up high.
  
  Another problem is that if you die, you have to wait for the next round, which can be a long time. 
 
  
  This game cannot be compared with, say, Battlefield 2, but it's still pretty good.
  
  The physics are surprisingly realistic, on par with Half-Life 2. Bodies go flying around when 
 shot, and behave realistically with the enviroment. If you get shot, your vision will black out 
 momentarily, which is a nice touch.
  
  This game is essentially Counter-Strike: Source with a US Army skin. If you already have CS: S, 
 you may not want to bother downloading this. If you don't, this is a great alternative to spending 
 $30 on CS: S.
  
  The game has parental controls, which I think is a bit silly. With them off, it's just a Teen-rated 
 shooter with minimal blood.
  With them on, this game is a bloodless, profanity-free game of laser tag, I'm not kidding.
  
 
  Worth the download? Yes, if you don't already own Counter Strike Source. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJDarkViper
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 11:33 am PT
Review:  Props to the american army for making the worlds most technical propoganda tool. But props for 
 making one of the best online score tracking ive seen.
  
  In Americas Army you must create a unique profile and your given a starting point scale (i do beleive 
 its 40 or 50) . When you do good things such as kill the enemy or complete objectives, your given 
 a few points. When you do dishonorable things such as shoot your teammates or even kill them, your 
 points almost instantly go into the negatives as its minus 150 points i do beleive. Each kill only 
 nets you 10. When the match ends (not the round, the match) the points are recorded to each players 
 online tracker. And no, backing out of the game also records your score so those who think they 
 can tk and leave with no penalty is in for a surprise. you can get demoted in this game as well 
 as go up ranks kind of like an rpg except you dont get to increase any skill points, but you, as 
 a person, get more experienced in the game so you can get better.
  
  Newbies to the game arent allowed to enter in online skimishes until they complete basic training. 
 Which is fine, these offer omse cool scenarios such as covertly infiltrating a complex, to listening 
 to all of your commanding officers, to actually sitting down in a classroom and taking a paper 
 and pencil test, but not first before listening to the instructor give the lesson first! A surreal 
 kind of realism. As you graduated (or want to graduate) from school just to get away from that 
 environment. And here it is in the game. Fortunatly, you dont have to go through that in basic 
 training. Only if you want to further your skills as a Medic or Special Forces. When you play online, 
 you can only be a medic if youve completed medic training. However there doesn't seem to be much 
 of a special gain for completing the ever patience-trying Special Forces training. 
  
  When on a small server (i mean like 2-3 people per team) matches can get very intense for tactical 
 team based action. And killing can be satisfying, though the Karma ragdolls are glitchy and take 
 away from the realism. On a server thats got alot of people (only 32 people max by the way) these 
 full scale war-like battles get intense in a whole new way. And unless youve memorized every nook 
 and cranny and exploit of the map your playing on, sure enough youll die in the first few seconds 
 forcing you to watch the rest of the match. Which can take anywhere between a few seconds more 
 to 15 minutes!
  
  thats where the good stuff ends.
  
  The graphics are shoddy at best. The shadows are glitchy and sometimes dont even render on certain 
 tile types, the character models glitch alot, gravit in the game while playing just doesn't liek 
 to exist, and the uniform skins are nice and low-res. The only good things in regards to graphics 
 here are weapon models and the character faces (which are actually quite realistic) .
  
  The maps are memorable but bland and symmetrical. I have not found a map quite yet that looks different 
 for either side. The texture resolution on the map textures are very low. And the baked shadows 
 are surprisingly low res as well. And offer no realism whatsoever. The map layout on the otherhand, 
 is more realistic than the look and feel. 
  
  The net-code is a complete catastophe. How is a game supposed to be realistic when my shot takes 
 4 seconds to get to the wall, only a foot in front of me? Literally i counted on my T1 line
  *BANG*
  1 mississippi
  2 mississippi
  3 mississippi
  4 mississi.
  *PING*
  and my ping 
 was only 32. Explain that one? I could pobably accept that if was hitting a wall quite a distance 
 aways. But this was very close and i know for a fact a BB can travel faster than that. It takes 
 a LONG time to register a shot and by the time that shot has registered, trust me, unless its a 
 complete idiot, he will have moved by then. 
  
  Ill stick the Valves netcode please, where shots are always instant.
  
  Gun-Jamming, bringing 
 a whole new term to "OH! SH*T!" but no fret, its nothing more than quickly sidestrafing out of 
 the way, trust me he wont hit you due to the lag, and pressing "G" to watch your person unjam his 
 gun. Which takes literally only 3 seconds. 1 if you have the HEAVY machine gun. Figure that one 
 out. Its harder to unjam a 5.56mm assault rifle than a 7.76 LMG. Okay, with the M4 hes got to slap 
 that clip back into place JUST IN CASE that clip has somehow managed to fall out slightly (which 
 is never the case by the way) only t turn the gun around to see a bullet jammed in the ejector 
 hatch. So now he pulls back on the cock and the bullet flys out. Problem fixed. With the machinegun, 
 all he does is pull back on the cock. Nothing magical or nothing to check out, takes all of a second 
 for you to continue raining your 100 bullets of death upon your enemy. I have yet to see that sniper 
 rifle jam as well. 
  
  Animations are quite smooth and well done. Though good luck trying to figure out what gun your 
 getting before each match. Seems there are 2 identical looking m16s youll be using, one that has 
 a single and burst fire mode and one that has a full auto and a single shot mode. Try and figure 
 out which one youll be using, i dare you. And while your at it, i DARE you to try and figur eout 
 how to start with the AK. i know its possible. However doesn't seem to matter which side i chose 
 to play for, Attackers or Defenders, i always end up with an m16. 
  Also, your key to switch to the pistol is P. Though dont even bother. Its not with you. I was under 
 the impression that all soldiers were equipped with a Primary Rifle and a Sidearm. In our Canadian 
 army we are. But aparently not for the americans, or so the game leads me to beleive. A game bent 
 on realism and i cant even use my imaginary pistol for when my main gun runs out of ammo trying 
 to hit a lagging enemy. From what i heard through the grapevine though, the team lead has the pistol. 
 But apparently not because i was the team lead in terms of score and rank and Role choice, and 
 i still got nothing. And apprently the badguys also have m16s instead of AKs though i seem to find 
 them everywhere on my enemies. 
  
  Asking for help, is a big useless waste of time. Go ahead, ask your question. No one will answer, 
 instead the chatter is all about what buddy guy and homeboy did over the weekend, and whos celebrity 
 relationships are ending. Apparently thats more interesting to talk about rather than help me out 
 figuring out something. 
  
  The fabled Missions that were bugged out for so long, were brough back in the new build i decided 
 against my better judegment to try again. But doesn't do anything besides filter out which online 
 games are currently playing on that map. Seriously now i dont even know how to complete these missions! 
 Ive WON matches single handedly. And still Incomplete shows up in red under the mission.
  
  On the bright side of things, it plays realistically. When you sprint you cant shoot, when you 
 crawl, you cant shoot, when you jump you cant shoot. You gun jams only 5% of the time, and radio 
 chatter can be quite professional, and encourages you to stick with your group in order to survive. 
 
  
  Other than that, this game was a complete waste of my time. 18 hours, about 10 of those was being 
 in spectator mode, watching the rest of my team live, yes, the one i stuck with. but not through 
 third person cam no, but through pre-determined cameras set up around the level that decide to 
 switch whenever they want. 18 hours i would have more likely spent getting better in Counter-Strike. 
 
  
  If you can get past all of these failures in the game and find some silver lining that i didn't 
 happen to see, i could recommend this game. Because i swear to god, im missing something that everyone 
 else is seeing, but nobody wants to inform me of it. 
  
  *sigh* at least i was able to put a Canadian flag on my uniform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief0292
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 15, 2005 4:58 am PT
Review:  Well i no its free but i do not enjoy this game it is not a super bad game but i dont like it. 
 Well first off the graphics look like a dreamcast game, the sound is mapped to realworld guns, 
 the v. o. is good, but the main problem is u have to go through all these tedious training missions 
 and once u do, all the mission's are played out through online matches which is a good idea in 
 theory but doesnt work, the controls seem a bit touchy.. well overall it free and it worth a look 
 but other that it is not worth ur time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hexgate
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 7:15 am PT
Review:  America's Army (sometimes referred to as AA) is a pretty good online FPS war game featuring many 
 maps, some weapons and combat tactics. You guessed! It's multiplayer only, but this shouldn't be 
 a problem nowadays. 
  
  The whole game is free, meaning that you can download it and play it ... pretty soon. Not exactly 
 right away because you need to register first (create an username and a password) and then you 
 have to be trained a little. Not too bad, actually. Not enough either, if you ask me. So go online 
 and prepare yourself to die and die and die and die some more and some more. Then, as if this wasn't 
 enough, you'll be called a "noob" a thousand times. I guess this is the American Army.
  
  There are some good parts with AA. It's not the fast paced shooter, not the lazy one either - a 
 good thing since most of the games offer a bunch of rabid shootouts. It's realistic, it's fun to 
 play (after you get the hang of it) and has nice graphics (not the best, but good enough) . This 
 game really makes you to cherish your username, so you'll think twice before cheating, shooting 
 your mates or swearing on the servers.
  
  There are some bad parts too. Its learning curve is quite huge. Don't expect that you'll rock the 
 servers in your first week of play. Not gonna happen, chum. Sometimes there's too little information 
 about what you really have to do in a mission, so you might have to learn from your mistakes... 
 over and over again. Other frustrating problem is the fog. Foggy maps are dominating. Which brings 
 forth another problem, an engine "bug" that, if not exploited, could be the cause of many bullets 
 splattering your guts all over. A little example: on maps with fog when the player looks straight 
 ahead he sees to a greater distance with the extremities of the screen, while in the center of 
 the screen the fog seems to be much thicker. That's very unrealistic. Other small glitches are 
 present, but aren't very annoying.
  
  The real enemy of America's Army is the game's complexity. Counter Strike is the most played FPS 
 because it managed to keep things simple and fun. However, AA is a bit more than just the plain 
 old multiplayer FPS concept, so in this case complexity is what it needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeeswin24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I own the demo of America's Army for Mac. It is a great game, incorporating multiple aspects of 
 real life training and war. The multiplayer is solid, but laggy at times. The campaign mode and 
 training are very interesting and give you somewhat of a real army experience. Theres not much 
 else to say about this game. I recommend that you buy it if you are looking for a game like this.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Solid game play, doesn't always run smoothly however. Works much like any FPS.
  
  Graphics: 
 8.0
  The graphics are good, but could be much better.
  
  Sound: 7.0
  The sound could be better.
  
  Value: 8.0
  This game is worth the price.
  
  Reviewer's 
 Tilt: 9.0
  I personally enjoyed this game, however it doesn't have very much lasting appeal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChargaRT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2005 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I recently loaded this game to try out my new graphics card and see whether it would work this 
 time. I must say im pretty happpy with the results. This game starts u off with an honor of 10 
 and leaves u to work ur way up through the honor system and training system. Basic training through 
 Medical training is a breeze. Basic has you shooting most of the time, proving ur ability to be 
 deployed as a worthless grunt in teh military while Medical school has u doing what schools do 
 best... TESTS! if you can overlook the pain of listening to a lecture for 10 minutes and taking 
 an 18 to 7 question test at the end, its well worth it because you can heal teamates on the field 
 and it helps to have others heal u as well (it also gives u a hot steaming load of honor to boot 
 ; P) . The only training mission that will truly frustrate you is the Special Forces Escape and 
 Evade mission. This will have you crawl for a half hour or more on ur belly through dirt, mud and 
 leaves all the while getting to three checkpoints about 1 million miles away just to get spotted 
 and start over from scratch cuz you will have shut ur computer down in a Frenzy... sigh... Anyways 
 if u are lucky enough to complete this task, u will be rewarded greatly for the fruit of ur labor 
 with the prized SOPMOD. This by far is the greatest weapon in game. You will attach, detach and 
 reattach modifications time and time again, increasing replay value just to see how many different 
 methods of finding, lining and taking out ur targets there are. The best is harris bipod and the 
 4X Scope, its like a short range sniper on steroids in full blast!! 
  And now for the online. Ive had more fun in other places, but this comes ohhhhh so close. The only 
 thing missing: INTEGRATED VOICE CHAT. This would have greatly improved the gameplay as stopping to 
 type and report enemy activity and whats going in the field around you truly haults action. This 
 also allows for enemies grenades to land right next to u once agan... starting up ur FRENZY MODE 
 and turning ur face red. If there was voice options, then people would be able to report vital information 
 on the fly, being able to turn the tide of the battle. When you however do get a team and maybe 
 install ventrilo, things might get going, but for those of us like me who cant convince anyone else 
 to download a 940MB game, were stuck typing. Although this problem exists, multiplayr is stillll 
 fun. In the right room with cooperative teamates who help out u and ur nubby ways really makes 
 teh game exciting. The best map ive played so far is Bridge Crossing Se and the regular version 
 of Bridge Crossing. Sniping in this game also grants a sense of accomplishment because its harder 
 in this game to snipe that say... Halo2 (XBOX) MOHAA (PC) which dont shake as much. you must really 
 concentrate and find urself a little hiding spot that works for a whle, but not too long so as not 
 to give ur position away, sniping any enemy within the firt 4 minutes of each round. Entering buildings 
 with a team is also very surprising and fun as well as u dont know wat awaits. Clearing out a room 
 succesfully also heightens ur appreciation of teamates. 
  All in all this game is wonderful and there are many things to do in this game and the fact that 
 raising ur honor level, completing the various training mission and of course using the SOPMOD to 
 ur content helps this game achieve replay value. With pretty solid gameplay and not too much lag (unless 
 ur in a bad server, but just find a good one ( (DUHH) ) ) not too many weapons but this is accounted 
 for by the SOPMOD and when possible coordinated teamplay makes this game oh so exciting and enjoyable 
 for afterschool or those 9 to 9 weekend lans. I would recommend this game to the fps player who 
 likes to raise himself in the ranks and work for what hes given on the battlefield (i. e training 
 for SOPMOD, cant stress how cool it is) who although isnt the hardcore 24/7 gamer but one who plays 
 most every night for like...2 hours or more, this game will satisfy and many levels leaving you 
 coming back for more
  
  SOPMOD!!! oh and the lifetime enrollment in the military slaving away for your country is required 
 when downloading this game (not really, but it sure feels like it when ur waiting the 1 and half 
 to 2 hours for it to load... only to find that it cancels itself when u rnot looking.. wasting three 
 days trying to load... hehe)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jet-Trooper_NA7
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  Once you start playing the game, you'll be hooked. The most realistic game around, and free too. 
 The visuels are superb, realistic, and highly detailed. The gameplay is awesome, you have to watch 
 around every corner since one well placed shot can take you down. Counter Strike looks like an 
 AA wannabe after you've played America's Army. And it's so complex, all the way down to your aim 
 that is affected by breathing and body movement, and the fact that you can lean around corners 
 to avoid unnecessary exposure to fire. And complete with Special Forces units that allow you to 
 personnalize your weapon with scopes, aimpoints, grenade launchers, bipods, and suppressors. I 
 personnaly would pay 50 bucks for this game, but it is given away free, so everyone should try 
 it. Makes BF2 and CS look pretty sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_DoDo56
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I played this game because my buddies do but It's not as good as other FPS games. The tax dollars 
 that were put in this game didn't get it real far in bugs and lag. Although I'd have to say you 
 must try it sometime. It get's very addictive after a while and it's like a MMO because of the 
 stats system which can be easily hacked with. The servers sometimes are vacant for years and people 
 still pay for them. The server browser is pretty messy and loading into a server sometimes takes 
 many minutes. Overall it's a must in anyone's FPS collection and it's free to get and sign-up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknot-maggot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  First off FREEWARE YEAH BABY YEAH! Alright now that I got that out lets get down to some reviewing. 
 This game offers great gameplay, through training you might be a little ticked off siting through 
 some of those classes but after it will pay off. Once you get into firefights and such you are 
 going to be saying "I cant believe this is freeware!". Online firefights can get intense, and if 
 you dont think to fast you will be down on the ground waiting for the next round for a little bit. 
 Graphics are top of the line for Freeware, there are better graphics out there but those games 
 sadly... arnt freeware... The sounds are great the guns sound exactly what the real things do. From 
 bullets flying into the ground to bullets flying by your head the sound does not let you down! 
 This game has high value and who ever has a good computer and connection speed and loves military 
 sims should definitly download this game.
  
  Pros
  +FREEWARE!
  +Great Graphics and Sounds
  +Deep Military Sim
  
  Cons
  -Siting through those classes can 
 bore you
  -
  -
  (Only one con!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webjockey
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I was searchin for a free multiplayer game on google and it was coming up with loads of crappy 
 comercial shyte, then 
  it showed up america's army (well actually it showed me the link to a site that shows free mmorpgs) 
 IT WAS A GOD SENT 
  GET IT RIGHT NOW. I have to warn the people who have bought battlefield 2 or are going to buy battlefield 
 2 
  ITA THE SAME AS AMERICA'S ARMY AND AMERICA'S ARMY IS FREE.
  think about it your paying 30 for 
 something that you could download off the net for free
  
  
  ============================================================= 
 
  AMERICA'S ARMY IS THE BEST OF THE BESTAND ITS FREE GET IT NOW
  OR 
  =============================================================
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sabbath-
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is not the average war game, to say the least. In the normal war game (like Socom U. S. 
 Navy Seals) you are given an elite character with a pretty handy squad. 
  In this game you are stuck with a few training missions before you can do anything, which at the 
 time are a little complicated, but once you pass these missions you are free to do whatever. I 
 liked this scenario because it lets you get familiar to all the controls and weapons before you 
 walk into the real battlefield. In doing this it let all the newcomers get ready for the mad skill 
 coming at them, which really helps.
  The only thing wrong with this game play is that it doesn't offer any kind of campaign. I really 
 cant blame the makers for this knowing it is free, and that the new games for Xbox and ps2 had 
 to be completed.
  For a free online game, the graphics were amazing. The blood looks like crap but everything else 
 is rather surprising for a free game.
  The sound is superb. You can here footsteps, doors, nades, silenced weapons, and gunshots. I was 
 impressed how well they did with the sound.
  Given that this game is free, I give this game a 9.1. The things that really sold me were the sounds 
 and graphics. I cant stop playing this game because of these things. I cant wait until Americas 
 Army: Rise of a Soldier comes out in January for PS2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeninPrince51
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 9:12 am PT
Review:  America's Army, is the first FPS I've ever played. I got it in 2.00 version, before the 2.5 patch 
 (current version) . The game is quite solid, although the patches seem to introduce new problems 
 or let old ones reappear. 
  
  Each patch introduces new maps, 2.5 has SF Dockside, and SF Extraction. There is lag in this version, 
 a lot of lag. This takes away from gameplay value, as you can be running down a hall, see an enemy, 
 shoot, warp back 15 feet and be dead. It is very frustrating at times. The maps are nice, and they 
 still use the Unreal Engine, so if you have a rather old system, this game should run alright for 
 you. There are from time to time game crashes, which too can be frustrating. However, they are 
 not so frequent as to be a daily occurrance. Most of the time, while playing, you have decent squad 
 members, even if your squad is full of a bunch of idiots, you can always find one or two people 
 to work with. This promotes the Army's idea of teamwork.
  
  Training is fun enough. It familarizes you with the controls in the game, but training never prepares 
 you adquately enough for the real thing ;-) . 
  
  The sounds are terrific. I love playing on maps, hearing the buzz of bullets flying by, and seeing 
 an explosion, it really works up your nerves. Frags disorienting you, flashbang grenades blinding 
 you, smokes to screen your movements. The sounds help a lot to making you feel like you're in a 
 real battle and you're fighting to the death. 
  
  A drawback though, is they can never really seem to fix all of the problems the game has. Dealing 
 with hackers, they're gone for the most part, but there will always be hackers there. Version 2.1 
 - 2.3 fixed lag, but most recently in 2.4 and 2.5, the lag issues have seemed to reappear. The 
 repeatedly say they will upgrade the graphics, but that has yet to be seen, and they may not show 
 up at all.
  
  Overall this is a good game, and patches in the future should only help to make this game even 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _J-J-P_2006MVP
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:38 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best free game ever created. Thank go the Army is interested in recruiting 
 Gamer's to the battlefeild, that made them want to develop this high quality peice of software. 
 The Graphic's on a 6600= Clean, stick a gig- o - ram on your rig, and your ready to own. Fast fun, 
 great online play, and you can alway's find people to play with. Excellent sound's, Obviously the 
 value is a 10, CAUSE IT'S FREEKIN FREE!
  _J-J-P_2006MVP RIG RECCOMENDATION'S:
  As with most computer games this thing is not pretty on a accelerator Chip, but if that all you 
 got it is playable on lower setting's;
  
  _J-J-P_2006MVP RIG TOP PERFORMANCE NEED'S:
  If you have 512 MB of ram, and a 6600, or 6600GT you are good to go with this game on high setting's, 
 anything better than that be prepared to crush the competetion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghost22
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:32 am PT
Review:  First thing before we get started. This game is not meant to be an arcade, run and gun game. This 
 game was made with realism in mind and the weapons and gameplay reflect this.
  
  First thing you do is create an account at the America's Army website. You can then log into your 
 personal jacket and start your training. You first start off with the basic training such as marksmanship, 
 obstacle course, US weapons training, and a MOUT shoot house that is rather good at showing how 
 to identify enemy targets. (this will be useful to you while in multiplayer)
  
  The shooting in this game is not what it is like in other games. In this game, you must bring up 
 your sights to be rather accurate. Without the sights up, you won't be hitting much.
  
  After you complete your training, you're allowed to play online or you can choose to advance your 
 training and do more that will unlock more options in the game. Sniper training is unlocked when 
 you score a 37 out of 40 on your marksmanship training. The sniper training allows you to choose 
 the sniper rifle class while playing multiplayer.
  
  There is other training such as medic, which allows you to be a combat medic, and airbourn which 
 unlocks certain airbourn levels online. The Special Forces training is probably the hardest training 
 you have to go through. It consists of a test of vehicle identification and an Escape and Evasion 
 test (or E&E) in which you must sneak through a forest without being spotted by guards.
  
  To be able to play online on the Official AA servers, you must have Punkbuster enabled. PB can 
 sometimes cause problems for people when it tries to update or authenticate but these problems 
 can usually be figured out and corrected.
  
  Once you are able to play online, you first start off with choosing one out of two teams that will 
 either assault or defend an objective or ID a certain object or protect a certain person.
  
  Once you choose your team, you are then sent to a menu that allows you to choose your weapon. 
 You can choose from a large selection of weapons that include your standard M16, M249, M203 grenade 
 launcher, sniper rifles, and more.
  
  The gameplay can be rather frustrating at first since you may not be used to it. You move slower 
 then other games have you move and the gameplay is slower so you may get tired of it if you are 
 used to the run and gun games. Like I said, the game can be frustrating at times, you may get shot 
 in the head right at the beginning of the game and have to wait 7 more mins before the next game 
 begins. You may get killed by grenades where you thought no one was and you may go several rounds 
 without getting a single kill if you are new to the game. But then once you get that one kill, 
 it's the best feeling in the world. 
  
  Although this game is designed to be played with teamwork in mind, there is not much going on. 
 When a round starts, everyone runs off and does what they want to do with no teamwork in mind. 
 You may get that one rare server where people actually work together but most of the time, you 
 won't be getting much teamwork unless you join a clan.
  
  All in all, this game is rather fun if you take the time to get used to it and become better at 
 it. Then you will be having fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaviuz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:49 am PT
Review:  The training within this game is perfect for a number of reasons. First and foremost you learn 
 how to play this game with incentive to become better. Tied together with the first reason is the 
 fact that you don't get a large amount of "Noobs" hopping onto the online servers and ruining the 
 experience for you with unguided actions. The controls are simplified and up to par with many other 
 FPS games. The interface is clean and easy to understand. I find this to be the "Complete Realistic 
 First Person Shooter" game many have waited a long time for. 
  The additions of specialities / roles to a team may not be a new concept but it is well implemented 
 in this game. While the people used to other FPS games will miss the respawning in multiplayer 
 mode there are some like myself who love the realism by not including this feature. This not for 
 the mindless bunny hopping run in and blast everything types. You must be strategic and support 
 your team in order to succeed your encounters/missions. If you haven't installed the AA Client 
 you really should get to it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidzaku
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 8:18 am PT
Review:  This game can probably save the lives of US Troops, but it fries the brains of US gamers. The training 
 missions start out simply enough: movement training, weapons training, room to room clearing. Simple 
 Stuff. Afterwards, you have to, get this, listen to around 45 minutes of lectures and answer paper 
 test questions.... If there's one thing that could bore even a turn-based strategy player, it's 
 a written exam over stuff that you won't even use during gameplay. Fun? I think not. The gameplay 
 itself attempts to clone the Battlefield series, but comes off as a laughable batch of mediocrity. 
 The weapons available are few (sniper, a rifle, and a heavy machine gun) , and they are all grossly 
 overpowered, but this may have been made so for realisms sake. In all honesty, the Sniper class 
 has an overwhelming advantage over every other class, as they can see over great distances (most 
 of the maps are so small, there isn't any "fog" or draw distance) and can kill instantly. Some 
 of the alternative weapons are jokes, using ironsights and single-fire mode only. In short, the 
 gameplay is horrendous. The control scheme is just about right, however with only a few keys needing 
 a rebinding. Communication is a nightmare that is usually disregarded unless you have a microphone. 
 The sound effects are above par for a shooting game. Lots of different noises for bullets whizzing 
 by, lots of ambient noise, great firing sounds, and other misceallaneous sound.
  Graphically, its not something to write home about, but it gets the job done.
  
  Fragged out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Str8player16
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 12:54 pm PT
Review:  My mom alway's told me you get what you pay for. Well I hate to tell ya mom, but America's Army 
 is actually a good game, and it's free, as long as you have the ability to download it over the 
 internet.
  The only thing that I do not like about this game is the stupid training that you MUST go thru 
 in order to get to the meaty online portion of the game that simply own's.
  The multiplayer is also unique, and you have to play it in order to know why. It is more precise 
 than your regular Halo, or Half Life.
  Baisically what I am trying to tell you is this. Why don't you just scoot yourself over to DLX, 
 and try this out for yourself. I told you already it is great, so what is holding you back?
  I would give this game a 8.0 if it wasnt free. BUT IT IS FREE!!!
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Thease are the spec's that will allow you to play this toatally maxed out.
  1024 MB Ram
  6600 GT 128 MB
  Fairly good P4, or AMD Anthlon
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  THe only thing I can say about this game that is really bad is...
  Dont even attempt to play this if you have a Integrated GPU, cause the graphic's look so messed 
 up on the absolute lowest setting's, that it is hard to even tell what gun your holding. Yes it 
 is that bad.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanop
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 3, 2005 2:37 am PT
Review:  best of its kind. although it takes away james bond one man hero genre you can still get good with 
 a lot of practise. the learning curve is quite fast but to master each wepon takes a long time. 
 stick with it because it becomes great when you start to play against other people. although the 
 tests are very long boring!!!!!!!!! and like me you've made more than one character just get cheats 
 for the test answers. all in all i gave this game a 9.0 because it is fantastic except for when 
 you get your head blown of by a 203. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmiSS
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Americas Army, the official game of the US army. With that kind of title hangin over your head, 
 you've got a lot to live up to. AA is a multiplayer based game that requires the player to go through 
 diffrent "course" berfore you can even enter the batlefield. Very realistic I think, give the player 
 a real sense of immursion. You can choose to go farther with your trainning by entering in some 
 special courses like medic school, sniper school, special forces, and rangers. Now to get into 
 some of the schools you have to pass certian test with a required score but no biggy for a battle 
 hardend FPS player. 
  Once you join the battlefield you status is tracked by a system called "honor". YOur honor level 
 is like you experiance in a rpg. The higher your honor the more option become avalible to you. 
 Also this honor sytem gives a way for hosts to regulate the skill level in their severs. So you 
 can have the true newb, and true leet server.
  AA is a army simulation. Its pretty real, dmg and weapons are pretty accurate, and gameplay is 
 as real as it can get with out taking away from anything. 
  As it comes down to, AA is a good MP FPS sim. with the ability for character growth. But lacks 
 any sort of single player (other than training) . So if you got a good internet connection get it, 
 if you dont. dont bother.
  Also its FREE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John_Kelly
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 30, 2005 4:30 am PT
Review:  America's Army seems to have it all. The graphics are exceptional. It allows the player to accomplish 
 authentic tasks and fire realistic weaponry. The missions are "right on too." Then what is the 
 problem? The game is too stressful. If you make a mistake, your entire effort can be for naught. 
 I know that's the way it is in real life, but this is supposed to be a game. I rarely venture online, 
 but prefer to play on a LAN.
  
  If there were a single player mode, I would enjoy that. I simply do not find the online community 
 very inviting, or rewarding. So, although America's Army remains on my hard-drive, it's not in 
 my heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chevaldefer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 29, 2005 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Amazing, it doesn't cost $$$, if u have a powerful pc the graph.. are really good, and the sound, 
 you can hear the enemy foot step on the snow sneaking toward you, it is near the real thing, this 
 game is more like a simulation than a game. You have to prove yourself in the basic training camp 
 before heading on the net, you can also try the sharp shooter training, this one is easy but if 
 you got the balls and want the good guns then the special force training is for you, of course 
 you have to be quite good or have a lot of time to lose before completing that one but it worth 
 the while. I recommend it highly, a must have! One of the best shooter game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 6, 2005 10:23 am PT
Review:  This is my first game review. I wanted to start writing my own reviews for a long time on my own 
 website but there's just no time to make it all happen so here I go. I will try to be as objective 
 as possible and will try to put a lot of thought into this review. Keep in mind that I am a fan 
 of simulation and tactical shooters when looking at the actual score. I will however be objective 
 in the review itself.
  
  I'm also sure that plenty of reviews were written about the game but it is IMPORTANT to keep the 
 updated since the game is constantly changing. This review concentrates on the version 2.5.0 of 
 America's Army. Yeswe've come a long way...
  
  A bit of facts surrounding the game
  
  Firstly let's get things clear. America's Army is a commercial, a good and a big commercial. It 
 is therefore free to download and play. The financial backbone behind this commercial is the US 
 government which makes it all that much more fun (or not for some) . Because it is a commercial 
 for the US Army and is kids-friendly you should not expect to see the bad sides of the war. You 
 will NOT see your friend screaming in pain at the top of his longs for help as he bleeds to death 
 in the middle of the hostile territory having his leg blown off and there's nothing youre allowed 
 to do about it. You will NOT see the guts of mothers and children all over the pavement after they've 
 been hit by your or a hostile bomb. Remember that.
  
  The core (Gameplay) :
  
  America's Army is an online game that's giving you the control of one of the US soldiers within 
 a single squad (regular US Army, indigenous forces or Special Forces) . Working together with other 
 players you must accomplish one or more designated objectives while in a fight with the OPFOR (Opposing 
 Forces) played by the opposite team that has it's own objectives. Here the game cleverly introduces 
 a new concept: while you see the enemy as terrorists they see themselves as the good guys and see 
 you as terrorists. This might upset some who like having a terrorist outfit. 
  
  The game is divided sessions consisting of 7 rounds. At the end of each session the players can 
 choose their roles in the squad. The order of those who can choose is based upon the points gained 
 in that session.
  
  According to the role you have chosen in the squad you will receive a single weapon sometimes accompanied 
 by an extra firearm and usually several types of grenades and other tools required for the mission 
 (like the breaching charges) . This might be weird to those who are accustomed to choose their own 
 gun... and not just an American made weapon but several other types. That possibility is still there 
 but you just have to either wait for someone with that weapon to leave the server or wait till 
 the end of the session and earn the gun with points.
  
  I have to say that the above is still not working too well. When playing in outdoor maps there 
 are usually a couple of weapons that own the whole map and everyone on it. There are many players 
 so it's hard to get those weapons and when you do get them then immediately a bunch of players 
 start to whine to you about how bad they want that gun so you just spit on it all and never choose 
 that gun to begin with.
  
  The game falls into the Tactical Shooter category and is based on team play and therefore can be 
 hard for some of the Rambos who like jumping and running around alone. Many objectives for the 
 assault team heavily rely on teamwork. That's one of the reasons why an America's Army Rambo (and 
 even normal players) usually doesn't care for the objectives. He just walks around until he kills 
 everyone on the opposing team. The team play is further strengthened by numerous sound commands 
 and several silent hand signs (a really nice touch!) as well as ability to report your position. 
 
  Before you can even THINK of starting to play you first need to accomplish several training sessions 
 that have minimum requirements for passing. Some of these training missions can be pretty long 
 and tough. And you know what? I like that! This kind of requirement before you start playing keeps 
 out many of the really childish players (so does the earn-weapons-with-points system) . That does 
 not take away that the servers are still filled with players whose primary objective might be to 
 annoy others.
  
  Every player's progress is recorded. Based on the amount of kills, survivability and other things 
 (that I still haven't figured out) players earn honour points throughout their whole career. That 
 number of honour doesn't always refer to the player's skill but more often to the time he spent 
 playing the game (or the money he spent buying that account) .
  
  To conclude on gameplay I must state that the game feels very realistic in many aspects due to 
 the attention to details. For example when reloading or fixing the jammed weapons you will see 
 the whole process and not just the sticking in of a new magazine like in most other games. The 
 damage taken to the body is also very realistic and includes bleeding, 3 severity levels, slowing 
 down in movement etc.
  
  Gameplay development:
  
  Since it is absolute madness to assault an equally equipped, well barricaded and expecting you 
 opposing force the developers of AA lately started creating more maps where both teams have the 
 same objectives to achieve. This actually evens things out a lot. 
  Bunny hopping that is so loved by Counter Strike Rambos as well as several other annoying things 
 have been forcibly reduced by the 2.5 patch although not eliminated. 
  
  In order to increase diversity and decrease spawn spamming the spawn points for teams in the latest 
 maps are random as well as the locations of the objectives.
  
  Of course not to forget that more and more better balanced out content is coming into the game. 
 
  
  A bad development is the lack of servers. Probably to financial difficulties many of the servers 
 have been shut down and it became up to the players (and their wallets) to keep the game going. 
 This is especially true for the European servers. Due to that all, lag has also increased as the 
 official servers always did have less of it.
  
  Another bad development, not dependant on the developers, is the abandoning of some maps by the 
 players. For reasons I still haven't understood only several maps are ttrully played while the 
 majority of the maps has either no servers at all or just one lost lamb server that is usually 
 empty. I hope when the developers release some AI this personal problem of mine will be fixed.
 
  
  The Bugs and their development:
  
  Unfortunately I have not yet seen a game that had no bugs (no not even Half Life 2) and AA is not 
 an exception. Many of the bugs haven't yet been fixed. I keep getting stuck in some places and 
 my gun keeps disappearing (at those very rare moments) but those bugs do not destroy the gameplay 
 and they do occasionally get fixed.
  
  The graphics:
  
  Surprisingly for you and myself I consider the graphics of the game very very good even though 
 I haven't seen much change in the last few years of playing it (I believe the game did change the 
 graphic engines once) . Graphics are good even when compared to some of the latter games. Of course 
 it might not have that new generation Doom 3 look with all the shaders but it looks surprisingly 
 well considering its creation date and it's minimum requirements. My current system is far from 
 high end but until recently I've been playing the game with every video option turned to maximum.
 
  
  Graphics development:
  
  Here comes the "... until recently..." part. Since we're also talking about the development of the 
 game I must state that the minimum requirements have rose quite a bit with the arrival of the newer 
 maps. Some of the stuff that I thought to be lag is actually my processor starting to choke.
  
  Sound:
  
  Good. Nothing too fancy but explosions, bullet shots and background sounds are 
 all there as they should be. I'm mostly talking about the latest maps where the gunshots in the 
 background sound very similar to the real gunfire that I heard outdoors before. Many voice commands 
 are present in game since communication takes a very important place.
  
  Sound development:
  
  I remember back when I was playing older maps the background sounds consisted 
 of some wind and on the indoor maps some machine sounds. Probably due to the growing complexity 
 of the maps the amount of sounds got increased too. Some of the sound bugs also got fixed.
  
  Growth now and in the future:
  
  AA is constantly changing. New maps, weapons and tools 
 are being added from time to time as the new versions of the game are being released. This review 
 was for example based on version 2.5. Soon a working AI as well as movable vehicles are promised 
 by the developers. Whether that will all be done by UBISOFT who got a contract on making an AA 
 game for the XBOX (that you will have to pay for... hahahahaha... sorry I'm digressing) or done by 
 someone else or not done at all... we'll just have to wait and see.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Relatively good graphics, good sound and a constantly changing online gameplay bringing military 
 simulation into my home as well as the lack of a price tag will ensure that I will keep playing 
 this game probably for many years to come. I would certainly recommend it to any serious tactical 
 player but I would suggest for the Counter Strike and Soldier Of Fortune fans to think twice before 
 touching this game as it might just be not exactly what you expected it to be.
  
  PS I deeply apologize for any orthographical mistakes I made. I am but a Russian immigrant.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robjkay
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 18, 2005 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Its a great game for something thats free to get!!! If you been in the military, this is the game 
 for you..... Being it takes you back to basic training and all and you can relive it. It also a 
 great tool for people who want to try to join the military or are thinking of it. It will give 
 that person a idea of what they might have to do and give them knowledge of what the standards 
 are! Cant wait for what they do next!!!
  
  So check it out, it fun, it provides some great information for you and there are alot of great 
 people who play online. Enjoy!
  
  Yeah... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 2:21 pm PT
Review:  America's Army was for certain a surprise game.
  
  The US military wanted to make it appealing to gamers and educational at the same time, and I thought 
 this wasn't possible.
  
  America's Army was a unique game in its own right with realistic gun handling and army rules. Obstacle 
 courses, parachute jumps, and shoothouses are all in the game with a close attention to detail 
 not in graphics, but in how they handle.
  
  Online play is a little touch and go with PunkBuster, but the military made a visible effort to 
 make it clean and friendly.
  
  I feel this is the BEST free game that was ever made availible, and if you havn't already, go download 
 it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: way2funny
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 14, 2005 2:07 pm PT
Review:  A must get. Thats the three words to describe Americas Army. It is the most realistic military 
 FPS you will find. 
  
  Pros-
  *Free! who doesnt like a free game
  *Very realistic
  *An abundant amount of maps
  *Training maps to be qualified for different maps and different 
 weaponry 
  *Very tactical and slow paced
  *Nice graphics if you have the graphics card to support it
  *Always up to date, patches and updates 
 are released constantly
  *For almost all ages
  *Its from the US Army, so it cant get any more realistic
  *Unique in almost every way
  *Very 
 great game for clans
  *You have a ranking system called 'Honor'
  *Last but not least, its FREE!
  
  Cons-
  *Its only multiplayer, no single player
  *Some 
 people online can be just rude
  *Difficult to get into to, though when you do it will be great
  *Some people are just to darn 
 good at it, so it would be hard to match up
  *Sometimes a bit TOO addictive
  *No 'Next-Gen' graphics, though that is a Pro for me because of my limited graphics card
  *Lots 
 of hackers/cheaters/downloaders
  *A rude clan called DKs (Dark Knights) plays it
  
  In Conclusion-
  You wont find a better military shooter. Its very tacticful and its even a lot 
 more fun playing with someone you know. My advice is dont get discouraged when you arent as good 
 as someone else. Keep practicing. Frag on!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor12th
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2005 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for about a year, and i have 875 hours played. So i know a great 
 deal about this game.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The game play is really really good on this game because there are slow paced maps and fast paced 
 maps. So what ever you like, theres a map for you.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphices in AA are just completly amazing, it uses the Unreal Engine 2.5 One of the top looking 
 games out. 
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound in this game is just about perfect. The guns and gernades and everything else sound really 
 good, sence the DEV team has guns and gernades and what ever when ever they want. Also the key 
 to being really good in this game is listing because the sound is so good that you can hear every 
 little thing that happens in a reasonable distance.
  
  Overall:
  
  This game never gets old as there are updates every few months. And its just a great game! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazywinner
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This game makes you look in every corner just to make sure theres not someone waiting there to 
 shoot you. If your smart you'll do what i just said. It's very good in letting you be able to sneak 
 and hide in areas to kill people. This game feels like a mix of splinter cell and some other FPS 
 game, which really isn't that bad. Plus it's free what more would you want! It gets you addictive 
 just to become better. My only problem is the weapon choice, there just no variety at all, you 
 really only get one type, and the grenades etc... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChowsSN
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 11, 2005 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This is obviously a very good game. One reason is that it's FREE! Yes, it's free, just download 
 it, and you can join the action. This is as real as it gets, and very close to the real Battlefield. 
 It is very realistic and makes it a very good competition. Did I mention that this game is free? 
 Okay, now to break the game down.
  
  Gameplay: There is really nothing about the gameplay that makes it THAT great, but it is fun. It's 
 the average Squad-based Shooter, but this time you work with real people. You have your Snipers, 
 Medics, AR's, and Team Leaders. You can strategize and do your stuff to complete the mission. You've 
 also got a, sort of a, "campaign" mode, where you earn your medals and go up the ranking system. 
 The Gameplay is very satisfying, although they can add a little more.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are nothing to brag about, but it's nothing that'll put someones head down 
 in shame either. It's just your average graphics.
  
  Sound: The sound is one of the best part of this game. This really adds the realism to the game, 
 and makes you act differently. You'll be hearing gun shots whizzing past your head, explosions 
 going off all around, wounded men yelling for medics, it really shows how War is hell, although 
 sometimes it can be quiet, which is usually temporary.
  
  Value: The replay value is good, although it can get a bit repetitive since nothing new can really 
 added. But it is a good way to kill time, and it is fun to strategize, it's good to play together, 
 he he.
  
  Tilt: The game deserves a lot of credit. It's free, yes I said it again, and it really has a lot 
 to offer. It's very fun, and satisfieing and I encourage anyone who is into Squad-Based shooting 
 games to download this. You're not losing much, except for some memory on your harddrive, which 
 I'm sure you have plenty of. It's worth your time, and it's FREE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are good, but they don't do anything extraordinary. 
  
  The sounds are good too. There are many very realistic sound effects, though there aren't many 
 different musical tunes for us to listen to. 
  
  This is not a traditional war game, and that is good cause there are lots of those. This a game 
 where you make your own personal jacket and train yourself to bacome the best American soldier 
 on the field. The game features a lot of training where you learn to bacome a medic, paratrooper, 
 and even a member of the special forces. After a bit of training you can play a couple of mission 
 and this is one of the things I both like best and worst about this game, cause you can only play 
 online. It's both very good and not so good cause I really don't think online multiplayer is that 
 fun. If I wan't to play online I play Unreal Tournament 2004 instead. I would have liked this game 
 a bit better if there was some offline classical war missions. But as I said this is also a good 
 side of the game for those who like counter-strike and so on. The game is worth downloading and 
 is worth the time playing too. This is a realistic war game that every gamer connected to the internet 
 should have. Its system requirements are pretty high though!! You can download the game from www. americasarmy. com 
 
  
  + 
  It's free! It's realitic and features the fact that the weapon suddenly errors while shooting. 
 
  
  - 
  There are only online missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  First of all, Americas Army is an FPS, made and designed by the U. S Army, with full support by 
 the Army, so lay off all doubts on technical accuracy.
  
  The game starts off remarkably like an MMO, go to the website, create an account, then its all 
 ingame, first passing the minimum but mandatory trainings, which show you the basic weapons, then 
 its off to the many missions, divided by section, the game allways shows you as the U. S army, and 
 the opponent as OpFor, Opposing Force, this 'gimmick' works out remarkably well, everything, from 
 the weapons, to the OpFor cries for a grenade, are different, and help to create the athmosphere 
 of reality.
  
  
  Graphics rate an 8, they do the job, but their not steller, due for an upgrade, while the new weapons 
 look great, the older one's, M16's and the like, are looking more and more... like models.
  
  The Sound is awesome, if your equipted with headphones or a decent sound system, you can hear 
 everything, the selector switch of an M16, the pin of a grenade, Opfor cries, and movements, if 
 there is anything perfect about this game, its the sound.
  
  The gameplay i've covered above, but it helps to add a note on the specifics of the online community, 
 for a fun, generally reasonable community, it IS HARD on newbies, and rather prefers that they 
 stay, out of sight, on the training servers on the training map, MOUT McKenna (those who passed 
 BT in real life know what that is) .
  
  Personally, its the best online shooter, though it does have its downside, numerous bugs infest 
 the game, and ruin what could be a contender of the year (which year though... I'll leave to GS)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: montzag
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. It is free and it is a great great game. Online is superbly organized and the 
 training missions really ensure that you are competant before you get out there, honor makes sure 
 you can't dick around all the time like in Halo. Good stuff. Intense realism makes the game very 
 tense and often close quarters battles have my heart beating. Maps are really fun to play and the 
 weapons are all cool to use. Check it out, it's a free download and definitely worth it. Graphics 
 are great and the sounds is very cool and helpful when you are in a battle. One of the best online 
 games I've ever played, certainly the best free ware ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlosandrade
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 25, 2005 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Americas army is pretty fun but also laggy in most maps
  i dont know what makes it so laggy if the maps arent as big as battlefields vietnam.
  the lag 
 comes right when you are shooting at an enemy and the lag stops you from killing him...
  
  the loading time on most maps is loooooong.
  i sometimes get stuck in the middle of the loading 
 proccess and lose patience and restart my pc.
  
  if it wasnt for lag and some hard training, the game will be awesome especially for free!
  
 
  the graphics are good 
  the sound is good
  the controls are pretty easy
  
  the only thing this game is missing is problably voice chat so you can talk to your team mates 
 with a mic and not type it because the enemy will shoot you
  ... also your team mates rarely do teamwork like all other games they make you go on your own and 
 face the whole opposing team on your own that is one of the main reasons i want voice chat in the 
 game.
  
  i am pretty addicted to the game really fun :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 4, 2005 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I am just surprised at how this game is made by the army all by themselves. This game is a fun 
 online shooter. Every match takes place in a Counter-Strike type situation. One team plays as the 
 US army, while the other plays as a terrorist organization. Each have their own mission objectives, 
 but the match ends when all the objectives are completed, or all the opposing enemies are eliminated. 
 The gameplay is decent, but not spectacular. All the controls are difficult, and are scattered 
 throughout the keyboard. Also, it is incredably easy to die in this game. Sometimes, I'll be shooting 
 an enemy, and he shoots me once and I die. Realistic? Sometimes, with headshots and other things, 
 but not most of the time. The game requires you take tutorials, and if you want to be a medic or 
 in special forces, prepare to endure long and boring presentations accompanied by difficult written 
 tests. Also, the game is very slow paced. Even slower than Rainbow Six, but that's about all the 
 problems I could find with the gameplay. The graphics are very well done for the PC. Facial details, 
 and gun details are very intricate and accurate. The variety of maps to play on are all beautifully 
 detailed, and there's a wide range of them too. There is no real music to it, just one little song 
 that plays during the main menu. The sound effects are absolutely realistic though, but the voice 
 acting isn't too hot. I love this game because you can just keep playing. If you don't wanna play 
 on that level any more, go join a new server, it's that easy and painless. Overall, this is a really 
 good game, but there are some bad things about it. Good job US Army! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 29, 2005 9:08 pm PT
Review:  AA known as Americas Army is the best 1st person shooter ever out for modern combat, this game 
 has everythinng in it, its realism, its graphical view of the gun and outside and how you would 
 really reload a gun and un jam it in real life, that's the feeling i like.
  
  This game is an amazing game since it ever came out, every few months they bring great patches 
 out including many things, the best was the SF patch ( Special Forces ) , this was the best patch 
 ever that came out. And yet they are bring even better patches which include driving vehicles :) 
 now that will be EXTREMLY fun.
  
  It's only Multiplayer but that makes it the army way of testing your skills. As you progress you 
 get honor, the more points you earn you get honor, starting off with u get 10 honor which is the 
 lowest unless you get - points which will lose you honor, more honor u earn the more respect you 
 get and the more points it takes to get the nexts honor. This is what makes you want to play more 
 to improve your skills and get higher honor. As you start off with it is quite hard with the skilled 
 players agaisnt you you wont have a clue at first where to go and what to do, but you will soon 
 get the hang off this, this happends with everyone at first, even me.
  
  So, if you have broadband and you like 1st person shooter I STONGLY recommend this game for you 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newsboy
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 22, 2005 9:08 am PT
Review:  When it comes to what is quite possible the U. S. Army's best recruiting tool, one is drawn in by 
 beautiful graphics, authentic weapons and the overall stigma of soldiers in combat.
  America's Army has several unique features not found in other first person shooters that make it 
 interesting. First, the Training mode is not meant to be as fun as it is to be informative. The 
 Army has taken elements of various types of military training (mainly the fun stuff) and integrated 
 it into a mode that lets you perform weapons training for badges that go on some "permanent jacket" 
 that I have yet to see, parachute from an airplane in Airborne school and sneak past guard towers 
 and HumVees in a reconaissence excersize. They also threw in an unskipable classroom simulation 
 where you literally learn about the differences between enemy and allied armor, weapons, aircraft 
 and ordinance and then you literally have to pass an exam that really tests whether or not you 
 were paying attention to an animated slide show. While taking the test, if you stray away from 
 your paper too long you get accused of cheating!
  If this is all the game contained, enthusiasm would soon die and players would remove this free 
 download from their hard drives for good.
  Luckilly, there is also a rather immense group of hardcore followers always ready to take you out 
 in the game's online multiplayer mode.
  This is truly the game's bread and butter, with many different maps to choose from, a weapon mod 
 selector (which I haven't figured out how to work yet) and a great chance to show off your squad 
 combat skills... especially if you have a worthy clan that understands a thing or two about tactical 
 warfare, most gamers will want to skip the training and head straight to the fight.
  As for the action itself, the gameplay is a little slower than I am used to, being a Rainbow Six 
 3 fan, and some of the movements feel generic and choppy. And just like real life, when you bring 
 your sights up field of view sinks way down and careful aim doesn't gaurantee a hit.
  In summary, it's a free game, so eat it up and enjoy it while you can. Yes, there are many first 
 person shooters which are better and offer more, but none of them are free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swamprat_basic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 30, 2005 6:17 am PT
Review:  This game is free. So you should have it. It's really good too.
  
  I don't know the Army's agenda behind America's Army. I suspect it's just to reverse the negative 
 images people form of war after watching such movies as Saving Private Ryan and Black Hawk Down.
 
  
  This game is really good, but it is kind of conventional. It's basically a souped up Counter-Strike 
 involving the U. S. Army, but Counter-Strike is free too, so... whatever.
  
  I've had some fun with this game, but if you're a big fan of games such as Counter-Strike you'll 
 probably enjoy this game more than me. I'm not that good at these kind of games, so expectedly, 
 I don't enjoy them as much as some people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and you will not be dissapointed in it at all. It might not please everyone 
 in the group but for what you get in the game it will not be a waste of your time.
  
  Some games you get and you just feel let down and ripped off well this game isnt one of those types. 
 I believe there will be a community for this game for some time to come and the support for it 
 will be around awhile also.
  
  The graphics and sound quality are great and wont be out of date for a long time. Overall you probably 
 will leave this on your computer and not uninstall it anytime soon.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acepace
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 22, 2005 9:26 pm PT
Review:  First of all, Americas Army is an FPS, made and designed by the U. S Army, with full support by 
 the Army, so lay off all doubts on technical accuracy.
  
  The game starts off remarkably like an MMO, go to the website, create an account, then its all 
 ingame, first passing the minimum but mandatory trainings, which show you the basic weapons, then 
 its off to the many missions, divided by section, the game allways shows you as the U. S army, and 
 the opponent as OpFor, Opposing Force, this 'gimmick' works out remarkably well, everything, from 
 the weapons, to the OpFor cries for a grenade, are different, and help to create the athmosphere 
 of reality.
  
  
  Graphics rate an 8, they do the job, but their not steller, due for an upgrade, while the new weapons 
 look great, the older one's, M16's and the like, are looking more and more... like models.
  
  The Sound is awesome, if your equipted with headphones or a decent sound system, you can hear 
 everything, the selector switch of an M16, the pin of a grenade, Opfor cries, and movements, if 
 there is anything perfect about this game, its the sound.
  
  The gameplay i've covered above, but it helps to add a note on the specifics of the online community, 
 for a fun, generally reasonable community, it IS HARD on newbies, and rather prefers that they 
 stay, out of sight, on the training servers on the training map, MOUT McKenna (those who passed 
 BT in real life know what that is) .
  
  Personally, its the best online shooter, though it does have its downside, numerous bugs infest 
 the game, and ruin what could be a contender of the year (which year though... I'll leave to GS) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bittermen
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 28, 2005 3:15 pm PT
Review:  As you know, there is many competitive fps shooter out there but that does not mean this is out 
 of the pack. It has its pros can cons like any other fps but anyway here goes
  
  Gameplay- Nice gameplay if you prefer to work in a team rather than operating solo. This game focuses 
 on teamwork and strategy. Since this focuses on realism it haves the recoil of a gun, the cameo 
 that wear in an actual army and lots more. This wont appeal to all the fans but surely some of it 
 would spend a few or the rest of their lives playing this.
  
  Graphics- Nice and still need a few more tweaks and it could been better. The smoke could been 
 better as well as the muzzle flashes and the fragmentation grenades could been alot better.
  
  Sound- One of the best sound i ever heard since u hear bullets fly through your ear and bullets 
 ricocheted. Since there is only one song in this game i would give a little less rating but the 
 others ..... well its the best.
  
  Value- Free need to i say anything more
  
  Since this is a recruiter program, it is surely successful as i can tell. Anyway need a free game 
 and got no cash in your pocket ,,,, u guess it visit the website at www. americasarmy. com . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devouring_One
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 27, 2005 5:55 am PT
Review:  First reason to get this game, it's free. The second reason is that its the most realistic FPS 
 game out there. Third, the graphics and sound in this game are excellent, since they actually have 
 the real gun sounds and training missions in this game. And the forth reason is that this game 
 updates itself over time and you'll never have to play the same version of the game, so you'll 
 always receive new missions and upgrades for the game.
  
  The gamplay is just like any FPS game, but only that it's a multiplayer game thats practically 
 similar to Counterstrike in everyway. You just accomplish your objective for the mission your currently 
 playing. The AI in this game is terrible because there isn't any in it. You just play against human 
 players and with human players, this game is incredibly hard and you have to keep playing to get 
 better. Theres just no way you can get good without playing this game for a period of time. Just 
 a few shots on you and your dead so you'll have to work as a team and accomplish your goals. So 
 if you want a real warlike experience you have to play this game.
  
  The only downside to this game that you have to do virtual training before you play this game, 
 and that can start extreme boredom which causes repeated do overs. But if you can get pass the 
 training then thats pretty much it. The other problems you'll find are the occassional hackers, 
 but the game does a pretty good job in monitoring it, and the fact that this game is hard to play 
 and to get use to.
  
  So there pretty much isn't any reason why no one should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Hans-
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 20, 2005 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Its free. Why not download it and give it a try, right? Sure go ahead, but I feel like I wasted 
 my time with it. It took longer to download the game, than for me to stop playing and uninstall 
 it. Boring, bland, tedious, just a few ways to describe it. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  It is supposed to mimic real life, but that is not why I play videogames (for the most part) . If 
 I wanted to have the experience of being in the army, I might as well join it. But I guess this 
 is a good alternative if you are unable to move less than 20 feet without having to rest. Its slow 
 and uneventful. You have to go through training to be able to play more than the beginner map. 
 And frankly, it sucks. An example of this training you do; sit in a virtual classroom and listen 
 to a lecture, then take an ONLINE TEST!!!! HOORAY! Once you finally get online with actual people, 
 it more confusing than ever. You choose your team, then pick some other junk, then do some special 
 thing, and then you might be able to play. I could never really figure out how to even get ingame 
 and fire my weapon. I was stuck on some menu and had to quit. So basically, i never even got to 
 play this game. 
  
  Graphics
  
  Nothing special here. Not good, not bad. 
  
  Sound
  
  Since it is realistic it sounds pretty darn good. From the bullet shells hitting the 
 ground to the explosions of grenades, all of it is pretty good. The boring lectures are what made 
 me give it a nine. Online school is just as boring as real life school. 
  
  Value
  
  It's free. What more could you ask for. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunishedOne
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2005 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Another version of AA (America's Army) just came out yesterday. 2.3, with 2 new maps (Woodland 
 Outpost, and Urban Assault.) 
  
  I have played AA for 2 years now, and have 329 hours clocked in all. That's a LOT of playing time 
 for a free game!
  
  Now, nearly everyone hates AA because of 1 thing: They don't want to do training! They're thinking 
 "I already know how to use grenades and fire a gun, I don't want to be lectured about it!"
  
  WRONG.
  
  You NEED training, it's not thrown in there to piss you off. It explains to you 
 the basics, and some training parts ARE useless (MOUT for instance.) 
  
  You could say that AA is THE most realistic military game out. It uses real-world weapons (M4A1, 
 M16A2, AK-47, AK-74SU, M24, M82A1 "Barret" Beretta 92FS M9, SVD Dragunov, M67 Frag, RPG-7, AT-4, 
 M249 SAW, RPK-47, M870, GP-30, M203. Those are all of them.) , correct equipment, NEARLY all of 
 the reloads are correct (Reloads in SVD, AK-47, M16A2, RPK-47 are what you do when the drum/magazine 
 is empty.) , and also, there's maps set in different scenarios.
  
  The graphics are fairly out-dated (Obviously) , due to the game running on the UT2K4 engine. But, 
 why would you stare at jaggies if your the last one on your team and there's 4 enemies left, EACH 
 with a M249 or RPK?!
  
  Anyway, the game has a HIIIIIGGGHHH learning curve, due to all the realism slapped in AA. Don't 
 expect to get a headshot 50 feet away while spamming with your M4, it won't happen.
  
  AA is fairly stable in SOME maps, but the Special Forces maps are horribly coded, causing your 
 FPS or ping to hit ROCK-BOTTOM (The worst is Hospital.... best is CSAR.)
  
  Now, you've been wondering about hackers right? Well, there's an anti-cheat program implemented 
 into AA, which is PunkBuster. I'm not going into detail about what's been going on lately, or else 
 it will take up 2 screens worth alone.
  
  If your looking for a new online FPS to play, look no further!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mauro_Rosati
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  Since the first version America's army has conquered the heart of millions of players all over 
 the world.
  Good graphics, team based gameplay and the effort of the U. S. America's Army make this game a must 
 for those who love online FPS.
  Yes guys, if you want to have fun with this great game you must have an internet connection because 
 it's an online only FPS.
  Go to americasarmy. com, create your account (totally free) , download the game and join a very large 
 community of players playing this game. So guys, if you have fasta internet connection, if you 
 love online FPS with strong tactical elements and totally free, this is the game for you. Just 
 another word about the graphics, it uses the Unreal Technology, so another good reason to get it.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: clearman90
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 11, 2004 10:20 pm PT
Review:  This game would be really good on a lag-free server with 2 or 3 minute rounds. unfortunately those 
 dont exist so this game is just a big amount of frustration. This game has the worst lag i have 
 ever seen, its always unplayable, no matter what ping. i have a good system and a cable modem but 
 still. the rounds are way too long so if u die early its like a 7 minute wait until the next one. 
 the controls are standard fps, though its easy to fall off of cliffs. i have had trouble with punkbuster 
 before but eventually i sorted them out. the training missions are the biggest pain in the ass. 
 its impossible to pass the sniper test and airborne skool is way too confusing and hard, leaving 
 half of the game a mystery. the sound is very good though, the guns sound real (as they should 
 because its made by the military) . all in all, this game is a waste of time. even though its free, 
 i gave the value a 1 because its a waste of time downloading it and it wont be on your computer 
 for long once u do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_nathan19
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 7, 2004 6:43 am PT
Review:  Americas Army is a first-person shooter endorsed by the United States Army, and serves as a recruiting 
 tool for people looking to join the Army (or bring the idea into their mind) . It also provides 
 entertainment for gamers like us !! :) . The tactical feel of the game, and great community easily 
 makes playing the game highly addictive, and is the reason for many late nights (!:30 AM as i right 
 this after playin for 5 hours) . 
  As far as the up-sides go, Americas Army has great gameplay, easy to use controls (with an exception 
 of the sprint key. Double-tap W???? terrible if you ask me) , splendid graphics that give you sorta 
 a grity and realistic feel as you crawl around on sand, concrete, and snow, and excellently designed 
 levels to play on. (The bridge crossing mission is of the perfect build.) 
  Now for the bad parts in AA, which are, sadly, quite a few. First off, the PESKY TRAINING missions.... They 
 were the cause of several days of frustration and four letter words for me, especially the E and 
 E mission at the end. Going without a gameguide through it is virtually impossible, and some gaurds 
 are tipped too easily, while others are complete retards and you can go by in plain view. The most 
 annoying missions are easily the medic training. Players who want to help their buddies must first 
 endure 25 minutes of boring lectures and 3 tests in order to complete a task that can be done without 
 the lectures. IMO, this can just turn a gamer off. If they must have the medic stuff in, they should 
 make listening to it an optional thing. The game does suffer a bit of lag online, even if you have 
 a cable connection.
  Conclusion: The US Army wanted to create a game that would attract and excite people about the 
 use of real Army tactics, and a sense of what it is like in training, while still creating a fun 
 and challenging game. MISSION ACCOMPLISHED. It's free, no exscuse not to give it a whirl. Go to 
 americasarmy. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanderstag
Rating: 3.9
Date: Oct 14, 2004 6:26 am PT
Review:  Since this is free for us now that our tax dollars paid for it, the download isn't so bad. A big 
 problem is with differing versions of Punk Buster between client and server. Also, updating PB 
 isn't user friendly. The upshot is a simple code entered into the console upon entry to a server: 
 "pb_security 0" which allows an updated client to play on an old server PB version. Simple enough, 
 but a lot of reading to get there.
  Now let me address the game itself... Whew, they sure made the training much like the real thing, 
 very dry and boring. The scoped rifle view makes you feel like a drunk sailor on the rolling high 
 seas, there is no hold breath. So it's a real chore to get on target. Besides which, most of the 
 training has nothing to do with the gameplay. Rather it should be, "Wow, this is boring compared 
 to the Army they advertise on TV." Did I mention boring and dry? I thought Escape and Evasion training 
 was going to be fun, but that was one long meaningless task.
  As for the gameplay once all the training was done, I didn't really see much purpose to it. Besides 
 which, the action is just as stale as the training. Friend/Foe identification is very hard. Also, 
 gameplay seems to be entirely oriented towards getting stats. I suppose this is to encourage people 
 to continue to play. But why bother? This isn't any fun. I suppose the army stiffs wanted to make 
 a good simulator. Good job on that front, bad job orienting it towards the gamer community. The 
 nice part: free (after taxes) . Try it for yourself and see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PubaLeRaccoon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2004 12:02 am PT
Review:  If the idiot Punk Buster people didn't ruin this game, I'd be playing it right now. Before, you 
 could play all you wanted and have no problems, but now Punk Buster came out with some new thing, 
 and it automatically kicks you at the beginning of a round, so this game is useless, except for 
 the training, which is very very frustrating and gay and should be optional, not mandatory (or 
 however you spell it) . But since before the new PB stuff, I used to play this game a lot online, 
 I'll write a review on how it was like before (if I was reviewing what it's like now, I'd give 
 it a 1.0 because of how useless it is) . At first I hated it and thought it was really gay, but 
 this was kinda the first game I played online so I had to work to be good, and eventually I started 
 to like it and play it more and more. If you've played this game, you might have gotten mad at 
 me before, I almost always played the Bridge level and my sn on it was KokoMonkey00 and I used 
 to team kill and curse out other players to practice my marksmanship, my Honor level would probably 
 have been around a like 15 by now (that's pretty low, but I'm not a loser who plays one game 24 
 hours a day) , but it's an 8 (I think) now. Here's what the TK'ing situation is on most servers: 
 RPG/AT4/M203/GP'ing someone looks like an accident so you get two of those, same with grenades, 
 but if you shoot someone like 1-4 times (1 if it's in the head) you automatically get kicked. I 
 really like the sounds and how realistic the weapons and weapon/reload animations look and sound. 
 I like the weapon jamming problem too, I think more games should have weapons that jam and need 
 to be cocked to fix the problem. But one of the most frustrating mutiplayer things is that on cheating 
 servers, retards always use rocket and grenade launcher cheats and act like a buncha conos and 
 just shoot rockets across the level at you instead of fighting, it's really annoying and there 
 shouldn't be a rocket and grenade cheat. I would tell you to try this, but I'm kinda too late since 
 it's now impossible to play.
  
  ~~PubaLeRaccoon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstarTS
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 4, 2004 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Its almost not even worth writing this review for Americas Army because who needs to read a review 
 on a game when they can just go download the thing for free. But here goes
  
  So if you dont already know, the game Americas Army is a recruitment tool made by the Army to 
 get more brain dead teenagers educated on how the army works and get them interested in joining 
 up. It is pretty successful too, at least as far as educating teens about the army. The game puts 
 you through the paces of going to (a weak sauce version of) boot camp and weapons familiarization. 
 Actually I think the idea is very original and works well. You earn/lose points depending on how 
 well you play and there's a website that keeps track of them. Also by doing different types of 
 training you can qualify for different ranks like Sniper, Special Forces, Army Rangers, Medic etc. 
 Not bad. 
  
  Also my favorite thing about AA would have to be the weapons. The weapons in AA are very well done 
 because the Army tried to make them as realistic as possible. The best way to show this is by pointing 
 out the sound of the guns (loud and powerful) and the blast radius of the grenades. The guns sound 
 just like their real-life counterparts and the grenades have a kill radius larger than 5 feet (so 
 its actually a useful weapon) . Luckily it wasnt that hard for AA since the developers probably 
 had a closet full of them down the hall to examine. 
  
  Now let me talk about the less attractive points of the game. One complaint I have with the game 
 is that its easily plagued by network problems. One guy with a bad ping can really kill it for 
 everyone. During a laggy game you can seriously fire a bullet from your gun and have it NOT hit 
 something for second or more. Hard to kill anyone like that. Make sure to pick games with low ping 
 rates (around 100-150 ms) . That will help to make sure you hit what you're aiming at.
  
  Another thing that bothers me is that people are overly critical of how you play. Since there is 
 no respawn until the start of the next match people really, really dont like to die. All dead 
 players are forced to watch the rest of the match via third-person. Since you cant turn off friendly 
 fire, its really easy for trigger happy noobies to kill a teammate too. So the key to playing 
 is to work as a team and be careful where you shoot and throw grenades. If you dont, be prepared 
 to get cussed out by somebody and maybe even kicked.
  
  Lastly there is a lot of cheating with this game (people really wanting to be an army of one I 
 guess) so make sure you only play on games that use Punkbuster. Otherwise play at your own risk 
 (and get owned) . 
  
  So despite the aforementioned problems this game is still worth a try. The whole point that it 
 is free should set your expectations low enough to allow this game to please you. If not you can 
 delete it without worries of your wife giving you the dont waste money on video games you dont 
 play speech again. 
  
  Read my wordsand remember.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 26, 2004 2:19 am PT
Review:  It may be a free game, but i still don't really like it, it's not that it sucks, it's that after 
 training... it's no fun from there. Graphicly it's nice, and the sound is good, but the game it's 
 self just plain sucks. I thought that this game would have been better, and it's free so it would 
 be atleast have decent, but i was wrong. I don't suggest even wasting your time to download this 
 game. I don't even think it has an online community no more, i think everyone gave up on this stupid 
 game. Don't waste your time, even if you are a fps gamer, it's just not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejmoney
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 4, 2004 12:24 pm PT
Review:  THIS is what our tax dollars should be spent on, not real war. I actually bought this game with 
 a game guide at Best Buy over a year ago, not knowing that it was a free download. I find myself 
 playing this game still, even with games like Rainbow Six 3, Riddick, Splinter Cell: PT, Halo, BF 
 1942, etc. in my collection, Americas Army still gets attention. The level design and gameplay 
 are AMAZING. The graphics are nice (except I have an iMac now and have to turn the settings down 
 to play it - thanks for porting it to for Mac's) . It is also really nice to not have to get the 
 disc and put it in when you play the game. They WANT you to pirate it! 
  
  Thank you, U. S. A. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weirjf
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 8, 2004 8:28 am PT
Review:  First of all: ezrydyr is a total and complete moron. Punkbuster is a long-used tool to curb cheating. 
 This is done by checking the size and dates of certain files to ensure they have not been changed 
 for cheating. It is considered "invasive" because the program has to actually check the files on 
 your hard drive and compare them to a database of known information to find changes. Nothing is 
 actually REPORTED except when a cheat is found. It is also not spyware because they are very up-front 
 with what it does and what information they are looking for.
  
  Now on to the game:
  
  Gameplay: I scored this game low for one simple reason: I hate Counter Strike, and AA is nothing 
 but a Counter Strike remake. So, take it with a grain of salt. If you love CS, you will love AA.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Nice, but not fantastic. A lot of generic textures, but the map makeups are interesting.
  
 
  Sound:
  Much more realistic than other shooters, probably recorded from actual weapons. Some of the fine 
 points of the weapon sounds is lost, but that is expected when you record gun fire.
  
  Value:
  Its free, its fairly stable, and with the new patch the net code is much more optimized. 
 Try it!
  
  Thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTR_IceBerg
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 6, 2004 3:05 am PT
Review:  If you like team-based, multi-player tactical combat, this game ranks near the top. I've played 
 sporadically from version 1.4 up. It's a good solid game and lots of fun once you learn how to 
 play. You may have 10 minutes of waiting if you die early but that's also one of the strong points 
 of the game. You die, your out for the round. The best, or luckiest survives.
  
  It's free! Sure it's a big download... get broadband already.
  
  And punkbuster keeps people 
 from cheating, like the US Army condones malevolent spyware, what a tard...
  
  I need to try out 2.1, it's been a while since I've played as other games have held my attention.
 
  
  But props Army, keep improving this one. Maybe make it like BF Veitnam, airdrops, etc. We are limited 
 only by our imagination.
  
  -Ice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 24, 2003 11:12 am PT
Review:  I really don't think anyone should even try to come near this title. I don't care if it's free. 
 The fact that you have to download 600+mb is insane. That's half the problem. When you want to 
 update the version of the game, you have to download yet another 650mb file. The servers are not 
 stable, game never works. I seem to find myself crashed all the time and never able to play. I 
 seriously think the young men and women of the army should stick to fighting the war and stay away 
 from video games. Obviously they failed, and this is no half life game I tell ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantom_2003
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 1, 2003 4:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game that i think everyone should get. First of all, it is a free game, so there's 
 nothing to lose if you don't like it. Second, the gameplay is very deep, down to the bullet swooshes 
 and tracers real gameplay feel, and well done muzzle flashes. Weapon graphics were really focused 
 on in this game. The graphics are even down to a tiny switch controlling fire modes to being able 
 so see bullets in a full cartridge and no bullets in the empty ones, to having one weapon, the 
 SAW (Squad Automatic Weapon) having box ammo that is chained and lets you see the end of the chain 
 when there are only a couple bullets left. This game is amazing, and it is highly worth the taxes 
 you pay for it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
