-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: American Conquest: Fight Back
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/americanconquestexp/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 10, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 6.6, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 140 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: GSC Game World
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Sep 29, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The strategy, combat, and even history lessons of American Conquest: Fight Back are excellent.

  American Conquest was released earlier this year, and even though it is a great strategy game, 
 it met with little fanfare. Part of this could be blamed on its setting, as American Conquest takes 
 place in the Americas during the 16th to 18th centuries. It's a time period that hasn't been heavily 
 explored by real-time strategy games, which is rather unfortunate since the history is interesting. 
 American Conquest: Fight Back is a stand-alone expansion pack that returns to the same setting. 
 Unfortunately, it will probably be overlooked again. As before, however, the strategy, combat, 
 and even history lessons are excellent.  

          Once again you receive a history lesson before each mission.     

  The core mechanics 
 of the game haven't changed, which is a good thing. The unique RTS elements found in American Conquest 
 are a refreshing change of pace from other real-time strategy games, though they're reminiscent 
 of Ensemble's Age of Empires series. As in most RTS games, there is resource gathering and base-building 
 in American Conquest, but AC's got its own spin on them. Resources are practically infinite, but 
 you need to protect your workers because the enemy can easily capture or kill them. You can build 
 a base, but each subsequent building of the same type costs you more resources. So if you want 
 a third fort for building more troops, expect to exponentially pay more resources for it than you 
 did for the first one. The buildings themselves are relatively weak. They'll go down after receiving 
 a few cannon volleys, or they'll catch ablaze after a few fire arrows. The enemy can also capture 
 buildings by sending troops into them.  

  Both of these aspects mean that you need to protect your base from all angles. It's very easy to 
 take advantage of an unprotected enemy flank by sending a cavalry into someone's base to capture 
 their entire workforce. Fortunately, troops build quickly. You can have hundreds of pikemen, musketeers, 
 archers, and other warriors in a matter of minutes. This leads to perhaps the greatest part about 
 American Conquest: Fight Back. You can field armies of, literally, thousands of individual troops. 
 The resulting battles can be spectacular, even if the graphics engine isn't exactly state of the 
 art.  

  Trying to control thousands of troops in the 1700s was surely no easy task, and the same applies 
 to Fight Back. If you expect to win any large-scale battles, you'll need to organize troops into 
 formations by using officers, drummers, and standard bearers. Not only do they move and take orders 
 as a single unit at that point, but the units get a combat and morale bonus. Morale is important 
 because troops will run away and become uncontrollable if it drops.  

          Soldiers can join formations to become better organized.     

  The combat can be realistic 
 and exciting, which may come as a surprise when you consider the weapons of the time. It's hard 
 to suppress a smile when you see dozens of enemy warriors drop from a single volley of musket fire. 
 Cannonballs ricochet off the ground and tear through formations like a hot knife through butter. 
 If a lot of your troops die, nearby friendly units tuck their tails between their legs and run 
 away. Generally, the game has everything you'd expect from combat of the actual time period.  

 
  Fight Back adds five new factions to American Conquest: Germany, Russia, Alaskan Haida, Portugal, 
 and the Netherlands. As in American Conquest, differences between the similar factions are negligible 
 beyond graphical origins. The real difference lies in the  types  of factions. There are two main 
 types of factions: Native American and European. The Europeans employ military might with their 
 cannons, guns, and massive warships. Native Americans don't have the same technological and military 
 might as the European factions, but they can win by sheer force. Their units are cheap, and hundreds 
 or archers will surely overrun a much smaller force of gunmen.     

  There are eight campaign missions that take plenty of time to complete. The missions have large 
 maps and are rather challenging. The AI can be relentless, even on the easy setting. You'll fight 
 battles in places like the Andes Mountains, the Yucatan Peninsula, and even the Alaskan Tundra. 
 You'll play as familiar faces or as one of the three new factions -- Germany, Russia, or Alaskan 
 Haida.  

          Wild animals will harass your workers.     

  Once again, there is huge replay value in Fight Back once you complete the campaign. There are 
 10 new single-player missions that are just as engaging as the campaign missions. There is also 
 a new gameplay mode called "battlefield" that is fun and unique. It is a ladder system that places 
 you in increasingly difficult situations. Battlefield doesn't have an economy like the other gameplay 
 modes. Instead, it places two armies of different size and form on a battlefield. Either side can 
 win the battle if it employs the proper strategies. You earn points based on how well you perform. 

  If you manage to get bored with all of this content, or you simply want to thrash a human opponent, 
 you can play multiplayer games with up to seven people. Of course, you had better be prepared for 
 some guesswork if you wish to use the game's master server because the registration forms are not 
 in English. It's a glaring translation oversight, considering how you need English to find opponents 
 online. Otherwise, you'd have to connect directly by IP addresses. Nevertheless, there are people 
 playing Fight Back online, and the matches don't lag. There are plenty of options to choose from 
 in multiplayer. You can play a standard base-building game, a deathmatch with tons of resources, 
 or the new battlefield mode. There's something for every RTS fan in this game.  

  Some problems from American Conquest remain in Fight Back. Animals still pose a surprising threat 
 to your troops. In real life, there's no way a bear would charge into a group of 100 pikemen, and 
 there's definitely no way that bear would manage to kill a few of them before perishing. The real 
 problem comes when the wildlife wanders into your base and starts killing your peasants. The unit 
 AI is also still quirky. Units will often just run after enemies who come within eyesight. It would 
 be nice if they, at least, walked back to their original positions. You'll also often see a lone 
 warrior standing in the middle of a battlefield because he lost his target. There is a stand ground 
 option, but you have to click it every time you move the formation.  

          The landscapes are still lush and very detailed.     

  Fight Back naturally uses the 
 same engine as American Conquest. The game still looks very good overall. The game runs very well 
 even when thousands of units are involved in a battle. The various terrains look great, ships make 
 distorted reflections on the water, and each faction has a unique look. There are very minor details 
 that add to the atmosphere, such as the men working the cannons who literally heave to make the 
 thing move. Speaking of cannons, the game also has some great sounds. Cannon fire sends a boom 
 though the air, and gun fire can emit an equally terrifying sound. The music can be repetitious, 
 but overall it's pleasing to the ear.  

  Fight Back doesn't require the original American Conquest, which is good because there isn't a 
 revolutionary change in the gameplay. The game's similarity to its predecessor isn't a bad thing 
 because it offers a whole lot of content for only a $30 price tag. The downside is that its difficulty 
 and sheer scale can turn off a casual player. If that doesn't daunt you, then by all means, pick 
 up American Conquest: Fight Back. The strategy and history comes in the right combination for both 
 fans of the first game and those who are interested in the time period.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: American Conquest: Fight back is the stand alone expantion to the original American Conquest 
 game. This game takes place during the 16th to 18th centuries. It's a time period that hasn't been 
 heavily explored by real-time strategy games, which is rather unfortunate since the history is 
 really quite interesting. Well the game has not really changed in terms of gameplay. As in most 
 RTS games, there is resource gathering and base-building and going off to fight the enemy. Again 
 you can build up huge armys to fight and fun watching your men line up and take shots at each other 
 and watching men fall. But one major thing I don't like how fast you can loose men when attacking 
 an enemy base. So my solution is to build a fleet of ships and blow the base to bits with a hail 
 of cannon fire if there is a body of water that is. What is intersting like the last game is that 
 you can capture works to work for you which is pretty neat. There are a number of new campains 
 for the original fractions in the game there are new campains for the new fractions added to the 
 game. The new fractions are Germany, Russia, Haida, Portugal, and the Netherlands. In each mission 
 during the single player campaine there is a little history lesson giving background about the 
 mission which is pretty intresting. The A. I can also be pretty tough even on easy. So once you 
 are done with the single player campaine there is a single player random map which can be fun but 
 once you get board with that you can get in to the multiplayer part of the game. . Each server 
 can hold up to seven players. Graphics: The graphics have not being improved all that much from 
 what I noticed. They still use 2-D and 3-D graphics which render amazing, realistic and colorful 
 graphics. The movements of character models are still good like when men are loading up there muskets. 
 Sound: The sound (s) are pretty nice. The soundtrack are great for the theme of the game and also 
 the sound of guns firing and everything in between are really quite good. Everything should sound 
 the way they should.
  
  Value: All in all this is a great strategy game, but it met with little fanfare. which kinda sucks 
 because it's a great RTS game. There is huge replay value in Fight Back once you complete the campaign 
 with lots of replay value for the multiplayer and single random map. So I give this game 8.7 out 
 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireball2888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Well, this game is in my hall of fame book. American Conquest was one of my first strategy games 
 i've bought. i haven't reviewed the first one, this review stands for both.
  
  This game is truely fun and immersive. the audio is great, and even though it's 2D graphics, there 
 pretty good as well. 
  
  It includes tons of different campaigns as well. they last long and are very immersive and challenging.
 
  At times, this game does get sort of boring, and requires lots of patients. While you may not 
 stay addicted to this game for a long periods at a time, you'll never throw it away, and always 
 come back to it. 
  it is always cool when 2 massive armies collide in an all-out fight, worthy of R: TW epicness. 
 
  
  Gameplay: Fairly addictive; will leave you playing for sort periods, but you'll always come back 
 to it. Excellent Single-Player A. I, great skirmish mode, and a very, very fun editor mode which 
 a 2-year old could work, and which i've made tons of scenarios with. The onyl bad bart is the multiplayer 
 is absolutely horrible. i haven't even got one match yet. 
  
  Graphics: Yes, this game is 2-D, but for a 2-D game, it is pretty good. the shadows are nice, and 
 there's tons of beautiful scenery. 
  
  Sound: Excellent. very awesome as hundreds of guns fire and and a Horde of Native-Americans change 
 in after you, as well as highly cinematic music.
  
  Value: this game, is, well, not very popular, and it's Value isn't all that good. you could probably 
 get this game for 10 bucks at most stores, nevertheless, aside from that, it has good worth. 
 
  Reviewer's tilt: this game is a fun immersive RTS that sits in my hall of fame with Homeworld 
 series, and WH40K: dawn of war. i hope this game brings in more players, and lives up to how good 
 it really is.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicolas1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  A really nice game that offers many hours of fun. Historically precise and with nice graphics and 
 sound it is a very good choise for real time strategy lovers. The company is the same that made 
 the cossacks series which were really good games for their time. However Cossacks 2 Napoleonic 
 wars is way ahead of it but you can still play it if you want to fight in the "new world" battles. 
 The choise is up to you: pick the new world battlegrounds or europe's ones? Cossacks 2 offers deeper 
 strategy depth and a high degree of difficulty but american conquest has a longer campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrrags1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 8:13 pm PT
Review:  The graphics for this game are truly remarkable and lifelike. I only wish it were easier to model 
 my own maps with an editor that was a little more user friendly.
  
  The game play is fantastic! I enjoy the time period in history in which the game takes place and 
 I have yet to find another game that has ever attempted to duplicate this game's efforts. In particular, 
 I enjoy games against the computer using only the native tribes... without any Europeans. The only 
 difficulty I've run into here is that on accassion, the computer will have one or two peasants 
 who are "immortal" and therefore a game of total annihalation can never be finished. In a game 
 against Europeans, these "immortal" native peasants can only be taken out by cannon fire. The trick 
 is to find wher these peasants are hiding. Usually, they are off chopping wood but they just stand 
 there never ceasing to chop away. No such difficulties with European players.
  
  Well worth the money spent considering all the hours of gameplay it has provided me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 27, 2005 9:22 pm PT
Review:  THis game Rocks It's alot better then Cossacks in terms of machanics of the game for example you 
 acually see the people loading the cannons. well anyways go get this game and the expantion. You 
 get to control thousands of troops on the battle field and if your one ofthe eurpoean nations then 
 your get huge ships with about thirty cannons on deck and just blow the $hit out of the enemy which 
 i like to do. For the Native groups they can prodduce very quickly and are exellent for raiding 
 or just provoking the enemy. Anyways you should get this game and play it. Their are some new nations 
 to play which is nice and a new mulitplayer mode.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
