-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: American Conquest
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/americanconquest/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  5, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.6, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 350 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: GSC Game World
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Feb 5, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
American Conquest offers plenty of single-player campaigns, plus skirmish and multiplayer maps and 
 a good history lesson to boot, and it makes a great addition to any real-time strategy enthusiast's 
 collection. 

 You may be familiar with the Cossacks games from developer GSC Gameworld -- they're real-time strategy 
 games reminiscent of the Age of Empires series but set in 17th- and 18th-century Europe, featuring 
 large battles with thousands of individual soldiers. Take a glance at American Conquest, and you 
 may think that it's just the same as Cossacks, since it uses a similar game engine. Yet though 
 American Conquest does emphasize large-scale strategic combat and formations like Cossacks does, 
 the new game takes place in the New World, and it also features numerous gameplay improvements 
 and general enhancements that make the game much more enjoyable to play than Cossacks. It's also 
 a great real-time strategy game in its own right.           You'll take part in Columbus' expeditions, 
 the Conquistadors' conquest of the continent, The French and Indian War, Tecumseh's uprising, and 
 the American Revolution.    

 American Conquest takes place during the European colonization of North America between the 15th 
 and 18th centuries. The single-player portion of the game contains numerous campaigns and scenarios 
 that follow important events during this time span. You'll take part in Columbus' expeditions, 
 the Conquistadors' conquest of the continent, The French and Indian War, Tecumseh's uprising, and 
 the American Revolution. Often, you'll play on both sides of a conflict; for instance, in one campaign, 
 you'll play as the British, and you must quell the American colonial rebellion, while in the following 
 campaign, you'll play as the colonists and fight against the British.   

  Just like Cossacks, American Conquest has lots of playable factions. Besides the aforementioned 
 British and American colonists (who are anachronistically referred to as the "USA" in the game) , 
 you'll also get to play as Spain, France, and many different Native American tribes, such as the 
 Iroquois, Delaware, Sioux, Pueblo, Mayan, Aztec, Incan, and Huron nations. With so many Native 
 American factions, you may be surprised to find that you can control them in only one campaign; 
 while this may seem disappointing, it's unfortunately historically accurate, since the Native Americans 
 didn't see too many victories during that time period.   

  The historical aspect of the game is done well. Every mission begins with a narrated history lesson 
 that is interesting and informative, and thankfully brief. While you may tend to skip over such 
 narratives in other games to get right to the action, you might sit through and listen to them 
 for their historical value. However, these briefings don't always give you a good idea of your 
 goals in the next mission. For instance, you may be given the vague-sounding task of "mining coal," 
 but you won't be explicitly told that you need to gather 3000 units of coal to complete the mission. 
 While this vagueness generally won't prevent you from finishing a mission, you'll sometimes complete 
 a mission without realizing that you've reached the goal.           The game has a number of unusual 
 and interesting missions.    

 American Conquest has a good variety of different mission types. The game has standard real-time 
 strategy mission goals, such as building a base and attacking, defending your base for a certain 
 amount of time, and going through a mission with a limited number of troops. But the game also 
 has a number of unusual and interesting mission types. In one of the Conquistador campaigns, you 
 only have military units, and you must gather gold, which you can do by capturing Aztec dwellings -- you 
 can then use your gold to purchase new military units and supplies. In the Tecumseh campaign, you'll 
 find yourself being hunted by the Americans, but since you're allied with the British, your goal 
 is to constantly deliver food to your allies so that they can build up troops to protect you. Fortunately, 
 most missions won't take longer than an hour to complete on the game's normal difficulty level, 
 so they generally don't get boring.   

  Each of the game's nations has unique units and buildings. As you might expect, the European nations 
 are technologically superior to the Native American tribes. In the 17th-century campaigns, you 
 command pikemen and soldiers with primitive guns. In 18th-century campaigns, European nations have 
 more advanced guns and mounted dragoons at their disposal. They can also use artillery to destroy 
 enemy structures and generally decimate soldier formations. The Native American nations seem like 
 they would stand no chance against the Europeans, but they do have strength in numbers. They can 
 produce troops such as tomahawk throwers, pikemen, archers, and mounted troops, and even their 
 peasant units can be competent fighters in a pinch. The Native American tribes can produce troops 
 much more quickly than their European adversaries.    

 Like in any real-time strategy game, control of your units is the key to success. It's important 
 to use a good mix of melee and ranged units, since although ranged units, especially gunners, can 
 be extremely effective on the battlefield, they have weaknesses -- guns take a while to reload, and 
 they deal less damage at a distance. In addition, you need to keep a close eye on your armies' 
 morale. If large numbers of friendly units get cut down in a salvo, or if one of your battalions 
 gets flanked, your soldiers may become demoralized, at which point you lose control of them as 
 they turn and flee the battlefield. Morale is actually an important consideration that helps distinguish 
 American Conquest from most other real-time strategy games. Fortunately, you can deploy standard 
 bearers to maintain your morale, and you can also group your soldiers into formations, which gives 
 you much more control over your armies. And unlike in Cossacks, you can quickly and easily rebuild 
 a formation in a decimated battalion with a single mouse click.           The game gives plenty 
 of statistical information on your units.    

 American Conquest makes other, specific improvements to Cossacks' gameplay. For instance, the game 
 gives plenty of statistical information on your units (while Cossacks gave very little) . American 
 Conquest even displays the attack and defense bonuses that your troops receive in certain formations, 
 and the game also shows how likely your battalions are to break and run. In addition, the game 
 lets you garrison any building -- that is, you can send infantry units to defend any of your buildings 
 so that they can't be captured as easily. Garrisoned defenders get considerable defense bonuses, 
 so you'll actually benefit from placing your buildings strategically.   

  With all these improvements, it's unfortunate that Cossacks' unit AI didn't see as much improvement 
 in American Conquest. While your units do a good job of acquiring their targets, they tend to chase 
 their enemies unnecessarily. The game could have benefited from behavior settings (aggressive behavior, 
 defensive behavior, and so on) to help prevent the needless micromanagement. American Conquest 
 does have a "stand ground" order, but your units forget it if you move them to a new location. 
 Also, when shooters are attacked as they reload, they tend to draw their swords and engage the 
 enemy, rather than falling back and firing again. It's good that your shooters are smart enough 
 to do more than just stand there and get cut down, but it would have been better if you could force 
 your shooters to fall back and hold the lines.   

  American Conquest looks and sounds great. The game's environments look crisp and authentic, and 
 the water effects are particularly nice, especially the reflections of large ships on the seas. 
 The units are also much more fluidly animated than the ones in the Cossacks games. Standard bearers 
 wave their flags when idle, and you can distinctly see units shoulder their rifles before marching. 
 And while American Conquest has no unit acknowledgments, it does have plenty of yelps and grunts 
 when troops enter combat and die. The sounds of gunfire and booming cannons are satisfying, and 
 the game's music score is surprisingly good as well, though you'll probably wish there were a few 
 additional music tracks.   

  American Conquest's skirmish and multiplayer missions work just like those in any typical real-time 
 strategy game. You build up a base with peon units, harvest resources, and build an army to destroy 
 the enemy. You can also play a historical battle with set parameters. In addition, the game ships 
 with a good mission editor with plenty of tools that let you do things like create different sorts 
 of terrain and also build your own maps.           The game has wild animals that wander through 
 the maps.    

 American Conquest does have a few quirks that are worth mentioning. First, the game has wild animals 
 that wander through the maps. These animals are insanely aggressive and powerful -- a single bison 
 can take down several pikemen, for example. Or even worse, that bison can destroy a group of 20 
 peasants that just happen to walk near it. Even deer will come out of the woods and assault your 
 troops. It's just an extra layer of micromanagement you need to worry about. Also, for some reason, 
 the gameplay in American Conquest has a tendency to randomly speed up for a few seconds, and this 
 happens rather frequently. Otherwise, the game runs smoothly on midrange machines or better, even 
 with hundreds or even thousands of units storming around.   

  Only a few years ago, real-time strategy games were all pretty similar, but recently, we've seen 
 a number of distinctive games that emphasize different gameplay aspects. American Conquest is definitely 
 such a game. While beginners may find the game's battles to be difficult, especially since you 
 can take massive casualties quickly, all players will find that American Conquest requires broad 
 strategic planning if you want to be successful. And fans of the Cossacks series will be pleasantly 
 surprised by all of American Conquest's improvements on that series. American Conquest offers plenty 
 of single-player campaigns, plus skirmish and multiplayer maps and a good history lesson to boot, 
 and it makes a great addition to any real-time strategy enthusiast's collection.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: American Conquest takes place during the European colonization of North America between 
 the 15th and 18th centuries. In the the single-player portion of the game contains numerous campaigns 
 and scenarios that follow some important events during this time span. You'll take part in Columbus' 
 expeditions, the Conquistadors' conquest of the continent, The French and Indian War, Tecumseh's 
 uprising, and the American Revolution. You can play on both sides of the mission for each campain 
 which makes it more intresting and have more replay value. Like the first Cosscks game there are 
 many fractions you can play with. You can control the American colonist, British, French, and Spainish. 
 You also get to play with Native fractions like the Iroquois, Delaware, Sioux, Pueblo, Mayan, Aztec, 
 Incan, and Huron nations. There is also of course a multiplayer part in this game where the server 
 can hold up to four players. You have have usually free for all and team battles online battles. 
 This can be quite fun and addictive. In American Conquest, the effects and movements are a vast 
 inprovement from the first cossacks game. Everything moves more smoothly and realisticly from the 
 cannon fire to the movement of the loading muskets. You can still produce thousands of troops to 
 throw at the enemy and be pretty hard to defend you base with constant waves of enemy troops coming 
 at you. The land battles take some strategy too, for maximum effectiveness you have to group your 
 men in to one unit and have them all fire in one direction to drop the first several lines of the 
 enemy until they fall back which can be pretty fun to watch but at the same time you can lose quite 
 alot men to fast. Espcially against native archers which can fire and a much faster rate but don't 
 have as long a rang as thoughs with muskets. So basicaly the gameplay is the same, meaning that 
 you have to gather food, gold and other stuff to build you base and army like the first games. 
 There are also random maps you can play against the computer if you are not playing the campains.
 
  
  Graphics: Well the graphics have being improved from the original Cossacks series. The game combines 
 2-D and 3-D graphics and everything is nice and colorful and nice to look at. The detail on the 
 soldiers and ships have being vastly improved and so have the ships, which seem larger. Also as 
 usuall the building are very detailed in everyway. Sound: The sound (s) is quit good, everything 
 from the explotion of the fireing cannon to a falling building sounds the way they should sound 
 and are improved from the original Cossacks series. Value: All in all this is a very fun game with 
 lots of campains to play on both sides. Also there is lots of replay value in the single player 
 on and off the campain and with the mulitplayer. I'm sure that this game will give many hours of 
 fun for a long time. I give this game 8.8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruno-K
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  I searched for american conquest after masterin' European Wars: Cossacks. I wanted a game like 
 cossacks and read about AC and got it. When i first played I was like Damn God ... it's cool playin' 
 as a European nation or a native american tribe... but later playing, I found this game is very 
 repetitive... It's doesn't have the exactly gameplay of cossacks and the thing that you need to 
 create a villager and them send him to the barracks to create troop is really lame in my opinion... 
 In Cossacks you'll click 500 times in the pikemen icon, and you'll have 500 pikemen waiting... 
 but in AC, you'll need to create 500 villagers first and send'em to the barracks. This is a 'different 
 feature' in RTS... since you'll not be able to create a army at first hand and this give some unfair 
 advantage to some native american (like the iroquois, since their villagers have the ability to 
 fire arrows at buildings at the begining, so if you build a lot of villagers and send them to the 
 enemy's base... it's like you have lot of archers, doing an Unfair RUSH) at the European Nations
 
  
  This is a great game at first hand, but later get boring and repetitive... in a way that cossacks 
 isn't 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saw100
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 26, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Gameplay is realistic, I haven't seen any game as realistic as this. You have to feed 
 people, build buildings for them, etc. You can conquer enemy buildings and command soldiers inside 
 the building to defend it... I've never seen such a realistic game. The battles are massive and 
 won't be over in a minute. But there are bad things in the gameplay. It's partially too hard and 
 you should be doing stuff all the time. You should be gathering food, fighting and building some 
 buildings at the same time so that you can stay at the top. Otherwise the gameplay is great.
  
  Graphics: Looks pretty good although there are some minor problems. Especially battles look 
 great.
  
  Sound: Great musics, they fit in the style. Sound effects were not as good as the musics.
  
 
  Value: Now this is the worst thing. Because this game is too hard, you won't probably play it 
 too much. American Conquest is probably in Now Playing sections for a week or two. But if you are 
 despairly looking for a realistic strategy game, you'll get hooked for this game.
  
  Tilt: American Conquest is the most realistic strategy-game i've ever played. You should absolutely 
 get this game, but if you pay attention to value very much, buying this game is not necessary. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  American Conquest is an RTS that is like the Cossacks series. But this time it takes place in the 
 Americas during the 18th and 19th centuries. There are many campaigns to take part in including 
 The Revolutionary War, The French and Indian War, Christopher Columbus's Expeditions and more. 
 In the campaigns that are based on wars you play as both sides in the war. The replay value is 
 huge because of a lot of campaigns, single historical missions, and skirmishes. Along with fantastic 
 replay value is some great gameplay. If you can find a drummer, captain, standard bearer and a 
 lot of troops you can turn them into a regiment where they fight better but can be affected by 
 morale and such. It is great to watch 2 armies each fire a volley and then see half of each army 
 fall. Before each mission is a nice little history lesson that is easy to understand even for people 
 who hate history. There are quite a few different factions. You have the basics like the French 
 and the British. But there are also many Native American tribes and ancient empires like the Mayans 
 or the Aztecs. I dont find it to be a problem but many others do. The animals are particularly 
 aggressive but as long as you have a few soldiers they can gun them down. Every building except 
 for mines can be manned by troops for defense. Therefore you don't need to make specific buildings 
 that are defensive structures. The missions are never boring because they all vary in objectives. 
 The graphics are very nice especially the water reflections. I would recommend this game to anybody 
 who likes a great RTS and an occasional history lesson. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBagman
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 1, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  This game would be great, but it had some flaws. First would be those pesky bisons. One bison can 
 kill off your peasants at the granary, thus cutting off your food supply. That's the only major 
 flaw there, otherwise, if you have a few hundred thousand men against a few hundred thousand enemy 
 troops, things start to get slow... and food would free fall. Another pesky flaw there, besides 
 the animals. 
  
  Yes, there are flaws in AI, such as when you go on a fire fight with your men, they would unnecissarilly 
 chase the enemy. Another flaw is with shooters, instead of attacking the enemy, when you move them, they 
 would forget all about the enemy and move, thus pummelling them and kill you. woot. :D
  
  Yes, it's inaccurate, seeing as a Battle Canoe can destroy a Frigate, seeing as how the Frigate's 
 men could easily just shoot off the enemy with their own rifles, instead of needlessly attempting 
 to kill them with a cannon. 
  
  Another thing to point out is that the enemy AI would do a certain pattern: Make two forts, 5 or 
 so dwellings, a granary or two, use at least 15 peasants to get the food, then get the number up, 
 do the same thing with Storehouses, then make a few troops. they also always either put one person 
 on their buildings as garrison, or fill themup. So high numbers of the enemy would always be peasantry.
 
  
  But there are good points, Gameplay is never boring, the Sound is Great, I could listen to it all 
 day long, even the graphics, especially when you set it to a Mini-mode, is worthy of a good game. 
 Except for the fact that it would eat up all your RAM, but that would only mean that you can only 
 play that program and nothing more.
  
  So anyway, this game is good, other than those flaws metioned, this is a good game, worthy of playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankjan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:11 am PT
Review:  This game must be the game of the year it came in the stors. the old wapens and the power in the 
 game. I have played levels with 4 enemy's and the game had me 106 hours in his hands the game is 
 slow buth when you play it in war you really have the power over more then 4000 units and sometime 
 you still lose all you're units. and when I fight against the indiaan people you think I had won 
 buth they destroyed me. that's wy this game has a big power in it. Playing with many strategy plans 
 I destroyed one land buth the other destroyed my strongest army's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2005 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Campaign is alright not as much action as in skirmish. But the thing in skirmish is it is impossible 
 to freaking take a town. You have to raid building after building while taking fire from practically 
 every building which is in a way realistic. You can have your men occupy a house and defend the 
 city like so. Another thing is cannons have the most retarted loading time in which they have like 
 a 30% chance to hit their target to even begin with. And amassing armies takes a LONG time and 
 by this time the enemys town is built up and ready to defend practically every town is impregnable 
 30 mins into the game. And AI is pretty decent they attack with some quite large forces which gives 
 you a good chance to defend and attack. All in all this game is worth playing but just borrow it 
 from a friend or something cause youll get tired of playing it over and over and over with each 
 game being like 9 hours long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 27, 2005 9:17 pm PT
Review:  THis game Rocks It's alot better then Cossacks in terms of machanics of the game for example you 
 acually see the people loading the cannons. well anyways go get this game and the expantion. You 
 get to control thousands of troops on the battle field and if your one ofthe eurpoean nations then 
 your get huge ships with about thirty cannons on deck and just blow the $hit out of the enemy which 
 i like to do. For the Native groups they can prodduce very quickly and are exellent for raiding 
 or just provoking the enemy. Anyways you should get this game and play it.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
