-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: American McGee Presents Bad Day LA
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/baddayla/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Premise is ripe for satire.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Attempts at humor fall flat.
 Cheap-looking visuals.
 Unfinished sound design.
 Repetitious mission design.
 Action is clunky and unsatisfying.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 3.3, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 4.6, 372 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: Enlight Software
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Sep 6, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Bad Day LA is an abject failure. 

  Murphy's Law -- the assertion that if something can go wrong, it will -- is in full effect in Bad Day 
 LA. Taking place in modern-day Los Angeles, the game sees the city plunge into chaos as it's plagued 
 by terrorist attacks, earthquakes, meteor showers, fires, gang wars, tsunamis, and more. With so 
 many divisive elements, from the crazy homeless protagonist to the regular jabs at Homeland Security, 
 there was great potential for some cutting satire here. Unfortunately, Bad Day LA has all the subtlety 
 of a hammer, and the occasional commentary on the absurdities of modern life is drowned out by 
 a constant barrage of uninspired vulgarity. Even the game's shock value rings hollow, and it doesn't 
 distract from the fact that this third-person action game is short, ugly, and sloppy.  

          Do you like childish toilet humor? Bad Day LA sure does.     

  The mayhem kicks off 
 on the Santa Monica freeway, where our hero, Anthony, an antisocial, shopping-cart-pushing homeless 
 man, is relieving himself in the middle of bumper-to-bumper traffic when a jet brimming with a 
 nefarious biological agent crashes into an overpass. Green gas spews everywhere, turning anyone 
 who comes in contact with it into mindless, flesh-starved zombies. All Anthony wants is to save 
 his own sorry hide and get out of the city, but he consistently finds himself forced to assist 
 other citizens as things go from bad to worse.  

  It's hard not to smile at how ridiculous the situation becomes, but beyond the setup, the writing 
 in Bad Day LA offers little in terms of insight or humor. None of the characters warrant any sympathy, 
 and Anthony himself acts and sounds less like a homeless man given up on society than a self-absorbed, 
 third-rate Chris Tucker caricature. Everyone is drawn with broad strokes, and the game relies on 
 a liberal peppering of profanity, some clumsy racism, and general cruelty to fill the time between 
 levels. Some of the "highlights" include a kid who can't stop throwing up, a Paris Hilton doppelganger, 
 a drop-kicked baby, a group of parents physically abusing their drug-addicted children, a persistent 
 use of the phrase "taco bender" as a racial epithet, and some ham-fisted references to  The Wizard 
 of Oz  and  Heat . Worst of all, the game seems to think it's more clever than it actually is, 
 which defuses any potentially comedic moments.  

  Beneath Bad Day LA's crass exterior lies a shoddy third-person action game. Each level revolves 
 around a different calamity, and in each you have to perform a number of good deeds before you 
 can move forward. Most of the time, the streets are filled with hysterical civilians, looters, 
 and zombies, and how you interact with the people of Bad Day LA will affect your threat-advisory 
 rating. If you murder innocent civilians, or fail to assist nearby civilians who are in need, your 
 rating goes up, and the world begins to turn on you, with civilians attacking you and cops hunting 
 you down. But if you play the Good Samaritan by applying bandages to wounded civilians, using your 
 fire extinguisher to put out fiery civilians, curing or killing zombies, and attacking looters, 
 terrorists, gang members, and other undesirables, your rating stays low, making for a less antagonistic 
 crowd while slowly replenishing your health at the same time. Though it encourages you to act right, 
 keeping your rating low is not hard, since the ratio of villains to civilians is usually quite 
 high.  

  There's a good amount of gunplay in Bad Day LA, and you'll pick up plenty of conventional weapons, 
 like a shotgun, an AK-47, a sniper rifle, and a rocket launcher. You'll also find use for a tire 
 iron, Molotov cocktails, an absurd set of nail clippers, and a flamethrower fashioned out of a 
 lighter and a can of hairspray. The flamethrower doesn't show up until later in the game, though 
 you'll be glad when it does, since the other weapons are weak and ineffective by comparison. Even 
 at point-blank range, the shotgun can require three pumps to lay out an enemy, the AK-47 has terrible 
 accuracy and chews through the relatively scarce ammunition, and the sniper rifle never produces 
 one-shot kills. The amount of damage your weapons do at any given time seems arbitrary, which can 
 make the unsatisfying gunplay downright frustrating. You also gain sidekicks that are intended 
 to help you out, though they seem to disappear at random and rarely have much impact anyway.  

 
  There are a few on-rails missions thrown in to mix things up a bit, but aside from these diversions, 
 which offer their own set of frustrations, there is a crushing monotony to the mission structure 
 in Bad Day LA. Virtually every mission demands that you kill a number of bad guys or rescue a number 
 of good guys. Whenever the missions get more complicated than that, the game stumbles, because 
 it often doesn't give adequate information about what, exactly, is going on. This can be especially 
 frustrating during the few boss fights. Usually, you can ask friendly civilians for directions 
 to your next objective. This causes an arrow to appear above your head, which is helpful, though 
 the arrow fades quickly. While the game gives the initial impression that you're in a wide-open 
 world to be explored, you'll quickly find that most levels are extremely linear in design, and 
 most attempts to explore off the beaten path will lead you to an invisible barrier or a dead end. 
 The game just doesn't have much to offer, and you'll probably be relieved when you reach its anticlimactic 
 finish after just a few hours of play.  

          The game's nihilistic concept makes its lame execution that much more disappointing.   
   

  That is, if you can even get the game to run. We were unable to get past the main menu on one of 
 our test systems, and while it ran relatively smoothly on another PC, the whole game felt cheap 
 and shoddy. The game automatically reloads when you die, though it doesn't always load the most 
 recent save. There are no real options for tweaking controls or graphics quality, the latter of 
 which seems pretty well inexcusable for a PC game at this point. While the game sports an interesting 
 visual style that evokes a sort of paranoid, hand-drawn atmosphere, it gets lost in repetitive 
 character models, stiff animations, boxy environments, and unconvincing effects. There's also a 
 general bugginess to the game -- a smoking car chassis will fly into the air several seconds after 
 it explodes, and civilians covered in fire will occasionally walk around as though it's 72 degrees. 
 As unpleasant as the visuals can be, the sound in Bad Day LA seems unfinished. It's not uncommon 
 to find yourself running around in absolute silence, though that may be preferable to any of the 
 sound that the game has on offer. The voice acting is stifled and repetitive, the handful of different 
 background tunes loop too quickly, and the sound effects feel flat.  

  That Bad Day LA is such a spectacular failure in almost every facet of its execution is really 
 sad, since in concept it had so much potential. Even fans of American McGee's past work should 
 give the game a wide berth. Apparently Murphy's Law isn't in effect just for the characters in 
 Bad Day LA, but for the game itself.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (28 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 11, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  When i saw the comic style and the signature of McGee in this game i thinked it was gonna be awesome. 
 Sadly its all the opposite. Even when the concept was interesting, the end of the world seen through 
 the eyes of a bump that tries to survive, the gameplay and the style of the game its boring as 
 hell.
  
  The graphics are nothing incredible, in fact they feel like they were half worked. The missions 
 are EXTREMLY repetitive and boring, the game seems like going in circles, the humor even when has 
 some slight bright moments its terrible in general.
  
  The sound has nothing special, and the weapons in the game are common and boring, even when you 
 can use them to do some different things, like take a fire extintor and asfixiate some "zombie-mutates-aliens" 
 whatever are invading Earth this time.
  
  In resume its a very Bad Game... and the fact that its difficult to find some good things about 
 it should prove it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  American McGee made a name for himself as a level designer for ID (especially Quake 2) and then 
 later releasing American McGee's Alice  which is a melancholic adaptation of Lewis Carrol's fairytale. 
 He also has his name on Scrapland, a title I haven't played yet I did purchase on reputation alone. 
 Finally, we have the reasonably hyped and prodigiously critically slammed title of American McGee 
 Presents Bad Day LA. And quite frankly, it is a monumentally disappointing title with basic, repetitive 
 gameplay, a tacky sense of humour and a number of other issues that plummets its appeal to practically 
 zero.
  
  You play as Anthony, a former Hollywood identity of some note who threw it all away to be cynical, 
 vitriolic and foul-mouthed hobo in LA. However, perhaps he knew his time would come again and a 
 series of consecutive disasters during what appeared to be a normal day has our (anti) hero performing 
 a number of feats above and beyond his expectations. He is required to dispose of terrorists, fight 
 off zombies, dismantle gangs, heal civilians, survive natural disasters, save babies and other 
 people in need as he heads through the city. He is accompanied by a puking child and others during 
 this sojourn and completes tasks / missions in order to proceed. The premise for a reasonable game 
 actually exists.
  
  It is a cell-shaded graphical representation of this day of disaster. As a broader, macro vision 
 of the situation it actually works OK. It is presented in a way not too far removed from some of 
 the more interesting and effective television cartoon shows and it is bright and colourful. But 
 when you get down to nitty-gritty, it is quite repetitive with simply character and object design 
 that lack detail and definition. Cars, houses and other buildings are drawn with secondary school 
 proficiency and whilst you'll come across all sorts of NPC's, there are neither detailed nor engaging. 
 The weapons used look basic and whilst there are a number of levels in purportedly different parts 
 of LA  they do all look quite similar (but then again, perhaps LA does too, I'm not sure) . The 
 FMV's between missions are quite competent and there are some satisfactory cut-scenes mixed into 
 the action. As critical as this appears, the graphic are perhaps the best thing the game has to 
 offer.
  
  The sounds are basic, broken, buggy and unfinished. The sound of chaos is inconsistent with the 
 disaster taking place and is indeed at times silent, before a comment, perhaps that should have 
 been made quite a few seconds previously, is delivered. The effects when they do occur are generic 
 and hollow. The environment sounds are dull and provide no atmosphere, and whilst there is a variety 
 of voice-overs, it is essentially dull, vulgar and delivered in a way that is inconsistent with 
 the games environment. The music, with perhaps the exception of the driving opening FMV track, 
 is simple looped melodies that are taught and created in music classes at school. Anthony talks 
 as if he is presenting his own comedy show and others, even with the disasters occurring delivering 
 there lines with an unsatisfactory and unemotional matter-of-factness.
  
  The gameplay fails on two fronts  the execution and the attitude. After an interesting and competently 
 delivered opening FMV the game simply plummets from there. Anthony is required to complete a series 
 of simple tasks to be able to proceed from event to event. Armed with a fire extinguisher (to extinguish 
 folk and fire or who have been zombiefied) , bandages (to provide first aid on people who will eventually 
 turn on you) and a series of weapons to take on gangsters and t's. However, these weapons are woefully 
 inadequate with no sense of aim of scope  with it appearing to be pot luck or repeat attacks that 
 will lead to the demise of your foes. Three shots with a sniper rifle? C'mon!
  
  You will be accompanied by people as you go, but their impact and assistance on your cause is insignificant. 
 Even if armed, they attack with minimal impact, and if their health goes to zero, it magically 
 replenishes to a suitable level. This leaves you not being particularly concerned for their well 
 being (which the game in general does a good job of anyway) as the results are inconsequential.
 
  
  Further, the tasks are quite repetitive from scene to scene. Save or heal folk in distress. Kill 
 or heal a certain amount of zombies, escort folk to a certain place whilst traversing hostile territory 
 (who will then disappear for no apparent reason) and shoot any aggressive folk. It never changes, 
 with boss battles meaning things go a bit longer, rather than being a bit tougher. On-the-rails 
 shooting pieces, something usually used in games for a light diversion, are actually welcomed when 
 they come, as it is as stable, consistent and engrossing as the game gets.
  
  The "Threat Advisory' function is basically inconsequential  I don't know how far off the rails 
 you have to go to have the worst rating, but you can recklessly romp through the missions without 
 much worry, and even when all is OK, people will chase you, punch and throw sticks and stones at 
 you. 
  
  The humour within the game falls flat. There is nothing funny about Anthony's foul-mouthed tirades, 
 sloppy racism and pointless disdain for all and sundry. There's nothing funny about drop-kicking 
 a baby. There's nothing funny about the teenage libido-driven comments every time he sees a woman 
 and there's nothing funny about a school littered with hard drugs and consequently child addicts. 
 There's nothing funny about people perishing in the day to day disasters and the apparently indifference 
 the main character has for it all. For a while I was trying to convince myself that all of this 
 was not misguided humour but a cutting comment on the state of the world today. Either way, the 
 story and delivery of the game is unsatisfactory. Yeah, maybe the world is heading south, but there's 
 more appropriate and more socially acceptable ways to deliver that view. Even the action of the 
 title screen is in poor taste. I see the point of delivering a contrary phrase to the show "Good 
 Day LA", but you have to do better than this.
  
  By the time you've finished the day and the final cutscene which feels both incomplete and a cop-out, 
 I am sure you'll be thinking of what was exactly the point of it all. You've shot and sworn you 
 way through the whole day before seeing the middle finger extended skywards. There's no sympathy 
 for the main character and no positive emotion or feelings from playing this recalcitrant piece 
 of entertainment. Closure is important, and there's no closure or sense of achievement from completing 
 the game.
  
  Despite its universal panning, I was always on the lookout for this title. I nearly purchased it 
 for $AUD25 a year ago before picking it up on line for 4.5 UK pounds early this year. And simply, 
 there are much, much more entertaining games available today for the same price. The game clocks 
 in at about five to six hours on the default difficulty, which is one hand is pretty short, but 
 you will be happy with end (but probably not the ending) . There is no motivation whatsoever for 
 doing it all again.
  
  This game is a failure  not only as a game but as a product that is sold on reputation. It's an 
 elementary third person trudge through repetitive environments seen through the avatar of a foul-mouthed, 
 anti-social misogynist. The game offers nothing new in gameplay and what is does offer has been 
 done so much better several times before. And it's not funny. My final stern words go to the cheat 
 codes I happened across just now, when flicking the game site on Gamespot. They are unfunny, unprofessional 
 and downright unnecessary. 
  
  You can do better Mr. McGee, much better. And quite frankly, you are going to have to. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornbredx
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  You know, I knew this game sucked before I got it and I expected nothing less then funny gameplay 
 from this title and possibly an amusing set of circumstances to peruse. Sadly there was so much 
 lacking in this game anyone who says its underappreciated, I really respect because I tend to give 
 TONS of games the benefit of the doubt and with this one I just dont see it.
  
  Graphics: I like the graphics, personally, its one thing that was very fun about this game but 
 this game also proves graphics are meaningless. As long as you can see it dont matter. Have to 
 be honest though, its nothin special, typical cell shaded cartoony graphics that makes you feel 
 like your playing an irreverent political comic strip. Very good presentation though, as that seems 
 to be the intent. So, well done.
  
  Story: Another thing I actually liked alot. It wasnt great and it certainly needs a little work 
 (the timing on alot of jokes was honestly a little lame) and if anyone else besides American McGee 
 had made this I'd say it'd was acceptable. But Mr Mcgee... TSK TSK
  
  Sound: Sketchy, not what I would personally consider great really but it wasnt horrid. I cant really 
 gloat, boast, or put it down but its not even worth talking more then 33 words about it.
  
  Gameplay: Honestly I'm rushing this a bit, mostly because I was so disappointed but also cus I 
 am very tired but remembered this when perusing my games list so thought I'd send a hand into it's 
 reviews. Pretty much for me the gameplay felt like it wanted to be free roaming but the sandwich 
 police came out of nowhere and decided it had to be linear. It wouldve been so much better if it 
 was comepletely free-roaming. Even a GTA clone wouldve worked so nice with this idea in my opinoin. 
 The gameplay was bleh with a side of phft. It was fun for a couple hours but as I realized how 
 linear it was in a world with so much chaos it just felt all wrong. The biggest disappointment 
 was when I got to a point where it no longer let me progress. Im not sure what I was missing, but 
 it would appear that the only thing missing was a way to move on in the game. I think mostly I 
 just lost my want to play it, it is fun for a little bit but it got drab so fast it made me sad. 
 Some of the jokes are funny, but alot of times even I asked myself who actually thought it was 
 funny (or even if I missed something that actually made it funny) . 
  
  Anyway, its fun in a bargain bin kind of way, but I got this new a long time ago, and it wasnt 
 worth it then but if you find it for like 5$ check it out. You might get a laugh or two out of 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 25, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  On paper, Bad Day LA sounded quite promising: an adult, comic-book-inspired satirical adventure 
 through Los Angeles in the midst of its most disastrous day ever. All the nasty things Americans 
 have been told to fear in recent years - terrorists, earthquakes, biological warfare, tsunamis 
 - have, by chance, hit the city at the same time, and you're the poor sod who has to battle through 
 it. Yeah, we thought: a bit GTA-esque perhaps, but it'll do. As it turns out, it certainly won't 
 do. Despite the guiding hand of 'celebrity' design guru American McGee, Bad Day LA is an unpolished, 
 bland mess of a game that doesn't deserve a single megabyte of your hard disk space. First of all, 
 it isn't even funny, and the satire is about as cutting as a plastic spoon. Anthony, the character 
 you play, is a loud-mouthed, skirt-chasing misanthrope with a grating voice, and most jokes seem 
 to revolve around him insulting someone, killing innocent people by accident or getting into some 
 kind of personal hygiene-related trouble. South Park can do this kind of stuff well, because the 
 writers take comedy seriously. Bad Day LA's writing is lazy and uninspired. More importantly, the 
 game itself just isn't fun to play. Forget a free-roaming romp around LA: here you're hemmed into 
 a small area of the city and given a mission or two to complete before being allowed to move on. 
 The tasks usually revolve around saving people (by putting out fires or healing injuries) and killing 
 terrorists, but the mechanics of the game take any notion of skill or fun out of this.
  
  Terrorists, for example, spawn in front of your eyes or - more likely - right behind you, shooting 
 you in the back when you think you've cleared an area out. Likewise, cars will often drive up from 
 blind spots and run you down, resulting in insta-death. This forces you to quicksave constantly, 
 breaking up what little flow the game has.
  
  Bad Day LA is also a technical disaster. Quitting out of the game twice crashed my PC, and this 
 is the first time I've played a game with no adjustable resolution or graphics settings beyond 
 'contrast' and 'brightness', so it ends up looking like shit as well as playing like it. This isn't 
 bad, it's chronic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  I bought this game for $4 at Big Lots, and thats pretty much the highest I would go for this title. 
 The game has a brilliant idea: make a humorous story about how every single disaster occurs in 
 one day in the City of LA. Next, take some Homeless guy and make him the main character. However, 
 all of that, while sounding good, fails miserably. Check out my thoughts:
  
  Gameplay:
  This was just boring. The action takes place slowly, with collectibles that don't even make sense. 
 You mainly just run around, trying to figure out what your doing, while making sure people don't 
 die. Now, if a person dies, and you don't do anything about it, people get anger at you. Problem 
 is, you can lower your bar, but they still attack you. So now you have a mass crowd chasing when 
 you supposedly fixed what you did wrong and killing them makes more people mad. So, it never ends. 
 As for what to defend yourself with, things are worse. The shooting and melee weapons are practically 
 useless since they have terrible aim and the melee weapons have terrible hit detection. Thankfully, 
 the game is so easy, you don't have to worry about any of that since you have all the time in the 
 world to most of objectives. Funny, since so many disasters are occuring...
  
  Graphics:
  They were alright. I mean, the game was in development for Xbox, so it has Xbox-level graphics. 
 That version never got released in America, or i would've played that version. As for the PC version, 
 I found it stupid that you couldn't change any of the game's visual settings. I mean, your stuck 
 with one setting and thats a horrible setting. Still, you can tell the game was just released because 
 they didn't want to work on it anymore since they didn't bother giving us the Xbox version. Story:
 
  dull and annoying. While funny at first, the game loses appeal pretty fast when all you here are 
 the most cliche jokes in history repeated in different form for about 10 hours. The voice acting 
 is equally annoying, with voice actors using the most cheesy ways to pronounce there segments. 
 Most of it actually doesn't make any sense. You won't care what happens, and combine that with 
 gameplay thats horrible...
  
  Overall:
  If you see this game in stores, just walk by. The game will give you nothing but boring old comedy 
 and gameplay thats just terrible. Better luck next time, American McGee... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AudioSoldier
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  What is Bad Day LA? Is it a blithe GTA? Or is it a shameless attempt at satirical hilarity that 
 fails on all accounts? The latter, Id say. American McGees latest stab at video-gaming is a tremendous 
 waste of his quirky talents. His vision is lost in a half-baked mess of a game, though, in all 
 honesty, its hard to see what he was striving for at all. Ive waded through the drudgery and 
 Im still at a loss, sadly.__
  
  Bad Day LAs supposed driving force is a ridiculing of USAs paranoia. What were left with is 
 a bare-bones arcade game that is, it seems, so desperate to reinforce that satirical point of view 
 that it strips away anything that could distract you from this point.___
  
  I say supposed since the satire is neither deep nor particularly funny. While it would be acceptable 
 as an accompanying facet to a meaty first-person shooter or a third-person action-adventure scripted 
 tight as a drum, Bad Day LA has a jarringly aimless feel about it.___
  
  Not that youre given freedom; instead, Enlights adherence to prehistoric game design pulls you 
 down one pre-conceived path after another. You end up questioning your motives for struggling through 
 the set of shakily weaved missions.___
  
  More than anything else, Bad Day LA smacks of a rush job. Its an exercise in repetition as youre 
 forced to clear out one set of nefarious wrongdoers before moving on to the next. You have to clear 
 out every last one, too. Youre left to scour the terrain for the final target (like youre playing 
 a cumbersome RTS and wading through the fog of war) wasting minutes of your time in a homage to 
 the dark days of gaming.___
  
  Bad Day Las aversion to modern convention is astounding at times. It could be a joke on the parts 
 of McGee and co., but its a joke theyre sharing between themselves. Wanton heights of frustration 
 are forced upon you, your ears reduced to rubble as NPCs utter the same cries of help over and 
 over again. Its stagnant game design at its most glaring; game design Enlight should have recognized 
 as boring.___
  
  The game defies typical review convention with a shambling grace, at least. Its visually messy, 
 sure, but charm abounds. But for all the appeal of the visuals, the opening level does its best 
 to erase that allure. Its a crammed, dastardly enjoyable mess that serves as precursor to the 
 repetitive and wearing path that Bad Day LA runs. Its not a long game, but youll feel strained 
 by its d&eacute; nouement.___
  
  You might persevere (despite your inner pleases for sanctity) to sample the subliminal messages. 
 But youll realize how they were masked by gaming restriction. Ironically, despite the adult themes 
 (swearing and satirical pokes) , even children will grow quickly bored.___
  
  In fact, it may round up staples of American culture and whack them around the head with an irony 
 stick, be fueled with boundless cheek and a desire to be unique, but Bad Day LA is reduced to nothing 
 more than a wholly unmemorable arcade game (one that fails to get its message across on all accounts) 
 by its aversion to the first rule of gaming: Make it fun first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  The game has obvious problems. The graphics are really bad. The sound engine is flat-out broken, 
 with only nearby sounds actually being audible. Mabye it's just me because I don't have surround 
 sound. Voice acting varies from nice to blatantly awful, not just because of the voice actors but 
 because of low-quality recording equipment. The engine is kind of messed up, with the jump system 
 being rather poor.
  The game is loaded with weird stuff, like the ability to give a tire iron to civilians for no reason. 
 The threat-advisory system is pointless in that it doesn't change much beyond hurting the player 
 constantly. The game is ridiculously easy on any difficulty, with only certain parts causing the 
 player to die, and at that point the player dies constantly.
  The AI (including civilians) are extremely biased towards the player, even if the player is rescuing 
 them from terrorists. The combat system is weird, with weapons like the shotgun being extremely 
 underpowered and weapons like the rocket launcher and nail clipper being useless. The player uses 
 the fire extinguisher more often than anything else because there are countless people on fire 
 and countless zombies to cure. The player's four buddies aren't terribly helpful, and enemies ignore 
 them entirely.
  Though the game contains everything you could possibly imagine in an apocolyptic city, there's 
 no police force whatsoever (though there are working police force models, including SWAT guys, 
 they never make an appearance in the game) . Zombies aren't nearly as awesome as I'd imagined, and 
 they feel more like allies than enemies because they're only actually dangerous towards other AI. 
 The player can also easily cure zombies with the fire extinguisher rather than having to kill them, 
 which makes fighting them pretty pointless.
  One of the player's allies leaves betrays him in a weird, instant and rather unexplained way, then 
 that former ally dies just as mysteriously. The game contains tanks, but only in one level. All 
 of the tanks, whether they be friend or foe, just aim their turrets at the player and do nothing. 
 The tanks don't move and can't be destroyed, they just look at the player indefinitely, even if 
 they should be shooting at him.
  The game has an ending that seems like it's going to be sad, but then it ends up being funny and 
 happy, yet weird in that some of the characters try to maintain the sadness. It really bothered 
 me, because the main character's friends fly away with the idea that he's surely dead, but he's 
 alive, buried in rubble, then his hand reaches up and he says, Bitches! , then that's the end and 
 it rolls the disappointing credits. The character's last two lines before the end of the game were 
 taken from cutscenes in the beginning of the game. They have absolutely no relevance to the moment 
 at which they're used. In fact, they have NEGATIVE relevance, because they have relevance to completely 
 different situations entirely, so when the main character says the last two lines, they're confusing 
 and stupid.
  There are a lot of signs throughout the game that are quite funny, such as movie posters for TITANIC 
 2 The Revenge and signs that make fun of the government by saying things like Winning the War Against 
 Nail Clippers and Be Good Sheeple .
  There are also a lot of banners here http://www. enlight. com/bdla/html/downloads/d_b. htm that relate 
 to the content of the game, meant to link to the home page of Bad Day LA, but that home page doesn't 
 exist anymore, no doubt because of the game's unpopularity.
  The game contains a huge array of crazy disasters (and I don't just mean technical disasters) , 
 such as terrorist attacks, meteor showers and other unlikely destructive events, all based on various 
 fears spread by the government and the media. They're all pretty fun, with the level design perfectly 
 matching the disaster at hand, and the AI creating a true sense of chaos. There are a few uninteresting 
 levels that lack disasters and chaos, such as the Airport level, but most levels, such as the level 
 in which the player mans a machine gun inside an ambulance, are full of chaos with zombies, civilians 
 and terrorists all over the place, and the Earthquake level does a pretty good job in most areas. 
 One thing that's surprising about the game is that everything actually links together, even if 
 it's in a ridiculous way. After the Meteor Shower level, there will still be a few meteors around 
 on some levels. There will also be evidence of the massive Earthquake throughout some levels after 
 the earthquake. However, it all seems really sparse and spread out, and sometimes seems a little 
 out of place, or doesn't seem frequent enough.
  The cinematics are well-made, and occur at the beginning of every level but one. The plot isn't 
 terribly impressive. The background of the main character seems almost non-existant. There's pretty 
 much no explanation as to why he went from having a job to being a hobo, and it's all covered up 
 by the real purpose of the game, which is to have the player survive a crapload of insane situations.
 
  Jokes are sometimes extremely hilarious, but many of the jokes just aren't done properly and lose 
 their hilarity. Some jokes are also made especially weird by a lack of sound effects, like the 
 introduction of the nail clippers as a weapon when the airport security force tries to take the 
 nail clippers from the main character, so he clips a nail to show how harmless it is, but the nail 
 ends up exploding and killing all of the security guards.
  I also apparently missed what A. S. S. , the name of the Airport security, is supposed to stand for. 
 All I know is Airport and Security could go in there.
  
  I don't know what it is about the game, but I found it to be so enjoyable that I actually played 
 it to the end. I rarely play games to the end, even if they're really well-made, Half-Life being 
 one example. Generally, what happens is I play a game, then once I stop playing it for that day 
 (I can only stand to play a game for so long) , I usually never play it again because there's a 
 more fun game on my desktop that catches my eye. However, I actually went back to Bad Day LA.
 
  The game is extremely linear and there's pretty much no reason for exploration (in the rare moments 
 in which it's possible) because there are no goodies to unlock. There's a million weird problems 
 with the game. And yet, I liked playing the game from beginning to end. I just can't put my finger 
 on it. The colorful graphics (despite their crapiness) and the fun, ridiculous characters add to 
 the fun. Tons of AI run around and create a sense of havoc, and the amount of AI increase as the 
 difficulty increases.
  I don't know how I would recommend this game. I found it to be really enjoyable, despite the countless 
 problems. I'm thinking that might be the only reason the game was ever even released was because 
 it had some fun value to it. I've actually been tempted to replay some of the levels. REPLAY! That's 
 insane.
  American McGee wanted to take every fear spread by the media (with examples in the intro movie) , 
 likely or not, and put them all into a video game as an experiment on what would happen and how 
 people would act. I'd say that it was an extremely good idea and the game does a pretty good job, 
 but the many technical flaws of the game really kill the experience for most players, so the game 
 has gone on either in shame or simply unnoticed.
  I'd say that if you're extremely, EXTREMELY bored, and you for some reason have Bad Day LA at hand, 
 then play it with the foresight that the game is of extremely low quality, but if you ignore it, 
 there's a good chance you'll find it to be fun nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hell_Dude
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  When i heard of this game I was like: Ok, this is original , even i played the demo and liked it. 
 And when i checked Gamespot , I couldn't understand why people don't like. After playing the game 
 , and finishing it , my ayes opened. This game is the biggest peace of puddin that i have played 
 last year. And why? Read the review below.
  
  OK , so you are this bum in green coat and hat (and some yellow shirt with a smiley on it) , who 
 crosses the Santa Monica freeway pushing a shopping cart with some kind of junk in it. Of course 
 the first cut scene you're going to take a dump at the middle of freeway. Why? Because it's funny 
 , right!? But thank god , there are some French terrorists that crash. later in the game (in every 
 level) there are going to be more tragedies (tsunamis, fire, meteor-storm) Now it's time to go there 
 and try to find out what the hell is happening. You go there and meat your first co-killer (a boy 
 who pukes all the time) , later at the game you will get more of them. There is no actual use of 
 them , they just run with you and sometimes kill someone . And now you're going to play the first 
 mission. All the people have turned zombies , and you can kill them (with the usual stuff) or cure 
 them , with flames (wtf?) or fire-extinguishers. You get smiley's for killing the zombies (nice 
 a smiley for murder) . But there are injured people , who need toilet paper to cure them or fire-extinguishers 
 , if they're on fire. If you don't save them you will get sad faces. If you get to much of them 
 than civilians will start to attack you with rocks , but you can't kill them (because of the sad 
 faces) . of course there are terrorists who are trying to kill you... The point of the game is to 
 get out of the city ,but to do that you have help other people, some times it's hard to because 
 you can't find the things to save or to kill. The game took me about 5-7 hours to finish it, the 
 hardest parts were not the bosses (some psychos , and prisoners that attack you with fish) ,but 
 staying alive when everything is attacking you: terrorists, zombies, angry mob and falling skies. 
 The graphics are the original part. The comic/cartoonie look to the game made it terrible (not abysmal) . 
 But I really didn't saw the point of it, the gameplay didn't fit with the graphics style... however 
 the technical part of the graphics weren't that good, actually they were bad. At the highest resolution 
 it still sucked. Sound probably was the crapyest part of the game. The soundtrack sucks ,and sound 
 effects are quite bad ,but the characters voice is terrible. You wont hear to people talking at 
 the same time , not because they're very polite ,but because the voice recording was super-bad. The 
 jokes that characters say are probably taken from a porn movie ( I want to pee ) , and why do army 
 men are always injured (a lot) , and women girlish? At the end... the game sucks , don't waste your 
 money (I got it for free, i bouth it with a magazine in Poland) . If you don't beleave it... well 
 blame yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jurgisv
Rating: 1.6
Date: Mar 2, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  I get this game and I open it... that was a real mistake... it was very bad... this game is realy 
 bad... Sound: bad. Value: terrible. Gameplay: i can say just: Oh, my God! This game is just one 
 mistake. I expect better game next time!!! Realy better... just terrible... disastrous disastrous 
 disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous 
 disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous 
 disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous 
 disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous 
 disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous 
 disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous 
 disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous disastrous 
 disastrous 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Blade7
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 23, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  The game itself wasn't planned out as unique as American McGee's other game was. The humor was 
 childish and the gameplay was confusing, stupid, and wasn't even exciting. I wouldn't recommend 
 this game to anyone unless they are someone I don't like =P. Also the whole game can be completed 
 within 5-8 hours of gameplay which isn't much. Also the story line was a complete confusion as 
 it would jump to one thing and then go to the next. It felt like you were playing a Disney game 
 but Disney games are much funner then this game itself.
  
  The point is, if you are a die heart, hardcore gamer, this game isn't for you but if you are just 
 looking around and feel like whacking a few people in traffic with a bar or a shot gun, then go 
 ahead for this game.
  
  Now here is the positive part, there is only one cool scene (to me) that kind of got me saying 
 WOW and that was the meteors when the people were in the chopper. I am not going to spoil the scene 
 for you because it is just a cool thing to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apisonline
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  This game is crap. No more review i can write here.. Its a total f**king failure.. aint worth a 
 penny.. The stupidest game i ever played.. even the voice is making wanna vomit. Why they ever 
 release this title. Gameplay is totally boring and now i can see why it was rated so low as 3.0 
 here. Thank god i got this title
  from a friend. Dont bother about its plot, it just like hell. The graphic sucks, music is stupid. 
 Belive me it is horrible to be play. i just cant play it more than
  15 mins. When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words 
 minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit 
 it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We 
 encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, 
 then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 4.4
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  This game is i'll say (undescribable) . it just gives gaming a very bad name. the graphics sound 
 all features of this game is not **** a waste of time. is this game a prank. I can't believe anyone 
 would create a game like that for jeez sake we're in the 21st century get up to da time. I just 
 can't believe i downloaded it. As soon as i saw the whole concept of the game I just deleted it. 
 I advised anyone who plan on buying this game don't. you'll surely regret it. this game is more 
 like a large size virus. Just occupying space on your hardrive. SUCKSSSSSS!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudeepm
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  In Bad Day LA, youll play the character of Anthony, a bitter, seemingly hopeless man who appears 
 to enjoy being the way he is. Everything changes with a terrorist attack on Los Angeles, unleashing 
 a plague of zombies and causing a war between rival gangs, terrorists, marines and even the Mexican 
 army. Taking on the role of Anthony, its your task to make your way through Los Angeles and just 
 survive this day.
  As for the game, as I already mentioned, its one hell of a timepass. Contrary to what most of the 
 review sites say, I experienced the game to be quite entertaining, the graphics are okay type, much 
 of the action can be considered to be copied from the famous Grand Theft Auto series, but if you 
 really like just moving around and kicking peoples' ass, this one's for you.
  The gameplay is pretty short, it ends with our hero putting an end to the bad day in LA. I finished 
 the game in a single stretch, about 7 hrs or so, but believe me, never felt like quitting it.
  All in all, play it if you really have nothing else to spend time on, and take my word, you wont regret..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tryleph
Rating: 1.3
Date: Sep 20, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately I had the opportunity to play this game, and I have to admit what do it because I 
 fall in an old trap: THE TITTLE.
  
  The tittle says: American McGee Bad Day L. A.
  
  I look this and think: Interesting, a game from the guys who made Alice (seems to me a excellent 
 game)
  And there was my error.
  The graphics, some kind of cartoon type, looks like an elaborated animation in flash... funny, 
 but for a little time...
  
  The sound is simply horrible, if not believe me, hear the sound of the jumps!
  
  The story 
 it`s very weird!, unfortunately, not in Alice`s ways... And some times scratch the bad taste.
 
  
  And least, the controls... Oh my god! Even with a joy pad its uncomfortable to play, very few actions 
 and very buggy...
  
  In conclusion, I still don't understand who and WHY American McGee put is name on the tittle... 
 Wait a minute... &iquest; anyone says money? LOL!
  
  Greets from Argentina! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArneZ
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 17, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  In Bad Day L. A., players are thrust behind the shopping cart of a homeless man turned city-saving 
 crusader, Anthony Williams, a reluctant hero who left behind the privileged life of a successful 
 Hollywood agent after losing his self-respect. Anthony survives in his cocoon of destitution and 
 isolation in Los Angeles until it all suddenly goes downhill and Los Angeles comes under attack 
 from zombies, terrorists, earthquakes and other untold disasters. In the end, escape what has become 
 a very Bad Day in L. A. First look of the game looks kinda cool, cause of the super cool graphics 
 and funny jokes. But its just becoming more and more boring and tired after 5 minutes.
  I think this game is a joke. Just a big wannabe in the big market of games.
  Today we have tons 
 of tons of other MUCH better games then this trash!
  Dont buy it.... Worst game of 2006... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koltasXxX
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 16, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  I dont know why yall say this game is bad there are sirtenly worse gmaes than this . I liked the 
 graphics , eventhough there were mistakes in the game. The game may seem like its boring , buts 
 its too short to be boring. I completed it in 6 hours and only one time i thought about quiting 
 it . Some of the humor in the game is funny, and runin arround and killing people is fun. Of course 
 it's not worth paying for , better trie it , i would never spend my money on it :D . Anywhays , 
 u don't have what to play? You have a dum friend that just bought it and already beated it , play 
 IT! ;] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walkenenfuego
Rating: 3.2
Date: Sep 15, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  One of American McGee's comments a couple months back was that the team he was working with were 
 nearly robotic -- give them instructions, they follow them to the letter; without, of course, injecting 
 any creativity or style of their own into the mix. If they finished their tasks early, they'd sit 
 and stare at the screen... not even surf the Net.
  
  It would appear that this has culminated very badly into his newest game. Everything the bad reviews 
 say are pretty much true; there's no love to be had in a game when you're using the fire extinguisher 
 more often than any other item you can carry, and there are only about 5 tasks you can perform 
 in the first place: killing, curing zombies, healing the injured, extinguishing people, and scaring 
 off dogs. Three of those use the fire extinguisher, and all are of approximately the same importance.
 
  
  It's a damn shame. I've been looking forward to this game for roughly a year now. I'm not completely 
 turned off to American McGee games yet, but I'll be watching the reviews on his next release before 
 purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksyed0
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 15, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  I was very disappointed in this game, but given the lack of release hype, or any real advertising, 
 I shouldn't have been surprised. I've heard many good things about American McGee, but given that 
 he's fled North America for the Far East before this game was even released, that should have been 
 a big tip-off.
  
  Personally, I'm not very impressed by the graphical style. Sure, the graphics are cartoony , I 
 didn't really find that all that appealing. But the game is way-over the top with the crass humour, 
 vulgarity, and toilet humour. I gave up playing after the first three levels.
  
  There is a real lack of direction and purpose. Sure, there's an overall objective, but it seems 
 to involve a lot of running around in circles trying to find out what its all about.
  
  There are next to no configuration options - no choice of resolution or graphic options, no choice 
 of sound API, no key re-binding (hell, not even a key-mapping guide) .
  
  The game has a definite, we've spent enough on this, just get it out the door feel to it. I didn't 
 have any technical problems in my short playing time, but the lack of overall direction and playability 
 is a real hit to Mr. McGee's reputation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  When i first started playing it, the Graphic seemed new and kinda fun to me, but as i played alittle 
 into the game i saw
  
  Sound : Very poor sound and Voice acting, tries to be funny but fails big time.
  
  Graphics 
 : Lame and bad Graphic environment / surroundings
  
  Story : The story isnt all bad, it could be a good game if the creators actually made an effort 
 or were good at what they do, i liked the concept of doomsdayish gameplay where you save, and see 
 alot of funky stuff, too bad this game delivers nothing of the things i looked for.
  
  Gameplay : Save people, heal them, beat zombies or help them, nothing i liked because of the poor 
 execution of it all....
  
  Thank god i got this game free, if id bought it, i would have to travel back in time and slap myself 
 across the face and tell me how it is.....
  
  i do NOT recommend this game, if you have to pay for it, definitely not worth it. The Concept was 
 alright but game was poor, The end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 11, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Bad Day L. A is the newest game by famed game developer American McGee. American, for those who 
 don't know, used to work alongside John Romero and John Carmack at id Software. He made maps for 
 DOOM and other games before leaving the company to follow his own ideas. Alice was one of the most 
 atmospheric games American made, combining the Quake engine with a maniacal history in a bizarro-themed 
 Alice in Wonderland world. Some time later, Scrapland came along and brought with it the humor 
 everybody knew McGee for. Now, two years later, another crazy game comes along, but doesn't hit 
 the mark. It misses it badly.
  
  The game begins with a plane crash over the highways close to L. A. Nothing biggie, right? It just 
 so happens that the plane was carrying deadly chemicals that turns people into zombies! And who 
 is here to save the world from this terrorist treat? B. J? Sarge? The nameless guy from Quake? No! 
 Of course it's Anthony, the foul-mouthed bum! Armed with pipes and fire hydrants, his mission is 
 to save people and find out what the heck is going on.
  
  Too bad it's gonna take him a hard time to do so. Bad Day L. A plays horribly, with terrible controls, 
 awful hit-detection and just no-sense play mechanics. Sure, no-sense works fine for games of this 
 nature, but when you're lost in the middle of a level with no clue what to do, with the game telling 
 you to ask for directions (?!) , you know something's wrong.
  
  What might attract people to this game without a second look are the screenshots that show the 
 game's art. This art is a little reminiscent to Herge's Tin Tin. A little. When moving, this is 
 a whole different story. The game runs choppily and the graphics suffer from serious clipping and 
 defects all-around.
  
  When a great creative mind like McGee's tells us he's making a game based on the neurotic and paranoid 
 delusions about terrorism and the unbased fear of the general public, one could think something 
 really different would come out of this. Unfortunately such isn't the case with B. D. L. A. The game 
 is just a missed mark, an experience that will frustrate whoever happens to install this on his/her 
 PC or plop the disc in a Xbox.
  
  Obscenities aside, looking past all the layers of bad execution, someone might give the game credit 
 for trying, but on the other hand, looking at the developer's portfolio of creations, the scale 
 tips and stumbles to one side. The bad side.
  
  A long review isn't even needed for a game like this, the little that is written in one sentence 
 is enough to sum up the end result about this game: stay away from it.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTrueMiH
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  A week a go I got a hold on the polish version of Bad Day LA and I must say that the game disappointed 
 me a little bit. I'll tell you why.
  
  Lets start with graphics. Here I have a difficult situation because it's a differing thing. On 
 one hand we have the movies in between levels, which look really good. Full cell shading with lots 
 of action and funny moments. But on the other hand we have the actual game, and unfortunately it 
 does not look so pretty here. Collision problems, choppy animation and a bit poor environment can 
 make your eyes sting.
  
  Next thing is the sound. Here we also don't have a bright situation. The voices aren't too good 
 [actually for me after playing MGS not many games have good voice acting :P] and the track list 
 is horribly thin. I think that only sound effects are the quite good aspect of the sound.
  
  Now for the last thing. Game-play. Well, after putting aside the previous minuses we get a 
 quite amusing piece of software. We play as American McGee the hobo, who lost his hope in humanity 
 :) . The game is full of black humor and scenes of gore, so it's suitable for the the older ones 
 for a good reason. The whole game comes down to doing simple tasks like, helping people by healing, 
 extinguishing or dezombiefing them, or by simply getting to a specific point on the map. You get 
 to survive about 8 different cataclysms, where every cataclysm is a single level. Unfortunately 
 that's not too much, especially on lower difficulty settings. Through out the game you'll get your 
 hands on a load of weapons, starting with a tire key on rocket launchers ending.
  
  Conclusion. This game surely isn't a masterpiece, but for a price of a mere 5$, it's a game worth 
 checking, when you don't have anything more interesting to do. But really I suggest you find something 
 else 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdwardTo
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  I've been eagerly awaiting this game since it was announced... a while back. A LONG while.
  
  I have to admit that I was disappointed from what I thought it would be like. However, I am 
 not saying that this is a horrible game (unlike others have) .
  
  American Mcgee has always come up with interesting ideas for games, and this is no exception. You 
 have to admit that even though the game itself isn't gold, the idea certainly is.
  
  Unfortunately, this game is plagued with glitches and crashes occasionally, but I am not the kinda 
 of person who hates certain games simply because they make me restart the level. How much time 
 will you waste? 5, maybe 10 minutes?
  
  People also complain about the lack of configuration options. But really, who cares if you can't 
 rebind your keys? There are very few keys anyway... perfect for a simple Run-N-Gun game. Still, 
 I do think it's not so bright that they didn't include a way to change the game resolution.
  
  Overall, this game certainly isn't amazing, but it's not as bad as others have been saying. 
 At least I don't think so, anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodsBusy
Rating: 1.1
Date: Sep 8, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The only thing that I really need to say about this game is simple - don't waste your money or 
 your time, because I did both, and after booting the game up, it was a decision I immediately regretted.
 
  
  First up, the graphics have some charm, and are imbued with an obnoxious amount of forced, puerile 
 humour, but all in all, are uninspired, unremarkable, and unflattering - which, in a way, is a 
 very good thing, because they hint at the gameplay yet to come. Secondly, if you do, against all 
 good judgment, buy this game, for the love of god, turn your speakers off! Because - unless you 
 want to hear what hell sounds like - it WILL, as Dane Cook said, make you want to punch an infant. 
 Lastly, the gameplay is ridiculously bad. It's about as fresh and original as Frogger, only more 
 frustrating.
  
  On the whole, a waste of life for those who've played it, and doubly so for those who made it. 
 The whole purpose of the game was to be funny and satirical, but the only thing about it that comes 
 even close is the fact that a so-called "acclaimed" game designer made it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NigraPack
Rating: 4.4
Date: Sep 6, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  Bad Day L. A was a game that i had big expectations of, but it disappointed me really much. I Actually 
 thought this would be a big sandbox game like GTA: San Andreas but its straight storyline all the 
 way
  
  Gameplay: i must admit it was fun, but only for 5 hours, in the beginning you mostly only save 
 people which can get boring sometimes, the controls are pretty much like a bad ''console to pc'' 
 convert and doesnt even allow to crouch, only jump, steer, fire, interact thats all you need...
  
  Graphics: Either you love it or hate it, i liked the cartoon gore styled graphics but the game 
 has no options for resolution change quality etc.
  
  Sound: well i bought the polish version and it sucked because they silenced the speech so people 
 can read the subtexts...
  
  Value: buying is not a option
  
  It got good humour, great videos and very limited gameplay, il probably replay it sometime... the 
 game HAD POTENTIAL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MC_Hammerty
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Bad Day L. A. is the latest game from designer American McGee, who is most famous for his game Alice, 
 based off of Through the Looking Glass. L. A. does not want to wow you with gameplay, and makes 
 you notice that right away as it takes about 5 minutes to get over the clunkiness of the contols. 
 After that, it's all dependent on the player.
  
  When playing a game like this, you know the gameplay is going to be on the back-burner. The graphic 
 style is fitting for the over-the-top story and characters in the game. There have been people 
 knocking the graphics, and yes, sometimes it takes awhile to realize what you are looking at, but 
 if this game were to look realistic, the humor wouldn't have worked out (Also look at: Psychonauts.)
 
  
  This is one of the only games to really use satire. Due to the grueling man-hours it takes to make 
 a game, games that are developed to make fun of a timely idea are usually crap (ie: Who Wants to 
 Beat Up a Millionaire.) This particular game, which spent a lot of time in development, still has 
 the gameplay for your standard "time-sensitive humor" faire. The highs are high: Cinematics, humor, 
 poking fun at our administration
  
  The lows are lows: Everything between the cinematics, humor, poking fun at our administration. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wikdbluewrx
Rating: 2.8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I would warn you to stay away from this game. Playing it is like watching Chappelle's show for 
 the 50th time: the things he says are still funny but overall your just bored. The graphics are 
 horrible, the gameplay is very one-dimensional, and the entire premise of the game is a complete 
 waste of time in every aspect. The only other game i could compare this too is one of the mini 
 video games you could play in GTA San Andreas and even then the graphics are better! Save your 
 time and money! This game is absolutely dreadful! I simply cannot understadn why American McGhee 
 would put their name on this "soon to be occupying the local Wal-Mart $9.99 bargain bin" travesty 
 of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 1, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  well i exepted more from this game , but this game is terrible , i dont understand why i played 
 it , ok now heres my review:
  Gameplay: well its like a shooters game ,i kinda liked it , but its still sucks , the game was 
 hard and borring , maybe hard for me , but i didnt finish second mission...
  Graphics: well this part realy gets it , graphics are like for little kids... but this game isint 
 for kids , well few words about graphics : its bad realy bad , but for game for fun it would be 
 great , but just this game isnt the right type... graphics allso rimined me of counter-strike map 
 The Simpsons
  Sound: Well i gues this is the best part for me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-MASTER
Rating: 2.1
Date: Aug 31, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Let me me start with the "best" thing in this game - It's graphics...
  The game has a "cute" graphics which reminds me the graphics of "ultimate spider-man", but much 
 worst than that.
  
  The sounds are really bad (except the player voice which is funny...)
  The sounds are not ever 
 close to be sounded like they supposed to !!!
  
  And the worst thing in the game is the gameplay !!!
  The game is completely not playable.
  
 In most of the game you don't know what to do or where to go...
  And if that's not enough, the game is extremely short !!!
  
  The only thing that's somehow 
 good in this game is it's humor,
  and it's nice & funny cut-scenes videos...
  
  To everyone how didn't get it yet, just... STAY AWAY FROM THIS GAME !!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
