-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Anachronox
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/anachronox/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 16, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.0, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 519 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Ion Storm
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Jun 25, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Anachronox is a solid addition to the genre and makes up for some rough spots with a welcome sense 
 of humor and a lot of personality. 

 Japanese role-playing games are a staple of console gaming. But aside from some lackluster ports, 
 they've been almost nonexistent on the PC. Developer Ion Storm is attempting to redress this imbalance 
 with Anachronox, a Final Fantasy-inspired game designed specifically for the PC. It manages to 
 stay true to its console roots while modifying the formula in a few key areas, not the least of 
 which is the addition of plot and dialogue not translated from Japanese. Though these changes are 
 too subtle to bridge the gap between people who enjoy this type of linear adventure-RPG hybrid 
 and those who don't, Anachronox is a solid addition to the genre and makes up for some rough spots 
 with a welcome sense of humor and a lot of personality.           Sly Boots will eventually be 
 joined by several other allies.    

  However, there is one major caveat: The game gets off to a slow start. Though the convention in 
 this genre is to keep you on rails for a while before opening up, Anachronox is a little ridiculous 
 in this respect. The first five or six hours involve lots and lots of running mindless errands 
 without much in the way of combat, puzzle solving, or anything else that could be considered good 
 gameplay to break up the monotony. You'll generally be asked to walk somewhere, get something, 
 or talk to somebody, and walk back. In most cases, this involves two or three transitions between 
 areas. Worse yet, in between the loading times from area to area, you'll have to ride on elevators, 
 which means watching an unavoidable animation of you riding the elevator -- a tactic seemingly designed 
 for no other purpose than to annoy you. The whole thing is like watching a five-hour cutscene powered 
 by you tapping the left mouse button.   

  The beginning part introduces you to the main character, Sylvester "Sly" Boots, a down-on-his-luck 
 private detective living in a futuristic city built on a mysterious, giant alien artifact. As usual 
 with private detectives, he owes money all over town to the wrong kinds of people. His attempt 
 to get a job and pay back his debts eventually leads him off of Anachronox on a quest to save the 
 universe. Though it all sounds pretty standard, there's a lot of cleverness in the dialogue and 
 plot details. Anachronox joins the short list of games such as Giants: Citizen Kabuto and Grim 
 Fandango that manage to successfully convey an actual sense of humor -- not "funny for a game" funny, 
 but legitimately funny.   

  This humor helps mitigate the uneventful first five hours of gameplay. But the best way to get 
 through it is simply to keep reminding yourself that it's going to get better, because the following 
 25 hours really  do  pick up; the fighting becomes more varied, more complex, and more frequent, 
 and both the strict linearity and the traditional errand puzzles become better disguised.      
      The plot takes some rather unpredictable turns.    

  The combat system lies somewhere between the high watermark set by the Grandia series and the relative 
 simplicity of something like the one used in Skies of Arcadia. Fights occur in real time with each 
 character requiring a varying recovery period between each combat action. The biggest tactical 
 addition to the system is the inclusion of movement. Characters can move between set points on 
 a grid overlaid across the battlefield. This allows for a real difference between melee and ranged 
 weaponry, as characters armed only with close-in weapons must maneuver themselves next to opponents, 
 and from this position they may block the line of sight of characters farther away. Though it's 
 a simple feature, it helps break the attack-heal routine inherent in a lot of fighting systems 
 in these sorts of games.    

 One odd omission is the inability to skip a character's turn while in battle. When it's their turn 
 to act, characters have to do something before play can continue. This means that characters out 
 of range of an enemy must either move into range or use an item or special attack instead of simply 
 being able to sit back and wait. It's not a huge flaw, but it's a consistently annoying one.   
         The visual design of Anachronox looks good, though the 3D engine is dated.    

  Though each of the game's seven characters (who become available as the plot progresses, though 
 you can have only three in your party at a time) has a series of unique special attacks that border 
 on magical, about a quarter of the way through the game the mystech concept is introduced, which 
 forms Anachronox's magic system proper. Mystechs are chunks of rock that are imbued with various 
 powers such as the ability to shoot futuristic forms of fireballs and ice storms.   

  At roughly the game's halfway point, an ancillary component of mystech is introduced. Called the 
 elementor system, it's an absurdly complex way to modify mystech, in the tradition of Final Fantasy 
 VII's materia system. By socketing various colored bugs into your mystech and then leveling them 
 up, you can create a huge variety of different effects. While mastery -- or even a basic understanding -- of 
 elementors is not strictly necessary to complete the game, it adds another layer of depth to the 
 combat system and should keep FAQ writers busy for months.   

  Perhaps the best change the developer has made to the Japanese RPG formula is the elimination of 
 the thousands of random battles traditional to the genre. Each area features a set number of encounters, 
 though you can often navigate them extra times for added experience. One thing to note about combat 
 is that on "normal" difficulty, it's too easy -- especially once you start to get area-effect mystechs. 
 Anyone wanting a challenge should play on "hard."   

  The sound is good as well, especially the voice acting. It's a testament to the quality of the 
 voice work that during the scenes in which the dialogue is merely presented through text boxes, 
 you'll wish it were spoken.           It gets off to a slow start, but Anachronox is worth your 
 time.    

  Though it uses id Software's 4-year-old Quake II engine, Anachronox still looks pretty good. Environments 
 and especially characters are somewhat blocky, but the level design and character design are of 
 high-enough quality that you won't notice the relative lack of polygons for long. The ability to 
 render facial animations has also been implemented, which permits the characters to display a lot 
 of personality. Most of the environments, especially the city of Anachronox itself, are filled 
 with little details that really bring the game to life. Ironically, the early boring parts of the 
 game tend to have a more interesting look than the later levels, too many of which take place in 
 nondescript areas such as alien tunnels and a sort of generic, Tomb Raider-esque ancient stone 
 city. Luckily, by that point the gameplay itself should hold your attention.   

  Anachronox is generally stable, and a patch has already been released addressing most of its technical 
 issues. However, Windows 2000 is not officially supported, and some serious problems have been 
 reported getting the game to run under that OS. Windows 2000 users may wish to try the downloadable 
 demo to ensure compatibility.   

  If you have the patience to make it through the slow start, Anachronox will reward you with great 
 dialogue, great voice acting, and an increasingly complex fighting system. In terms of gameplay, 
 it's a by-the-book entry in an established genre, but its American perspective and a successful 
 sense of humor set it apart from the pack.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: davidl3631
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  I seen this game get some good reviews but never heard of it before so i decided to get a copy, 
 go the game for &pound;2.50 including p+p on ebay.... have to say this is the best &pound;2.50 i 
 have ever spent, this game loads of enjoyment and a get story to get involved in, This game is 
 very good and has good RPG elements, the fighting was very good and it you explored properley then 
 you will have found loads more techniques, the exploring was the main thing in this game, if you 
 didnt explore then you would have struggled because all the best weapons in the game you had to 
 search for,
  
  As for the story i thought it was very well thought out and gave you a chance to get to know all 
 the 7 characters properley, and has a great twist at the end.....
  
  The graphics are good baring in mind this did come out in 2001 and the voice overs are good (not 
 that the charactors look like there saying the words but this is an old game) All in All this game 
 you should definatly get if you enjoy exploring in RPGs and enjoy a great story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 13, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10
  Gameplay wise, Anachronox is more J-RPG than anything else: semi-linear storyline, third-person 
 adventuring, pages of dialogue (in blue boxes, no less) , and a turn-based combat system based on 
 a similar mechanic to the active time system found in latter-day Final Fantasy games. But that 
 stylistic approach is offset by a very western view of a darkly humorous cyberpunk-infused dystopia. 
 You are placed in the (sly) boots of a down-and-out private eye who just sets out to make a quick 
 buck and ends up helping to save the universe, aided by a memorable cast of quirky characters  
 including a smacktalking robot, the blueprint for Mr. Incredible, and erm a planet. Quite. Its 
 a very fun game to play, with absolutely shedloads of personality. And for the most part, its 
 solidly built. In the end, its the little things that prevent Anachronox from reaching the pinnacle 
 of perfection. A dull beginning. Endless walking around the same areas on countless fetch-and-carry 
 quests. An occasionally clunky control system. The lack of a map and decent journal system. Some 
 frustrating mini-games that often dont bother to explain the controls beforehand. Niggling bugs 
 even after patching. I get the feeling that a month or two longer in production would have done 
 wonders to this game, or perhaps if the entire development team wasnt fired at the last minute 
 some of these annoyances would have been ironed out. Its a real shame, because underneath the 
 rough edges Anachronox is a diamond.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Anachronox was built on a modified version of the elderly Quake II engine, and released a whole 
 four years after its shooter step-daddy. As a result, Anachronox was never going to win any beauty 
 awards. But theres still a rich, detailed, varied and often hilarious visual world to explore, 
 resplendent in its cyberpunk and apocalyptic trappings.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  The music is nice: calm and quiet with a distinct spacey feel. Some of the pieces wouldnt sound 
 amiss in a space-simulation game to be honest. Most of the time it blends into the background, 
 amping it up in key scenes. The voice acting is fine too, although little of the dialogue has vocal 
 work: rather it is restricted to cut scenes and scripted sequences. This is a bit of a shame, since 
 the vocals we do hear are excellent.
  
  Value: 9/10
  Its big, its unique, its heaps of fun. Bang for your buck is not an issue. Unfortunately, Anachronox 
 also falls into the bugger to get working on a modern computer category, sitting side by side 
 with spiritual cousins System Shock 2 and Syndicate Wars in the awkward corner. Funny how all the 
 best games end up there. However, any copies still in stores will be bargain bin leftovers by now, 
 so why not take the risk?
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  Superb.
  
  Pros:
  One of the few Japanese-style RPGs available on the PC, with a great setting and an often laugh-out-loud 
 sense of humour. Fun and engrossing. Fantastic storyline with a real kicker of a twist and a cliffhanger 
 that makes me wish the sequel had got off the ground.
  
  Cons:
  The combat is too easy, for a start. There are more than a few annoyances in the various gameplay 
 aspects too.
  
  Conclusion:
  Given a chance and a good polish, this could have been one of the greatest games ever created. 
 As it stands, its still a cracker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popo136
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  Annacronox is an RPG game with good of sense of humor. At first, the plot is not too clear. People 
 might got confuse on the opening scene, what happen to Sly. Maybe its because the limited graphic 
 engine. Even though that Annacronox use the Quake 2 engine, but its not enough to draw the character 
 expression. For the game that full of humor like this, the graphic engine is not enough.
  
  Annacronox has a very good plot (despite the closure) . It has full of surprises and mysteries along 
 the game. Even though that the story build so slowly at the earlier stage, but it will go faster 
 in the middle part, after sly That would make everyone stick to play this game 'till the end.
 
  
  The combat style is just like the earlier RPG game in nintendo (like final fantasy for example) . 
 The combat will be more attractive after sly and friends can use their special moves (like special 
 combos in street fighter) . Even though not all the special moves can be opened.
  
  The story packed with alot of puzzle to solve and humor that sometimes are taken from famous movies 
 (like silence of the lamb, etc) . The closure is quite surprise enough, but it has to have sequel 
 to be a good closure.
  
  Overall, this game is worth to play. Just enjoy the story and a little forgiveness to the graphic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kainenable
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I have decided to go back and review games that I really liked but not alot of people had played. 
 It is unfortunate that this game did not do that well in retail. It offers something which is great 
 fun to play.
  
  You start of your mission as Sly Boots (yes that is his real name) , and have to run errends for 
 the local inhabitents of your town. This is mainly low level stuff but as the story progresses 
 it gets really interesting. This truly feels like an epic RPG storyline where you not only must 
 save worlds but must save the universe. Not only the Universe but multiple universes. How is that 
 for pressure? 
  
  It never loses its sence of humor though. It somehow manages the balence between a serious rpg, 
 and being consistantly funny very well. It never seems to be trying to hard but is naturally funny. 
 This also helps from the panaple of unique charactars that you meet along the way. These are the 
 most unique i have ever seen in an RPG, period. You party will contain an old washed up superhero, 
 scientist, smartass robot, and a planet... yes a planet with millions of people inhabited on it. 
 Which you can visit yourself at any time.
  
  The voice acting is superb and the graphics are servicable. Of course if you were to play it today 
 you would notice they were fairly outdated, but it is easy to look beyond since everything else 
 about it is so strong. The areas also unique and varied.
  
  That is not to say it is without fault. In fact there are some aspects which really stop this from 
 being a truly epic game. Firstly you are going to re-tread the same places many many times. Just 
 walking around going from one place to another. I really wish they would have just cut this out 
 because you will find you have to load scenes fairly often as well. If they would have wrapped 
 up the dialog and story into a more solid playsystem the would created something unmatched. 
  
  Besides this there is alot ot like about this game. It is filled with such charm and character 
 that any fan of RPG's should try if they can find a copy of it somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorax1284
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 22, 2005 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I just love love love this game. Read the Gamespot review. It's bang on. One thing they neglected 
 to mention is the camera angles in the third person perspective. No, the camera doesn't make problems 
 in playing the game... I get seasick with all the swooping and wooshing around during battles though... 
 It might have been better to just zoom gently in and out, rather than all the switching angles... 
 but the better to see the great character / battle animations with, my dear.
  
  This game is inexpensive just about anywhere. I think I saw it in a "jewel case only" version for 
 $15 bux at Staples. That cutscene where Democratus, Boots, Paco and Stilleto are in the big purple 
 spaceship... priceless.
  
  Get it, and stick with it. You won't be sorry.
  
  I am having some performance issues that I hopefully can resolve, because running a game published 
 in 2001 on a machine purchased in 2004 and only being able to run at 640 x 480 is a bit of a let 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuDaDJ
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2005 6:33 am PT
Review:  The term "revolutionary" has been misused all too often to describe games. "Revolutionary graphics, 
 revolutionary physics, revolutionary gameplay" are all part of the marketing hype for any new game 
 that may not advance gaming much. It is quite surprising then, that Anachronox, an unheralded adventure/RPG 
 game from ION Storm, deserves to be called "revolutionary" and turns out to be one of the best 
 games in recent years.
  
  Anachronox is an adventure/RPG game using the Quake II engine, which was already four years old 
 when the game was released in 2001. However, it's different from Quake II, SiN, Kingpin, or any 
 other FPS based on the Quake II engine. First of all, your see your character from a third person 
 view. Anachronox then uses the engine to create an immersive and interactive world. There are objects 
 you can pick up and interact with, people to talk to, and places to visit. It feels like a traditional 
 adventure game, meaning you need to accomplish goals by talking to people, getting items, and solving 
 puzzles before you can proceed. But there are also RPG elements, such as leveling up and fighting, 
 which is turn based, but with time meters. It's amazing how the Quake II engine can be used to 
 drive an adventure/RPG, but that's what ION Storm has done.
  
  Anachronox takes place in a dark, futuristic world, where space travel is possible. The world that 
 the game creates is breathtaking and totally immersive. The protagonist is Sly Boots, a down on 
 his luck detective, but you'll run into other characters that will join your party, including your 
 trusty robot pal, PAL-18. Sly is accompanied by a his digitalized secretary called Fatima, which 
 takes the form of an arrow, and serves as the pointer that you use to interact with the world. 
 All kinds of characters can be found in the environments. You can talk to just about every character, 
 whether or not they are important to the plot. There is plenty of dialogue in the game, most of 
 it in text, although the cutscenes have voice acting, which is well done, and make the fantastic 
 story come alive. The areas in the game are underscored with background music, which is top notch 
 as well.
  
  The story is perhaps the strongest part of Anachronox. There is humor, suspense, everything you'd 
 want in a great story. In a really hilarious part, Sly has to get past a science bouncer, who asks 
 an esoteric science question before letting you pass. The gibberish that Sly responds with is utterly 
 funny. Then there is an eight minute heart pounding sequence you go through before a planet blows 
 up. The cutscene after that is funny as well.
  
  The goals in the game are clearly identified, and you can bring up a list of current goals by pressing 
 F1. The puzzles are of the adventure game variety, such as finding a size 5 helmet, or finding 
 a way to turn off a laser gate. And occasionally, there is more than one solution to a puzzle. 
 For example, in Sender Station, you need to get two tickets to Sunder. The way I did this was to 
 do get the rose in the hotel, and take it to the woman who's watching the clown. The other one 
 I got from a guy in the sewers. However, you can also yammer at a scientist staying in the cheap 
 hotel, who will give up his ticket.
  
  What I like about Anachronox is that it doesn't focus too much on combat, unlike other RPGs, instead 
 giving more weight to the story. Moreover, there are no random enemy encounters, as you'll always 
 be able to see your enemies before you begin battle. In battles, you have access to ranged and 
 melee weapons, but each character also has unique battle skills, and when some of them are executed, 
 are pure eye candy. Sly's third level battle skill is a sight to behold, and Stiletto's Pain Pirouette 
 really looks painful.
  
  There are plenty of minigames and arcade sequences scattered through the game. One level is essentially 
 a shooter, as you pilot your ship through tunnels while shooting at enemies. Another sequence has 
 you dodging meteors in your ship. Each character has a unique skill that when used, will let you 
 play a minigame. These range from Sly's guessing number lock picking game to PAL-18's routing circuit 
 game to Grumpos' lung filling minigame. Other games are incorporated into the settings, such as 
 a strip club dancing minigame, and playable arcade games.
  
  One thing I should say, the game is quite long. Expect to spend 30 hours finishing it. And once 
 you've finished it the first time, you'll want to go back and play the alternate adventures you 
 get with other characters. Specifically, you choose which character to take with with to Limbus, 
 and depending on this choice, you will get a different adventure with that character once you're 
 on the surface of Democratus.
  
  Who would have thought the Quake II engine could be used in an adventure/RPG game? Anachronox is 
 truly revolutionary, as the 3D engine allows you more freedom of movement and exploration than 
 any other adventure game before it. The story, the characters, the music, and the environment combine 
 to make to make this one of the best and most memorable games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dygel
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 27, 2005 11:13 pm PT
Review:  I really hate to do this, but I have to give Anachronox an altogether failing grade. The simple 
 fact of the matter is that I literally could not finish the game because bugs in the game prevented 
 me from advancing all the way through the final area. As such, I can't recommend it to anyone.
 
  
  This really rather pains me because this is always a game I had looked forward to playing. Back 
 in the days when I ran a VG website, I covered Anachronox pretty intensively. But the way history 
 played itself out, I just never had a chance to play it until 2004. I played through most of it, 
 enjoyed its wit and its attempt to recreate a console-style RPG for the PC. I got very near the 
 end before I let it sit for several months, gathering dust before I returned to it to finish it 
 off.
  
  Sadly, I've discovered that for some inexplicable reason, I am unable to finish it. I've reached 
 a point where an event should be triggering to let me advance, and inexplicably, it is not.
  
  A bug this critical can only result in a failing grade. It pains me to give such a damning 
 verdict to Anachronox, but when your patches and updates don't guarantee players can actually complete 
 the game, you've brought it on yourself.
  
  If you ever play this title, all I can say is that I hope it works out better for you than it did 
 for me. My experience of it was ruined. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog55
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 11, 2004 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Ion Storm came out with Anachronox in the wake of the Daikatana failure and in the midst of the 
 Deus Ex boon, so understandably, this game's release was overshadowed by the good and bad press 
 surrounding the other two titles, It's not a diamond in the rough, but it's worthwhile if you want 
 to escape the standard fantasy RPG fare. If you see this game floating around in the bargain bin 
 though, it's worth a look. (Just make sure you patch it after install...)
  
  While the game probably doesn't measure up to the expectations of most RPG fans, it excels in telling 
 an ever-expanding story driven by rich characters who have no business saving the universe, but 
 of course end up doing so, from one joke to the next. Legitimately, the jokes are funny, and this 
 is Anachronox's greatest strength. The writing and voice acting is pretty good when it comes to 
 developing truly original characters (such as a planet shrunk to minature proportions to become 
 a playable character, or a has-been superhero looking to redeem himself heroically) but halfway 
 through the game, you begin to realize that you're working with these wonderful characters who 
 unfortunately can't escape the boring locales they are thrust into. 
  
  The environments are not exceptional by any means, and repetitive hallways, caves, buildings can 
 become tedious to slog through after awhile... and you will have your share of slogging through. 
 Some outdoor environments make appearances, sure, but not enough to shake the  
 feeling. Yes, the game world is not sunshine and rainbows, and granted, the Blade Runner feel of 
 the opening act sets the mood appropriately, but there are some parts of the game that left me 
 wondering if I would ever get away from the endless metal walls, doors, and ceilings. In a first 
 person shooter, this is excusable, but in an RPG, it's well... depressing.
  
  Having said all that, Anachronox has an interesting, if not somewhat clunky, battle system. It's 
 not Final Fantasy, but it tries to implement an ATB systerm that mimics those found in many of 
 Square's titles. My only problem with this is that while the active time meters speed up the many 
 battles you will be fighting, the characters and enemies are fixed to a grid that limits their 
 movement and action to a single direction each turn. It doesn't make sense to have a dynamic battle 
 timer and a limiting battle movement system working together, and it takes some time to get used 
 to.
  
  Thankfully, the battle animations and spell/skill effects are colorful, and they liven up the fighting 
 a fair bit. Some non-innovations are present with "limit break" type actions specific to each character, 
 and even the idea that types of energy can be drawn from "Mystech" is not entirely removed from 
 spell magic that is drawn from "Materia". Since you spend so much time getting to know your characters 
 throughout the story, it is satisfying to see them employ their own style of fighting when push 
 comes to shove (and not some cloned manuever that everyone else has) .
  
  You're going to find a fun story in Anachronox -- but expect some drab environments and somewhat 
 linear gameplay. As an RPG fan, you're certainly not going to be disappointed, but there is too 
 much time spent thinking "When will this part end already..?" than, "This part is really hilarious." 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zixinus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2004 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I never rote a review before, so here it goas. I have very bad spelling, but I'm only 14 years 
 old and 
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are wonderfull, cannot match HL2 or Doom 3 graphics, but condisering that they used a 
 quake 2 engine. Faces are emocional, sometimes you just wonder about to see the sites. The envariment 
 is great, sometimes you feel that your there, watching the main charecter (s) . Animacions are quite 
 smooth, and a realistic. Each and every place is heavly detailed, like you see cups, and next to 
 it some paper (sugar paper, you know you can buy small papers of sugar) or in a returant you can 
 see ketchup and other stuff on the table. Charecters acsully REACH for items (but not always) . 
 and I must repeat myself that it uses a quake 2 engine, but you will not notice that at all. I 
 gave 9 considering how good the grapics are detailed and done. Oh, and the camera is olmsot always 
 correct and stayed behind you (like a TPS) .
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is a mix of advanture and RPG. You can talk to olmost every living creture (exept 
 enemies) . There are nomurus side-quasts, mostly using certain characters special skill or going 
 around. Gameplay is very close to story, but you are free to run around olmost everywere. Most 
 places were you go can be revisited but as you progres thourghout the game they will change. So 
 explore every corner, shlef and door. And theres something new here: World skill. Worldskills allow 
 you to acces sertain areas or things (like weapons, items, swiches etc.) . Like the main character 
 can pcik locks , while an other can hacknito sertain computer while another can just hit something 
 with immense strengh. The only problem is that sometimes gameplay is a bit boreing sometimes, exspecialy 
 while going to places. Some may complain that most people in the game do not speak (loud, so you 
 won't hear a voice if you speak to somebody) but I must inform you if everybody would had voice, 
 then the game would be 2 DVD's (around 10 cds) if every charecter had a voice.
  
  There are far to much to count side quasts, charecters to talk to, and special items hiden somewere. 
 Keep a eye on the cursor (btw, Anachronox is the frist advanture game that has a full 3D cursor) . 
 Freedom is big in Anachronox. Like you can ignore a kid, who wants to get his plane of the tree, 
 but if you help him you get a .... no I won't spoil it. And sometimes there are several ways to 
 solve a quast. 
  
  Story: (these are my words, not the games) In the vast futere man have met numerus races, explored 
 and habited the galaxie like a pluage in the getto. But man itslef didn't really changed, and it 
 looks like that the aliens have learned too much from man. Whats here now is there even now. There 
 are rich, there are poor and there are few who just want to live. Theres every a getto everywere, 
 even on Anachronox. Anachronox is a planet size stacion, found abandonent and habitibel. Image 
 an imesne orb, and if you go into it, you will see a smaller planet like object. The planet is 
 diveded into plates, wich move after a time. Nobody knows why are the plates moveing or what makes 
 them move. Nobody really cares, since Anachronox is a dangerus place and a very poor one too. Before 
 it whas discoverd to the public, it whas used as hiding place for thives and bandits or people 
 who wanted to go away. Anachronox means "pluage from the past", since there whas nothing really 
 on it, only slags off strange stones called "Mystech" You are a private detective, who gone down 
 the rode. You have a cheap storeage room as a office, you own very much money, olmsot nobody goas 
 into the office besides you. And you drink way to much. One day after you been beaten up becuse 
 of you own cash, your digital assistent says you to do go out and find a job. What else can you 
 do anyway?
  
  The story is original, and very intresting. It has a couple of turns, and entetains you very much. 
 Sometimes the game is very funny, sometimes you just listen silently. I'm a big sucker for a good 
 story, and its worth to play Anachronox for the story itself. Ih and i need to mention that the 
 game doasn't have that "come here" dialog, instead it says "push your fat stomach here".
  
  Battle system (this goas into gameplay) :
  I call batlle-system when you fight a enemie. It a 
 mix beetwen beat-em-up and RPG. Combat is real-time but you need time to do a action. If you spend 
 4 hours diceding to attack or to move youl be beaten up like elefent steps on a rat. You must decide 
 quickly. Each character has different weapons and different battle skills (each charecter will 
 have atleast 1, but by finding certain items you can get others, more powerfull skills) and you 
 must notice that enemies do not have the same weapons as you do. They olso have certain ablities. 
 Oh, and note that you can sometimes use your suroninds, like you can use a lever to activate a 
 force field so melee enemies can't attack you. There are healing potions (greese acsully) that 
 can heal you or a "granade" that everyone in your party can use. Combat is based on good reflexes 
 and good decusons.
  
  Sound: The game has exelent music, and thats a fact. It doasn't go too loud or to quite (unless 
 if they want it to be quite) . Sound during combat are great to bad there are no tounts (like: "come 
 over here to make you assles") . If I remember right, footstep sound change in the snow and in the 
 desert.
  
  Value: The game is very heavly detailed, so if you can play the game out twice in a week, then 
 you must have alot of free time. Its sould be in every bigger game collection. Sometimes it has 
 effect that what charecter you have with you, so its worth playing it out twice.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I do not know what this, and I coudn't found out, so I give it a 10 :)
  
  
 Overall: If you like action more then anything else, then get serious sam or chaser. But if you 
 like a good adventure game, you won't be disopointed with this one. The game has a couple of bugs, 
 and loading times were to big for me but remind you that the game needs to load alot of models. 
 And its a bit irratating that you have to take a long walk to know that you need to do an other 
 long walk. But Anachronox is a true masterpice is video game history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 28, 2004 12:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorite games (second only to Planescape: Torment) . I am a pretty hardcode 
 RPG players to give you an idea of what I like. It's one of those really great games that few people 
 know about. It's a game done in a style similar to the Final Fantasy Games (which I've unfortunately 
 never played) where you've got a party of characters who enter into battle sequences where each 
 character gets to show off their special moves.
  
  What makes this game so great is that it's really funny. It's not funny in a forceful sense, but 
 more in just the environment of the game and the consistent humor of all the characters in the 
 game. The main character's name is Sylvest "Sly" Boots, Private Detective just to give you a guick 
 picture.
  
  The game has an incredible amount of variety. You get to explore space stations, planets with mountains, 
 jungle towns, deserts and lots of interesting and unique mini-games to play to get through the 
 game. Many of which fit into the story line of the game and are very amusing. For example, one 
 of the characters who joins your team is a planet (that's right, an entire planet shrunk down to 
 human size) where everything is run by democracy (the planet is named Democratus) . In order for 
 you to use this planet's skills, you have to enter a mini-game that involves "beating down" council 
 members in a meeting before their objections can overule you.
  
  The music is also superb and I think among the best I've ever heard in a game. I have extracted 
 the sound files into MP3s and listen to them on a regular basis. Sometimes I found myself just 
 slowly moving around the levels just because I wanted to listen to the music.
  
  The game also has an incredible and engaging story that slowly unfolds over time and develops into 
 a mission of epic proportions. There's also a great deal of character development. You learn about 
 the characters who are so lifelike, that you actually feel for them at times. The characters models 
 aren't terribly great, but the effort that was put into facial expressions often tells you things 
 that the character is thinking without them having to say it. How many games do you know that do 
 that?
  
  My only complaint about the game is that it was a bit too easy. The combat is not difficult, even 
 on the hardest setting (so make sure you play it on hard) . The game also has a few bugs and some 
 stability issues that weren't worked out even after the patch, but I could easily look past those 
 things.
  
  Even with the game almost four years old, I still find it a great game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarshipCoyote
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2003 8:14 am PT
Review:  Anachronox is basically blade runner meets space opera. The storyline is excellent and has a great 
 deal of complexity to it. Once of the nice things about this game is that you have a lot to do. 
 Its game play is well over 50 hours. Even if they say its less its not. You have to be willing 
 to put a serious effort into solving each part of the puzzle that they are sending you on. It starts 
 out somewhat typical, but slowly begins to allow you to develop the main character a little both 
 in game and the storyline. The developers have an interesting sense of humor that is present through 
 out the game. It has a wonder flavor of the dark gothic with a dark sense of humor mixed in. Its 
 major flaw is combat. Its system is little high on the learning curve. Most new comers to the gaming 
 world would find the combat a bit cumbersome. Its storyline is a bit liner as well. All in all 
 however the developers of this game have made a game that is funny, in depth and thought provoking. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
