-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Anarchy Online
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/anarchyonline/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 13, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 6.9, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 1,492 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Fun Com
Developer: Funcom
Genre: Sci-Fi Online...
Date:     Jun 26, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If it can conquer its technical problems, Anarchy Online will be the very best online role-playing 
 game around. 

 It's safe to say that Funcom's online role-playing game, Anarchy Online, has been one of the most 
 widely and eagerly anticipated games this year. After all, it's the first so-called next-generation 
 online role-playing game and the first to be released after its groundbreaking predecessors -- EverQuest, 
 Asheron's Call, and Ultima Online -- and it should be the first to improve upon them. Up until Anarchy 
 Online's release, press coverage of the game discussed its unique science-fiction setting, its 
 intriguing playable characters, its innovative solutions to common gameplay problems, and its enormous 
 and colorful gameworld. But when the game was released, it caused an uproar. Unsatisfied customers 
 flooded the game's official Internet message board with angry complaints about severe problems, 
 such as insecure registration, CD key errors, and in-game bugs and stability issues.           
 Anarchy Online lets you create a variety of interesting characters...    

 So is Anarchy Online actually the outstanding game that all of its prerelease coverage has made 
 it out to be? Yes, it is. In addition to the game's innovative and extremely enjoyable gameplay 
 elements, Anarchy Online has a tremendous amount of personality; you can find it in the game's 
 distinctive-looking environments, hear it in the game's excellent music, read it in the game's 
 humorous, tongue-in-cheek manual, and see it in the game's characters, whether they're gesticulating 
 to emphasize a point or modeling a new set of clothes. But isn't it a buggy game with real problems? 
 Yes, it's that too.   

  If you're familiar with Anarchy Online, you'll know that it's a massively multiplayer online role-playing 
 game; that is, it's a game that lets you create a character from a set of different races and character 
 classes and then go out and explore a huge online world with thousands of other players, improving 
 your character by gaining experience levels and training various skills. Though it's certainly 
 not the first game of its kind, Anarchy Online is the first to use a futuristic science-fiction 
 setting. The game takes place on a remote mining planet called Rubi-Ka, some 20,000 years in the 
 future, in the middle of a conflict between a huge megacorporation and the planet's rebel insurgents. 
 You can choose to ally yourself with the Omni-Tek corporation or the rebel clans, or play as an 
 independent character; and you can change sides in the conflict up to a certain level of experience, 
 provided you can make it across enemy lines. In addition, the game lets you hunt the planet's various 
 indigent animals and monsters for experience and money and also lets you undertake dynamically 
 generated quests, or "missions," for similar rewards.   

  At the game's release on June 27, 2001, Anarchy Online's many early adopters encountered a number 
 of serious problems. First, like all other online role-playing games, the game requires registration 
 for a monthly fee -- and credit-card registration initially wasn't handled on a secure server. What's 
 more, many users had (and several continue to have, as of the time of this writing) problems registering 
 the game's CD key and couldn't (and in some cases, continue to be unable to) even log into the 
 game. Furthermore, at release, the game's login server simply didn't have the capacity to deal 
 with the thousands of login requests that it would constantly receive from users trying to connect; 
 so many players weren't able to play, because their client would repeatedly "time out." And even 
 when players were able to log into the game, they had to first download postrelease patches to 
 play and would have great difficulty playing the game because of spontaneous crashes.          
  ... and choose from plenty of distinctive appearances.    

 What's more, the game suffered from (and continues to suffer from) some serious lag and frame rate 
 problems, due in part to a lack of bandwidth on Funcom's servers and the game's own memory-intensive 
 code, which tends to monopolize the RAM on its host computer. And users with ATI-based video cards 
 have reported serious problems getting into the game and playing for any prolonged period of time. 
 These are all serious problems that have made playing the game in its first few weeks of release 
 extremely frustrating for many users, since many have either had a hard time staying connected 
 to the game or simply haven't been able to get in.   

  So is Anarchy Online nothing more than a thoroughly unplayable mess? No, it's not. For starters, 
 Funcom made a secure registration server available two days after the game's launch and instituted 
 a fix for one of the game's major CD key problems two days after that. The development team has 
 also released over the past two weeks a steady stream of small client- and server-side patches 
 that have required brief downloads for users and one-to-two-hour blackout periods for server maintenance. 
 These updates have improved the game's performance and stability noticeably and have greatly increased 
 the login server's ability to bring players into the game.   

    Ed. Note: Funcom released a patch the evening of 07/13/01 that has improved Anarchy Online's 
 performance with ATI cards.      

 Funcom has also  sent a second version of the game's code to production  so that new users won't 
 have to download the first set of postrelease patches. Unfortunately, at the time of this writing, 
 the game's current set of updates haven't fixed the game's lag problems -- which can cause the game 
 to lag for several seconds to a few minutes -- or the game's frame rate problems, especially in its 
 crowded city areas during peak hours. And several users still can't log into the game because of 
 a separate CD key issue. Still, these problems haven't stopped many regular players from logging 
 in lots and lots of hours of play and advancing their characters to significant experience levels. 
 In fact, it could be said that the worst thing about the game's technical and registration problems -- and 
 the reason why so many angry, frustrated posts have been made to the game's message boards -- is 
 simply the fact that they're keeping people from playing the game. Because these people really 
 and truly want to play.           The wilderness areas in Rubi-Ka are impressively detailed.   

 And if you can get around the game's significant -- and sometimes showstopping -- technical and registration 
 problems, you'll come to understand why so many people who paid the game's substantial release 
 price of $50 want to play so badly. All technical problems aside, Anarchy Online is one of the 
 most genuinely enjoyable online role-playing games ever made -- if not the most enjoyable. It's truly 
 a shame that the game's technical and registration issues have compromised what's otherwise an 
 excellent game in practically all other respects.   

  For starters, Anarchy Online looks fantastic. In fact, it's hands-down the very best-looking massively 
 multiplayer online game currently available; no other such game's graphics even come close. Though 
 the game's system requirements are steeper than those of other games that preceded it, Anarchy 
 Online looks good even at the lowest resolution of 640x480 in 16-bit color and looks superb in 
 high resolutions. As mentioned, Anarchy Online is the first online role-playing game to use a science-fiction 
 setting, rather than a medieval fantasy setting, and the game's graphics reflect this setting well. 
 Nearly every one of the Rubi-Ka's futuristic environments is detailed, attractive, and well designed 
 enough to truly make you feel as though your character is exploring an entirely different world. 
 But Anarchy Online's characters look even better than the game's environments; you can create a 
 character from four different races, different genders (three of the game's races have male and 
 female varieties; the fourth is neuter) , different heights, different builds, and a great variety 
 of extremely interesting character faces. What's more, you can thoroughly distinguish and customize 
 your characters' appearances with the game's many futuristic and conventional weapons and armor, 
 as well as clothe your characters with any of the game's hundreds of fashion accessories, including 
 leather trench coats, sunglasses, dress shoes, high-heeled boots, medical uniforms, swimsuits, 
 and much, much more. As if that weren't enough, Anarchy Online features a whole slew of expressive 
 motion-captured gesture animations that truly help you bring your character to life.           
 Mutants such as this populate the countryside.    

 You can choose your character's profession from the game's 12 classes, and although some character 
 races are better suited to certain classes than others, Anarchy Online allows you a tremendous 
 amount of freedom in the way you design your character and its development, thanks to its open-ended 
 skill system, which includes physical attributes, secondary abilities, and trade skills. What's 
 more, all characters of all classes and races may use nanoformulas, which are the game's equivalent 
 of magic spells. As such, any and every character in the game can choose to be a spellcaster; study 
 martial arts to fight enemies barehanded; use a noisy, hard-hitting heavy assault rifle; craft 
 high-quality weapons; be adept at using first aid kits to treat injuries; or can choose some combination 
 of all of these. Naturally, the game balances these skills by limiting the number of skill points 
 your character can access at each level, but it still affords you a tremendous amount of freedom 
 in customizing and developing a distinctive character.   

  What's more, unlike in other online RPGs, just about every kind of character can productively adventure 
 alone without fear of certain death in Anarchy Online. That's not to say that the game rewards 
 solo players more than team players, because it doesn't; the most efficient way to increase your 
 character's strengths, abilities, and levels is to find a good group, but if you can't, or don't 
 wish to, you can certainly go it alone. And regardless of whether you explore Rubi-Ka in groups 
 or by yourself, you won't spend hours, or even minutes, sitting and waiting to recover from your 
 injuries or spent nano-energy (the game's equivalent of spell power) , since the game also features 
 treatment kits that can replenish either or both instantaneously. What's more, Anarchy Online not 
 only lets you create custom hotkeys for simple actions, it also lets you write custom scripts to 
 make shortcuts for multiple actions so that you can create a script that'll let you stop, heal 
 yourself, and stand up again; fire off a barrage of nanoformulas in sequence; or perform a set 
 of dancing animations in succession.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (60 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DrunkenSmurf22
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is not for everyone. You need to be patient because certain aspects of the 
 game can take a while to learn/get used to. If you are looking for amazing graphics you should 
 look elsewhere, but with the new engine and graphics overhaul on the way I could be wrong. I've 
 had several friends try the game and a lot of them almost immediately quit when they saw the graphics, 
 which in all seriousness really aren't that bad. However, all of my friends that looked past the 
 graphics and really gave the game a try loved it.
  
  Character Customization - The Character creation area is pretty weak. The options you are given 
 are simply: race, height, girth, and then your head (there are actually some fun choices for the 
 head, but its still pretty weak) . In many recent games the race you choose will not matter endgame. 
 This is somewhat true in AO, but each race has certain abilities in which they excel in: Atrox 
 - Str/Sta (generally what people choose for tank classes) , Solitus - The Balanced Race (can pretty 
 much play any prof) , Opifex - Agility (highest evades) , and NanoMage Int (the main caster class) . 
 Any of these races can play any prof, they will just excel in different areas. I have seen several 
 Nanomage Enforcers that were very good tanks, and I've seen many Atrox NanoTechnicians that were 
 also very good. You are given more freedom with your stat distribution than in most, if not all, 
 games. This has some good points and some bad points. The bad: its very easy to "gimp" or "cripple" 
 your character. You can "respec" but you are only given a few "respecs." The good: once you learn 
 how to spend your IP points (stat points) you can have a lot of fun messing with your character. 
 There are a some classes that have an almost "required" weapon, but for the most part you can use 
 what you want. For example: doctors can use a melee weapon or a ranged weapon, whereas enforcers 
 need to use melee weapons.
  
  Twinking - You may think it odd that I'm writing a section on twinking (equipping your toon with 
 very powerful gear) , but I have a reason. Many games use level locked items (like a sword you need 
 to be level 18 to use) , but AO focuses more on stat requiring items (like a sword you need 100 
 2 hand Edged points to use) . This means that instead of having to simply level to use certain items, 
 you can twink them on at lower levels using buffs and such. This may sound lame or boring, but 
 it is actually very fun and I think its one of the best parts of the game. I have rolled many a 
 toon simply because I wanted to see how early (level wise) I could use a certain item. Even though 
 twinking is a lot of fun, it does have a downside which I will discuss in the PvP section.
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay isn't as exciting or flashy as a lot of the MMOs out there, but it 
 is still fun. With the graphics update on the way, this may change, but we will have to wait and 
 find out.
  
  PvP - Since I left DAoC there has not been any game that has satisfied my hunger for good PvP, 
 but AO has come pretty close. This is mainly due to twinking. Although twinking makes PvP a lot 
 of fun, it can also ruin the PvP for a lot of people. Some players simply do not want to spend 
 a lot of time and money twinking, while a lot of other players will. The difference between a twinked 
 player and a non-twinked player is pretty significant. On my first character I did a good bit of 
 PvP, and I got my arse whooped quite a bit by these twinked players. In games like WoW where twinking 
 simply requires a lot of money (which can be bought) and a high level guildmate/friend to run and 
 instance with you, I would get very annoyed when I got rolled by a twink. Why? Because it is too 
 easy to twink in WoW. In AO when I get rolled by a twink I really do not mind so much because at 
 least that person put a lot of thought and effort into twinking. In conclusion, if you're willing 
 to put time and effort into twinking, PvP can be a lot of fun. If you aren't, I'd suggest stick 
 with PvE, which is still a lot of fun.
  
  Community - When I play a game, I need a good community. One of the main reasons I left WoW was 
 because of its extremely immature and annoying community. I find the community in AO to be a lot 
 of fun and very helpful. There are plenty of Organizations (guilds/clans) out there that are new 
 player friendly and very helpful. RPers don't worry! Whereas there are not a ton of them, there 
 are some RP orgs out there and they are a lot of fun.
  
  Expansions - The free version of AO is a blast. I had a lot of fun playing it, but when I upgraded 
 the fun factor sky-rocketed. After playing on a p2p account, I have a hard time playing the free 
 version. Its not that the free version is bad, but the p2p version has a lot more content and it 
 offers even more skill customization. I'm not saying don't play the game if you can't pay for it, 
 just that the game offers a whole lot more than you get with the free version.
  
  Give it a shot and see what you think! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariadarabi
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  If I were you I'd download it with a free account, download the small client. Give it a try, if 
 you don't like it, keep playing because everyone who didn't like it in the first place finally 
 found out the basic gameplay mechanics (please note this is a VERY complicated game) and they had 
 fun with it.
  
  jkfehjf iheiahfdsojfhakj eghakjfdhfkj aeghfjaghfk jdhkjfhj dhfkjahkjfhdk hafkgeya bdivue gbfkjabhdi 
 ucvehbfj hdkjahdkjgfa iuefadbnk avuaibkjfehaf iudgckjdafnhe kjagfia7gd sujeghfkajdbv kjadnf ueif 
 adkj nhfeiguaebfhk jadb fekuafdh fkjahebk jfniory879hadkj fahejvkbndajckbdau fgeiufeiu said the 
 cow.
  
  I hope you enjoyed that random gibberish lol!
  gits toke bem laj uehy uefuh aagdb ueuf hgjkerh hee jng aria hebbf eibibe moho hannkeiu hanna oeihdjuj 
 keh k hii ehbs kjha kjr iehj oje ojefj jehjf lja nheifn ieh iha eihr hgh ihr oiae oiru hngf heiu 
 urg ugeyf hgrjbj uehg he hhyr beh ua yey tte ggeveb hej kaeae hehnf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: confusd
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Anarchy online was made seven years ago now, but thats no excuse for funcom having rarely updated 
 the graphics and still leaving a great game littered with bugs.
  
  The game features 4 species and 14 professions as well as a few different options for appearence. 
 when the game first loads, you may see the graphics, sigh, and want to head for the unistall button, 
 but if you can get used to the game, youll find an addicting and fun expierience. 
  
  The game is non linear, most of the quests you do wont link toghether, and the plot... well tell 
 me if you find one that isnt just a shallow set up for the game. if you tough it out you can enjoy 
 anarchy online. dont waste money on expansions until youre sure you want to keep playing the game, 
 and most of the "paid points rewards" arent worth spending cash for. 
  
  A graphics update has been promised this year, but with funcoms reliability, dont get your hopes 
 up, and hope it doesnt bring more lag to the game, which already has plenty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 5
Date: May 22, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Anarchy online takes place in the future were you are sent down to a new planet to live on. You 
 get to pick between a few races and a bunch of character classes. After that you are dropped on 
 a strange planet.
  
  The game starts off a bit rough, because the controls are not that simple.
  The controls in Anarchy 
 online take some time to get use to. But after awhile, you will get use to the controls. There 
 are also some big problems in this game like controls and attacking an enemy.
  
  The graphics are okay in this game. Some of the monsters look cool, but some of the character models 
 look okay. The environments do not look bad.
  
  The sound is okay. and the music is cool. The weapon sound is a bit weird.
  
  Over al this 
 may be a game that you skip, our you can try. It is free, and you can get it off this web site 
 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MediForce
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Players using free accounts thats good news bad news are :
  
  the development of the player's character is a primary goal that what we know about MMORPG , Many 
 titles feature a character progression system in which players earn experience , but sadly, in 
 this game skills and experience are all manual so giving the option for players to choose which 
 skill to increase is something like we miss an engine in the game to fairly gives you what you 
 deserve.
  
  interaction : pre-automated moves when the player attacks the creature, no other options to change 
 it.
  
  navigation: clumsy moves (walk and turning) which takes lots of spinning and jiggling around with 
 the mouse to select the desired direction.
  
  messaging and chat system poorly designed.
  
  it's more like single arcade game and much suitable for players age less than 10 years.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I played AO back when it first launched in 2001, to be honest I didn't realise back then how much 
 this game would shape the future of MMOs, or at least some of them. Back when it was launched it 
 sadly didn't get all the respect it diserved, and even I stoped playing because at times it was 
 a bit complex. Around two months after the game came out I just decided it was an uphill battle 
 learning all the minute details of the game and packed up and went back to EQ1.
  
  Since then I've played almost every major MMO release, and in that time I've seen aspects of AO 
 show up in all of them, the biggest being CoH mission system which is clearly inspired by AOs system.
 
  
  Around two weeks ago I was sick of playing the "same old MMOs" so I shut down my account to EQ2 
 and decided to check out the "free games" on mmorpg. com AO happened to be on the list of "free" 
 games to play, so I decided for old times sake to give it a run. After downloading the game (from 
 this very sit lol) I jumped into the game. For any new players I would warn you that your first 
 week will be like "what is that?", "how do I do this?", "where can I hunt?", type questions, and 
 if your social enough in the newbie OOC of your faction you'll quickly make friends that will explain 
 things for you.
  
  Now the graphics are the games weakest point, they're deffently from 2001, but the good news is 
 once FunCom is done with Conan (looking forward to that) they're going to upgrade AOs graphics, 
 so I can't harp on them to much because if you see the screenshots for the new engine it looks 
 great.
  
  The community is quiet... it seems after seven years of playing alot of them have greated little 
 niches that they stick to, infact this is where the game suffers the most. Since the community 
 is generaly "closed" it can be an uphill battle to try and find guilds to join, alot of them have 
 been runing for 5+ years and as such are very strict about new members. Once you do get into a 
 community of players though the game realy perks up and becomes much better, you have a solid group 
 of friends to hang out with and they may even toss you a few million creds to get you on your feet.
 
  
  The gameplay was groundbreaking back in 2001 and to be honest its still very good to this day. 
 Right now missions are generaly run off terminals and are randomly generated for you, but the devs 
 have been adding in a ton of quests, infact the newbie island feels just like any other modern 
 MMOs newbie zone, with quests that are tailored to introduce you to the concepts of the game. The 
 problem is though finding where you want to hunt, where to get wepons and when to buy them. The 
 game has a "Quality Level" system that is built into iteams but it can be hard to judge when your 
 ready to use it outside of checking the skill requirements. I think WoW and EQ2 have it better 
 with a flat level requirement.
  
  The world is overly large and traveling through zones can take a long time... I personaly made 
 the mistake of trying to run accrossed the zone called "The Longest Road"... yah it was long, took 
 me about 15 minutes to get from Borilas (the nutural city) the my mission location. On the bright 
 side though the game has a fair ammount of vehicles, which act as other games mounts, allowing 
 you to travel very quickly though this is generaly used in the higher levels.
  
  The major downfall of the game in my opinion is the User Interface, its old... like 2001 old, and 
 it realy dose show its age. Its hard to get used to, the inventory window is very basic and their 
 is now way to get a full readout on your character other than shift+clicking yourself. What is 
 worse is that hotbar dosn't have any numbers on it, so you have to keep track of what number you 
 just put your new skill into... or you'll be counting the boxes to figure it out, which isn't a 
 horrible issue but being lazy its nice to just look up or down and thing "5... push 5!" rather 
 than thinking "1, 2, ok yah its 5... crud he just got a crical hit on me while I did that!"
  
  AO is deffently a strong MMO, and if you do give it a try and decide to stick with it long 
 term don't stay as a froob (freebie player) the reason why is Shadowlands allows you to gain XP 
 on a massive level... the mobs up their give 2x-10x the ammount of XP that normal mobs on Rubi-Ka 
 give (with the downer of droping no credits) , also by paying and getting access to all the expantions 
 you get the perk system which allows you realy beef up your character and for higher level characters 
 lets you go form the max lev of 200 to 220.
  
  All in all AO is an MMO that has weathered many storms and stood through it all, they've lasted 
 this far and FunCom has stated that they want to see it go much futher into the future... this 
 being achieved through a graphics update and continued expantion. If your tired of playing your 
 average mainstream MMO I'd recomend giving it a try, heck its 100% free unless you opt to upgrade 
 your account, and thats a price everyone likes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryguy35
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  Anarchy Online is suprisingly a really good game. Sure you might say tht the graphics arent as 
 good as some of the newer MMORPGs. Sure you might say its a little glitchy and sometimes lags a 
 little. You might ask yourself ryguy why did you give this game an 8 if it has some problems well 
 thats because..... Its FREE! But thats not the only reason Anarchy Online is fun to play. Im sure 
 your used to MMOs where you pick up your great axe and go hacking away at innocent little bunny 
 rabbits. Well in Anarchy you can still do tht (except the bunnys have been replaced by more futureistic 
 counterparts) you can just as easily have a Kevlar clad gun slinging tough guy. You start out in 
 the world of Anarchy Online having crash landed and crawled out of the wreckage of your space shuttle. 
 You are instantly given quests as soon as your feet touch the warm sand of the beach. The planet 
 is seperated by factions Omni-tech, The reble Clans, or neutral citizens. Another thing i like 
 about the game is that they give you a boat load of clases to choose from evan though you only 
 have four races to choose form Anrchy makes up for this by puting in many different apperences 
 to choose from. Also most of you are familier to being restricted to certain classes because of 
 the race you choose this is not ture in Anarchy you can choose any class you want with any race 
 you like. So if your wow or EQ account has run dry or you just want to take a break and try something 
 new go pick this up online for... thats right absolutely free... well sure you can pay for a membership 
 and get exclusive features but come on this isent a game you would want to pay for but for free 
 you really cant complain. 
  
  
  Game on,
  ryguy35
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  I remember launch day of Anarchy Online, it was a nightmare. AO was released far too early and 
 took over a year to fix the major bugs. Most of the basic systems (such as the organization or 
 guild creation function) failed to work at all. I was in college at the time and allot of my classmates 
 and I started together at launch. We only lasted a few weeks before we understood that this game 
 was not going to get better in a timely manner, thus we left for DAOC. One year later we started 
 to come back and check-up on the state of the game. It was fair to say that now the game was playable 
 and the few of us who returned began our lives on Rubi-Ka. 
  
  AO is different in some respects then your average MMORPG. It is the first to introduce science 
 fiction content on a remote alien world. This is about where the line is drawn, as everything else 
 is what you come to expect from a MMO. Players are able to customize their characters with different 
 skills and nanoprograms, which is AO's answer to magic. The game (and most of it's community) claim 
 it is one of the most complex character development systems on the market. I disagree, as all FunCom 
 did was extend your average range of skills (evades, nano skills, swimming) and let the player 
 waste time controlling them after each new level. This really wasn't necessary and could of been 
 done automatically, saving the player frustration and time. There is a IP reset function, but why 
 couldn't we of had a skill system like Ultima Online based on the raise/lower of hard caps?
  
  The graphics and sound quality of Anarchy Online can be a double-edged sword. When the game 
 was released in 2001, these graphics were a refreshing change from the likes of EverQuest and Asheron's 
 Call. Since then, time has not been fair to the textures and character models. The models feel 
 dead and if you look close they float above solid ground, making for an unrealistic experience. 
 FunCom is working on a new engine for AO, but the question of "what's the point?" comes to mind. 
 Is it really wise to invest that much resource time in a game that is this old? Perhaps it was 
 a hand me down from the upcoming Age of Conan, and a way to show off a tech demo on a dying MMO. 
 The music of Anarchy Online is still considered one of the best scores in gaming history. It really 
 has a feel that puts you in a sci-fi setting such as Dune or Blade Runner.
  
  As this is a review of AO and not of AO + expansion packs, it is fair to say that the gameplay 
 becomes stale at times. Players are able to run missions to gather new gear and experience, which 
 is done by providing a random entry point in the world to an instance. These missions range from 
 assassinations to a FedEx type delivery quest. At first this type of gameplay is fun and addictive. 
 The boredom starts to kick in when you begin to raise levels and note the distance you must run 
 to get to your objective, thus becoming a time sink. Also, this type of gameplay is far superior 
 in games such as City of Heroes, making it feel more like a chore in AO.
  
  Anarchy Online has a strong but semi-small cult following. The community is a joy to work with 
 compared to others such as World of Warcraft. The game play is stale but does add small bursts 
 of entertainment at times, provided you can keep yourself entertained between missions. There are 
 still quite a few bugs and crashes that honestly I think will never be fixed. The core game has 
 become free, so it may provide some value to a budget MMO'er. My advice is to take it slow and 
 learn everything the game has to offer, because you are going to be doing the same thing for a 
 long time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: powah_serge
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Starting in this game I am lost, confused, and set without any goals whatsoever. the complex interface 
 makes it even harder to start and the grueling lack of a tutorial makes this a rough beginning. 
 This may seem tough at first but appearances are deceiving. This game makes you decide on democracy 
 or corrupt power. You can choose your side and you are teleported to the n00b training. This part 
 is what makes the rest easier. Although this would be a 8.0 the graphics are horribly outdated. 
 The game is pretty fun once you get used to it, although I got more of an elves feeling than a 
 unique sci-fi one the game was free and that gets some points right there. When you get to the 
 community they are generally pretty nice and helpful. The music and soundtracks are all low quality. 
 This game is still free and worth a try by anyone, this is only, after all, my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROXLYDE
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Yes, I was one of the poor boobs that launched the game 27JUN01. I loved the game, seriously. The 
 wife and I were stuck in a in-game store for 3 real time days because the zones didn't work. It 
 was the most disastrous launch I have ever been party to. The technical problems were so bad it 
 was totally unplayable. I tried to persevere, but it was no use. I grieved the game, because the 
 potential it had. But seriously, back in 2001, FunCom projected they would sell 4,500 units in 
 the first week. They sold 45,000 the first day. To say it this launch was a fiasco is an understatement. 
 It took a couple years and a couple re-subs for this thing to even get itself on the map. It improved 
 quite a bit, but still always seemed to be bug ridden. Concept, premise, mechanics, scope and vision 
 I would give 10 out of 10. Execution I would give a 4 out of 10. The expansions have been all over 
 the map. Some head in the right direction, some do not. All in all I had fun playing the game. 
 And I still believe the creative minds behind the game to be brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mamasita17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  As a veteran player of World of Warcraft. I have to say that Anarchy Online, despite the numerous 
 glitches and lag issues, makes for a more enjoyable gaming session then WOW. Sure the game is still 
 clogged with lag issues and glitches but the gaming experience itself was worth the little headache. 
 Never before could I run for hours without stumbling across another player. The world itself is 
 immense on a scale so epic you will easily believe your on another world just being discovered. 
 By contrast, the cities and towns are large and often charged with activity. There is always a 
 crowd at the Omnitech and clan capital cities. Questing is simple and painless, an atm-like machine 
 cooks up a story and narrative based on the information you give the machine and bamf ... instant 
 quest for yourself or your whole group. Unlike WOW, where it felt like a chore to level myself 
 up to higher levels, AO makes the whole game enjoyable no matter what level you are at. Not to 
 mention the armor combinations and weapons are virtually limitless. You can choose from pistols, 
 rifles, machine guns, assault rifles, sniper rifles, shotguns, lasers, swords, bows... you name 
 it you can probably find it. AO has it all. Plus, it is now free-to-play. After six years its graphics 
 are no where near cutting-edge. But the gameplay it offers is still extraordinary in an MMO. At 
 the very least, it is an excellent change of pace from World of Warcraft and offers an excellent 
 example of the sort of game an MMO should be. If there is ever a sequel to AO, I will be board 
 in a heartbeat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: londonrider
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  How bizarre is to enjoy a game from 2001 after Bioshock or World in Conflict? Let me explain this 
 :)
  
  For introduction I have to note that I played lots of MMOs, I'm beta-testing quite a few right 
 now, so I have some experience as well as lots of disappointment.
  
  That's not the case with Anarchy Online.
  
  They launched the free service for the Classical 
 Anarchy Online, so I decided to check out how it happens that game of 2001 is still alive (that's 
 phenomenal!) . And there's a very good reason for that- the game is so rich with content and options 
 that most of modern MMOs are not even close to that level. The micro management of character is 
 complicated but NOT annoyingly. And the quests have very enjoyable stories- you receive a feeling 
 of having a role in old school Sci-Fi movie, and that's not only very engaging, but it also adds 
 much to the atmosphere.
  
  The atmosphere is worth to mention separately. First of all, it IS very refreshing from fantasy 
 MMOs (that's not a marketing statement like in some cases, but the FACT) . It is so nicely bizarre 
 that you literally feel like in the different dimension. The sounds (it could be called ambient 
 music) add a lot to that as well.
  
  The bottom line is that if you are looking for MMO with enjoyable gameplay, so Anarchy Online is 
 definitely is worth a try. However, the game will not appeal to everyone, because it is opposite 
 to being cute or even pretty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DreamingWolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  After playing Anarchy Online for 1 year, I can officially say I am hooked . This MMORPG is so different 
 from other games in so many different ways.
  
  One of the first things you'll notice about Anarchy Online when you enter is the detailed character 
 creation. You choose your class as the first step in creating your character, and while expansion 
 packs give you more classes, the basics are still available.
  
  Basic Classes:
  
  Adventurer Agent
  Doctor Enforcer
  Engineer
  Fixer
  Martial Artist
  Meta-Physicist
 
  Soldier
  Nano-Technician
  Trader
  
  Expansion Add-ons:
  
  Shade
  Keeper
  Bureaucrat
  
  While the expansions do cost a monthly fee, they enhance your gameplay dramatically.
 
  
  Anarchy Online also boasts an INCREDIBLE skill system. Each class can easily acquire over 50 unique 
 skills (or as they are called in Anarchy, Nano Programs ) . With the exception of an Agent, the 
 classes can only use skills designated for their class. Sometimes you can find rare items that 
 let you use other classes skills, but they can take over an hour to refresh.
  
  Anarchy's stat system also makes you plan ahead. With each level you gain, you get more stat points 
 but the more you add to a certain attribute the more it costs. At a certain level, the amount of 
 points you get per-level is raised, further making you plan. There are over 30 stats to add your 
 points to.
  
  Other than the highly futuristic Nano Programs and great stat system, I would rate the fighting 
 system poor to medium. There isn't really any effect to an attack, and not much excitement. None 
 the less, when your with a team it's rather fun.
  
  Anarchy's weapon and armor system is highly plausible. I have been able to estimate over 1000 different 
 types of weapons and somewhere near 1500-2000 armor pieces, not counting the customizable armor/weapons 
 (and did I mention that it's possible to build just about any item, given the right materials?) . 
 The shops are constantly shifting their wares, so if there is a good weapon in the shop at 2:30 
 it could be gone at 3:00. This makes the game highly entertaining, as you never know when some 
 rare stuff might show up.
  
  As for the money system (Credits) , I give it a failing F. It's very hard to get credits unless 
 you have a guild or some cool player gives you some. Be careful, it's very easy for someone to 
 scam you. KNOW the prices and be sensible, or learn the hard way.
  
  The shear size of the world of Anarchy is enough to take your breath away. Without a vehicle, flying 
 machine or speed buff, it would take well near an hour to run from one end to the next. Of course 
 this brings us to another aspect of Anarchy: The Sides.
  
  There are two apposing forces you are asked to join upon entering Anarchy: The greedy, harsh money-mongers, 
 Omni-Tech (who have more advanced armor and weapons) . Or you can join the freedom fighting Clans, 
 who boast a massive amount of team playing strong willed fighters to counter OmniTech.
  
  Overall rating of this game's graphics is around 7.5, since they are pretty much stuck back in 
 the days of easy-street box models. However this game should be prized above all other games for 
 it's ever changing economy, players and gameplay. I might also want to mention that Anarchy Online 
 has a great amount of quest (missions) that you can get either from NPCs or Mission Terminals, 
 but after a while these become dull and you find yourself doing them only to gain experience and 
 items.
  
  Has about a 1-2 hour learning curve for experiences MMORPG players, and 4-5 hours for a non-experienced 
 MMORPG player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hphatecraft
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  First of all, the game is pretty old and it shows its age. The graphics, while well done for its 
 overall age, are a bit lacking. With that said, graphics don't always determine whether or not 
 a game can be fun.
  
  While I haven't played AO extensively, my 3 months of play time was more enjoyable than most MMOs 
 I have played. It's not a polished gem or a gem at all for that matter, but its character flexibility 
 and community make it an enjoyable playing experience.
  
  I refuse to spend to much time dwelling on a game that's closing in on nearly a decade in age, 
 but I felt the need to give this game a thumbs up for those who are looking for a sci-fi MMO in 
 a market over-saturated with fantasy themes. The best part of AO at this point is the free-to-play 
 option that is currently available. While you won't be able to get the best gear and miss out on 
 some content, you can still have a lot of fun with the free-play version. So, if you are a cheapskate 
 like myself, AO may offer you 30 - 40 hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DooleyJ_98
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 25, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I am currently totally hooked on this game. I have been playing it for almost 2 months now. It 
 is completely flexible to your mood. Want of fast paced action, join a team and fight some mobs, 
 aliens or other players. Want some peace and quite, go explore the gorgeous world of Rubi-Ka. I 
 am playing the free online version, which lacks some perks and uber bits, but is other wise the 
 full game. There is a great in game community with hundreds of active guilds offering help to the 
 beginner or the expert high level player.
  
  My only criticism of this game, is the graphic engine is dated, and although it looks impressive, 
 it slows to a crawl when zoning or changing areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocolith
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  This game, which came out in 2005, was considered great despite its bugs. Now it really isn't graphiclly 
 better, but it is still a lot of fun. It's become free now, only making you pay a monthly fee if 
 you buy a upgrade. If you give this game a chance and overlook some of its flaws, it can be great.
 
  
  Gameplay: Its awesome. Simply great. Its about as friendly as WoW or EQ, so don't underestimate 
 it. It has a ton of choices and so much to do within the game that you'll not be dropping it because 
 you were bored.
  
  Graphics: Well, it's kind of obvious it's really not all that great, but hey, it's free right? 
 The scale is turely awesome and you get a great immersion within the game as you can explore vast 
 lands. The only bad thing, the textures look blocky.
  
  Sound: Sound is very good, I found nothing wrong with it. They have some good music as you run 
 around blasting heads off aliens and mutants, the sound effects are fine too, youll keep your sound 
 on for what it's worth.
  
  Story: Eh, what can you say? It's like WoW, it has no story, just go arround and have fun. :)
 
  
  OVerall it is a good game since it is now free, and you'll probably find a lot more fun if you 
 get an expansion. At least try it out, but have some patience as the download is an SOB, and that 
 is an understatenment (like 8-15 hours, I'm serious) But for what it has to offer, you may enjoy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destin2b
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 28, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Rank: 2,718 of 37,916 441
  Rank on PC: 909 of 8,032
  Rank: 2,718 of 37,916 441
  Rank on PC: 909 of 8,032
  Rank: 2,718 of 37,916 441
  Rank on PC: 909 of 8,032
  Rank: 2,718 
 of 37,916 441
  Rank on PC: 909 of 8,032
  Rank: 2,718 of 37,916 441
  Rank on PC: 909 of 8,032
  Rank: 2,718 of 37,916 441
  Rank on PC: 909 of 8,032
  Rank: 2,718 
 of 37,916 441
  Rank on PC: 909 of 8,032
  Rank: 2,718 of 37,916 441
  Rank on PC: 909 of 8,032Rank: 2,718 of 37,916 441
  Rank on PC: 909 of 8,032
  Rank: 2,718 of 
 37,916 441
  Rank on PC: 909 of 8,032
  Rank: 2,718 of 37,916 441
  Rank on PC: 909 of 8,032Rank: 2,718 of 37,916 441
  Rank on PC: 909 of 8,032 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxscammersxx
Rating: 2.6
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Throw this hunk of trash overboard, 'cause it sucks. Everything is bad. Graphics are blurry and 
 nasty and and make my decent pc run slow. Combat is slow and un-exciting. Sound is EXTREMELY ANNOYING 
 and repeats the same song over and over again. This game is free but if you want anymore content, 
 which I'm sure you nerds do, you get get to start paying a monthly fee starting at $7.95. This 
 game also has a really big learning curve with no tutorial to introduce you to any aspects of the 
 game. Stay clear of this junker and do yourself a favor and play a half-decent online game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 3.3
Date: Apr 6, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  Todays standards and my taste, this game was nothing but a horrible cheap looking game i would 
 never pay for and barely download for free, it does look hilarious though and emotes can be done 
 while doing anything made me laugh quite hard when i played drunk one night, other than that, nothing 
 appealed to me, and i never did get the hang of it, i didnt see the point of playing a game with 
 a almost 10 year old graphic engine or so, i did have high expectations to it from what i read, 
 but when i played it it was very dull and i didnt see what was going on almost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lillemjau
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  I have played AO since 2002 without ever taking a break for more than a couple of weeks. It was 
 my first MMORPG and to this day it is the best one I have played, despite the game showing its 
 age. This is not a game for spoiled WoW-players, for kids who wants a win button or for those who 
 are impatient. Mastering AO takes time, it is a very complex game with a LOT to learn. I still 
 learn things, even after 5 years of playing. It is a game where tactical thinking, planning and 
 laying out the details is alpha and omega for your character. AO can't compete with today's graphics, 
 being a very old game on a very old engine, but it is a gorgeous game, beautifully crafted with 
 love from Funcom. The sound scheme is superb, the community is wonderful, the content is never 
 ending and the choices are your own. If given the time, it will grow on you and you'll learn to 
 look past the dated graphics and animations.
  
  Because the basic game is free (the non-expansion base game) , more and more people are flocking 
 to the servers. It's worth a shot. Give it a week. If it hasn't grown on you by then, it probably 
 won't, but chances are that players learn to love the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 9, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  I haven't played this very much, because I'm not much of a fan of this genre.
  Still, it was sort of fun when I did play it. And it's free...
  
  Gameplay: Basic MMORPG. Cities 
 and more wild areas to explore, items to collect, inventory limits to hate, etc.
  The character formation is sort of cool, and it's kind of fun to level up a character, but I think 
 it would be much better if you actually aimed and shot, or ran up and slashed, instead of choosing 
 your attack and watching it happen. I'm funny that way, I guess...
  
  Graphics: Horrendous. The game stutters and shakes even on decent PCs. Everything is almost flat, 
 and there are weird little glitches of things randomly appearing when you stand in a certain place.
 
  
  Sound: Nondescript.
  
  Value: Free... with endless potential if you're into this kind of game.
  
  Tilt: Not very high, 
 but I think I might try it again one of these days.
  
  One Last Note: Don't join the Clan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Buddha
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. The graphics are not the greatest, but they are better than others. 
 There are some bugs, but all of them are getting fixed. The game has been up for 5 years and counting 
 and is still addictive. There are over 80 skills, multiple classes, and different breeds which 
 offers a variety of customization. It has great gameplay, but annoying sound at times. If you are 
 looking for a good online game with a good community in it, this game might be for you. I like 
 this game a lot and there are usually a lot of people on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jman123454
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 3, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  it was good. Not the best for an mmo. I thought that it could have used a bit more spicing up. 
 If you want to play a good free mmo. Go with this or guild wars. I personally like the futuristic 
 fact of the game. So my review I give this a 3 out of 5. There for it wasnt the best game. It was 
 very average. IF you want to not have to pay for a game get this. If not get guild wars or WoW. 
 So ya. It was ok. I personally wont recommend it to a hard core mmo fan. Maybe to a beginner for 
 MMO's but not a hard core fan. That is my review of "Anarchy Online". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Hunter44
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 23, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Anarchy Online is a online game set in the sci-fi setting of rubi-ka, where you get immersed in 
 this world, fight aliens, etc.
  
  Though I agree it is fun at times, especially with friends and that it is a bit unique in several 
 ways, its cons just conquer the game. It is indeed riddled with bugs and glitches, and at times 
 very frustrating to play the game. Things like tryign to switch out your guns because the other 
 one ran out of ammo is VERY frustrating, mostly in a combat situation. It takes almsot up to a 
 minute to switch out during those times, when it is supposed to be, at the max, aroudn 4 or so 
 seconds. Also running around the sci-fi world in some places just dosent seem fulfilling, and everything 
 will have a bland feeling to it. Also the combat can also feel blanded out and boring, though I 
 only think this through a ranged attackers perspective.
  
  It does have a fun and unique "wear" system, with weapons, armor, and even bioengineered skeletal 
 parts to add inside of yourself. Also it sets a change of pace form the other medievel style mmos. 
 Also players making their own cities/towns with communities, as well as cool raves and hangouts 
 to meet people makes it easy to find peopel to play with. Also the fact that it has a free client 
 download which lasts for months is very nice.
  
  Otherwise this is a decent game, and I recommend mainly playing in groups or with friends, since 
 the soloing will just taunt your nerves and make the game a wreck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jo1810
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a game I've been playing for four years, and I don't intend on stopping anytime soon.
 
  
  Over to the review, this game does not have great graphics these days, but you have to remember 
 that the game is now five years old.
  Graphics - 8 / 10
  
  The gameplay is just great, with a great community, and lots of stuff to do, and character customization 
 is easily done.
  Gameplay - 10 / 10
  
  The sound effects are decent, but the music gets annoying, and most people like to have their own 
 playlists in the background, so luckily it can be turned off.
  Sound - 6 / 10
  
  Well, that was my review, hope it helps.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to bore you with any long review, so I'm just gunna lay out the pros and cons of 
 this game.
  
  Pros:
  
  Short load times, compared to modern MMORPGs. 
  
  Nice voice acting when it happens (which doesn't happen often)
  
  Good dialog between Computer 
 players and Human player.
  
  A nice selection of jobs to choose from and good character customization.
  
  Its free (promo) 
 until January 15th.
  
  Pretty cool stuff to do, get a house, a job, trade and chat.
  
  Cons: 
  
  Grahpics arn't as good as they used to be.
  
  Lag plauges the cities at times.
 
  
  In-game menus are somewhat buggy and hard to use at times.
  
  Life-less character models, too stiff.
  
  Confusing gameplay for new players.
  
  Combat 
 is weak and could use a face-lift.
  
  Its not free forever, which I would never pay for this game.
  
  Conclusion: To put it simply, 
 this game isn't that good. Sure it has its moments but the majority of the game is weak in many 
 areas. Its free for now, but in the future, it will cost again and its just not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invisiblejim
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 23, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Why I'm I lovin this game,
  
  Well this is my first time on the multiplayer online scene.... recommended by a friend which is 
 always a bonus in my book.. the other bonus is its Free.
  
  Yes its free.... which should come as no surprise to you gamers which have read any of my previous 
 reviews.... I'm a budget gamer and free gaming falls well within budget...
  
  Whats so great about it... well there are loads of characters to chose to play.. theres not much 
 of this sell your soul bits and bobs on ebay rubbish going on cause the game is self contained. 
 Theres implants, equipment and skills to upgrade galore... you can have several different characters 
 on the go or even the same type of toon (character) going and they will all be different in some 
 way...
  
  Brilliant... beautifully balanced.. play by your self or will others its upto you... joining orgs 
 of others is a benefit for sure but not pressured or required.
  
  For all you freebie people out there you can play to level 200... sure you won't get perks and some 
 of the other nice kit but the basics are all playable with no pressure to do anything ingame... although 
 I can say once your playing you'll be hooked and seriously considering as the months go by to pay 
 the cash per month and upgrade for the full deal.. I close to the edge myself.... Loving every minute 
 of anarachy goodness..
  
  So don't be shy, do it now and play for free... cause free play is all good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reghat
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 20, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I started playing Anarchy Online back in the beta, and I enjoyed it immensely. The MMO-setting 
 was completely new to me, and the environment in AO was amazing. And the music was stellar too 
 boot. There were problems, of course. the mission-booths failed 9 out of 10 times, and sometimes 
 the lag was counted in minutes. But the game had what the french say, an... I don't know what. 
 That the game was developed by a Norwegian company, Funcom, (Hey, I'm Norwegian) didn't count against 
 it in my book.
  Then the game was released, and it just didn't live up to my expectations. It just grew too complex. 
 I lost interest. I cancelled my subscription 6 months after the release. Friends of mine kept playing 
 . buying all the expansions and even becoming GMs. But in the end they all lost interest, like 
 me.
  I recently picked up Anarchy Online again after they released basic subscription for free, but 
 I must say. Even though it's free I still won't play it. Maybe I've become too accustomed to nice 
 interfaces like World of Warcraft, (Which I've also abandoned) but I can't get myself to play it 
 for an extended period of time. The memory of grinding still lingers in my memory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodney2003
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 20, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  wenn u first come in the world of rubi-ka u will get bored because you don't know what to do. but 
 when u get to the real world and the game really starts.... it's only gets more addictive. the 
 events are funny. and there's enough to do. i know the graphics are a bit dated but still better 
 then most free mmo-rpg's. what? free? yes it's free for the moment. so get ur download fast because 
 in 2007 the offer stops. i know thats a minor. but still it's fun so for the one's who can pay 
 (i can't , don't have credit card (another minor) ) will pay for sure when they got addicted. i 
 only played it for 36 hours in the Christmas vacation. now my pc just sucks : (. but still i wan't 
 to play it. so badly. i know this ain't giving u much information about the game. but this is how 
 much i like it.
  
  graphics 9
  -they may be a lil bit dated 
  +but still good enough.
  sound 7
  +effects are great
  -music isn't very bad but sometimes 
 lil annoying
  gameplay 10
  +much to do
  + good community
  +good controls
  +it just works
  replay 10
  + when u get in u will realy never get out :D
  
  overall 10 
 
  this game is just so adicting after u get from newb island and realy begin.
  i can't give it lower then a ten. it's the best game i've ever played. and believe me i played 
 many games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warfust
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 19, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Anarchy Online is a great MMORPG that is often overlooked when people are looking for a new game 
 to try. It may be an older game, but it has solid game play and alot of content. You can start 
 playing for free, and if you really like it you can buy the expansions (for a very minor amount) 
 and pay a low monthly fee.
  
  There are three factions to choose from, two of which appose each other. There is PVP (Player vs 
 player) content to keep you occupied as well. The character customizability is a bit lacking in 
 the original game, but the looks of the different armor make up for it in the long run.
  
  One of the biggest complaints I have heard of from more recent players is the point allocation 
 system. You receive points as you level up and you can put them into different skills to improve 
 them. However, you don't receive enough to max every skill and it's not always obvious what to 
 put them into in order to receive the greatest benefit.
  
  The bugs that plagued it's launch are gone, and it has the best and fastest customer support of 
 any MMORPG that I have played. 
  
  I would reccomend this game for anyone that is looking for a new MMORPG to try, in particular those 
 that are looking for something other than a Fantasy setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bafucin81
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  First I like to say that AO is an old game. So it will not look like the games we have today. BUT 
 most games are a copy of AO. AO is the mother to them all. WoW is the biggest copycat of them all. 
 Poor Blizzard. And how good looking is WoW? Not much, it look like crap in my eyes and it have 
 a childish community.
  
  AO have a great community. Maybe it's the age of people that play the game? 
  
  The character 
 & skill system is great and you need to use your brain a little to come around.
  
  The game might look a little crapy but again it's old and soon it will get a update on that too. 
 Give it some time. ^^
  
  You have alot of different classes to pick and there is millions of items to build and loot.
 
  
  Great quests and great humor in this game.
  
  What I like best is the characters, quests, the community. Other games die, but AO still stay alive. 
 Why? It's a great game.
  
  It have a story and it's perfect for RP if you like that.
  
  AO is the best Sci-fi game online and it will become even better.
  
  Try it out and enjoy! 
 ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vasquezinus
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  This is definitely the mother of MMORPGs... It's challenging to say the least, but worth the hard 
 effort in the end. I didn't even like RPGs untill this game came along, and now i cant get away 
 from it! The IP distrabution is generic, per level you get a certain amount if IP and you choose 
 where to improve yourself, differnt races and professions specialise in differnt areas. The gameplay 
 is simple, but not simple enough to write all of it in this review, check out the forums ;-) ... 
 There; s too much to this game to put in this review, but the game is also so well done (on a non-technical 
 standpoint) that it's hard to get away. Even if you are a hater to all RPGs, take a stab at this, 
 and if you mutilate all competition in other RPGs, you should definitely try this. even eassier 
 to make you decide to play, is that funcom, the creators of Anarchy online, are giving out accounts 
 to play for free untill november 2007! while this is without the expansions, it will still satisfy 
 your thirst for competition, adventure, or simple entertainment. So even if you are a deep hater 
 of all RPGs, get a good internet hookup and try this out ;-) because if you end up loveing it as 
 much as i do, you'll be the first to say it was all worth it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muel_costa
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the bests MMORPG that i ever played! 
  
  You can see the game in two perspectives, FPS or World of Warcraft like, there are so much talents 
 that you can upgrade, an amazing view an you can be just like you want to be!
  
  The graphics are not to good but you can play it whitout a problem, the bugs that the people speak 
 of are solved, the sound of the game is really good!
  
  There are monsters prety strong, but you can have a information of them just by clicking Shift+click, 
 the game is the best man
  
  Play it! It really is good! And is free! (until 2007) heheh
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruekilla69
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is FREE for the first few years of playing! dont ask me how i have no idea the game has 
 so mutch stuff to do you could play for a year and STILL not do everything it has to offer! or 
 even come CLOSE! its CRAZZY fun and i love it! team up and destroy anything in your path or go 
 alone and explore the what seems to be ENDLESS land of anarchy! thares so mutch to do you will 
 play entell ur eye fall out of your head! its crazzy fun and ENDLESS possibilitys of things to 
 do and its a MMORPG! so if u team you never know what could happen or what cool new item you could 
 get. Thanks -Shane- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonmaster989
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I started playing Anarchy Online back in June, since the first time I played I have been totally 
 hooked. There are so many places to explore, so many professions to try, and so many cool weapons 
 and items. I have written a guide for this game and all I can say is try it, give it a chance, 
 its FREE!! When this game was originally reviewed it had many problems which have all been fixed 
 in the many updates since its release. Gamespot's review does this game no justice, it's great. 
 The graphics are a little dated yes, but that is quickly forgotten because the game is so enrapturing. 
 Try it out, it is unbelievable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: animaonline
Rating: 2.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  The Gameplay is really bad you get tired after playing it, the graphics is really old, the sound 
 effects and music loops all the time, the game itself is very buggy you can just get stuck or fall 
 thru the ground, Its not even worth to call Anarchy Online an MMORPG, if you wish a better free 
 MMORPG experience play Knight Online and Tibia or pay for Final Fantasy XI or Ever Quest.
  
  P. S after playing Anarchy Online for some hours I uninstalled it from my computer, i will never 
 play it again!
  
  This game is only for the hardcore fans to the series or those with low end computers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  People give this game a bad write up, and well i will not call them stupid, but i do not agree with 
 them.
  First think i noticed, was the easy patching, it patches fairly quickly, and if you decide to cancel 
 at any point, it will freeze at that point, and comeback to. Not a new thing but its good as some 
 mmos dont have that feature for some reason.... not much for broadband users but good for users 
 on a slower connection.
  When you log in, you get to the character creation bit, a nice range with an easy to use interface.
 
  You give your character a name, then you get moving, you go through some stages until you reach 
 newbie island. Train for a bit, then you select a faction, theres a war going on in the world of anarchy 
 you know. Between the power mad omni tek or the opposing rebels, or you could be neutral.
  Then Rubi-ka is your oyster. Anarchy offers some cool features, goals and a big enough area to play 
 on.
  Anarchy features some cool features, and the ability to captain various vehicles.
  Now the good bit, the free playing period, not 4 weeks, not 48 days, but a whole year. And they have 
 just renewed it for another year so its been free and will continue to be free for a while, so get 
 stuck in!.
  All in all its a decent game but like every game it has flaws, but not many.
  First anarchy does at times become boring, but even then you can find things to do.
  But the team 
 support is super!. All in all anarchy is a good game, with few flaws, and is certainly worth the download, so 
 get playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViperPyro
Rating: 3.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I love MMORPG games and this is one of the worst ever! It pales in comparison to Lineage II, Auto 
 Assault, World of Warcraft, etc.
  Crappy graphics, poor gameplay, and just plain stupid!
  
  The only reason i gave it a six on vaule is because you can download a free beta version thingy 
 of it. If you buy it, you are wasting time, money, and helping support a company that is not nearly 
 as good as it is said to be!
  
  Sound is ok, but it is hard yo sqrew that up in a game, graphics are kind of cheesy, not even close 
 to Half Life 2 and not even as good as World of Warcraft
  I do liek how you can upgrade your character, but if you couldn't i would be even more pissed!
 
  Dont Waste Your Time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legoloco
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This is another must buy MMO. This is a good MMO with a good storyline. First you make a charecter 
 with many professions to choose from. Then you go through various tasks working for omni-tech (if 
 u are thinking of starwars the imperials) or clan. (rebels) There are many things to do to keep 
 you busy for a long time. There are PVP areas and regular areas. There is a good community and 
 ABSOLUTLY NO LAG! I have never lagged and i nvr got kiked off. This is a must buy and it is easy 
 to learn. This game can be a challenge if u go into higher lvl areas. You can choose for this to 
 be a challenge and u can choose for it not to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epstanleyiii
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 25, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This game was a free download with about a 3 month free trial. Download can be painless if you 
 use the right source, but Account Setup forms processes and Automatic Game Setup are lacking!
 
  
  The traditional problems you might expect like missing drivers, incompatibilities, with your PC 
 gaming platform, etc were not there. Running the setup file was the best part of the whole process. 
 Painless!
  
  The Best News:
  
  Downloading The Game:
  I downloaded this game from Xfire because I'm always looking for download sites that are good as 
 some of the on line game patching systems I have run across. This was a great experience compared 
 to what you usually have to deal with. Xfire's download engine stopped when I played and online 
 game. Resumed to have speed with some adtivities and when to full speed when I wasn't clicking 
 the keys. Painless hours of background tasking!
  Quality Issues:
  
  Getting Started:
  The process of setting up an account with the forms interface is not as intuitive as I would like 
 to see. It looked like the preferred user name I wanted was lost due to an activated name with 
 a lost connection. A series of trial and error attempts did get me to the point I could log on 
 and begin the patching process. I suspect others attempting to play might have bailed out before 
 this point because it was a free download and they have lots of really good games to play instead 
 of trying a new one that hassles you from the start.
  Patch Upgrades:
  This process took forever for some reason. The downloading engine just quit sending data after 
 a while, repeatedly, and just didn't do anything more until you canceled and started over again. 
 The download engine could find the end of it's process and resume, however, so all was not lost. 
 Eventually, given enough time and effort that process completed and I was able to move on to attempting 
 to sign on and play a game.
  Graphics Setup:
  You will have to pick a graphic card setting before you connect. If you are not current on these 
 technical things, you will have to sign on and off for a few tries until it works right for you. 
 
  
  On my first pass I went with the default settings and I couldn't figure out what was going on in 
 the world from a viewing perspective. After going thorough the trial and error process of figuring 
 out how to log off and then restarting the game with the highest settings they would allow the 
 graphics were fine (This latest PC is pretty strong, I hope it is good for more than three years) .
 
  Networking:
  I'm beginning to feel all of Anarchy Online problems aren't over yet. I had disconnects in account 
 setup, the patching process and during game play. I have not had this level of network problems 
 with other online games.
  Game Play:
  
  Slow real-time game play combat
  Navigation with W, S, E, A instead of the mouse
  Poor on line help to explained use, pickup, scan, 
 equip, unequip, etc.
  
  REVIEW CONCLUSION:
  Interesting game play environment, nice graphics, poor game play, a lot of technical problems. 
 Game trial download, installation problems, Account Setup Problems, Game Update Problems, Network 
 Problems and less than excellent Game Play when I don't buy a game without good graphics, and sound 
 has no value to me and I really don't want to spend my time with the hassle!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alathien
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 30, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  Why Anarchy Online is one of the best games ever made:
  
  -Want to fight, try out different weapons, use swords, shields, rifles, pistols, shotguns etc. 
 Are you interested in taking down big bosses, packs of mutated monsters, aliens, wild animals, 
 muggers or other players? You have the chance to do it!
  
  -Do you want to focus on trading, creating profitable wares, buying and selling, upgrading items, 
 bring in loads of cash? You can!
  
  -Maybe you're more interested in getting an apartment, buying furniture like a fridge, plants, 
 statues and the likes of it? Perhaps you feel like going to a shop to buy shoes, trousers, tops, 
 gloves, sleeves, hoods, trenchcoats, sunglasses, dresses or even swimwear? Or maybe you want to 
 buy yourself a car or a plane? You can do it all.
  
  -Adventuring might suit you the best, run around in wonderful forests and shifting enviornments 
 all from rivers, lakes, deserts, forests, large cities, ruins, junkyards, wastelands, castles etc. 
 
  
  This game is wonderful, the possibilities are endless. All you need is time and patience, and you 
 will soon get hooked on this game and master it well. When you start with your first character, 
 you think it will be your last as well, but you will definitely make another one, and another one, 
 and maybe even another one! You will learn and live in Rubi-ka, meet people from Switzerland, Russia, 
 USA, Norway etc. Try it if anything of the above sounds tempting to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archer_Plus
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 17, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: AO has some similarities to its contemporary Diablo 2. You go around killing this and 
 that with randomly generated or generic names, in simple, randomly generated missions and getting 
 randomly generated loot which is rarely suited to your character and is either sold to the shops 
 for credits or traded with other players who have found something of use to you.
  
  Monster AI is primitive even by 2001 standards. Enemies usually stand toe to toe with you, not 
 moving regardless of whether they are melee, ranged or nanocasters.
  
  There is a complex system of combining objects to make other objects and breaking things down and 
 reassembling them which is a large focus of the game. You get some xp for modifying equipment and 
 in theory could make a living performing services if a larger community existed. This system could 
 be streamlined and better documented.
  
  Travel is unnecessarily slow and the skill system is antiquated and unnecessarily complex. Melee 
 and Ranged are broken down into approximately 13 skills each. That's splitting skills up 4x as 
 much as is customary. You can still spend skill points on skills that no longer have any in game 
 function. Maps are inexcusably crude for any game designed this century.
  
  Graphics: While good by 2001 standards no improvement have been made to keep up with modern graphics. 
 While other MMORPGs are updating their graphics and adding more character customization options 
 AO still has a handful of looks compared to the billions of styles modern games offer. One does 
 have to mention that when the game was released the graphics were barely functional.
  
  Round objects like barrels are 6 sided polygons. Character and monster models look about the same 
 as the models in the original Resident Evil for the Playstation. Textures are fairly ordinary. 
 When an enemy uses a ranged attack it looks like its coming from behind you, over your shoulder, 
 a truly bizarre effect that has to be seen to be understood.
  
  Sound: Music and effects are generic and forgettable but not annoying enough to turn off the sound.
 
  
  Value: Not bad as far as free online games go. You get everything you pay for. There are better 
 and worse free games out there. You are fine as long as you don't subscribe because once you do 
 you can't go back to free mode and AO just doesn't compare to modern games. If the pricing was 
 reduced to a one time $20 fee or perhaps $5/mth it might be worth experiencing the expanded content.
 
  
  Tilt: The documentation for the game is almost exclusively fan designed. In fact if it wasn't for 
 dedicated fans this game surely wouldn't exist even if it is free. I don't think there is a design 
 team anymore, just a skeleton staff of customer support to handle billing for the remaining subscribers 
 and maintenance team to keep the servers up and running. The game has certainly jumped the shark 
 as it were and its glory days were in 2003 if it had any. A dedicated staff of player moderators 
 handle all the in-game support with some powers granted to them by what remains of the official 
 company. Thanks to them it is still possible to play this game today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarenGarond
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  Graphics is kinda good
  
  Music is good
  
  Sound effects is kinda bad n boring
  
  Gameplay is kinda fun in the start but after 30 hours it slighty being more boring
  
  it is 
 good that it is free tought!
  
  
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda 
 boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda 
 boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda 
 boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda 
 boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda 
 boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda 
 boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
  Kinda boring game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smintar
Rating: 2.6
Date: Apr 26, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game was so frustrating to play, I really tried to stay with it. I like the enviro of this 
 game but the lag the bugs the CS etc finally just took it's toll. Never I have I seen a game go 
 down as fast as it went up. I did the beta on this game and the DEv team didn't adheres to the player 
 base, and thats just to bad, I rate this as the all time worst that I have ever play, now the graphics 
 are so outdated, it came off my HD this past week. I have played this for well over 6 months, and 
 went back to see if there were some improvements and alot of the Dungeons were certainly better 
 than in the begining. But it's still not worth my time now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrriss
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 20, 2005 10:54 am PT
Review:  I thought I would try this game as I'm between mmorg's at the moment. Its awful. The graphics are 
 terrible. The community is rude and extremely unhelpful. Older players come to the newbie area 
 just to rip them off of any money they might have. The layers of complexity are astonishing. Between 
 breeds and improvement points you feel lost right from the beginning. I've read every guide and 
 the forums and they are absolutely no help with this game. I assume that people must start with 
 friends who explain stuff otherwise how would you know! The nano stuff and all the implants and 
 how to do all the nitty gritty stuff......... its just nuts. I'm not surprised this game is in the 
 tank. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickwired
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 10:30 am PT
Review:  I have played AO on and off since its release. It has come quite a long way since then. I'm pretty 
 sure AO got a bad rap at release, but for whatever reason that is, I say it is a good game to try 
 out if you are interested in a Sci-Fi MMO. Actually it is about the only Sci-Fi MMO I can think 
 of that is worth playing.
  
  The graphics are kinda old old school. The player modesl are pretty much just a shape with dark 
 spot for eyes and lips, etc. However you can cover up that pitiful face with some really cool looking 
 armor! The UI is pretty much the only other thing that really irks me about this game. A new modern, 
 customizable UI is in dire need. The skinning you can do to this game is limited, but you can download 
 some pretty nifty user created programs to go along with the game. You can't do that with most 
 any other online game I can think of.
  
  So if you are looking for a good sci-fi game that offers lots of content and good player community 
 then you should try this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homosygus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game starts off really fun and exciting. There is lots to do and teh game play seems fun. 
 You do a few quests, choose what faction you want to be a part of then go to the capital city. 
 Once again a new experience but when u get to lvl 20 the game starts to slow down, the quests start 
 getting really repetitive and every thing is the same over and over again. Constant grinding becomes 
 annoying and it takes forever to get high enough lvl to try pvp. The vehicles in the game make 
 it fun but the lackluster gameplay weighs heavy on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdamSprague
Rating: 2.9
Date: Nov 14, 2005 9:26 pm PT
Review:  This game would be good if other games like Guild Wars, or WOW didnt exist, as far as the free 
 part of the game it is okay, yet ends quick and as soon as your ship crashes and the real game 
 begins your left with wondering what to do, no real direction and awkward hunting and moving controls.
 
  
  the storyline and unique character classes are a fresh change of pace, but the rest of the game 
 doesnt match up with the potential that the story/characters could possess if the game would have 
 been done correctly. 
  
  All I was left with was a bad taste in my mouth for a game that had so much potential but just 
 never hit me with any lasting memories or effect. It was a short lived game and i quickly moved 
 on and forgot about this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sebbastyand
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 8, 2005 6:21 am PT
Review:  It is hard at the beggining to understand the game, but you realise after a couple of hours that 
 , in fact, it is a amazing system of abilities, weapons armors, implants etc. You have lots and 
 lots of abilities, classified in groups. There are 8-11 specializations from the soldier to the 
 nano mage.
  The goal of the game is to gain levels, money, and experience, making missions gives you lots of 
 bounty. You can form alliances, even commanding a party! This is very useful at the begining. You 
 move in a virtual word of hundreds and hundreds of kilometers that keeps forever.
  Like i said before, This is the BEST online SF game that i have played!!!
  
  ANARCHY ONLINE 
 RULES!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zlinko
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 13, 2005 8:32 am PT
Review:  Anarchy Online was my first experience playing a MMORPG. Now maybe because of that I still love 
 this game but I do have plenty of complaints. My biggest complaint is that money means nothing 
 in the game which is sad because that means that you don't need to work to get anything. There 
 are plenty of people in the game with tons of money and they give it away for no reason. I guess 
 the problem is that there is too many rich people in the game. When I first started to play I did 
 need some cash and asked for some a very nice player ended up giving me over 100,000 credits, which 
 I was almost not going to accept but he said he had over 500,000,000 credit s and this was nothing 
 to him. I felt like i had just have a huge stroke of luck to my disbelief it ends up that most 
 people in the game have around or even more money then that. So that means you buy what you want 
 and you end up getting bored because there is no goal.. you already can buy anything why work for 
 it.
  
  Beside that the game is a lot of fun to play and there is a huge community and plenty of players 
 to chat with and create parties with. Also Anarchy Online is a pretty big game and there is a lot 
 to explore. One thing I would have liked is for there to be more of a built in storyline in the 
 game. It seems everything is missions and it can get pretty repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diglow1
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 27, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  As it is now free to play the basic game without any of the expansions, AO is worth trying out. 
 
  
  The graphics are about on par with other games of its generation even though to my eye the character 
 models seem a little funny looking. 
  
  The gameplay is typical repetitive MMO fare but there is a fair amount of variety considering the 
 age of the game. Dying in some MMO's can do some real damage to your character but AO is fairly 
 forgiving, especially in the beginning which allows you to learn the game as you go without too 
 much worry.
  
  The interface takes some getting used to and the concept of the game, with implants and other unusual 
 sci-fi aspects, takes some figuring out, but the community is generally active and helpful. 
  
  The initial download, through BitTorrent, is brutally long, but again, its free. 
  
  If 
 you are at all curious about this game or MMO's in general , this is not a bad start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaikonAgent721
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2005 5:44 am PT
Review:  This is a pretty good game, what are you two guys talking about up there. You guys needs to learn 
 how to review better, or simply just get a better taste for games maybe... the graphics were top 
 of the line in their day and i give it props for still looking pretty good nowadays. This is a 
 free game everyone should be playing. The scenery in every place you go looks pretty good. The 
 leveling up system i admit is pretty hard with 50+ things to level up but lets you have a little 
 bit of cutomization through the whole game. The overall character development is pretty cool and 
 should be capitalized on by some other developers to make this even a better game than it already 
 is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakko
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 2, 2005 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Anarchy Online is a great MMO. It's time-line is post Everquest 1, and pre Dark Age of Camelot. 
 The thing that sets it apart the most from other games in the genre is the science fiction setting. 
 It is one that is very unique in story, content and presentation though. It's a story and setting 
 that really grow on you.
  
  Great aspects of the game include the world of Rubika being so vast and huge. There are all kinds 
 of environments to see in the game and many ways to get around easily, but it still retains it's 
 "Wow I'm on a big freakin' planet" factor, which is important in my opinion. Everquest tended to 
 ruin it's global size by allowing too many transportation options, making the world feel like connect 
 the dots instead of a vast world to explore.
  
  Anarchy Online was made in the days where MMO's leveled you up by having you go out and do very 
 repetitive things. Nowadays, recent MMO's have you partaking in many different story lines in the 
 form of missions or quests that you can feel part of the story line, somewhat reducing the leveling 
 treadmill. Although AO does have a mission generator system, there are really only about 6 missions 
 that you will ever get, for example, killing a random named person, finding an item, returning 
 an item, fixing an item... things like that. Furthermore, the finding an item missions become the 
 most lucrative since you get to keep that item, as well as the item you get for a mission reward, 
 so there is honestly no point in doing any other kind of mission.
  
  One thing that is kind of neat about AO is the community support. You will find site upon site 
 on advancing your characters in different ways to try to optimize their power and lethality. In 
 addition, third party programs that can run along AO can help you in game as well, yet tend to 
 demysticize the experience a bit. A great example of this is a program called "Click Saver".
  
  Click Saver is a program that runs in the background and helps you find missions with the rewards 
 you want. Say for instance you are looking for a new weapon. You type in the name of that weapon 
 in click saver, move your mission terminal window in the correct spot in game, and let her rip, 
 it will literally farm the mission terminal until it finds the correct reward, then highlight that 
 mission for you. The end result is you now rely upon this program to provide you with every piece 
 of armor and weaponry you will possibly need for your 200 level journey in AO. Rewarding? Yes. 
 Exploiting? Absolutely. Does Funcom care? No. Apparently that's just fine with them. People don't 
 even read the mission descriptions anymore, of which there are about 20 anyway, but still. There 
 must be a better in game system for this kind of thing.
  
  One problem in AO in my opinion is the lack of customizability of your characters. It's not that 
 you can't change their stats or anything like that, you can, you'd just be a fool to do it "wrong". 
 With the loot tables in AO, there are weapons that are ideal for each class. For instance in the 
 time that I played for the Soldier class it was the Div-9 Plasma Projector Assault Rifle. For Adventurers, 
 the Custom Desert Reet pistols. With weaponry so prolific thanks to click saver, there is no reason 
 why you would use anything else. You'd be gimping yourself if you did. So now we have one weapon 
 to attune to and everyone of the same class is going to be identical. You can adjust your skills 
 however you like but you will benefit so greatly from sticking to one template that supports your 
 class's "uber weapon" that you'd be a fool not to do so.
  
  This is really disappointing especially since there are so many unique and cool weapons in game 
 (which suck in comparison) .
  
  There are a number of expansions for AO. They all add new and unique content to the game which 
 is alot of fun participating in. There are more expansions on the horizon too.
  
  AO is kind of old. It's fun to try out and they have crazy deals going on right now where you can 
 play the original client with no expansions for free. Unheard of. It's a fun game and anyone should 
 give it a try especially since its free.
  
  One more thing of note, the soundtrack in game is simply awesome. It's available on CD from the 
 website and is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnwon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 12, 2005 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is 1 of the best mmorpg i played, and i played all of them from wow to ffix and all the 
 others. The graphics i will give 7, the graphic is kind of dated but still looks some what nice. 
 Sound i will give 8 nice sound fits the game, game play i give a 9, it would get a 10 from me if 
 there was no lag. Value i will give a 10 it's a lot to do learn and if you are a gamer that just 
 wants to jump in and start playing and get every thing in 30min then this game is not for you but 
 if your like me and love to learn new things about a game even after you played it for weeks then 
 this is the game for you. I love the game and will play it for a long long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcaliburSC
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 5, 2005 9:24 am PT
Review:  After playing Anarchy Online it is easy to see why the game developers are letting gamers play 
 free for a year. It's the only way they are going to attract new customers with better MMORPG on 
 the market such as World of Warcraft and Everquest. This game features many horrible features the 
 overall ruin a game that had promise. 
  
  Anarchy online features one of the worse level up system to date in a MMORPG. Once a player levels 
 up they receive skill points to spend on categories. The problem is there are about 50 or so categories 
 to spend skill points in. Also in the level up system the player picks one type of weapon not ranged 
 or melee but more of staff, sword, pistol, rifle, etc. The problem with this is that a player needs 
 to spend skill points in that weapon skill in order to use that particular weapon and its higher 
 versions. So once the character reaches a higher level and let's say the player would like to try 
 a sword instead of the gun they are using once the character is at level 50 or so there will be 
 a problem because unless the player has saved allot of skill points they won't be able to get a 
 good sword and get destroyed in the dungeons. Once the player picks a weapon and get to higher 
 levels they are committed to it. Also allot of items and nano rely on multiple skill categories 
 that will really tighten they way points are spent. 
  
  This game features repetitive missions as well. All the missions are either retrieve this, kill 
 him, save him. This gets old and with an boring combat system it's pretty much unimpressive. You 
 engage in combat by pressing the Q button and then if that weapon has a special ability may be 
 able to use it during battle. Also you can cast spells. That sums up the battle system. 
  
  The only good thing I can say about Anarchy is it looks good. It really has great environments 
 and good looking player models. It is not the best looking MMORPG but still holds up well. 
  
  Overall this is not a good game. If you want to look over all this and a play a game that has 
 a limited item usage system and unnecessary large level up system then by all means download Anarchy 
 Online. It's free and the only thing that will be wasted is the hard drive space. Just remember 
 if something is free there usually is a reason. 
  
  Eric Martinez 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bidybag
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 26, 2005 12:06 am PT
Review:  This game is free for download and that is the only reason i got it and give it a try. It is not 
 worth buying even if it is really cheap. You will soon get bored of it, just running around places 
 and killing things at a really slow fire rate. It is good for a free game so if you dont want to 
 buy anything you should just give this game a try. This other games in the series are proably the 
 same so i dont recommend any of these type games. They get boring quickly and you cant play them 
 if you have a slow internet connection because they are multiplayer only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralPatton7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 23, 2005 4:02 am PT
Review:  Anarchy Online is a very deep game but is also a lot of fun. Now if you are into creating a superman 
 character that dominates every player and is at level 250 than this isn't a game for you. It is 
 very hard to LvL up in this game but the best part about AO is the social aspect. I have only been 
 playing this game for a month and I already have my own clan. Whenever I log on to the game I use 
 our clan chat channel, find other players and go out hunting. You really connect with your teamates 
 trying to keep each other alive. There are 100's of items you can purchase and you even get your 
 own apartment that you can store items in and have furniture. All in all, Anarchy online has 100's 
 of hours of fun, social gameplay and it will challenge and entertain you for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Almighty_Fred
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 30, 2005 2:32 am PT
Review:  The only real good thing that can be said about this title is that, well... it is better than Runescape. 
 If you have not played Runescape, then just know that saying Anarchy is better doesn't mean much.
 
  
  This poor game has you choose side basically working with the futuristic government or against 
 it. As if this hasn't been done before. But, if you just can't dedicate yourself to one side you 
 can be neutral.
  
  Missions involve killing enemies over and over again until you finally realize that it will never 
 pick up and you are done, as in, you went outside and decided it would be more fun to burn things.
 
  
  HooHA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbdave88
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 7, 2004 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Anarchy online's launch technicalities deadened the popularity of the game, but those who stuck 
 with it and played through the server crashes were thankful they did. The game is great and offers 
 a vast world to explore and interact in. Now the game has one of the best reputations for support 
 and stability in its genre, and rightfully so. The game takes the player and puts him in to a world 
 of waring powers in the future. The Clan, Omni-Tek, and the Neutral players. Each side is battling 
 for power and the land. The many expansion packs that have come out since the games release add 
 many new features to the game for the player to explore as well as now vast parts of the world 
 to explore. The amount of customization one is able to apply to his/her character is unbelievably 
 deep and infinite. Replayability is a huge factor in the game with the different race/class combinations 
 to choose from as well as side and factions/guilds. The quests are fun as well taking part in guild 
 activities. All around, Anarchy Online makes a good stand in the MMORPG genre and i would recommend 
 it to anyone interested in MMORPG's... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaussGoat
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 4, 2004 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Anarchy Online is a great online game for these seeking a game with a lot of depth, relaxed atmosphere, 
 and an interesting world to explore.
  
  AO places you on the planet Rubi-Ka where two factions are currently fighting it out. The mega-corporation 
 of Omni-Corp is at odds with the Clans, a group of settlers who are fighting for their independence. 
 The backdrop is sufficient, and in game missions tend to stick to this story line, albeit loosely.
 
  
  AO's character generation is great, and offers several choices for the player. There are 4 races 
 to choose from, and about 12 professions with varying strengths and weaknesses. The game does a 
 nice job of clearly outlining what each of these choices entails, so you don't feel unprepared 
 upon entering the game world. Also, a player may have several characters on both sides of the conflict, 
 so you don't need to be restricted on that side of things. The characters also have a huge array 
 of skills, attributes and abilities, and the depth here is a little intimidating. There is, fortunately, 
 a way to re-allocate points spent here, so that if you have taken your character in a direction 
 originally not intended, you can fix that later on.
  
  AO's game play is surprisingly fluid, and I was very happy with the engine. Simply put, the game 
 is great to look at. The environment is alien, and yet somewhat familiar at the same time. The 
 design team should really be given some large points for overall ambiance, as the game is big; 
 I mean really big. There is a lot of terrain to explore, and running across Rubi-Ka would be over 
 a day long affair (if you could make it) . There are rivers, deserts, forests, huge urban landscapes 
 and underground caves to explore.
  
  AO's sound is a little weaker than I might like, but everything works well for the most part. Weapons 
 sound great, and the game has a very nice soundtrack which somehow adds to the overall impression 
 of size; it's ambient. A little bit more music would have been nice, although the bars in the city 
 sound appropriately techno-laden.
  
  Game play is pretty well done, with most of your character's actions accessible through simple 
 clicks and icons. One of the nicer features in AO is the ability to customize your HUD as needed, 
 so you can set attacks, healing and other abilities as needed, and can even setup macros, etc.
 
  
  Social interaction is excellent in AO, and it is very easy to setup a group, find friends, and 
 there are a lot of purely social "emotes". You can almost gesture your way through a conversation, 
 and this adds to the immersion quite a bit. It's eerie to ask someone where a weapons shop is and 
 to have them point and say "over there". You can also laugh, shrug, and ham it up appropriately.
 
  
  One of AO's best features is the raw amount of content and items; it's enormous. There are thousands 
 and thousands of items to look through and craft, and an equal number of Nano-spells/upgrades as 
 well. Any character who likes to craft will be in heaven here, since some weapons require 10-12 
 components each.
  
  All in all, my time on Rubi-Ka was a blast. While there is nothing revolutionary here, it is a 
 very solid game, and a satisfying online experience. Have fun! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
