-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Anarchy Online: Alien Invasion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/anarchyonlinealieninvasion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 23, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.4, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 164 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Funcom
Genre: Sci-Fi Online...
Date:     Aug 31, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Alien Invasion adds what seems like a lot of intriguing new content, but in practice, it's mostly 
 for advanced players. 

  The Alien Invasion expansion pack for Anarchy Online adds what seems like a lot of intriguing new 
 content, but in practice, it's mostly for advanced players who have already spent lots of time 
 with the original game. Yes, Anarchy Online is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game, 
 which means that you create a character and then go off on adventures in search of better weapons, 
 better armor, and advancement for your character by gaining experience levels. And, yes, Anarchy 
 Online takes place in a persistent online world inhabited by thousands of other players. But unlike 
 other such games, this one takes place in a futuristic world that consists of both hardcore science 
 fiction and  Star Wars -like mysticism. And the new expansion  does  add all-new features to the 
 game in the form of player cities and armies of invading aliens that can attack those cities. But 
 since player cities are hugely expensive, and because these attacks scale with character strength, 
 you won't be able to get much out of these features if you're not already a veteran.  

          Alien Invasion adds player-built cities and aliens that can invade them.     

  The 
 premise of Anarchy Online is fundamentally the same as it was at launch: A futuristic mining colony 
 known as Rubi-Ka is disputed by major political factions -- the evil Omni-Tek corporation, the rebellious 
 clans, and an independent group of neutral parties. However, since Anarchy Online's launch, this 
 feud has been enhanced by the addition of Shadowlands, a previous expansion pack that introduced 
 an alternate dimension and an all-new set of experience points (Shadowlands experience) , quests, 
 armor, and items. Alien Invasion doesn't add a new realm to explore, but it does add an all-new 
 type of character experience ("alien experience") , along with a full set of new weapons, armor, 
 and quests. And since the expansion adds a full-on invasion of Rubi-Ka, it also features a new 
 low-level starting area for non-Shadowlands characters. Instead of starting in the backyard of 
 Omni-Tek, the clans, or the neutrals, new characters instead crash-land in a neutral area that's 
 overrun with low-level monsters from outer space.  

  This starting area acts as a slightly better introduction to the game, since it features brand-new 
 explanatory quests that are given by somewhat helpful characters. However, Anarchy Online remains 
 a dense and highly complex game. Your character still has many different attributes, statistics, 
 and skills to keep track of, which means there's still simply a lot to know (and a lot to not know) . 
 So if you're new to Anarchy Online, the latest expansion won't do much to really introduce you 
 to all of its intricacies. The same can be said of the expansion's two major additions: player-built 
 cities and alien attacks. Player-built cities are just that. They're huge city areas that can include 
 various types of shops and new sets of housing, which can grant special bonuses. Player cities 
 are available only to guilds, which are long-standing player associations. If you're part of the 
 upper ranks in your guild, you can actually purchase items and add them to your guild's city layout 
 by using a simplified graphical interface.  

  While cities can be built to be testaments to your dedication to earning credits in Anarchy Online, 
 they also have another quality: They're prime targets for alien attacks. In fact, one of the most 
 essential additions to any city is a cloaking system that "hides" it from invaders until such time 
 as you and your guild buddies are ready to handle an invasion. The appropriately huge and grotesque 
 extraterrestrials can and will sweep from the sky to attack uncloaked cities. When this occurs, 
 you'll witness a series of impressive real-time animations that show squadron after squadron of 
 fighter ships swooping from out of the air to attack before a colossal mothership blots out the 
 entire sky on its approach.  

          The aliens look as terrifying as they should, but, realistically, you won't see them much 
 unless you're in a high-level guild.     

  During an invasion, attackers assail cities in successive, randomly generated waves that are customized 
 to the relative strength and level of the characters present in your city at the time. If you beat 
 your enemies back skillfully, or with reinforcements, or with both, the next wave will be far tougher 
 to defeat. If you have a well-organized group of players of comparable player level, these encounters 
 seem to scale fairly well with your performance in battle. In fact, invasions can be very exciting 
 if your high-level character and your high-level friends can survive the huge waves of invaders 
 that not only swarm your city, but also can bog down your frame rate, especially if your computer 
 has 512MB of RAM or less.     

   

  Invasions usually end with the appearance of a capital ship that your party can board so that you 
 can seek out the alien boss of that ship before the craft heads back to space (which otherwise 
 kills your party instantly) . Successfully thwarting invasions and capturing motherships lets your 
 characters earn "alien experience," which is an all-new kind of experience point that lets you 
 purchase all-new abilities, called "alien perks," for your character. This system is similar to 
 the "perk" system that was added to the Shadowlands expansion. Defeating these creatures can also 
 net you alien equipment, which can be crafted to form advanced kinds of weapons and armor. These 
 additions are great if you're an experienced player with at least one high-level character -- who's 
 got some good support from other high-level characters from your guild. However, there are still 
 ongoing debates about the frequency of alien attacks. Some players feel that attacks are too frequent, 
 which causes many of them to become concerned about their cities coming under attack when they 
 themselves can't play. On the opposite side of the fence, others feel that attacks are too infrequent 
 in the game. Naturally, this balance is still being fine-tuned in the game.  

          If you only have poor, low-level characters who aren't in guilds, you've got a ways to 
 go before you can get a city of your own.     

  Unfortunately, to build and maintain a successful player city, you'll likely need to be part of 
 a fairly powerful guild and have access to a whole bunch of credits, because building a player 
 city is extremely expensive, and it will be out of the price range of all beginners. And since 
 most cities are owned by high-level players, invasions are mostly custom-generated for high-level 
 characters, which means that your low-level characters won't stand much of a chance in most invasions. 
 As it stands now, most player cities are owned by extremely high-level characters who are seeking 
 to make their already powerful characters even more so, which presents an intriguing prospect to 
 veterans, though it presents a potentially frustrating one if you've only got a bunch of low-level 
 characters.  

  Otherwise, the expansion adds a great many new items, weapons, and armor, along with peripheral 
 additions, like pet "leets" (if you preordered the game) . Leets are Anarchy Online's perennial 
 joke monsters, and they resemble hamsters that talk like the stereotypically obnoxious online RPG 
 players who beg for money and can't type properly. The expansion also offers an all-new set of 
 clothing. Anarchy Online was arguably the first game to really explore the idea of making characters 
 with highly customized appearances, especially with colorful and sometimes goofy clothing, and 
 Alien Invasion offers even more items and noncombat clothes that you can use to dress your characters. 

  Your characters can look brighter and sillier than before (if you wish) , but the game's now-blocky 
 character models and original facial features, along with many of its monsters and environments, 
 are definitely showing their age -- at least compared to the expansion's sleek aliens. Even player 
 cities consist of buildings that can look a bit simplistic. But to compensate, however, the best 
 ones are colorful and impressively huge. The expansion's audio doesn't offer much in the way of 
 new content either, though there are new music tracks available for the starting areas, battles, 
 and a few other locales, which fit well into the game but aren't distinctive or exceptionally good 
 on their own. Disappointingly, the expansion offers few new sound effects, other than some new 
 ones for aliens. Anarchy Online's sound effects are still effective and fit well with the sci-fi 
 setting, but if you've already been playing the game, you've heard most of them before. Considering 
 that some of the game's closest competitors -- namely EverQuest and Dark Age of Camelot -- have already 
 undergone or are undergoing major engine enhancements, perhaps the time is right for Anarchy Online 
 to receive a face-lift of its own.  

          Alien Invasion's content seems best suited for veterans, whereas the Shadowlands expansion 
 is probably a better starting point for beginners.     

  Because the retail version of Alien Invasion comes at a suggested price of $30 and includes the 
 original game, along with the expansion, it's a decent value. It's perhaps disappointing that the 
 expansion didn't also ship with Shadowlands bundled in, because if it had, the entire thing would 
 have been a much more compelling and complete package. Anarchy Online remains a sometimes convoluted -- but 
 deep -- online game that can be played in short spurts. However, most of its additions are best suited 
 to expert players. As a result, the Shadowlands expansion seems more tailored to beginners or players 
 who played the game a while ago but have now returned to it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Darklay
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 8:13 am PT
Review:  Alien Invasion is an excellent addition to Anarchy Online. The Expansion gives new perks (special 
 character abilities) and equipment (Awesome Alien loot) such as Combined Armor (best in game) and 
 a plethora of new Alien weapons and gizmos.
  
  In addition you can build Org Cities to defend against the Alien attacks (And if you are successful 
 take the fight to the Aliens by going into the mothership for some payback) The Cities also have 
 the added benefit of giving skill bonuses to all the Org members and also gives a boost to tradeskills.
 
  
  Also, there are three high level Alien playfields that open every 7 hours (more or less) These 
 playfields are huge raid zones and offer the fun of large sized raids where you help the Armies 
 of Rubika defend against massive Alien attacks. The loot drops in these zones are the most covetedin 
 the game ATM.
  
  All in all FUNCOM has boosted the player fun and enjoyment of Anarchy Online through the roof with 
 Alien Invasion. I can't wait to see what goodies Lost Eden ( The New Anarchy Online Expansion) 
 will bring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 29, 2004 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Last year, Funcom delivered a real treat to MMORPG fans in the form of Shadowlands, a terrific 
 expansion pack to the complex sci-fi game Anarchy Online. Now, with Alien Invasion, they have added 
 a host of enhancements, including a unique guild content-on-demand system and organization-controlled 
 cities that add luster to Rubi-Kas already ornate environments. The result is a blessing for experienced 
 players of Anarchy Online, particularly those that enjoy grouping with their friends and have excess 
 credits. On the other hand, apart from the new initial tutorial, the expansion offers little in 
 the way of lower-level content to entice newcomers, nor does it offer much for the many players 
 of AO who like to go solo. Still, Alien Invasion does very well what it sets out to do, and the 
 actual alien attacks offer the best moments of gameplay the genre has to offer. The content does 
 not approach that of Shadowlands, however, if only because AIs scope is much more focused on the 
 high-level team experience. 
  
  The struggle between the clans and Omnitek still rages in Rubi-Ka  but now, an imminent threat 
 from hostile aliens overshadows the power struggle between the two factions, and players are tasked 
 with battling hordes of intimidating invaders as they protect their cities. As promised, Alien 
 Invasion adds player-controlled cities to the landscape of the planet, and at their best, the gleaming, 
 detailed towers are a sight to behold, reaching towards the heavens but never jarring within the 
 context of the sci-fi theme. Only powerful, rich organizations can afford a city or put it to good 
 use, however: they are incredibly expensive, and once the guild is ready to uncloak their city, 
 it is susceptible to attack. Its actually a lot of fun to decorate and personalize those cities 
 with trees, lamps, swimming pools, and other odds and ends. Player-controlled shops were dropped 
 at the last minute, but should be implemented shortly.
  
  Once your advanced organization is ready to defend their city against the onslaught, invaders can 
 arrive at any time, and when they do, the experience is powerful, overwhelming and challenging, 
 and perhaps the best pure gaming experience to be found in any online role-playing title. The size 
 of the drop ship and the number of aliens that spawn depend on the size of the city and number 
 of inhabitants present, but even when the invasion is relatively small, the waves of creepy invaders 
 will keep your group busy, and the imposing ships hovering overhead are often frighteningly gigantic. 
 The action is fast, furious, and intense, and the assortment of new items and armor that your foes 
 drop is significant reward for a job well done. If your defense is successful, you get to board 
 the alien craft; much like the main mission areas, the interiors of the ships are unique every 
 time. 
  
  For the most part, the attacks are balanced well, although its best if your group doesnt have 
 a wide range of levels, since there is nothing to keep lower level players from getting crushed 
 by huge monsters dozens of levels higher  or to keep high level players from easily rolling over 
 the adversaries meant for their weaker comrades. You also have a new interface bar to watch: alien 
 experience. As you join your compatriots in battle, you earn alien points that can eventually 
 be cashed in to earn perks much like the ones in Shadowlands, although these skills are unique 
 to the new expansion. 
  
  The new content also includes a slew of new outfits and alien goodies that can be crafted and tailored 
 in various ways, making for a very unique look to many of Rubi-Kas inhabitants, particularly in 
 player cities, where many organizations have booming social lives. Unfortunately, outside of the 
 imposing city visuals and the lure of joining a guild, there is very little to entice low- to mid-level 
 players and those that prefer to solo (of which there are many in Anarchy Online, considering the 
 games general friendliness towards solo play) in the lurch, for the most part. Funcom did add 
 a new tutorial area, though, which actually makes for a friendlier experience to newcomers, but 
 in all fairness, there is very little outside of this to encourage fans to drop their current MMO 
 of choice to start fresh. Anarchy Online still remains incredibly deep, and although there are 
 a few interface tweaks to be found in Alien Invasion, it doesnt alleviate any of the mind-boggling 
 complexities. If the new expansion included the Shadowlands content, and not just that of the original 
 game and the Notum Wars booster pack, it would be an easy, unqualified recommendation. However, 
 considering Anarchy Onlines broad scope, and the incredible amount of content for almost every 
 level of player in the most recent addition, its disappointing that there is no compelling reason 
 for low- and mid-level players to bother for now. 
  
  The new content adds a lot of eye candy to AOs admittedly aging graphics engine, and it absolutely 
 drips with personality and artistry. Sadly, this also serves to highlight the games blocky avatars 
 and low polygon count. Funcom did a fantastic job of designing the new content in a way that complements 
 the awesome landscapes of Rubi-Ka, and while it doesnt quite reach the heights of the brilliant 
 Shadowlands art, the invasions themselves are as terrific to watch as they are to play. There is 
 no doubt, however, that its time to retool the aging AO visuals, although we have to give credit 
 to the developer for pulling off some nice graphics, regardless of the engines age. As always, 
 AOs sound remains terrific, with high quality effects and the best music in any MMORPG to date. 
 However, the expansion itself adds comparatively little audio content, save for the cool buzzing 
 of small ships as they zoom around, or the trembling of overhead motherships. 
  
  All in all, there is no doubt that high-level socialites must hastily obtain a copy of Alien Invasion, 
 as the gameplay additions geared to those people make the best persistent-world RPG on the market 
 even better. Frustratingly, soloists and players with low- and mid-level characters will be entirely 
 underwhelmed by new content that has little effect on their own experience. Whether or not you 
 should buy Alien Invasion depends on who you are, but there is no doubt that the expansion more 
 than delivers everything it promised. With Funcom setting the standard with Shadowlands, though, 
 its too bad they didnt reach their own bar of excellence. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kasiam
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 24, 2004 1:42 am PT
Review:  Many people have played anarchy online, and yet many people have also stopped playing anarchy online. 
 I have been playing this game since near its release date back in 2001. I have continued to play 
 this game because i have been captivised by the way the game plays and how addictive it can get. 
 I've been in multiple guilds and I have also made many characters. I feel as if i have an understanding 
 of the game and its hard to appreciate it if you don't. I have had many sleepless nights because 
 of this game and it was all in good fun.
  Alien Invasion has given me yet another reason to keep playing AO. I hope that it will encourage 
 others to join our AO community. People can now build player run cities which adds to the already 
 enormous content of this game.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
