-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Anarchy Online: Shadowlands
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/anarchyonlineshadowlands/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  3, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 317 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Funcom
Genre: Sci-Fi Online...
Date:     Sep 8, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While it's still extremely complicated, Shadowlands adds a tremendous amount of intriguing new content 
 that helps make Anarchy Online much more worthwhile. 

  The online role-playing game known as Anarchy Online originally launched in 2001, and like in other, 
 similar games before it, players could create a persistent character by choosing from a number 
 of different races and professions, then go off to explore a huge online world with other like-minded 
 players. The game distinguished itself with its futuristic sci-fi world of gun-toting technologists 
 and mystics, and also with severe technical problems that were later resolved. The new expansion 
 pack, Shadowlands, adds a huge amount of new content to the game in the form of an entirely new 
 realm to explore, along with two brand-new character professions, an all-new character development 
 system, and loads of new quests to undertake that further develop the game's unusual sci-fi setting. 
 While it's still extremely complicated, Shadowlands adds a tremendous amount of intriguing new 
 content that helps make Anarchy Online much more worthwhile.  

          The Shadowlands makes many, many additions to Anarchy Online.      

  The new expansion 
 pack adds an entirely new realm to Anarchy Online's futuristic world of Rubi-Ka: the titular Shadowlands, 
 a huge nether realm inspired by Dante Alighieri's  The Divine Comedy . The Shadowlands are a vast 
 realm bordered by the huge floating city of Jobe, which acts as an entry point into the new area 
 for both new and returning players, as well as the site of the expansion's all-new player dwellings -- luxurious 
 penthouse apartments where you and your online friends can role-play as lounging socialites, if 
 you're into that kind of thing. Once you leave Jobe, you'll be able to explore progressively more-challenging 
 areas by solving key quests related to two ancient factions -- the peaceful, nature-loving redeemed 
 and the evil, technology-focused unredeemed -- which correspond roughly to Anarchy Online's original 
 factions of clan and Omni-Tek.  

  Each of Anarchy Online's new areas is home to lots of new quests, as well as plenty of other things 
 to do and see. The Shadowlands are home to an entirely new set of monsters, including monsters 
 native to each segment of the Shadowlands, monsters native to the redeemed and unredeemed factions, 
 and monsters that belong to the brink -- the mysterious and sinister nothingness that has begun to 
 encroach upon the edges of the realm. You'll find plenty of new monsters to hack and slash your 
 way through in these different areas, as well as static dungeon areas with more-challenging opponents, 
 plus temples to the ethereal spirits of the redeemed and the unredeemed, which act as safe havens 
 for players of the same alignment and as hostile camps of powerful enemies for those of opposing 
 alignment. If that weren't enough, you can even create your own monsters by carrying around their 
 component DNA parts with your character, then infusing these formulas with life by using the realm's 
 veins of notum -- the precious resource over which the warring factions are fighting. Interestingly, 
 exploring the Shadowlands is a more-focused and more-linear experience than the free-form exploration 
 typically associated with Anarchy Online and similar games, since you must solve quests to advance 
 into the increasingly inhospitable regions of the realm.  

  You can do so either with your existing characters or with one of the expansion's two new classes, 
 the shade and the keeper, each of which is interesting and viable in its own right. Shades are 
 unorthodox, offense-oriented characters that wear mystical tattoos in place of armor, while keepers 
 concentrate on defense and group tactics by using their nanoformulas to augment their teammates' 
 abilities. Like in the original game, in Shadowlands, all characters have the ability to use profession-specific 
 nanoformulas, Anarchy Online's equivalent of magic spells. However, the expansion also offers an 
 all-new character development feature: perks. These are special abilities that are earned with 
 every 10th experience level and that let you train your characters in certain skills in addition 
 to their standard ones. This new system lets you further distinguish your characters from those 
 of other players, and some of them are extremely useful when adventuring with other players in 
 groups.  

  If any part of what you've read above sounds very complex, that's because it is. While Shadowlands 
 offers a tenacious tip system that insists on explaining everything you do as you do it, unless 
 new players read every single tip and spend a lot of time reading the on-disc starter's guide and 
 the game's community message boards, there's a good chance that beginners will still find Shadowlands 
 to be very complicated, even overwhelming. Fortunately, these beginners won't be alone; like the 
 original game, Shadowlands features multiple chat channels, including a new beginner's chat channel 
 that low-level beginners can use to ask for help. However, unless you've been playing the game 
 for quite some time, you can expect to get lost at some point in deciding how to specialize your 
 character's perks or how to complete certain quests.  

          The game features huge, imaginative environments.     

  You might expect a highly complex 
 online RPG like Shadowlands to be accompanied by a huge, sprawling world. You'd be right. The expansion 
 pack's new areas are absolutely enormous. The distinct absence of creatures and interesting scenery 
 in some parts of these areas is rather obvious as you run through them, as is the annoying possibility 
 of falling off the edge in some areas to land in some random part of Rubi-Ka. However, many other 
 parts of Shadowlands' areas are populated by all-new creatures and characters that give quests, 
 and many of the expansion's new environments are nothing less than inspired. You can expect to 
 see highly varied, and in some cases, extremely beautiful and colorful, outdoor vistas, as well 
 as enormous dungeons composed of highly detailed architecture with a futuristic theme. It's somewhat 
 unfortunate, then, that Shadowlands did not update its character models; while Anarchy Online's 
 characters were the best-looking online RPG characters around in 2001, they haven't aged all that 
 gracefully, even though the expansion adds even more unusual and creative character faces to each 
 race for you to choose from when creating a new character, as well as a huge variety of new weapons 
 and items that appear on your character's person when equipped.  

  But Anarchy Online continues to sound great; though many of the game's voice samples and audio 
 effects remain unchanged, Shadowlands introduces a new set of sound samples for its various monsters, 
 as well as an all-new musical score that seems extremely appropriate for the game's setting and 
 blends well with the original game's music.  

  The new expansion doesn't improve Anarchy Online's character models or make its gameplay much more 
 streamlined for newcomers. However, Shadowlands adds a huge amount of great new content in the 
 form of all-new quests and a vast new world to explore, making Anarchy Online the best it has ever 
 been. Whether you've played the game or not, you'll find that Shadowlands has a lot to offer, and 
 it's a stand-alone game that comes complete with the original Anarchy Online. If you quit Anarchy 
 Online a long time ago and have considered returning to the game, Shadowlands will make it worth 
 your while. If you've never played Anarchy Online, aren't afraid to go through a bit of a learning 
 curve, and you're interested by the game's far-flung futuristic premise, you should definitely 
 give it a try.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ROXLYDE
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Shadowlands did add a lot of content to the game. But once again the shaky code writing made it 
 more of a hassle than enjoyable. I pre-ordered to get the nifty penthouse, and that was actually 
 worth it. Although the in game housing is a bit more weak than some MMOs, I still found it to be 
 well done. The new zones initially had a lot of lag. The new missions and quests were pretty interesting. 
 The uber-armor quests were good. All in all I think it was a successful expansion, but I couldn't 
 help but feel that AO was trying to satisfy the fantasy players more then the sci-fi buffs. The 
 new nanos were a little repetitious, just basically higher levels of already existing nanos. The 
 new classes once again catered to the fantasy genre more than the sci-fi. AO was the first game 
 that I was actually inspired to take screenshots. And Shadowlands certainly provided a lot of photo 
 opportunities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingpin_09
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 5, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  After lvl 100 this game gets really easy to play especially if u have all the expansions. You can 
 buy your own city, towers, and do alien raids in your city gttg gttg ggtg gttg gttg hfhfh fhfhfhf 
 ffhfhf fhf fhfhf ffhfhfhf fhf fghf fhf fhf fhf fhf fhf fhfh fhf fhf fhf fhf fhf fhf fhf fh ffh 
 fh fhhghg ghg ghg ghgghg ghg ghg ghg ghg hghg ghg gh gh gh gh ghg ghgh ghg gh g hghg ghghg gh ghg 
 hg gh gh gh gh gh ghg h gh ggh gh ghg gh gh FIGHThjh jdh jfh djfhd jhd fjdh fjdhf dfjh dfjhd jfhdfj 
 dfhdj fdjfh djfh djfhd jfhd fjhdfjdh jfhdf jdhf jdfh djfh jdfh djfhdjfh djfh djfh jdfh djfhj d 
 hf jdfh jdfh jdh fjdh fjdhfjdh fjdfhjdf dfh djfhdjfh djfh jdfh djfh dfjh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coronatus
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Anarchy Online offers something for everyone. If you are into fast paced science fiction action, 
 play the original game, stay on Rubi-Ka and have fun beating mutants and robots into pulp.
  
  If you are into medieval fantasy take the portal into the Shadow Lands and uncover the secrets 
 of a long lost civilisation which fell to its own flaws in a setting with magic with faerie-like 
 creatures and mysterious medieval styled swamps.
  
  Sounds good? It is. Funcom has an uncanny knack for having good ideas. However, they are sloppy 
 and to some extent unskilled when it comes to implementing their ideas. A lot of memory holes in 
 the client make the software hungry for memory, dozens of scriping bugs flaw the image of a good 
 game.
  
  If you decide to play this game be prepared for a massively huge game world, advanced game mechanics 
 that even surpass the already complicated system Everquest deployed and a rather tight-knit community... 
 of hardcore gamers.
  
  On the long run be prepared to get fed up with the many bugs and flaws the game has, and leave 
 with a weeping eye, over a paradise lost... both gameplay and technology-wise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zlinko
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 13, 2005 8:43 am PT
Review:  I was in the SL beta and I have to say that much imporvement was done. The interface was overhauled, 
 new perk system was implimened, new professions were created and the graphics where updated a bit. 
 But besides that no much else was done gameplay wise.
  
  Yes, SL does add a completely new lands to explore and missons. They even added the new city of 
 Jobe but beyond that its still the same old Anarchy Online. I didn't really see them fix what they 
 need to fix which was the whole money issue in AO. Besides that SL is a pretty good add on you 
 learn a little more about the back story and you are actally forced to get out of your Yalmaha 
 and walk. Yup thats right in SL you can only walk around from place to place no more speeding thru 
 the land, though there are warp gates but they are only one way.
  
  One tip, make sure you know where your going or where a warp gate takes you before you step into 
 it. It is very easy to get lost in SL and have no idea how to find your way back. Rememeber warp 
 games in SL go ONE WAY so you can't go back the way you came you have to find another way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 24, 2004 1:02 am PT
Review:  Anarchy Online, youve come a long way, baby. Ridiculed at release by players frustrated with an 
 infamously instable launch, Funcom proved its dedication to its disappointed fan base by turning 
 its much maligned MMORPG into the broadest and deepest online experience available. Not only did 
 it overcome its initial growing pains, it became the standard by which these games would be judged, 
 featuring a deep and often complicated skill system; a huge and varied game world; an involved 
 and fascinating story arc; and a tremendous amount of content sure to please veterans of the genre.
 
  
  Shadowlands is the first full expansion released for Anarchy Online, after 2002s Notum Wars, a 
 somewhat lackluster add-on pack focused on higher-level group content and adding little to bring 
 new players into the fold. If Notum Wars was a disappointment, then Shadowlands is, quite simply, 
 a triumph of game design. Funcom has created a brand new, enormous expanse to compliment Rubi-Ka, 
 complete with two new classes, a brand new perks system, a new and focused mission structure, and 
 a host of new content that is both exciting and intimidating. With these additions, not only has 
 the most complex online RPG become better, it has raised the bar for expansion packs, not just 
 for MMOs, but for games as a whole.
  
  Omni-Tek scientists working in the city of Jobe, a city floating above the planet Rubi-Ka, have 
 discovered an alternate reality known as the Shadowlands. There, two factions known as the redeemed 
 and unredeemed battle for control in a war eerily similar to that between the clans and Omni-Tek. 
 Jobe is reached either as a starting point for new characters, or via portals on the planet proper. 
 Players can choose to take some missions or battle creatures in the initial beginners area, or 
 simply jump into Shadowlands main quest.
  
  And what an amazing quest it is, more focused and linear than what most expect from a game of this 
 type. While some players may be surprised and partially put off by the relative lack of free form 
 gameplay to be found in Shadowlands, there is still plenty of room for exploration. In fact, you 
 will travel long distances from region to region, and for the most part, the world is packed with 
 monstrosities to fight and plenty of eye candy at which to gawk. The Shadowlands in some ways looks 
 significantly different from Rubi-Ka, owing more to traditional fantasy settings than the cyberpunk 
 atmosphere on the main planet. Those new environments are still quite original, and do not feel 
 out of place within Anarchy Online, a blessing considering you will progress through a number of 
 different regions with their own special look and feel as you wade through the missions. Unlike 
 on Rubi-Ka, your trek from Jobe has a singular end, and because the expansion eschews private mission 
 areas for shared quests, you may miss the short-term personal dungeons from the main planet. Because 
 of this, casual players and soloists may find less to love about the Shadowlands trek, as the linear 
 journey requires a certain amount of patience while you wait for a particular enemy to respawn 
 or a crowd around a particular NPC to dwindle. 
  
  As if a brand new world almost as large as the original and brimming with content wasnt enough, 
 Shadowlands also features two new classes, the keeper and the shade. The keeper is a traditional 
 paladin-type character, and what he lacks in originality, he makes up for in brute force. The shade, 
 on the other hand, is a martial artist with a significant gameplay twist: he buffs himself with 
 tattoos stolen from defeated spirits, rather than using traditional armor. Both classes come with 
 a new array of nanoprograms and abilities, such as the keepers righteous fury, and the shades 
 procs, mainly consisting of debuffs and damage-over-time nanos. And as if Anarchy Onlines skill 
 trees were not already complex enough, another significant change is the addition of perks, entire 
 lines of skills and enhancements, some of which are generalized, and some of which are profession-specific. 
 Completion of those trees can also unlock new abilities for characters, making for seemingly infinite 
 ways to customize your avatar. Not are there perks for all classes, not just the two newest, but 
 each profession can look forward to new nanoprograms, armor, weapons, and items. 
  
  This all sounds incredibly complex, and with good reason; Shadowlands deepens what is already the 
 most complicated and involved online RPG on the market. Thankfully, Funcom has simplified the interface 
 and implemented a brand new tutorial, making new players initial impressions less daunting than 
 before. New help tips have been added, but can fortunately be turned off, as they are often more 
 annoying than helpful. The beginning missions on Jobe guide new players through the standard Anarchy 
 Online interface and control, although Rubi-Ka is still the superior locale for beginners. The 
 final result of this wide array of improvements is a gaming experience that feels brand new to 
 veterans without losing any of the atmosphere and drama that differentiate the game from its brethren. 
 Beginners will find the interface and gameplay less intimidating than before, but would still be 
 better served starting their online careers on the main planet before making the dedicated trek 
 through the Shadowlands. 
  
  Shadowlands does make some attractive enhancements to textures and environments, and exploring 
 is certainly easy on the eyes. This is, though, an expansion to a game released in 2001, and while 
 it was graphically superior to other MMOs at launch, the engine is showing signs of age. In particular, 
 character models have not been updated, and look overly polygonal by todays standards. Funcom 
 has obviously made the most of its artistic talent, however: environments are often stunning, detailed, 
 and full of lush vegetation and frightening fauna. All in all, many of Anarchy Onlines visuals 
 hold up well, and the original and overflowing environments help make up for some clunky models 
 and stiff animations. 
  
  As in Anarchy Online, it is in the audio where Shadowlands truly shines, and its soundtrack remains 
 the best in the genre, particularly with the addition of brand new music. While exploration in 
 most MMORPGs is a silent affair, save for a few random ambient sounds and the noise of your fellow 
 players, the experience here is heightened by appropriate and interesting music that immerses the 
 player without ever seeming repetitious. While most audio effects are recyled, the new enemies 
 are accompanied by original and frightening sounds, and the atmospheric noise is appropriately 
 creepy. 
  
  With so much new content, enhancements, an additional skill system, a huge original world, and 
 more, Shadowlands is the quintessential expansion, and serves as a primer to developers hoping 
 to reward their dedicated players. It may not do much to reduce a steep learning curve, but new 
 players undaunted by complex gameplay would do well to take this opportunity to experience Anarchy 
 Onlines unique futuristic setting. Experienced players and those looking for a reason to return 
 need look no further: Shadowlands delivers a deep, expansive and highly satisfying journey.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SvenExtremo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 4, 2003 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Funcom has successfully advanced Anarchy Online with the Shadowlands adding amazing amounts of 
 more content where the game has a stronghold with. The Shadowlands is more of a new Dimension where 
 the player is sent through a wartorn dimension where the land is literally falling apart. The physics 
 of it are all twisted, some area's have giant floating meteors above them suspended in mid air 
 slowly revolving with tree's and others in it, while some others are completely under water. The 
 soundtrack and audio within the Shadowlands is Unique, and Best I have heard in a game for a long 
 time, worthy of testing a new and high-tech machine on. Graphics are very impressive and the art 
 team has spent precious time perfecting it. If you currently play games like Dark Age of Camelot, 
 Starwars Galaxies, or others Don't bother what others have to say try it yourself and try to live 
 through the huge learning curve. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
