-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ancient Wars: Sparta
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/spartaancientwars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It looks pretty.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bland RTS gameplay that we've experienced countless times before.
 Can be brutally difficult even on the easiest setting.
 Audio and voice acting don't sound epic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 30, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.0, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 527 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Playlogic
Developer: WorldForge
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Apr 24, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Don't expect any grand, over-the-top treatment of Spartan history, as Sparta: Ancient Wars is a 
 very generic real-time strategy game. 

  Sparta: Ancient Wars had the fortune and misfortune to come in the wake of the worldwide box office 
 phenomenon known as  300 . Fortunately, thanks to  300 , popular awareness of Sparta and its ancient 
 warriors has never been higher. However, the downside is that the over-the-top movie also raised 
 expectations for anything Sparta-related to come after it, even a real-time strategy game that 
 has absolutely no ties to the movie. Unfortunately, Sparta: Ancient Wars isn't up to the task, 
 as it delivers a fairly standard real-time strategy experience that's indistinguishable from the 
 rest of the genre.  

          Yes, the game features Spartans and a king named Leonidas, but Sparta: Ancient Wars has 
 nothing to do with the famous recent movie about Sparta.     

  There are three campaigns in Sparta that let you play from the perspective of the Spartans, the 
 Egyptians, or the Persians. Basically, the aggressive Persians under Xerxes want to conquer the 
 world, while the brave Spartans stand in their way. Meanwhile, the Egyptians try to throw off the 
 yoke of Persian oppression. Now-famous figures from history make an appearance, such as the Spartan 
 king, Leonidas. Each faction has its own unique units, such as the Persian immortals, and a slightly 
 different way of doing things. The Spartans, for example, mine gold, while the Egyptians sift it, 
 though all the factions are roughly comparable to one another.  

  If you've played a real-time strategy game in the past 10 years, then you'll likely feel at home 
 in Sparta very quickly. You have workers who collect three basic resources -- food, wood, and gold -- which 
 are used from everything to building construction to technology research. The most limiting resource 
 is gold, since it's the most valuable resource and generally you can harvest it only at a certain 
 rate, no matter how many workers you have. This ensures that most missions in Sparta have a lengthy 
 buildup phase as you sit around and wait to gather enough gold to research all the technologies 
 you need and build and the advanced structures. To buy enough time to do these things, you can 
 build defenses such as walls and traps, though the latter seem fairly useless as the artificial 
 intelligence always seems to know the location of traps and destroys them with ranged weapons. 

  To its credit, Sparta does try to introduce twists to the familiar RTS formula. Ship combat is 
 a lot more intricate than in most real-time strategy games, as you can determine the makeup of 
 the crew, which affects the ship's performance in battle. For instance, you can order a galley 
 to try to board an enemy vessel, at which point the soldiers that you crewed the ship with will 
 battle the opposing crew for control of their ship. Another twist is that you design the units 
 that you build, so instead of simply building barracks and ordering up a bunch of regular spearmen, 
 you can create custom unit types depending on the weapons that you've researched to that point. 
 You can give most units a primary and secondary weapon, as well as a shield, and the more powerful 
 or effective that weapon or shield is, the more expensive that unit is to build. Both of these 
 are interesting tweaks, but they don't radically change the otherwise familiar formula of gathering 
 lots of resources, building lots of units, and swamping the enemy with them.  

  There's just not a lot of depth to the gameplay, as you can't really experiment with different 
 units or tactics. That's because there's only a finite amount of gold on each map, and gold determines 
 everything. So if you waste your units or lose a battle, it'll be difficult to recover from it 
 if you're out of gold, which means that you must restart the battle. The game's bigger problem 
 is that it's very unforgiving if you make a mistake, even on the easiest difficulty setting. Your 
 units can get wiped out so easily that it's prudent to save the game often so that when you do 
 need to reload, you don't have to restart the mission from scratch. We also encountered a nasty 
 bug that wouldn't let us progress through one campaign, even when we were told we had achieved 
 victory in the mission.  

  The multiplayer mode can also be used for single-player skirmish, as you can set up a match on 
 up to nine maps against the AI. There's only one competitive mode, though you can play it in an 
 all-against-all or set up different team combinations. Otherwise, Sparta's multiplayer options 
 are pretty limited.  

          While pretty, Sparta basically serves up the same real-time strategy gameplay seen many 
 times before.     

  Sparta's 3D graphics allow for a pretty-looking ancient world, though one that looks not unlike 
 most other 3D RTS games. There are nice little touches, such as snakes that slither across the 
 landscape, and the larger units, such as elephants and galleys, look great. Naval combat also looks 
 nice, with all the reflections on the water. We previously noted the quiet nature of Leonidas, 
 and the rest of the voice acting is fairly soft-spoken. The same could be said of the rest of the 
 audio, as the sounds of battle often sound like two or three swords clanging together.  

  Ultimately, Sparta comes off as a very generic real-time strategy game, and there's not a lot here 
 to make the game stand out from a relatively crowded field. There's nothing particularly epic or 
 grand about the gameplay or the story, and considering the rich treatment that Spartan history 
 has recently had, Sparta: Ancient Wars comes off as wanting.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (30 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: alterbridge9
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the first games I bought without reading or watching a review! It was purely on 
 the title (I had just watched 300 at the time!!!) . Was a little disappointed when I saw the initial 
 graphics - below the bar set by Battle For Middle-Earth 2 (which is amazin by the way) . The Spartan 
 storyline is okay but alot of battles were taking place in the correct place but in obsecure scenes 
 and being a Spartan fanatic I found this a little strange. The game starts with generic tutorial 
 sort of levels and progresses quite quickly to full blown battles! I enjoyed the mass battles and 
 crushing my enemies but found that it didnt last long enough and that tactics didnt really matter. 
 I found that its basically a numbers game and that if you outnumber your enemy you win every time. 
 The AI I also found quite disappointing as they seem to come straight at you from a fair distance 
 giving you the chance to severely weaken them with your archers before making mincemeat of what 
 is left. However on the positive side the Eygptian and Persian storylins give the game a longer 
 life and I actually preferred to the Spartan storyline especially the Eygptian one! The fact that 
 you can mix and match armour to different classes of soldiers gives you the ability to get the 
 complete army. Overall an above average RTS that can be fun especially in the larger end of the 
 game battles but could have been so more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-Sephiroth
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  Ancient Wars Sparta offers the user an attractive RTS, with good detail levels, plenty of content 
 and a smooth, playable interface. However, it does get many basic things wrong.
  
  The Good : Ncie graphics, detailed and attractive world, easy to use, helpful tutorials, smooth 
 gameplay, good sound effects.
  
  The Bad : 
  
  It offers nothing new in terms of RTS gameplay. Its far too similar to games that are far older 
 than it. Which leaves you feeling youve done it all before. 
  
  There is very little difference between the playable races, they all have very similar core units 
 and building functions. 
  
  The difficulty is rediculous, even on easy. Having completed the main quest without too many problems 
 i thought i'd have a few skirmishes but quickly found out that even on easy, i was getting utterly 
 battered no matter what i did. 
  
  The game offers very little originality. Despite the face the game is well put together, it leaves 
 you feeling like something really important was missing, and if you could well fins it only has 
 a lifespan of a month or two.
  
  If you like stategy game such as this there are far better options out there wchich offer so much 
 more. For the high spec needed to run it, it feels surprisingly lacklustre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pachilles
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  Yes, as the Gamespot reviewer says, this is a pretty standard RTS, and the difficulty is set way 
 too high... but one thing that helps this game stand out, is the weapons. No, the weapons are relatively 
 normal, except that you can set your workers into collect the fallen weapons and shields. This 
 makes a huge drop in the cost of creating new fighters.
  
  The workers can be set to automatically collect them, and then deliver them to your home town building, 
 which then become additional weapons you can give to the fighters you create. Considering that 
 at the top end of fighters, each guy can cost 1500g each, but with the free weapons, the cost become 
 just based on the fighter type you choose.
  
  Even with the cool freebie weapons, the game is still wildly difficult at certain parts. I am at 
 the 7th (?) map on the Sparta campaign, and I'm looking for cheats to get past it. Here's the situation... 
 relatively small group of premade toughies, and an almost empty slate to build with. That's all 
 good, if you are given the time to build up, but you don't. Build walls and towers, build barracks 
 and such, build upgrades... as fast as you can, because the bad guy heavy hitters are on their 
 way to trash you way too quickly. Now just as you almost completely obliterated is when you are 
 to get your hero to escape on the new arrival ships. Too bad your town is completely surrounded, 
 and your hero will never make it to the bottom of the map. No chance at all.
  
  If I could reduce the difficulty a bit, or find some good cheats (haven't looked yet) , this game 
 would be quite fun. Bigger maps and more flexible gold gathering could make this a real winner. 
 If the bad guy AI would largely ignore the peons a bit more, so they can gather fallen equipment 
 better, was a setting option, it would be even better.
  
  To summarize; this game is definitely something to check out... but I'd suggest getting Gametap 
 to run it (which is how I have it) . That way, when you get frustrated, you can go vent on an easier 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polemistis
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  It's a really good game and when I'm playing it , I have really good time.
  I think it's one of the best 2007 RTS games.
  It's also a well informative game because it is 
 about the ancient history of Greece. There are three campgains; the Spartan , the Egyptian and the 
 Persian campgain. The Spartan hero is Leonidas , a general who fought against the Persian army with 
 only 300 soldiers on his side. I hope ,the company of this game will release an expansion pack soon. It 
 reminds me the Age of Mythology game but it's better.
  I recommend it to everyone who hasn't played it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grihn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about Ancient Wars: Sparta, I was very excited, but I also knew what to expect. 
 Sparta is an RTS game with a unique story and a few neat features (such as the ability to pick 
 up enemy weapons and capture wild horses for your own use) , but doesn't set the bar high for the 
 genere.
  
  Graphically, Sparta is beautiful. Amazing water effects and beautiful terrain are offset by sharp 
 shaders and decent character models. The sound leaves some to be desired, but isn't so bad it takes 
 away from the gameplay.
  
  The biggest thing Ancient Wars: Sparta has going against it is the time of release. The game was 
 released very soon after the release of the blockbuster hit, 300. I believe most people who bought 
 this game believed they were buying a game focusing on the battle of the 300 Spartans. This is 
 not the case. You will have heroes such as Leonidas, but this game is not based off of the movie.
 
  
  Ancient Wars: Sparta is a game that only hardcore fans of the RTS genere will enjoy. If you are 
 used to typical gameplay from Age of Empires or games like Company of Heroes, you probably won't 
 enjoy this game. But if you have played nearly every game in the strategy genere like I have, you 
 will most likely enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hercules1209
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Good game that has great potential but underrated by reviewers who spend very little time to enjoy 
 the good things. I do agree that units are too expensive (Can be changed with a patch) and gold 
 distribution is poor but again that can be changed with a simple map editor. The voice acting is 
 a bit choppy but I usually just skip the cinematics ;) . Try the demo, it takes a bit of time to 
 learn (7 skirmish games for me) . 1 other upsetting thing is that their are very few skirmish maps 
 to play on against the computer or online. All round, good game, try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanjeev3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  This game has had many bad reviews, but I ask, why? People have been saying that it is just like 
 any other RTS... isn't C&amp; C3 more like any other normal RTS?
  This game is not like any other, it is unique. There is a huge amount of new features. Playing 
 normal difficulty is as hard as normal should be on every other game. Features included in this 
 RTS that no or few others has:
  - Capturing of ships, ramming ships and soldiers on ship can board and attack other ships. When 
 you load a ship with soldiers you actually see them on the ship.
  - Scavenging from battlefields. Scavenge from a battle with villagers to use the captured weapons 
 for your own troops.
  - Custom design your own troops with whatever weapons you have and/or captured.
  - Wind and fire 
 effects are almost realistic
  - Army cap is at 5,000 units (not bigger than RTW? I think it is)
  
  bad things:
  - Voice 
 acting
  -Prices of units
  - Gold mine distribution on map
  
  A new patch would be warmly welcomed if they added some more maps, lower prices of units and more 
 gold mines on the map.
  
  Like every other RTS? In some ways but aren't they all? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNaKeyy
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 17, 2007 2:05 am PT
Review:  I would advice you to hide from this game. Is not very bad, but is a common game, you played a 
 hundred times this type of rts, search for resources 2 hours and build an army, and you`ll lose 
 it in 5 minutes. This looks like first warcraft which was 10 years ago. The cutscenes are incredibly 
 bad, delayed voice acting, bad music, annoying gameplay, the storyline has nothing to do with the 
 movie '300' and is satisfied. Only the graphics part is a bit better .
  If you want a good rts, play the command and conquers series like red alert or command and conquer 
 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyros3588
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 22, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I cannot even express how utterly disgraceful this game is. One hell of a game concept, but in 
 NO way was the idea carried any further than that. Its WAY too short, only 3 different peoples 
 to use and only 7 missions apiece?! How could the developers expect anyone to really enjoy this 
 game when u can beat it in about 2 days.
  
  Ok its not all bad. The graphics are good and the physics of the game work. The boats need work, 
 but thats a programming problem. The buildings, they're TOO big and the maps are too small there 
 is no room for all of the different buildings in the tech tree... screw the reality size stuff, 
 Age of Mythology was able to get away with the buildings being a bit small, and it worked. Then 
 there is the custom games. The map selection is about as expansive as a mute persons vocabulary. 
 Once u finish all the maps, which will take about an hour, there is nothing left to do. In-game 
 play also is lacking horribly. The resource gathering was not planned out well, or even at all. 
 Everything requires a massive chunk of ur economy, leaving u to decide whether or not u want to 
 protect urself with a few weakly built soldiers or build a farm... Also, there is not nearly enough 
 to go around. Ur resources can be completely harvested in about 10 minutes and then u have to fight 
 with someone else's slaves over who gets to build the next goldmine, or take the next batch of 
 wood. Not only is the game play just shameful, but the historical accuracy is very lacking, like 
 they used a 5th graders history report to fill in the rest of the details they couldn't figure 
 out by actually reading a HISTORY book. The voice-overs are horrible, no one has an accent, everyone 
 sounds english. How hard could it be to put a little authenticity into the game? Spartans did NOT 
 use axes, and there was certainly NO ranged hoplites, although I can see the use of the unit in 
 the game (for class purposes only though!) . However if u are going to make them Hoplites, don't 
 give them helms that look like viking helms, thats just not right and VERY inaccurate; u cant just 
 re-write history because u think it fits better into ur game. Eidos has always made good games, 
 and always has impressed me with game play in general. However, I think they need to take a step 
 back and re-evaluate the half-assed game they let out. It seems that they left it at Beta-Testing 
 and then decided never to finish it. To be honest, I would never have bought this game if I had 
 known it would come out like this. I enjoy historical games and I believe I was mislead by the 
 values of this game. Anyone thinking of buying this game... please, try the demo first because 
 that is the extent of the game. Thats it. nothing special, nothing exciting. Spend that $40 on 
 something that is worth ur time. And anyone who says that this game is 'Superb,' let me guess, 
 u also enjoy colonoscopies? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voredor
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the worst games ever I was really disappointed by the overated C&amp; C3 but 
 this was really crappy. First the units aren't enough to actually start a war, and why are heros 
 glowing. Units are expensive since your money or gold takes time to get you lose it too quickly. 
 Other than the graphics the game is just a rip off, units seem to be dead, no excitment, war cries, 
 egyptians look stupid and spartans look lifeless. They way units fight is stupid and why aren't 
 units produced in betallions and only single. Its practically an upgraded version of AOE pick a 
 part it doesn't matter. This might not be the worst strategy game but i would stay away from it 
 if i were you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stealthfox88
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  Both the good and bad thing is the custom unit.... This give the player their own style of gameplay, 
 but lacks the variety of units. Even though u can put different weapons and armor on ur unit, it 
 doesnt make much of a difference. The basic models looks the same no matter wat u add to'em. The 
 storyline doen't make sense for me, maybe its just because i watched 300, or i really dont understand 
 the spartans. This is not wat i expect from the Greeks. Only 3 factions to play with, no rock paper 
 scissors gameplay we stategy gamers love. Just not my type, not large-scale enough i guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eng_mas_60
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 29, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Ancient Wars: Sparta is a very good game, have the strongest three ancient civilizations in the 
 history.
  excellent : graphics, game play, you can watch building of any war craft with animation, you can 
 see also animation of warriors practice, actions in the battle is very good, good scenario and 
 stories, good sounds, and very good effects ( shadows, water reflections and refractions, v-sync, 
 fog, trees animation, etc... ) .
  poor :
  not long enough, gold resources is very limited but can be handled with discovering more than one 
 resource, and its not real that the warrior may cost larder than the ships as warriors are very 
 expensive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DATNOOB
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 24, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I have looking forward for this game for quite a while and i played and was just simply Fun. Being 
 able to play Egyptain, Persian Campaigns as well as the Spartan so its not just a 1 Campaign for 
 one Team. It doesnt need a Serial Key which also good cause i tend to lose them somehow. The only 
 Bad side to This is the Gold Side of the Economy where you run out of Gold faster than a Bullet 
 hitting you in the Head. Nice how you can give your units any Weapon and Shield. This Game is Really 
 worth it, Didn't notice any bugs while playin the Campaign and Mulriplayer.
  
  This is a Must Get game in my Eyes. Though still not the Best Historical Game ever Created 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caetrarii
Rating: 3.6
Date: May 24, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I started the game open minded and got a semi-disappointing letdown. The campaigns are a nice way 
 to play but as soon as I tested the multiplayer I was saddened by it all.
  
  To start with, the game is slow to begin and the economics in it are horrifying. A medium unit 
 armed with a sword and a shield costs as much as a heavy battleship? That's just not right. You'll 
 never have a grand army in it unless you get the weapons for free or cheat. I depleted the starting 
 goldmine before I even had 20 decent soldiers (that died easily one by one against the numerous 
 enemy units) , and yet the AI could easily poop out more naval warfare than I could count and even 
 send endless hordes of soldiers armed to the teeth.
  
  I would've liked to see a map maker but no dice there as well, so you have to make due with the 
 multiplayer maps but those are mediocre at best. To be honest, I don't think the game would be 
 worth buying from the bargain bin or second hand.
  
  The sounds are not good, the voices of the characters in the cut-scenes are horrible and the music 
 is over-rated. As long as there's something happening on the mini-map, a sudden battle music starts 
 and disorients you. Now to the good parts, the gameplay is 'okay' seeing as the ship bumper-cars 
 like combat can be fun to a point and watching the units fight is not disappointing, it's acquiring 
 them that's the hard part and they're too expensive.
  
  The graphics are very good and the units are nicely animated and enjoyable.
  
  Overall, don't 
 buy this game. If you do buy it, give it to a person you hate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demesan
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  Well, it wasn't the game that we were waiting for. A good strategy (real-time) game, but not quite. 
 I, personally awaited for something else. It is a medium-difficulty game in most of its part. There 
 are three countries available to play. Egyptians, Persians and of course, Spartans. Each with its 
 own campaign. Spartan campaign is somewhat difficult in the end. Egyptian campaign is difficult. Persian 
 campaign is the hardest. In the end it is impassable. As you understand, the game will be very difficult 
 for new Strategy gamers. The graphics are just great (!) , but the gameplay isn't its best point . 
 That, probably, because by the time this game was being developed, Infernal was also being developed. 
 And even its Developer and Publisher didn't support it like Infernal and didn't give much attention. 
 There aren't many options in multiplayer, not many maps available and it would be nice to create 
 a map for you only (like many other games) and don't have to await for the modding tools to be published. 
 If you have already bought it, don't be disappointed. Enjoy it. If you haven't, take first a look 
 to other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magum77
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  During all game I felt myself as the spectator of wonderful historical action. And at times even 
 it seemed to me, as if I have come to be among heroes. The game is beautiful, interesting, emotional, 
 and the main thing, is incredible captivating. You are involuntarily set by a question, whether 
 really it is game, instead of interactive film.
  Constant visibility of free workers and clever forming has pleased in build difficult armies. Many 
 unique objects - ancient boards, the whole 12 kinds of the weapon and 4 kinds of animals - elephants, 
 camels, horses, sheep.
  Any of soldiers can be planted on made separately a horse, a chariot, the fighting machine, in 
 a tower, on a platform of the elephant or a deck of the ship!
  The balance in general, in my opinion, in game is magnificent. The structure of the sea, infantry, 
 animals, mysticism or defense (own or the enemy) is easily remembered, decisions to accept simply. 
 Unique features of races are brightly enough expressed. Besides each soldier accumulates fighting 
 experience up to that can be made in heroes (of the environment of usual units!) . Unfortunately, 
 game comes to an end earlier, than bothers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mokasina
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 3, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  This game is a something! It wery playable, and nice interface. Even on all easy is nice to play! 
 All oround its a good! Soud is a great with nice talking in the seens, however the scenes betwen 
 misions are vith graphic 6/10, but in the game graphic is for me 8/10, sound 7/10, playing time 
 9/10, With some of 5 misions I have pased so far its a wery nice even in all easy mode its great 
 fun to take a place at Sparta, Egypt or Persia. Or in a custom game online! In iterface its similar 
 with Company of Heroes , and its the nice game to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesarjose1979
Rating: 4.6
Date: Apr 30, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Played this game for 3 hours before heading back to my Galactic Civilization 2
  
  The game is... well like every other RTS game I have ever played before. Except buggy slow and 
 unbalanced.
  
  I gave it a good run 3 hours of my free time is all I could stand... 2 of those hours I spent on 
 a single map trying to a mass large enough army to defeat the enemy that has no problem pumping 
 out soldiers every other second. I would not recommend this game to anyone there are better RTS 
 out there for way less than 40$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jntshumaker
Rating: 4.6
Date: Apr 29, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  The beginning of the game can be pretty boring, go here, do this, save this guy, don't die, etc... 
 But the game picks up and the missions can be a little difficult (for me at least) I didnt get 
 very far and didn't explore any other campaigns. The gameplay (collect resources, amass an army, 
 upgrade your army, and attack the enemy) just felt far too familiar, which for some can be a bonus; 
 if that is gameplay you are use to and/or like. For me this gameplay wears very quickly.
  
  All that said, on to a break down, piece by piece.
  
  Gameplay - Sparta introduces a few unique 
 gameplay elements however nothing groundbreaking. Some of the better ones are... collecting shields 
 and weapons from the fallen to arm your EXPENSIVE army.
  
  Graphics - Well below par for todays games however not unbearable. Clips every now and then, map 
 sizes can be pretty large however the zoom level is still very tight. It's manageable but a little 
 annoying.
  
  Sound - Well... as far as sound goes in not major games, this one is on par, pretty bad voice acting, 
 music you wont even listen to, and sound effects that are just rehashes of other games.
  
  Value -
  There may be some value in the multiplayer aspect, however i personally didn't even 
 make it that far, as the game wore on me in about a day.
  
  Final words:
  This is a very particular type of RTS, if you like the model that it presents and don't mind dealing 
 with a few, less than appealing, game facets, this may be your cup of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green140870
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 28, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I recently purchased a budget version of Settlers IV: Heritage of Kings for &pound;5.99. At that 
 price what I got was what I had paid for, a basic RTS with all the usual ingredients but no longevity. 
 Unfortunately it appears to have been re-hashed and taken from the mythical world it inhabited 
 and placed in an historical situation. The problem is that it is neither historically accurate 
 or different enough to justify it's release. There are a number of bug related issues, screen freezes, 
 units getting stuck etc which although do not totally effect the overall flow of the game it certainly 
 affects enjoyment. My tip is simple, if you haven't already bought Settlers IV buy this and save 
 yourself some money. However I should warn you that Settlers IV is only better due to the price!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iranian_Guy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 28, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  I have only played the Persians' campaign and skirmish and it was good .a few things was stupid 
 about Persians like their Arabian like clothes and their dark skins but it was totally good. landscape 
 is highly detailed in almost everywhere. troops are detailed as high as landscape and even better. when 
 you click to train a soldier he will start practicing in your training camp. you can fully customize 
 their weapons. you can even use the fallen enemies' weapons and save some gold and wood. Close combat 
 is so good in this one you won't have to watch two soldiers hitting each other and none of them 
 die. even heroes can die by light infantry's blade. animals move so realistic on battlefield and 
 if you kill their rider you are able to steal them. one time a spartan stole my own empty war elephant 
 and killed half of my army. you cannot command animals without a driver unlike many other games. And 
 one of the best things in this game: you have time long enough to build a massive army and plan 
 your attack unlike all other RTSs. And finally the naval battle. naval battles will help you enjoy 
 the game even more if you are tired of fighting in land. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ohmek
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 27, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I just love this game. Its the best all around. I like how you can customize your character with 
 different weapons and also pick them up from the ground after you have killed your enemy. Its got 
 a large variety of units to pick from and your max population is five-thousand... OMG. I havn't 
 evenn played with the egyptions or persions yet but i can tell that just playing spartans its an 
 awesome game. Also I like how you can zoom in really close and look at the battle with its stunning 
 graphics. Theres alot more I could say but you should just go buy it and see for yourself and it 
 could take alittle to get used to. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyriakosmagos
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 27, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  This is a wonderful medieval type ara RTS, I have not yet seen 300 but think this game is brill, 
 the physics engine is quite impressive, although the game can get a little slow paced and the voice 
 acting is bad at times, that does not mean i will rate the game lower! that is only one of the 
 minor things..
  
  Pros: Brilliant graphics, may not completly up to date but still good (bloom effect good too)
 
  Unit designer, i think every rts game should have this, its brilliant that you can decide what 
 weapons that you want to equip your soldiers with, and that you can pick up enemy weapons and use 
 them for yourself :D
  Physics: First rts game ive seen with such a impressive physics engine, buildings fall down piece 
 by piece and crash to the ground, shaking the camera and creating smoke, and every unit has ragdoll 
 physics, company of heroes does that too (another great game) and i dont see many game where you 
 actually see the arrows stuck in the enemys and they stay there until the bodies go
  Blood: A bit of a random thing to finish off but i havent seen a rts with so much blood, the blood 
 doesnt stay for long but when you get an axe to an enemy you really see what it can do :D
  
  Cons: Voice acting, bad at times
  Sometimes slightly slow paced (doesnt really bother me 
 much though, rts's do require patience)
  
  I definitely reccomend this game to any rts fan out there, this game rules!
  ANCIENT WARS: SPARTA 
 FTW (oh and the engine i think is simliar to warcraft 3, but very very enchanced... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COUTUDAC
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 27, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  ANCIENT WARFARE BRINGS THE TACTICS DOWN TO BASICS. ONE ON ONE HAND TO HAND SPARTA TAKES YOU DO 
 INTO THE TRENCHES AND PROVIDES YOU WITH ACTION AND EXCITEMENT. GAME PLAY CAN START OUT A LITTLE 
 SLOW BUT IT SEEMS TO LURE YOU DOWN THE PATH TRYING TO QUELL THE RIOTS. EACH CAMPAIGN STARTS BY 
 SHARING A STORY TELLING A STORY IS AN ART FORM THAT SEEMS TO COMPLEMENT THE ENVIRONMENT. The graphics 
 were realistic and the color and texture vivid. Game movement seemed a bit awkward at first but 
 the game really grew on me. The quality of the interaction improved as the interaction developed. 
 The interface and the relation to the units became more basic and clearer as you moved through 
 the campaigns. The units seemed to have dimension and the characters had personalities. This period 
 of early warfare is dynamic and exciting the elements of sound, music and storyline appeared to 
 offer a good complementary storyline. I dont believe Ive played the game enough to give it a 
 total analysis but from a cursory perspective I enjoyed my experience. I would recommend this game 
 to those that enjoy Ancient Warfare and will return after Ive had time to fully evaluate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jay_J
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a wonderful medieval type ara RTS, I have not yet seen 300 but think this game is brill, 
 the physics engine is quite impressive, although the game can get a little slow paced and the voice 
 acting is bad at times, that does not mean i will rate the game lower! that is only one of the 
 minor things..
  
  Pros: Brilliant graphics, may not completly up to date but still good (bloom effect good too)
 
  Unit designer, i think every rts game should have this, its brilliant that you can decide what 
 weapons that you want to equip your soldiers with, and that you can pick up enemy weapons and use 
 them for yourself :D
  Physics: First rts game ive seen with such a impressive physics engine, buildings fall down piece 
 by piece and crash to the ground, shaking the camera and creating smoke, and every unit has ragdoll 
 physics, company of heroes does that too (another great game) and i dont see many game where you 
 actually see the arrows stuck in the enemys and they stay there until the bodies go
  Blood: A bit of a random thing to finish off but i havent seen a rts with so much blood, the blood 
 doesnt stay for long but when you get an axe to an enemy you really see what it can do :D
  
  Cons: Voice acting, bad at times
  Sometimes slightly slow paced (doesnt really bother me 
 much though, rts's do require patience)
  
  I definitely reccomend this game to any rts fan out there, this game rules!
  ANCIENT WARS: SPARTA 
 FTW (oh and the engine i think is simliar to warcraft 3, but very very enchanced... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bassem182
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  A game based on sparta after the 300 movie, without being an official licensed game for the movie 
 is always a good thing.
  And the first minutes I've played it, i was screaming SPARTANS!!!!!!!!! every single second.... 
 But unfortunately, the characters didn't!!!!
  
  The characters actually looked quite like the usual age of empire warriors.... And the gameplay 
 did too, with a little twist a-la praetorians... While this was never meant to be a bad thing, 
 i didn't really feel that attached to this game... The sounds could have been better, and for a 
 game that lagged like hell on my 512MB RAM laptop, the graphics could have been a lot better!!!
 
  
  Overall, the game disappointed me, but it still gave me the gameplay that i expect from a typical 
 RTS.... Not a gem, but also not that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vnik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  One of the most dynamic and graphical best RTS of the last time. Very good animation and a lot 
 of details inside. Enjoyed a lot after viewing 300 the film. A lot of interesting historical battles 
 and characters, very nice scenarios. All three races have completely different units and buildings 
 system. Very interesting sea battles with ramming, also very nice to capture enemies animals. I 
 like very much that units throw the tourches and burn down a villages, but not trying to kill a 
 building with a sword or a spear. The intro trailer looks booring, but it's pretty fast and you 
 shouldn't pay a lot of attention to it. The game is really great and worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lankatana
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 25, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  After playing this for 3+ hours I just couldn't be bothered anymore, it's inferior to almost any 
 other game of this ilk, on so so many levels. Mainly it's because the voice actors sound so disinterested, 
 it just made rubbed off on and made me feel the same. Do not buy this game based on the film of 
 the 300, if you have money to burn I suggest that you do just that, burn it. I suggest that you 
 stick with games with an establised pedigree the AOE series, or empire earth. I'm now struggling 
 to write anymore about this travesty of a game so hopefully I've reached my 100 word target. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coldsquall
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Most people bought this game because of 300 - the epic film about 300 spartan warrior fight againts 
 more than 1 000 000 Egyptian. It's such a waste of time of money on one of the worst RTS recently!
 
  
  The most annoying thing about Ancient Wars - Spartan is economy system. It's too unbalanced. Gold 
 is the most important resources but it's also the lowest speed resources builders can gather. Your 
 unit, your building are way too expensive. That's why it leads to the consequences: low-paced gameplay, 
 which is the worst thing one RTS game can offer.
  
  You can customnaize your unit - choose the weapon and shield, horse for the unit as you like. But, 
 since it's too expensive even for the lowest level warrior, you will have to wait for a long time 
 before you can enjoy the fight.
  
  The fight is not better due to path-finding problem, your best warrior will run around finding 
 a place to fight while arrows fill his armor.
  
  The Graphics and sound are low quality. It's like a game 2 years ago.
  
  This is the game I 
 recomment you should'n buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacrednight01
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 24, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  I have to say after watching the movie the 300 I was intrigued by the setting as I imagine would 
 be the main selling point for this game, when I purchased ancient wars I was not expecting to compare 
 it to the latest strategy games released this month such as Command and conquer 3 or Supreme commander 
 but ok a strategy game set in 500 BC it could be a nice change. As I started to play the game from 
 the campaign missions sadly I found them to be poorly constructed, being very slow paced, the graphics 
 were pretty average which could maybe be compared to stronghold Legends, I wasted away 3 hours 
 on the first few missions, some of the dialogue in the game were slightly boring and unimaginative. 
 Still optimistic about the game I tried a skirmish with 3 races to choose from Persia, Sparta and 
 Egypt and thought that maybe once I had a army to play with the game would be a little more fun 
 but that just was not the case the time span of the game is so slow that it took me roughly 2 hours 
 to get setup with a small battalion of men. Seen as I was based on a separate island from the AI 
 I had to advance a lot before I could have the technology to invade another island. Good points 
 on this game are pretty limited but could be good additions to any strategy game, when building 
 machines such as boats and catapults it is pretty neat that you can see them being constructed 
 piece by piece, the destruction of buildings and walls are also well animated. My conclusion is 
 that the game could have been so much more the few good points it had would just not be enough 
 for me to recommend this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
