-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ankh
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/ankh/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good sense of humor combined with a fast-moving plot.
 Cheerful, cartoony graphics accompanied by a bouncy musical score.
 Great dialogue and voice-acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Puzzles can all be solved by picking up and combining objects.
 A little buggy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.6, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 221 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: bhv Software
Developer: Deck 13
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Aug 31, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's not quite the return of LucasArts-era cartoon adventures, but this cheerful game dishes out 
 a lot of laughs. 

  In a lot of ways, Ankh feels like a lost game from LucasArts. This adventure from Deck 13 Interactive 
 was clearly made to follow in the fine tradition of old-school LucasArts games like The Secret 
 of Monkey Island and Sam &amp; Max Hit the Road, which is to say that it's a lighthearted, kid-friendly 
 romp that provides more than a few laughs while leaving your brain cells relatively untaxed.  

 
          Clearly, the Sphinx has changed a little bit over the centuries.     

  Much of the plot follows the standard Disney cartoon formula of taking a stereotypical modern story 
 and modern characters and tossing them into an offbeat setting. In this case, that setting is ancient 
 Egypt, and the lead character is Assil, a bad-boy teen who swipes the keys to a pyramid from his 
 architect dad so he can sneak in and guzzle beer with his pals. Before any kegs can be cracked, 
 though, Assil accidentally smashes seven canopic jars, and a mummy pops out to pronounce a death 
 curse. Apparently only the pharaoh can remove such curses, so hijinks ensue as Assil tries to get 
 to the big guy and maybe teach the Arabian ambassador's beautiful daughter how to, um, walk like 
 an Egyptian.  

  As with Disney cartoons, much of the comedy here is derived from anachronisms. Some of it is pretty 
 groan-worthy, such as the officially licensed Cleopatra shower-curtain rings on sale in the bazaar 
 and a souvenir salesman named Bakshish, but a lot of it is funny and inspired. The musical number 
 performed over the opening credits is flat-out hilarious, as are other little touches, like the 
 automatic camel wash, the hippie Israelites, and a debauched pharaoh. It's all inescapably cute, 
 yet also charming if you appreciate mild-mannered, kiddie-style games where you can't get killed. 

  The game isn't very challenging, though. Ankh centers on wandering from one conversation to the 
 next. You get tips through dialogue with a succession of weirdo characters like a gangster ferryboat 
 sailor, a tailor with the eyesight of Mr. Magoo, and an overweight guard who acts like a nightclub 
 bouncer and shouts "Oi!" And as usual with these sorts of games, you've got to grab everything 
 that isn't nailed down. Every conundrum here is solved by picking up odd objects like pieces of 
 wood, animal skulls, curry powder, forks, and so on and then combining them into useful gadgets. 

  Most of the item combos have some rhyme and reason to them, so you're not scratching your head 
 very often. You combine camel hair with a bristleless brush to clean up an idol; turn a crocodile 
 skull, some teeth, and a handbag into a mask to freak out the guards at the pharaoh's palace; whip 
 up a cocktail with wine, bananas, and a paper umbrella; take out a rotting beam with a jar of termites; 
 and so on. If you ever get stuck, you can usually get going again by randomly clicking on items 
 in your inventory until something sticks.  

  The look and sound of the game are equally charismatic. The visuals are cartoon-style, with big-eyed, 
 big-headed characters that wouldn't be out of place on Saturday-morning TV and exaggerated architecture 
 like a Sphinx that looks like something drawn by Dr. Seuss. Camera angles cause some frustration, 
 though, as the camera is frequently too tightly focused for you to see where you should be going. 
 Important locations like stairs and doorways are occasionally obscured, so you can get lost, at 
 least momentarily. Audio includes a selection of catchy Middle Eastern tunes and some great dialogue 
 spoken in that emphatic style common to kiddie cartoons. The only weak link is the actor portraying 
 Assil -- his lines usually seem flat and forced.  

          Give Assil a few minutes and he'll probably think of something.     

  The game does 
 have a few notable bugs. On a few occasions, Ankh suddenly froze up and prevented access to any 
 of the onscreen icons or to the menu. These crashes forced system reboots because the game also 
 locks out Alt-Tabbing to Windows, making it impossible to just shut down the game. Thankfully, 
 this happened only a few times throughout the course of the game.  

  Aside from the technical issues, Ankh is an enjoyable, lighthearted romp. It never hits the highs 
 of the games released during the golden age of LucasArts adventuring back in the early and middle 
 1990s, largely due to the lack of challenge and the absence of an edge that might have made the 
 game more appealing to adults, but you do get an entertaining story and some chuckles.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ryaz_weaponx
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  STORY - The story starts of with Assil & His friends who make their way upto a Pyramid by stealing 
 the keys from his architect father. Before they can start they're partyup in the pyramid. Our hero 
 Assil smashes seven canopic jars, a Mummy pops out of his Tomb and curses Assil with a death Curse. 
 And so our journey begins...............
  
  SOUND - The game is quite funny, Voice actings are done pretty well, keeping you smiling throughout 
 conversations. Background Music is decent enough and you must watch out for the Opening Credits 
 song (Its pretty kool) .
  
  GRAPHICS - Graphics are pretty cartoony and sober on the eyes. Going well with Games Humorous Approach. 
 Although even on a high PC the game looks abit choppy even if you turn on the settings on high.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY - Ankh is a simple point and click adventure game. You can pickup items from the enviroment, 
 combine them with each other or combine them with the enviroment to get through the game. Nothing 
 too great here its just simple and fun. Puzzles are easy and you should be able to get through 
 the game in about 5-6 HRS or even less. The game has a few bugs that forces the game to freeze 
 at times and the camera can get annoying at times. 
  
  THE GOOD - Cartoony and Homourous Approach.
  
  THE BAD - , A Few Bugs, Camera, Not much of 
 a Challenge
  
  VERDICT - Play it for and its humourous approach to the world of EGYPT. But dont go expecting anything 
 great here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 8, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  Adventure games are infrequent ones. Lucasarts popularised this genre to a great degree through 
 the Monkey Island series, Sam and Max etc -- which use a lot of humour appeal in the gameplay. But 
 then a good number of adventure games are too serious. In fact for many years, after the fourth 
 installment of Monkey Island -- humour was missing in adventure game. Ankh brought back the humour. 
 Right from the character design, opening sequence to the on-ward sequence, humour is nicely blended 
 with puzzles in a 3-D world. The story is set in the ancient Egypt, when our hero Assil accidentally 
 causes a mummy to spell out a curse. You have to play Assil and stop the curse. The puzzles are 
 not too difficult and sometimes they feel a bit kiddish. I think its because the game developer 
 was not sure about which age-group it was targeting at.
  I guess this is why this game was not a 'big hit' -- though it had many elements to make it a good 
 game. I hope the developer of this game learns from its mistake and make a game with a clear definition 
 of its target audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viveckvivu
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Ankh. I wanted to buy this game from the moment I saw its first trailer. And it was really worth 
 the wait. I really enjoyed playing it. It was so funny. The characters were all good. Voice acting 
 great. Graphics awesome.
  
  The gameplay is just simple. Its a simple point and click game .And puzzles can be solved by combining 
 things. The graphics are very detailed and great. The story was ok. Not that good, but was really 
 funny. The dialogues were not cheap, it was good and hilarious. The story is like this: The players 
 take the role of Assil. He was partying with his friends one day in the pyramids. He accidentally 
 smashed some unique things. And after that, a mummy came and put a death curse on him. Now, Asil 
 has to remove his curse. The only one who can remove his curse is the pharaoh himself. But on the 
 way, things change. Assil was going to have a different adventure which he hadn't even thought.
 
  
  There are very funny locations in this game too. The Sphinx is completely changed. Its very cartoony 
 and funny. The people with whom we can talk are clever. Its fun to talk with them. This is a good 
 adventure game. So give Ankh a chance, and maybe you would like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geitenvla
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Ankh is a typical point and click adventure old school style. That really sounds appealing to all 
 the lucasfilm and lucasarts graphic adventure fans out there, but don't get too excited.
  
  At first glance the game looks polished. It shows nice graphics in a cartoonish style and they 
 have a lots of great detail within them. All is done very colorful and it really gives an Egyptian 
 swing to the game.
  
  I liked the music, especially at the title screen. The background ambients are ok, but could have 
 been better. The voice acting however is not very well done and I'm being really nice here. It 
 really sounds like actors reading text from paper rather than talk to eachother. This gives an 
 absurd feeling to the game and brings me back to day of the tentacle style voice overs. It was 
 really cool back then, it isn't now.
  
  Since the developers are obviously inspired by old school Lucas adventures it is inevitable to 
 compare the two. And this is where the train runs off downhill at full speed without any breaks. 
 Old school graphic adventures were all about twisted humor and great dialogues. Ankh pulls every 
 rabbit out of the hat to come near this, but they simply can't do it. It's like a really bad stand 
 up comedian trying to imitate someone like Robin Williams. Even if you do have the right joke every 
 now and then, still no one thinks it's funny. Now another thing which makes an adventure worth 
 playing is the way of solving the puzzles. These have to be absolutely crazy; use a monkey as a 
 monkey wrench... yeah! But Ankh isn't that twisted at all... If you're a die hard adventurer you 
 will find the solutions to the puzzles are pretty obvious. Not once I got stuck for longer then 
 20 minutes or so in the game. What happend to the frustrating nights trying every trick in the 
 book and getting stuck like forever? Obscure puzzles is a MUST for these type of adventures. Ankh 
 plays like a walkthrough, yuck!
  
  If you are new to the scene and titles like zak mckracken , DOTT or Monkey Island don't ring a 
 bell, you might see this from a totaly different perspective and I really can see how some people 
 like this. The game itself isn't that bad... it just doesn't live up to the legends that are out 
 there. To respect the effort of the developers trying to relive a great - but long gone genre - 
 I go rather mild on them. I still can see a good adventure styled game in here but I have too look 
 really REALLY hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 1, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Ankh is a classic point &amp; click adventure game. It's funny, it has bizarre and obscure puzzles 
 and even a decent story, which makes for a great first impression but as you play several hours 
 into the game, it just gets dull the jokes and humor becomes annoying and the game-play just 
 makes you wanna choke somebody at some points of the game (the desert, for example) .
  The game is a pretty good adventure game, and has a fair amount of good and challenging puzzles 
 (although some of them are completely out there) , but only those who really enjoy adventure games 
 should play Ankh; I believe people who are not familiar with the state of mind required for this 
 type of games will just feel frustrated and will probably abandon the game after 5 hour or so. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Force_field
Rating: 4.4
Date: Oct 3, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  I really don't know where to begin...
  OK, pure facts first:
  Graphics and sound in this game are ABSOLUTELY average, if not below that point. Gameplay is so 
 limited, buggy, linear and uninspirative that 8 year old kid would find it boring after the first 
 impressions . Everything has some silly story feeling from the first line, but that should be sometimes 
 funny and this game is ?!@#&amp;
  It could be interesting for about 5-10 minutes, which mostly depends on your age and state of mind.
 
  I really don't want to mention hardcore P&amp; C gamers which should be absolutely MAD about the 
 rankings of this (I must be very polite) STUPID game. Every single SMALLEST attempt to compare 
 it with Lucasarts EPIC adventures is POINTLESS and RUDE (still choosing NICE words) !
  I must stop here if someone still wants to try this one, because this review could become much 
 less polite :)
  
  Just a few for the end ....
  if you have already wasted 45 seconds to read this, PLEASE don't waste your time and money on this 
 AWFUL game . If you pick any other game in the store you will be MUCH more satisfied... or you 
 just try good ol' GRIM FANDANGO and forget about ANKH forever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raz0redge
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to find a true point-and-click adventure game these days and Ankh tries to bring back 
 the magic of the old world games. It gets the comedy and the graphics right, but the puzzles are 
 a different thing. Most of them make sense and are solvable based on the information you get in 
 the game, but there are a couple that will leave you scratching your head even after you read a 
 Walkthru and find the solution.
  
  The story itself is concrete enough and throughout the game you are working toward an end goal, 
 but the locations are very limited and the story is very short. I managed to finish the game within 
 5 hours of very leisure play.
  
  This is not meant for hardcore adventurers as you might finish the game in less than an hour!
 
  
  But if you can find this game cheap in a bargain bin, definitely check it out.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1SinN6
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  Aaah yes.. Ankh.
  
  I've been looking forward to playing this but in the end the game falls short.
  
  Graphics
 
  Ah! we start of with a good point. The visuals really suit the game and do a great job of making 
 you happy while you're playing it. 
  
  Sound
  Another good point. Not so much the music but some of the voices are very good... yet some arnt. 
 The hero, Asil, has a bit of a monotome voice and the acting isnt that great for some caracters. 
 Don't get me wrong its not bad, not bad at all... but its not Monkey Island 3 or Grim Fandango.
 
  
  Gameplay
  Gameplay! Here we go! It's a point-and-click game so that means mouse mouse mouse. Everything works 
 exept fot the running. Because its 3D and the camera rotates at certain point.. you have to keep 
 clicking. You click on the side of the screen but when the camera follows Asil, Asil had the tendincy 
 to stop and you'd have to click on the same spot again. Really annoying and because the game requires 
 running around A LOT, (and i mean alot.. walking from A to B is 50% of the game) it gets on your 
 nerves after a couple of hours.
  
  The game also is WAY too short. I finished it in less then 9 hours and it shouldnt take experienced 
 point-and-clickers any more then that. I got stuck at some point but not because i didnt understand 
 the puzzle... i just couldnt find the item. I can't really lay my finger on it, spotting items 
 isnt something i got stuck on while playing MI games of other lucasarts.
  
  Overall
  
  Overall i'm pretty happy that point-and-click has found the masses, but at the other hand.. its 
 not a very good one. If you're a fan of the genre you'll forgive it's little missteps, but in the 
 end you'll feel cheated that you've finished it in less then 7 hours. Experienced player be careful. 
 Beginners of the genre, you'll have a great beginners game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetxshots
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  When i first decided to look into this game, i was at first in doubt that maybe it would be like 
 the other set puzzles that run in the veins of all bad adventure games, which is like a puzzle 
 game of a maze or in those lines and it results in a door openning? like its very related. Well 
 praise this game, it has none of that non-logical none sense. The game starts off with a pretty 
 corny but funny scene, and the great thing about this game is that the puzzles are reasonable, 
 you need to think about them but also it wont leave you brain-dead of the million attempts of everything, 
 and than you realize ooooh i must've missed the almost transparent object in the corner of a room. 
 No this game is simpler with interesting puzzles. 
  
  After the first very simple puzzle, you continue off to talk to two assasins, and when you converse 
 with them, the producers add the humour twist, which the main character starts asking the egyption 
 assasins if ths game is like all the other point-less puzzles, and will i repeatedly get stuck 
 at one point? obviously the assasins respong 'of course not, the game was made to allow the user 
 to never get stuck, and never get bored' than the character asks 'do i need to save constantly 
 incase i hit a dead-end in the game, and can't go back' and the assasins respond 'the game is made 
 in a way which if you wish to never quit the game, you never need to save, and there definately 
 is no scenes where the player can get stuck'
  
  I experienced the full game, and know for a fact what the producers said was true, at no point 
 was it impossible for me to get stuck with no way out, and there definately were no impossible 
 puzzles. As already shown the producers made this game as a change to all of the other adventure 
 games which certify them selves around murder crimes.. which seems to be 'the thing' these times. 
 
  
  Over-all the game is ALOT of fun, but if your one of those players who enter a game with doubt 
 and hate everything unless the player has a first person view and a fun in the middle of the screen... THAN 
 THIS is NOT for you...... but it is for everyone else 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazion
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  For the GFX, Riddles and all, this is the best game ive ever liked of aventure,
  It was very short, but not that easy. Riddles are OK, but you got to think some stuff that you 
 will never imagine. I loved it, B+ for it, because ot the shortness. If they put out a Ankh 2 ill 
 be owning.
  
  I recommend this game, very good, you have fun and you will never get bord if u know how to play 
 it.
  And.. your patience enuff, to deal with it, also if u got an open mind. :)
  
  Ankh did good.
  Keep it up!
  
  dazie:. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizzo2711
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Overview
  
  Ancient Egypt: the teenager Assil decides to steal the key to the pyramid from his father and invites 
 some friends for a party. In the pyramid however, Assil gets into trouble with the local mummy 
 and he ends up with a death curse and the Ankh. With the curse taking over slowly, Assil must find 
 a way to lift this curse before its too late.
  
  So this is where the story sets off. You take on the role of Assil and you must find a way to lift 
 the curse. This will need you to escape your fathers punishment and to walk around through Caro 
 to find the means of lifting this death curse. That however, will prove rather difficult since 
 the lifting of the curse appears not to be the only problem youve gotten yourself into.
  
  
  The game
  
  So, the game Well, after I finally started it (I had many, MANY difficulties 
 with this and I hope that I was an exception) , my initial impressions were positive. The game is 
 fully in 3D and has a sort of comic style, which suits the game well, especially in combination 
 with the humour in the game.
  A point that I was less enthusiastic about however, was the way you really, REALLY had to check 
 your surroundings for every object that could be of use to you. For example, at one point I was 
 really stuck and I had to use a walkthrough in order to advance. In the walkthrough it said I needed 
 to find a certain object and it even said where it was. Even with this walkthrough, it still took 
 me about ten minutes to actually find the object! That isnt making puzzles challenging, thats 
 just frustrating players.
  
  What I also thought as a nuisance, was the constant running around in the game. You constantly 
 have to go from one point to another, only to perform a very small task and then you have to go 
 back again. This takes ages and if there was a way of skipping screens, I didnt find it.
  
  Then let me also make the last negative comment about the game (which is also the most important) : 
 the game is too small and too short, especially for the amount of money you pay for it. After progressing 
 in the game, it became clear to me that there wouldnt be that much more locations I would come 
 to visit. You walk around in the city of Caro, you get to visit the palace of the Pharao and then 
 there are a few more locations in the desert, but basically thats it. So the gameworld is frighteningly 
 small. That also goes for the length of the game. If you forget the parts where you can get really 
 stuck because you missed an object, which will take you hours to figure out without a walkthrough, 
 and if you look past the parts where the game is just taking up time because you have to run from 
 one place to another (which, in my opinion has nothing to do with an adventure game) , the game 
 is very short. I would say about seven to eight hours. Thats just way too short for an adventure 
 game.
  
  Are there only negative aspects to the game? No. Like I mentioned before, the game is (or attempts 
 to be) pretty humorous and it has its moments. For example, at one point in the game, there suddenly 
 appears a health bar in the upper left corner of the screen. The main character immediately makes 
 some comments about it and after taking a few steps, someone hits him with a pebble, which brings 
 down the health of Assil to about five percent. If this is not your kind of humour, then you will 
 find the entire game pretty annoying. If this is your kind of humour, prepare for some laughs during 
 the game.
  
  The controls 
  
  The controls are very simple. You control the entire game with the mouse. When you hover the mouse 
 over certain objects, the cursor will change, depending on what you can do with/to that object. 
 A right mouseclick will let Assil perform this action, while a left mouseclick will let Assil examine 
 the object, or simply walk to it. How much simpler could it get?
  
  The graphics
  
  A 3D game in comic style. There are games out there which have tried this and failed miserably. 
 Ankh however, doesnt fail in this. It really suits the game. The characters look lovable and the 
 surroundings look good too. The graphics arent the comic style like the game Runaway, but different. 
 I dont know exactly how to further describe them; just look up some screenshots to see for yourself.
 
  
  The sound
  
  The music is decent. I especially liked the song at the ending credits, although that one also 
 was too short. The voices are, on overall, good. The voice of Assil suits him and that goes for 
 most of the characters. There are a few characters of which I thought the voices didnt suit the 
 characters, but luckily, those were exceptions to the rule. The background sounds are pretty decent 
 too, not much to say about those, actually. So, the sound isnt exactly the aspect which totally 
 carries the game, but it doesnt hinder the game either.
  
  Overall
  
  Like I said: the game is just way too short. There are five chapters in the game, but in my opinion 
 the game should have at least nine or ten chapters to be a complete game. The same goes for the 
 locations in the game: there are just way to few locations. So if the game would have been about 
 twice as long/big, it would have been a decent adventure game. Now its just a very small game 
 that is too expensive. And thats too bad, because this game really could have been something.
 
  
  You'll find that I've rated this game's difficulty as 'Hard'. That's mostly because you can get 
 stuck very easily. And then I'm mostly talking about having missed an object or something like 
 this.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
