-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: AquaNox
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/aquanox/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 30, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 6.6, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 185 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Fishtank Interactive
Developer: Massive Dev.
Genre: Futuristic Sub Sim
Date:     Nov 19, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While the graphics are undeniably great, the battles are dull, and the awkward controls and extremely 
 brief missions prevent AquaNox from being engrossing as an action game. 

 If you ask gamers whether they'd generally prefer a game with beautiful graphics but shallow gameplay 
 or one with incredibly involving gameplay but less-attractive graphics, almost all of them will 
 immediately declare that they'd rather play the one with better gameplay. But the allure of incredible 
 graphics is often underestimated, and many of those declarations are untrue in practice. Just as 
 many psychology tests have demonstrated that people are more likely to undeservedly ascribe positive 
 attributes (honesty, intelligence) to good-looking people, gamers are more likely to overlook a 
 good-looking game's thin gameplay and design flaws. But while outstanding graphics can make a good 
 game seem great, occasionally a game features gameplay so weak that even amazing graphics can't 
 camouflage its flaws. Enter AquaNox, a game with far more flash than substance.           AquaNox 
 definitely looks impressive...     

  AquaNox is a belated sequel to 1997's Archimedean Dynasty, a subsim game that is similar in style 
 to space sims like Privateer. Superficially, AquaNox features a similar design, as you'll return 
 to the underwater world of Aqua featured in Archimedean Dynasty as a mercenary who gains credits 
 by completing combat missions. With the money you earn from your successes, you'll be able to buy 
 better ships and equip them with more formidable weaponry. But while Archimedean Dynasty was a 
 complex, mission-based simulation with trading and privateering, AquaNox is an arcade-style action 
 game that abandons or greatly simplifies those elements. Combat is fast paced and more similar 
 in style to Quake's, or even a rail shooter's, than it is to the more tactical battles in other 
 underwater sims.   

  It's disappointing that the developers opted to make gameplay so simplistic when the setting offers 
 so many interesting possibilities. Unlike the barren environments offered by space sims, AquaNox's 
 battles occur around subterranean buildings, gigantic peaks, and other obstructions. Yet in spite 
 of the rich tactical promise offered by the setting, combat is so simplistic that there's little 
 need to dodge behind obstacles or perform complex maneuvers. Instead, combats can be quickly won 
 by just lining up opponents and blasting away while strafing in any direction. Circle strafing, 
 which seems incredibly misplaced in a game featuring underwater vehicles (which you wouldn't expect 
 to be able to move laterally quickly) , will likely be your primary combat tactic.           ... even 
 though some of its effects don't seem appropriate underwater.    

  There's certainly nothing inherently wrong with opting to offer arcadelike action instead of a 
 more detailed simulation of underwater combat, but AquaNox's cumbersome controls seem poorly suited 
 to handle the quick maneuvering necessary to keep the action interesting. While you can elect to 
 use a joystick, the default manner for controlling your craft is an FPS-style mouse/keyboard setup. 
 Switching to a joystick setup is a real chore, since instead of just designating "joystick" as 
 your control device, you have to manually reprogram the controls by selecting which joystick axis 
 or button you want to use for each function. The selections aren't always intuitive -- you have to 
 change your "direction of view" settings, instead of your "direction of movement" settings, if 
 you want your ship to move in the direction you point -- and the program refuses to accept the remapping 
 of the "left/right" direction of view to the x-axis of a joystick, even though most games that 
 use joysticks are set up in that manner by default. If you're uncomfortable with the way the game 
 controls, you'll have to guess which of several "tolerance" or "sensitivity" settings you have 
 to adjust, none of which is explained in the game's manual. It sounds confusing because it is, 
 and if you think you've made things worse, there's no way to instantly backtrack to the game's 
 default settings. In spite of the fact that the game is designed to be played with either a mouse 
 or a joystick, you'll have to tediously navigate all of the game's menus with the keyboard. Setting 
 up the controls is an incredibly awkward process.    

 Even once you've decided upon a control scheme that you're reasonably comfortable with, movement 
 in the game is awkward and lacks fluidity. It's difficult to stalk enemies by lurking behind them, 
 so combat often devolves to strafing while almost motionless or while moving almost straight forward. 
 Even though the lack of motion should make your craft a relatively easy target, opponents rarely 
 team up against you, which makes it possible to conveniently dispatch your enemies while remaining 
 virtually stationary. Players who are familiar with the Descent series or who spend a lot of time 
 practicing may be more adept at maintaining a steady aim while moving, but since you can be very 
 effective in battle by essentially just pointing at your enemies and firing, there's little incentive 
 to master more complex tactics.           AquaNox features plenty of interesting environments. 
    

  Once you do get into the game, you'll be treated to some amazing visuals. Considering the game 
 engine has been used for months to market Nvidia's flagship GeForce 3 video card, it's no surprise 
 that the graphics are outstanding. The game has been designed to take advantage of all the high-end 
 capabilities of the GeForce and its latest generation of cards, and the environments look amazing 
 as a result. Textures are colorful and extremely detailed, and there are numerous little graphical 
 touches, such as chips that flake off underwater hills hit by your projectile weapons. The environments 
 are also varied and well designed, allowing you to battle around underwater volcanoes and massive 
 structures and be aided or hindered by swift currents and other environmental effects. The explosions 
 are primarily over-the-top fireballs, which aren't as realistic or detailed as the blasts featured 
 in recent space sims or the subtle underwater implosion effects in Red Faction, but they seem appropriate 
 in an arcadelike action game like AquaNox. AquaNox's graphics were much vaunted in advance of the 
 game's release, and they definitely live up to the high expectations that hype generated. AquaNox's 
 graphics represent the state of the art for computer games.   

  The premise behind the plot is that civilization has been driven underwater, and the remnants of 
 humanity are divided into various factions competing for dominance while battling the hazards endemic 
 to their adopted underwater homes. The plot is simplistic and advances in a linear fashion by completing 
 assigned missions. Between missions, you can purchase new equipment and speak with nonplayer characters 
 to get information needed to initiate the next mission. The dialogue is terrible, even for a game 
 of this type, and the voice acting of almost all the characters (other than the protagonist) is 
 grating. Some of the NPCs have astonishingly bad, childlike voices and almost equally exaggerated 
 facial caricatures. Woody Woodpecker at 20,000 leagues.           Unfortunately, the awkward yet 
 simple gameplay isn't satisfying.    

  You can't save the game during missions, but almost all the missions are very brief, and many of 
 them can be completed in just a couple of minutes. Mission goals are varied, and often you'll have 
 the assistance of allied fighters. Friendly forces act independently, so you won't be able to assign 
 them to specific targets or goals. The lack of wingman commands is another example of the decision 
 that the designers made to deemphasize elements you'd typically see in a simulation to make the 
 game more arcadelike. The heads-up display of your craft includes nonfunctional switches and is 
 also very simple. There's a targeting system that displays rudimentary information on your current 
 opponent, but there's no way to cycle through available enemies or target anything without pointing 
 and clicking on it through your targeting reticule. The only polished element of the interface 
 is the sonar display, which provides a very detailed overview of your surrounding area.   

  The game's music consists primarily of pseudo-techno jingles that are more distracting than anything 
 else. Sound effects are appropriately loud to match the onscreen action, and a variety of environmental 
 sound effects are supported, including Creative Lab's dominant EAX2 standard, but effects never 
 seem isolated to specific locations. There's nothing subtle about AquaNox.   

  In addition to the single-player campaign, there are a few instant-action settings and multiplayer 
 dogfight scenarios, but they're unlikely to significantly extend the longevity of AquaNox. The 
 designers have chosen to abandon or pare down simulation and role-playing elements to deliver a 
 more accessible, faster-paced action game, but the action just isn't very interesting, especially 
 by itself. While the graphics are undeniably great, the battles are dull, and the awkward controls 
 and extremely brief missions prevent AquaNox from being engrossing as an action game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CrimsonMaverick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  This players of this game looked at it in a wrong view. This game has all the great features that 
 even counter strike can't beat (except for the storyline concept... I liked counter strike XD) .
 
  
  Carrying on, this game has an advanced graphic system that is available in use for the regular 
 PC modem (its like playing counter strike source but only reduced a bit in graphics) . It also matches 
 the nice gameplay the producers have inputted in this game (you can access to a huge variety of 
 weapons, countless minigames, a number of ships to pick and more) . Also there's the nice multiplayer 
 system that can be used as a battleground for players.
  
  The only thing I see so unfitting about this game is the sounds (duh.... its a 1st person shooting 
 game...) , and the lack of equality in weapons and ships (no real complaints here, there are weapons 
 and ships here that really bursts up the crap out of you.... and there's the powerful ones....) . 
 For me, Ithink this is an enjoyable game for players though the only thing they wouldn't like is 
 the location of the battlefield (the ocean... duh) and the seemingly evadable attacks (I'm talking 
 about missile countermeasures and debris XD) . Either way, Its still a fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  Every time a new graphic chipset appears, the market gets drowned in games that try to squeeze 
 the last drop of quality and frame rate from the new hardware. The Krass engine used in AquaNox, 
 was primarily supposed to be a GeForce3 demo, and it later evolved into a full game that will both 
 appear on the PC and X Box.
  
  The L-Gatling - definitely the most efficient weapon. Light the way with my mighty Gatling!
  
 
  The graphical aspect of this title has been explained in detail by Vader (our associate editor 
 - ed) in his AquaNox preview, but I would still like to mention some of the engine's highlights. 
 I should before that mention that the game heavily relies on its graphical aspect, and that there 
 is not much more to it. This is one of the first games that use the vertex and pixel shading techniques 
 which gives you a better feeling of the deep blue sea. I especially liked the planktons which hinder 
 your vision. Apart from that, the submarine structures and enemies look quite realistic.
  
  AquaNox is supposed to be a sequel to the somewhat older Archimedean Dynasty, but as much as it 
 may be so according to the plot, it is in no way a complex submarine simulation like its predecessor. 
 AquaNox is nothing more than a simplistic, linear and arcade shoot-em-up. Unlike Archimedean Dynasty, 
 which let you trade and sail from harbor to harbor, the only interaction you will be able to achieve 
 in AquaNox is shoot at something. The game has been made seemingly complex by introducing the briefings 
 before each mission, but they always come down to: seek and destroy missions. Another problem is 
 that the scriptwriters simply lost it somewhere round the middle of the story, rendering the entire 
 plot totally ambiguous... not that it really matters as the entire game comes down to senseless 
 shooting anyway.
  
  The background story doesn't seem too bad at first sight. In far future, mankind decided to move 
 under sea because of the abnormally high levels of pollution, but as there are less and less resources, 
 these underwater cities are engaged in fierce civil wars. During one of these wars, a secret experiment 
 based in Neopolis went wrong. Ancient demons of the deep (resembling giant octopuses) had been 
 awoken, and there is only one man that can face them. You assume the role of a submarine adventurer, 
 Emerald Deadeye Flint, and have to eradicate the potential threat to humankind. On the way to your 
 main goal, you will also have to fight genetically mutated pirates, rebels, and about forty kinds 
 of different monsters altogether.
  
  The combat isn't too bad, but it soon gets very boring and monotonous. It basically resembles any 
 space-shooter game from Wing-Commander on. Still, don't expect to see anything as complex as the 
 Freespace gameplay system. All you have is a couple of types of weapons, torpedoes, and subs; no 
 complex controls. You just have to slide around, shoot senselessly and dodge enemy attacks. The 
 graphic surroundings look great, and that is the main, and for that matter the only trump of this 
 game.
  
  As good as the graphics may be the sound is practically disastrous. I have many times discussed 
 the voice acting in games; I think that being an actor in a video game is a great position and 
 that good voice acting can substantially improve the atmosphere in the game. On the other hand 
 if you let your idle secretary or programmer actor-wannabes do the job, you get a game sounding 
 like AquaNox... and I simply find it hard to believe that the people who did the voice-acting in 
 this game got actually paid for it. The voices and the accents are just as terrible as the common 
 Hollywood belief that all foreigners actually speak English, just with a funny accent. I did not 
 know whether to laugh or cry watching the psychedelic caricatures and listening to their idiotic 
 voices.
  
  On the other hand, the Multiplayer mode is interesting and fun especially if there are a lot of 
 players in the game. This all goes only if they all have monstrous rigs preferably equipped with 
 GeForce3 cards.
  
  Another problem with AquaNox are the numerous bugs which start 'bugging' you as soon as you install 
 the game. The developers already published a patch, but if you take a closer look at the FAQ page 
 on their site, you will find out that the game is full of settings, which can crash Windows if 
 tempered with.
  
  Aquanox is a simple, easily controllable and modestly fun product. It should by no means be considered 
 to be a submarine simulation, but rather a simple arcade shoot-em-up, used only for time wasting 
 when you have nothing the least bit intelligent to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Excall
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I should have written this review a long time ago.
  
  I first heard about Aquanox in an article in PCgamer. I am a big Descent fan, so the first thought 
 that popped into my head was (sweet, it's descent underwater) . I didn't hear about the game till 
 a couple years later when I found it for 7.99 with the obscure bargain games in KB Toys. I bought 
 it, and I am glad that I did.
  
  Aquanox seems like an action game, but it is really much more than that. Aquanox is a work of art 
 - a fantastic underwater world that makes itsself believable while still managing to poke fun at 
 itsself with the over-the-top personalities in the colorful locations.
  
  If all you want is action, then Aquanox isn't for you. There is a lot of dialogue in the game that 
 tells the story (a very good one imo) , but there is a lot more of it that just adds to the atmosphere. 
 You will either spend a long time between missions, or you will skip through it and wonder what's 
 going on. The game is a package deal, you have to play it the way it was meant to be played in 
 order to get the most out of it. I've heard some people complain that the game is too easy - if 
 you think that please try the quick mission against the guy who stole the Succubus - the final 
 boss is pretty tough as well. The subs don't move super fast, but they are subs after all, and 
 some of the action can get really intense.
  
  At it's best though, Aquanox is one of the most immersive games out there. The graphics were the 
 most amazing in their day, and they still hold up pretty well today. The world just sucks me into 
 it, and I know there must be others who feel the same way and can appreciate the masterpiece that 
 this game is. I couldn't put it down a couple years ago, and i loaded it up the other day and I 
 am hooked again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerhenry
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 29, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  Its beena while since iv played it so bare with me. :)
  
  Now this game has gotten abd reveiws in the past but i loved this game. It is basicaly a sub simulation 
 in an (you guessed it) underwater envirorment. The part of this game that made me so crazy about 
 it is the whole feel of the futuristic space-like feel of it. You have to play it to understand. 
 The controls take some getting used to but in the end I found that they worked exremly well dispite 
 what others say. I used the mouse/keyboard controls however you could use a joystick or exterior 
 controller of your choice. The way you used my way, is you control pivoting up down left right 
 and all inbetween with the mouse and forward back and side to side movement with the arrow keys. (arrow 
 keys also contol boost and engine shut off) Guns and gun switching is done with the left and right 
 mouse keys and scroller where as everything else (which is barly used) is done with keys of your 
 choosing. The way your sub reacts in the water is very precise to waht you would think and faster 
 adn more mobile subs will obviosly perform better.
  
  The graphics are amazing! Back when it was released it was more so as you can understand but it 
 wasnt as much the graphical power that I love but the raw art behind it. All the ships, characters 
 and everything was just awsome. People had nano tech all over them and the weapons were so cool. 
 Even if you never play the game I suggest you at least check out some concept art from the game. 
 If they ever made a movie, Iwould be the first in line. Back to the game though, It was kinda dark 
 but i felt taht it only added to the cool effect of it all. Also, I dont remember any glitches 
 as far as graphics go.
  
  Sound was another thing. I cant remember excatly but i remember really liking it. The sound of 
 all the guns and torpedos in the water was somthing you dont hear often and they did an excellent 
 job of it. One thing I would liek to point out was that the explosions i the game graphically and 
 sound wise was spot on and really freakin cool. Also the voice acting was cool. Tons of unique 
 voices to go along with sweat character designs. Little to complain about there.
  
  Now comes why the game did not do so well, the gameplay. Even though the whole idea of the game 
 was cool and the art was done superbly, the game left some to be desired as it was short, and at 
 times, very tedious. And if you arent he patient type, there is alot of dialog that you must go 
 through. you can skip it by clicking through and they do read it for you but it does take up alot 
 of time. ont get me wrong i have played throught the game about 3 times. The upgrading of ships 
 and weapons and story was fun but it could ahve been done better. As i said before, a book or movie 
 would be outstanding. In the end I loved this game and I know many would enjoy it as well. If anything, 
 please rent the game as it is short and would be truly worth it. PS. They is going to be released 
 soon a nother version of Aquanox called Aquanox: The Angels Tears coming out for the Playstation 
 2. worth keeping tabs on (even though Play$tation sucks :P) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  Mainly Aquanox is for dogfighting fans. Missions are simple in the beginning and involve a lot 
 of ships/weapons/system upgrading to keep you playing until the end. Unfortunately the game doesn`t 
 allow save game inside a mission and this become suicidal in the last quest when I encounter the 
 toughest boss battle ever. Graphics are great for 2001 , but the gameplay lack a solid storyline 
 who is the bread and butter for every game. The sound is easygoing and the environments get murky 
 sometimes, but Aquanox make sens if you think at him as part to the Aqua trilogy , a commendable 
 effort to create something different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koss2010
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 1, 2005 12:26 am PT
Review:  Its sad that the online community died down .. regardless this is game is very underrated espically 
 by gamespot. The storyline isnt bad but what will really catch your eye are the graphics, its not 
 the kind of graphics that looks pretty the type that makes you belive that your in a whole different 
 world. Just how unique the game is by it self should be a great reson for you to pick it up. In 
 the game you star a captain of an underwater ship ... you make friends and get betrayed fighting 
 of rebels and your vicious old enemies with a mean submarine of the future. One thing that really 
 got me was the setting .. underwater in the future jus blew me out of the water. But the major 
 prob is a few glicthes here and there besides that its one heck of a game.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
