-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: AquaNox 2: Revelation
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/aquanox2revelation/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 29, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 6.5, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 148 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Encore Software, Inc.
Developer: Massive Dev.
Genre: Futuristic Sub Sim
Date:     Aug 22, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The missions are still brief, the control is still awkward, and in 2003, those great graphics just 
 don't look so great anymore. 

  While we see quite a few games that involve water of some kind, almost all of them have action 
 that takes place above the surface. But of course, this isn't always the case. The 2001 release 
 of AquaNox took players underwater and essentially brought a simplified version of the action and 
 mission structure of a Wing Commander-like space simulation along with it. The game looked highly 
 impressive if nothing else, but its gameplay left much to be desired. Two years later, the team 
 at Massive Development has put the finishing touches on a sequel, but not a whole lot has changed. 
 The missions are still brief, the control is still awkward, and in 2003, those great graphics just 
 don't look so great anymore.  

          AquaNox 2 doesn't fix the gameplay flaws of its predecessor, and doesn't live up to the 
 original's graphical presentation either.     

  AquaNox 2: Revelation is basically an action game, but it's also one that's been weighed down by 
 layer upon layer of dialogue, as well as by a pretty clunky interface. You spend your between-mission 
 time clicking around to different spots, which open up windows that show a person you can speak 
 with. Clicking on the person opens up another window that shows the conversation between your character, 
 the absurdly naive William Drake, and the person you've clicked on. These conversations are designed 
 to give the game a plot, but more often than not, the sequences are filled with near-meaningless 
 babble. Eventually you stumble onto a conversation or two that has some bearing on the gameplay, 
 and a new mission is opened up in the dock section of your current location. If you click around 
 and listen to what everyone has to say, you'll probably spend more time listening to the game's 
 dopey script and limp voice acting than you will cruising around the ocean floor.  

  But all of that isn't entirely the fault of the story sequences. Most of the missions are pretty 
 short (there's no multiplayer, either) , and the game rarely gets difficult once you've gotten used 
 to the sluggish-feeling ship control and disappointing combat. The mission design follows that 
 of your standard space combat sim, so you'll escort ships, destroy loads of pirate submarines, 
 defend your freighter from incoming attack, and generally follow navigation points until you're 
 told what to do next. You'll usually have to scoot along from nav point to nav point, and the points 
 are generally behind obstacles, like large undersea mountains. Instead of simply being able to 
 propel yourself over the short mountain, you are kept at a specific depth range, so you'll tend 
 to travel in canyons and stick pretty close to the bottom of the sea.  

  The game does a pretty good job of simulating what it might feel like to move and fight underwater. 
 Unfortunately, that means that the game moves at a painfully sluggish pace. You'll receive faster 
 ships as you play through the game, but none of them ever approach the maneuverability you'd want 
 from a game like this. Instead, you lazily cruise around, strafing and turning to dodge enemy fire 
 while firing off your weapons as quickly as possible. The game gives you an occasional chance to 
 purchase new weapons, but you'll find most of your new gear as salvage, which turns up at the end 
 of every mission. You'll start with a basic vendetta gun and then move up to zoom-lens sniper weapons, 
 plasma cannons, an EMP weapon for disabling enemies instead of destroying them, an array of different 
 torpedoes, and more.  

          Much of the game is extremely dark, which may be realistic, but doesn't do much to make 
 it more fun.     

  The game's visuals provide another reason to steer clear of AquaNox 2. The entire game is very 
 dark. This wins the game a few realism points but also causes it to lose the rest of its fun points. 
 While some missions take place in lighter areas of the sea, much of the game is so dark and murky 
 that you can't see the terrain until you're bumping into it. The game does have built-in gamma 
 correction, but as you might expect, cranking this setting up merely washes out the game's colors 
 and doesn't really help very much. The portion of the game that  is  visible doesn't look too different 
 from the original AquaNox, which was said to look fantastic back in the early days of Nvidia's 
 GeForce3 hardware. Now, however, the terrain and textures aren't nearly as impressive, and the 
 ship design and movement are dull and jerky, respectively. The game's menus and character artwork 
 are pretty slick, but in the end, the game manages to look good, at best.  

  The game's audio doesn't really bring much to the table, either, though it's mostly fitting. The 
 sound effects are generally appropriate for underwater combat, and the game supports 3D audio hardware 
 for good measure. The music is suitably rocking as well. But as previously stated, the voice acting 
 in the game is quite weak, and none of the characters other than Nat sound like they're particularly 
 sold on the words coming out of their mouths.  

  All things considered, AquaNox 2 really doesn't add up to much. The gameplay is shallow and mostly 
 uninteresting, the storyline is poorly conveyed, and the graphical presentation can't bail it out. 
 If you're after a mission-based action game, you're better off looking elsewhere.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  Enter 2003, and a second attempt is born. The game begins with a wonderful pre-rendered video which 
 details the time that transpired between the story's present day and original game. Shortly thereafter, 
 you find yourself lured out by a distress call, only to find it's a ploy to draw you away from 
 your massive family freighter. Upon your return, you are humbled to find pirates have taken control, 
 and really don't have any intent on giving your ship back any time soon. Lucky for you, they have 
 no desire to kill you, perhaps making your services somewhat available. It looks like you're clearing 
 your schedule for the next few months. Let's pencil in be the pirates' **** for the 13th, shall 
 we?
  
  The game is held together with a fairly archaic interface in which you simply click on a 2D representation 
 of your ship and find yourself in respective locales. As you proceed to click on the Mess Hall, 
 the Bridge and so forth, new areas will be open to click on as you follow the game's fairly linear 
 storyline. At each location you'll find people who are less than eager to interact with you. Perhaps 
 this shows through in the voice acting, as it seems uninspired and dry; however, this will be addressed 
 later on. After most of the objectives for gathering background information on the story have been 
 satisfied, it's time to hop into your ship and straight into the action.
  
  The game follows the same basic formula that most space shooters employ: going on cargo runs, protecting 
 your pirate infested freighter from other pirate attack, and escorting ships. There really is nothing 
 profound that is offered that will set this game apart from all others in the genre. It isn't necessarily 
 the dry mechanics that keep the game from being fun, however. The lack of enjoyment rests with 
 the control scheme and game design. Still following in the footsteps of the original, Aquanox 2 
 employs extremely difficult control. Unlike most space shooters in which the controls invariably 
 make or break the game (as a consequence the controls in said games are usually extremely tight 
 and tweaked) , Aquanox's controls are very loose and unresponsive. Using the mouse is virtually 
 useless as you'll find yourself throwing the camera from side to side in a vain attempt to lock 
 on to a target. Strafing is jerky and awkward. Even with a joystick the controls still seem to 
 be much too sensitive. When a game is this hard to control, it makes it extremely difficult to 
 enjoy.
  
  Nav points are scattered throughout the missions in an attempt to guide the player through the 
 sporadic level designs. Without these Nav points, you'd constantly be lost. However, even with 
 this assistance, it is still often more difficult than necessary to find the next Nav point, as 
 the designers have placed giant obstacles in the way of your ship and objectives. Simply cruising 
 over top of them just isn't an option as your depth is limited to a very short range. Underwater 
 mountain ranges are littered throughout the levels, causing frustration rather than a challenge. 
 Perhaps a blessing in disguise, the missions are extremely short, as objectives are often met quickly 
 and without much effort. Dogfights with other ships seem harder than they should be initially due 
 to the sloppy control scheme. Once the player becomes more accustomed with the controls, the game 
 then becomes too easy, leaving a balance to be desired. The interim game time is filled with massive 
 amounts of dialogue that for the most part remain uninteresting. The story isn't overly exciting 
 to begin with, and the pace that the designers set never leaves much room for expansion on the 
 mood or feel; overall, it feels like you're finishing each mission in a vain attempt to find an 
 upcoming mission that just might be... well, good.
  
  The graphics are fairly average. There isn't all that much that is different from the original 
 Aquanox. The game isn't quite as bright as the original, which boasted superb color palettes and 
 excellent texturing. But what passed for commendable nearly two years ago doesn't quite make the 
 cut in 2003. The game doesn't take advantage of many of the new abilities of today's graphics cards. 
 On a relatively fast machine this does, however, keep the game running quite smooth. But for those 
 with a top-of-the-line gaming rig who want to pump their visual settings to the max are going to 
 be disappointed. The in-game menus and character art are crisp and effective. Yet, when a game's 
 pre-rendered laurels impress greater than that of the gameplay, problems begin to arise.
  While the underwater darkness provides a more realistic experience, it makes it extremely difficult 
 to see objects, with the player constantly bumping into deliberately placed obstacles (attempting 
 to cover up already short missions, the sadistic folks at Massive almost seem to enjoy painfully 
 lengthening your time on each mission) .
  To heighten your underwater experience, the game is designed to make you feel like you really are 
 piloting a ship underwater. While this may seem all well and good for a simulation, this game is 
 much more action oriented, consequently making everything feel extremely sluggish. Even the speedometer 
 doesn't lie as some of the fastest ships boast a top speed of 80 Km/h (that's about 50 miles an 
 hour) . Accordingly, even the most action-packed sequences seem labored and unnatural. While the 
 game does give the player the option of upgrading the scout ship to be faster and better equipped, 
 most of these upgrades can be salvaged at the conclusion of missions, making the need to purchase 
 upgrades virtually obsolete. This is just one of the many reasons why the game just feels too easy.
 
  
  The sound department leaves much to be desired. The lackluster voice acting is at some points laughable, 
 as you can practically visualize the actors reading from a page. While this is not how the entire 
 game presents itself, the occasional brutal dialogue does detract from the experience. The sound 
 effects are appropriate for an underwater shooter, yet don't do anything to dazzle the player. 
 The music is upbeat, and does make the missions feel a little more intense, although in the end, 
 it is still the same boring gameplay. It is in this reviewer's opinion that while a lot of developers 
 create music to compliment, it is sometimes imperative to make music enhance the experience. The 
 music in Aquanox 2 falls somewhere in between, sometimes being noteworthy, and other times fading 
 into nothingness.
  
  All in all, Aquanox 2 falls short of being something new and enjoyable, and is a disappointing 
 sequel. The game tries and fails at most conceivable junctures, making the gaming experience a 
 frustrating one, to say the least. The combat is boring and for the most part unchallenging. The 
 story is loosely tied together with poor dialogue and an uninteresting plot. With no multiplayer 
 mode to speak of, this one won't last on your hard drive too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-me
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  Alright lets first state that one of the reasons i play this game is that i am an old fan of Archimedean 
 Dynasty (AD) - having played it every Sunday since i was nine- and as such when i heard last year 
 that that aquanox 2 is a relative of it I had to get myself a copy. 
  
  I was amazed the atmosphere was still there, the weapons where still there in fact in the first 
 5 minutes i thought yes i have found a way back into my childhood. I clicked to start the first 
 misson.....
  
  At that moment all dreams i had of having a 'new' AD were smashed. The reasons well simply the 
 flight controls where amazingly simplist and so was combat simplified. AD was a 1996 game but it 
 had better combat system you could for example turn of your engines and your noise level would 
 drop and as such you nobody could tell you were their. Or you could hit into a building which made 
 enought noise to distract noise homing topedeos. And although it has been a AD thing for short 
 mission they most -especilally near the end- where hard core. And then we come to the part which 
 really @%* me off and that is the flight. Yep you can side step. Don't ask how. This makes the 
 game feel like some lame shooter not a ship game and this really winds me up. So instead of preforming 
 attack runs and rolling and skimming the oceans floor to evade attacks you now sit infront of him 
 shoot at him and evade. This is made even easier later in the game when you are given an autoaiming 
 gun which you don't even need to look at you enemly to shoot. HOW RETARDED DO THEY THINK WE ARE?
 
  
  However......
  
  There where sections of the game i really liked. For example i fought the storyline was intresting 
 and by the end-they leave you on a cliff hanger- of it i wanted to know what is going to happen 
 next. I know the dialogue is as free formed as AD but you know it was fun while it lasted.* In 
 general it is as the classification says a guilty pleasure, there are just so many things wrong 
 with it but i still can't stop liking it. 
  
  p. s anyone know how to get the dos box working on full screen and on a disk drive game as all my 
 attempts have failed :- (
  
  * IF game makers are reading this i demand you make an aquanox 3 but with a flight sim in mind 
 not bloody FPS and if you don't i will personally go round your house and tie your legs round you 
 neck- Love Lord Me- please don't prosecute me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  As featured at loadedinc. com...
  
  As college has started over again, students take the time out of their first week to try and lay 
 down some studying habits that hopefully take hold and make them all very successful students. 
 I too had this dreamuntil I had a chance to review Aquanox 2. Exchanging my books for my computer 
 I found out that while it has some fundamental flaws, they dont detract from what is overall a 
 great game.
  
  Aquanox 2 takes place shortly after the first game. While there are vague references in the dialogue 
 and occasional hints at the original Aquanox, this game boasts a completely new storyline. You 
 play as William Drake; you are the last of your family, your company has gone bust and you take 
 the last working freighter to go explore the oceans. Quickly however, pirates borrow your ship 
 and give you an ultimatum; join them or die. Since most players arent a big fan of dying, the 
 game assumes you will join them and you are soon off to have merry adventures throughout the sea. 
 For those of you not familiar with the Aquanox series; the entire earth has flooded and its now 
 one big ocean. Sort of like Waterworld but with better technology and minus Kevin Costner; this 
 isnt a bad thing.
  
  The story in Aquanox 2 is unfolded to you in various locales. From the deck of your ship, The Harvester, 
 and in various cities and hideouts you will have the opportunity to click around and talk to various 
 people. Talking in this case means clicking on the name of someone and watching them and the 
 main character exchange dialogue. This method of revealing the story, while effective, does get 
 on the tedious side. At several points in the game I clicked on the names then closed the windows 
 so I could simply progress to the next mission. The main story itself is quite interesting but 
 too many subplots left the dialogues stale and boring. In addition to using the interface to progress 
 the story, users also use it to buy and sell supplies at merchants and to prep their ships for 
 battle.
  
  Aquanox 2 features a myriad of missions; their difficulty can range anywhere from fairly easy to 
 insanely hard in a few circumstances. Frequency aside, most of the missions are rather short. The 
 majority of missions will take 5-10 minutes to complete but a scant few will take upwards of 20 
 minutes. To compensate, Massive did a great job of incorporating variety in the objectives so the 
 game doesnt feel too repetitive. One point that could be improved is the way boss missions, of 
 which there are several, are handled. Most boss missions start off with weak enemies or none at 
 all; the mission then forces you to navigate your ship through the open waters for a good 2-3 minutes 
 to locate the boss. The fundamental flaw in this is that the bosses are rather high on the difficulty. 
 In most cases it took me between 5-15 tries to defeat a boss. Each time I died Id have to go through 
 the same mundane and boring process of holding in the accelerate key until I found the boss again. 
 A feature which would have started us off at the beginning of the fight itself after dying would 
 have worked wonders here since you cannot save during missions; only between missions.
  
  Unfortunately the game controls like its series ancestor. Using your first-person cockpit view, 
 you can guide your submarine using the keyboard and mouse. It is very easy to maneuver around when 
 there isnt very much action going on but this gets complicated when you are in battle. The AI 
 controlled submarines do some maneuvers that are impossible for you to duplicate. Staying on a 
 targets six o clock will almost never happen. Since your weapons systems are located on the front 
 of your ship you have to be face forward whenever you engage an enemy. Battles between yourself 
 and the computer usually wind up as games of chicken with the two vessels facing and firing at 
 each other. For short battles with few enemies this is alright; for more prolonged battles it begins 
 to wear down your front shields and you will find yourself dead after only taking on a few targets. 
 I had to resort to tricks like reversing towards my enemy to get into range so my front shields 
 would not be depleted so quickly. The inconsistent maneuvering is highlighted during boss battles; 
 youll find yourself unable to stand face to face with most of them.
  
  As you may have picked up in the previous paragraph I mentioned weapons. Yes, there are plenty 
 of weapons in the game. As is the norm they get progressively more powerful as the game goes on. 
 With around a dozen guns to choose from, no one is left out. Whether you like sniping, rapid-fire 
 guns, or powerful cannons, theres something for everyone. To compliment the guns you have torpedoes. 
 These babies are the most powerful weapons in the game. Never leave dock without stocking your 
 ship full of them. In addition to weapons systems you can load in different types of engines, repair 
 kits, armors, and various other additions.
  
  I found the AI to play exceptionally well. In most cases it comes down to the player having superior 
 armor and weaponry that wins the battles. They maneuver their ships very well and will gang up 
 on your also. No matter which level you are in, the AI has deadly accuracy. I learned to never 
 be too cocky during any mission because while one bad guy may not destroy you, hell bang you up 
 to the point where youre easy pickings for his buddies. There are some pathfinding mistakes like 
 ships running into the sea floor and into the sides of cliffs. The AI normally corrects itself 
 immediately but there were a few cases where the enemy ships will flounder around helplessly trying 
 to go deeper than the seabed will let them. The AI is still very good despite this minor flaw.
 
  
  Graphically, Aquanox 2 has some impressive visuals to it; the gun models are particularly well 
 done. All the ships are modeled adequately and distinctly from one another. The explosions in the 
 game are nice to look at as well. The frame rate was consistent and there were no noticeable slowdowns, 
 even in the heavy fighting. There was a problem with some of the seabed-hugging ground vehicles. 
 They wouldnt always follow the contour of the sea floor and would normally pass right through 
 small hills instead of going over them. Its a small issue that doesnt take away from the game 
 itself.
  
  In the sound department the guys at Massive should be given a pat on the back; Aquanox 2 has great 
 music. Gun sounds are unique and help immerse the player in the battles. The music will change 
 from a pleasant orchestral mix to a foreboding military march anytime action starts to heat up. 
 I was pleased with the voice acting as well. It was very convincing and helped drive the storyline. 
 The dialogue is mainly serious but there are a few cornball lines thrown in for good measure. During 
 missions you will be able to hear your comrades on the intercoms and also the enemy as well. These 
 heighten the battles and give it a feel of realism.
  
  There is no multiplayer to speak of however there is an instant action skirmish mode. Once you 
 beat a mission in the game you can replay it as many times as you like here. In addition to that 
 there are eight training missions you can take on even before you start the storyline part of the 
 game. The training missions are good for honing your skills as they parallel some of the games 
 missions.
  
  Aquanox 2 didnt really innovate that much from its predecessor; this doesnt make it a bad game, 
 far from it in fact. From its compelling storyline to its difficult battles its a title that every 
 action fan should pick up. Im hoping this isnt the end of the Aquanox series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  Aquanox 2 is a fun game, even that is somehow limited in the ship area if you compare with Aquanox 
 1. Only 4 fighters are available , mainly obtained from fighting. Some underwater area are to murky 
 to see where to go and who to engage, but is a plain simple shooter with a decent storyline who 
 become interesting when weapons and ship upgrades could be bought. 
  The main character is somehow naive in his holyquest for a decent world and the loading time could 
 be a pain if your system have low characteristics . Problems appear when forced to use small fighters 
 or explore tight places , because enemies come in strong waves and strafing /changing weapons in 
 the same time imply sometimes pressing the wrong taste . Speeking with NPC is not that funny, being 
 kind of boring watching a discution without possible options to choose. Also is not a free game, 
 because you get a limited number of sidequest and freelancing is not possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kpfed
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:37 am PT
Review:  The original aquanox had the worst written story and voice acting in the history of gaming. It 
 hurt to listen to. This followup, while not great, does improve on both these problems. Graphics 
 are good to very good and nice and detailed. The game is mission based so if you are a fan of the 
 wing commander series then you will feel right at home with this game. The weapon variety is very 
 good with most weapons having a 2nd firing type. While much better than the original the story 
 does at times seem contived and a bit confusing. I found myself only marginally interested in the 
 story and only paid attention to get to the combat.
  
  If you can find this game for $20 or under it is a good gaming experience. i liked the game very 
 much. 
  
  Kevin 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
