-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Arcanum: Of Steamworks and Magick Obscura
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/arcanumofsteamworksamo/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 21, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.9, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,539 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Troika Games
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Aug 22, 2001
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're serious about role-playing games, Arcanum is well worth the investment of time, money, 
 and effort. 

 Arcanum is a traditional fantasy role-playing game with several distinctive traits, including a 
 great premise and a nonlinear, open-ended role-playing system. But the game's broad design brings 
 with it a host of problems that may not be easy for you to get past. Three years in the making, 
 Arcanum is the fledgling effort of Troika Games, a small studio founded by several key members 
 of the team that created Fallout -- Interplay's memorable, highly enjoyable postapocalyptic role-playing 
 game -- back in 1997. Arcanum bears many noticeable similarities to Fallout. Like its predecessor, 
 it gives you plenty of freedom within its open-ended world -- the freedom to approach the game's 
 many challenges by using a variety of courses of action, from civil to brutal. Unfortunately, Arcanum 
 suffers from a host of rather serious flaws, including an overall lack of polish, which can end 
 up making the game disappointing more often than enjoyable for some players. These problems veil 
 what's an otherwise captivating and immersive role-playing experience.           Arcanum lets you 
 play as a variety of characters...    

  Perhaps the most notable aspect of Arcanum is its setting: The game takes place in a fantasy world 
 undergoing an industrial revolution, much like the United States' industrial revolution during 
 the Victorian era in the late 19th century. Suddenly, trains, electricity, and flintlock pistols 
 have invaded a world previously ruled by swords and sorcery. Meanwhile, social tensions are mounting -- previously 
 segregated races, such as elves, dwarves, gnomes, and half-orcs, are trying to coexist in newly 
 built metropolises. It's a great concept, and it's just as inspired as Fallout's campy yet violent 
 setting.   

  You play Arcanum from an isometric perspective similar to that found in games such as Baldur's 
 Gate II, Diablo II, and countless others. Like in most role-playing games, your time in Arcanum 
 is mostly spent traveling from place to place, engaging in (or circumventing) combat, and talking 
 to various nonplayer characters. Creating your own character at the beginning of the adventure 
 (or choosing from one of the many prefabricated ones) is a lot of fun. The game's depiction of 
 various traditional high-fantasy races within its unique setting is very well done -- you'll enjoy 
 just cycling through all the beautifully hand-painted character portraits available. There are 
 no character classes as such in Arcanum -- you can gain proficiency in various combat skills, social 
 skills, and stealth skills; and you can learn spells in many different schools of magic ("magick" 
 in the game) and even gain technical proficiency in various scientific disciplines.           ... some 
 of which will play much differently than others.    

  One of the central themes in Arcanum is the conflict between magic and technology. This conflict 
 constantly manifests itself in the game, such that a magically proficient character won't be able 
 to effectively use technology, whereas a skilled technologist will make a poor magic user (and 
 spells will fizzle when cast on the character) . On top of having to choose between the path of 
 magic or technology (or neither) , you'll even have the option to give your character one of many 
 backgrounds (raised by monks, sold his or her soul, ran away with the circus, and so forth) , and 
 these affect his or her vital statistics in various ways. Given all the different options, chances 
 are you'll enjoy this initial step of creating your in-game persona, even though it's a little 
 overwhelming at first.   

  While many of the quests in the game are fairly involved and do indeed allow for multiple solutions 
 to suit different types of characters, at the same time, many of the game's situations necessarily 
 involve combat. Combat is a major part of Arcanum, and for the most part, it's simply awful. You 
 can choose from turn-based or real-time combat and readily toggle between the two, but neither 
 option works well. Real-time combat happens in a frantic blur, as all parties involved hack away 
 at each other to the death. The haphazard, too-quick animation makes Arcanum's battles look unintentionally 
 comical -- it's like watching people mill about stiltedly in some turn-of-the-century movie played 
 at double speed. Unfortunately, this doesn't seem to be a deliberate effect, since there's nothing 
 flattering about the dated, washed-out, low-resolution graphics found throughout Arcanum. Since 
 the real-time combat is practically uncontrollable, you'll usually have to stick with the turn-based 
 option. It's a very basic system that lacks meaningful tactical options and essentially limits 
 you to pounding on the enemy by attacking as many times as your total number of action points will 
 allow. As in the Fallout games, you can't even control your party members directly, though you 
 can give them a few basic battle orders.    

 The combat is poorly balanced -- characters with high strength and dexterity can easily take on swarms 
 of powerful enemies with just a light melee weapon or even without one, and they will also gain 
 experience levels faster than most any other type of character, because experience in Arcanum is 
 gained not from defeating enemies, but just from hitting them. Of further note, party members gain 
 levels only when you do, but you don't gain any experience when they hit -- this reiterates the superiority 
 of lone melee fighters over other possible character types, who'll either have more trouble successfully 
 hitting foes or will rely on their party members to help do the dirty work. Meanwhile, a thief, 
 a magic user, or even a technologist armed with some newfangled rifle might have a much more difficult 
 time in many of the game's inevitable battles. Fortunately, such characters do have some means 
 to bypass a lot of the combat.           For the most part, the graphics aren't much to look at. 
     

  There are a lot of spells in Arcanum -- magic users can learn up to five spells in more than a dozen 
 different schools. Casting spells uses up your character's fatigue points -- and getting hurt makes 
 you lose fatigue points, too. When you run out, you fall unconscious. So a reckless mage might 
 spend all his energy trying to damage several assailants with spells, leaving himself winded and 
 very vulnerable (luckily, fatigue points may be quickly recovered by quaffing potions or by simply 
 resting) . Besides having access to combat spells, magic users also have access to a host of miscellaneous 
 spells that can be used to avoid combat and to otherwise assist the caster with many other obstacles 
 and situations. As such, magic users are perhaps the most flexible of all the types of characters 
 in the game.   

  Technologists aren't quite so well off and are relatively difficult to play. It's partly justifiable 
 by the game's context, but there's actually very little technology to be found in Arcanum. Technologist 
 characters will surely grow jealous as they're forced to ignore all the powerful magical equipment 
 they'll find in their quest. Instead, their scientific disciplines allow technologists to combine 
 common and not-so-common items to make new equipment (from bombs to light sources to skeleton keys, 
 all replete with very amusing in-game descriptions) . Technologists may be inclined to use firearms 
 in battle, but unfortunately, guns in Arcanum are not just uncommon, but also generally quite weak, 
 and ammunition is expensive to buy, as well as scarce -- even if you learn how to make it. In addition, 
 the guns are modeled with disappointing simplicity -- inexplicably, these weapons never have to be 
 reloaded, and there's only one type of generic ammunition that's used for all of them. Even the 
 advantage of long range doesn't amount to much, since battles are usually in close quarters.   
 

  Any character can learn the basics of, or grow to specialize in, various stealthy skills, including 
 prowling, pickpocketing, trap disarming, and lock picking. Any character can learn how to backstab 
 his foes for extra damage -- a devastating ability for a fleet-footed fighter. Characters can also 
 gain proficiency in skills like haggling and persuasion.           The combat can be disappointing, 
 but it isn't the focus of the game.     

  Regardless of what sort of character you opt for, controlling the game should have been simpler. 
 As it is, you have a limited ability to scroll your view, presumably based on your character's 
 field of vision. This feels very confining and rather awkward, as you'll constantly be using the 
 keyboard arrow keys to scroll around while moving your character with the mouse. It's an ungainly 
 system, and so is much of the interface, which takes up a large portion of the screen and isn't 
 intuitively laid out. This, along with the lack of in-game help or a tutorial, means you'll often 
 have to consult the manual at first, though you probably won't mind the diversion since the manual 
 is a lot of fun to read.   

  Besides the issues with the controls and interface, the game doesn't always handle less predictable 
 actions very well, despite the fact that it encourages experimentation. Arcanum can be buggy -- strange 
 things will happen if you perform certain quests out of sequence or don't solve them in whatever 
 ways the designers predicted you might. You'll more than likely encounter a variety of bugs and 
 glitches as you play, which are mostly just irritating (for instance, some dialogue will loop) 
 but can be exasperating (the game can crash, or your save-game files may even become corrupted) . 
 Perhaps the worst thing about these bugs is that they can greatly undermine your suspension of 
 disbelief -- you'll wonder whether you're doing everything "right" to keep the game running as smoothly 
 as possible. Speaking of not running smoothly, in spite of the crude graphics, you may still experience 
 sporadic slowdowns and pauses in the game's performance, even if you have a fast system.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (39 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2009 2:21 am PT
Review:  Well I didnt play this game for a loong loong time but I still smile when I remember instances 
 or glimpses from the game... A true masterpiece that is quite different in many ways...
  
  The setting is alone attractive... The world is changing and new and different aspects are on the 
 horizon, steel can be used for guns instead of swords, trains are taking the place of summoned 
 steeds, technology is growing throughout the land... In this land you are in a Zeppelin, which 
 crashes and the game starts... I will not give details about the story (cause I dont remember much 
 :) ) but it is an impressive fun story.
  
  The producers, the famous, now closed down Troika was an impressive studio, the founders were the 
 producers of the fallout series (I and II) one of the best rpg games ever produced. After Arcanum 
 they produced another hit (for me) Vampire the Masquerade : Bloodlines. Unfortunately Troika is 
 shut down and I hope to see them in the future with another great game.
  
  Lets get back to the game, the graphics are not incredible, no 3d or stunning textures or something, 
 it is good enough to play though, since it was released in 2001, but quite good, will not tire 
 your eyes and will look ugly on the monitor. The music is fine, not great but not bad either. 
 
  
  All in all it is an awesome game, every rpg gamer should try this, the story and the incredible 
 setting is more than enough to try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malango23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 7:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a classic game. Similar style to Fallout. But Having played both and even though I'm a 
 big fallout fan this game is far superior to fallout 1 and 2 imho.
  
  I love the feeling of the world. Great writing and music really sets the tone of the place. 
 
  
  And the fact that you can be magic or tech makes for literally endless game play. ''hmmm shall 
 i be a tech dwarf with hand weapons, a gun wielding elf, a magic using human with archery skill... 
 arrgghh too much choice!.
  
  I've played this game to death. Trying so many different character types and different followers 
 and different story choices. And even now after hundreds of hours of play I feel like going back 
 to it.
  
  If you can get over the graphics which are better than fallouts actually (some people are petty 
 I know) and the bugs (get the newest unofficial patch!) , This is a fantastic game with so much 
 to offer. Go and immerse yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redd_0332
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Arcanum is a highly underated game. It seems that not too many people have heard of it, especially 
 in this day and age of Online Gaming such as the highly popular WoW.
  
  Story: 9.0 / 10
  
  Let's start from scratch shall we? When you enter the first person mode, you will have the 
 options to either select a pre-made character, that will add the skill points automatically to 
 whatever the character specializes in. Or you can totally customize your own character from scratch, 
 which is obviously the most fun of the two.
  There are many different options when creating a character. Different races such as Dwarf, human, 
 elf, half-elf, ogre, orc, gnome etc. And then you will be allowed to select the gender before selecting 
 a unique "background" for the char. The background is basically the "story" of the your character. 
 It sets up a past, and changes around your stats accordingly. Once you have selected what you want, 
 your on your way.
  
  The game starts out with a cut scene of a zepplin flying through the sky. Suddenly some plains 
 come out of nowhere, and shoot the zomplin down. Then there is a more lively cut scene where you 
 are digging through scraps of metal to find someone who survived the crash. It appears to be a 
 gnome, asking you to take his ring and find the owner. From here the adventure starts.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  
  The game plays much like the very popular PC game, Diablo. You simply click 
 your mouse to move your character around, engage in battle, or even return to your standard, neutral, 
 stance. However, unlike diablo, this game is much more in-depth. 
  Throughout the course of the game, you level as you kill creatures and complete quest, exactly 
 like most other RPG's around. However; with Arcanum there are a variety of options to select from 
 to upgrade with your points awarded at levels. You get 1 point per level, 2 points every 5 levels. 
 You can upgrade your standard stats (which you will need to do to progress through other skills) , 
 such as strength, intelligence, health etc. There are probably like 8 different stats on this game 
 to increase. Then there are skills you can increase. Unlike Diablo, you don't just simply work 
 your way down through a skill tree. You have to increase the specific stat that goes with the skill. 
 And there are much more skills to choose from than Diablo. 
  For example: if you want your char to be a thief, then you will want to increase your pick lock, 
 pick pocket and disarm trap skills (just a few that i can remember off hand) . To increase these 
 however, you will need to increase the stat that goes with them, which i think is perception, might 
 be wrong though, its been awhile.
  Not only do you have to increase those stats, but you must also find someone who can teach you 
 more about the specific area, much like going to college for a degree in a certain field. At first 
 you are an novice i think, then apprentice and finally master. The first two people are not too 
 hard to find, and you usually get hints where to find them. However the thiird person is fairly 
 difficult to find, and from my experiance on the game you have to do a quest to get to them, although 
 i haven't learned ever single skill up to master.
  
  The gameplay overall is awesome. The skill tree and stats are very in-depth and do take some planning 
 out to be succsesful. and there is no resetting them if you mess up. Another fun factor is that 
 you can engage townfolk as well. Once you are strong enough to take on all the guards of course. 
 And if you happen to kill a shop owner, and your pick lock skill is high enough, you can pick lock 
 thier chest and steal all thier gold and items they were selling. Be cautious though, the shop 
 owners do not respawn!
  Although i loved the gameplay in Arcanum, there are a couple of downfalls as well. One major downfall 
 is in the skill tree. If you decide to become a mage (which is my personal favorite) then you can 
 become, litterally, unkillable. Really, the only skill you need to learn is a lvl 1 skill called 
 "Harm". Once you learn this skill and build up enough mana to use Harm over and over without running 
 out, then you are set for the rest of the game. You will kill most everything in only 1-3 casts. 
 The final boss even dies before you cast 5 or so harm spells. Don't take advantage of the power 
 of the spell, and you can still have some fun with the game. However the spell does come in handy 
 for when you are facing powerful monsters in the wild that you shouldnt be able to kill yet, or 
 angry level 20 shop owners when you are not even level 10 yet.
  One other downfall is the Follower aspect of the game. Now i love the fact that you can create 
 a small army of Followers that accompany you throughout the game. They each have thier own special 
 abilites as well, from healer to riflemen. However, if you gain the right followers and enough 
 of them, then you literally dont have to do anything. Just stand there and watch them go to work 
 against your enemies. If you are a healer, you can let them do all the fighting while you heal 
 them and ressurect if needed.
  
  Music and graphics: 9.5 / 10
  
  The graphics are what you would expect out of an older game like arcanum, though they are much 
 better than the original Diablo... much better. The graphics resemble that of Diablo II as a matter 
 of fact, if not even better than that in my opinion. 
  The soundtrack consists of classical music. You know, violins and such. I happen to absolutley 
 love the music, even through for the most part its the same song for daytime, battles and so on. 
 But the music is relaxing and really makes the game fun to play after a stressful day. 
  
  Overall: 9.5 / 10
  
  Overall Arcanum is simply a good game. The graphics may not be up-to-par 
 with games we are used to now and days, but this game goes beyond graphic values. The storyline 
 is pretty interesting, and will keep you wondering as you go through the game trying to find and 
 elder who leaves you notes telling you where to go next. Several side stories are of course introduced 
 throughout the entire game. And with the open world enviornment, you can run around aimlessly in 
 the wilderness for hours, journey through every house and shop in any of the towns to search for 
 quests, or simply stay on track and complete the main storyline. 
  The replay value i would give a 9.5 on, because there are so many options you can change from game 
 to game. For example, make an elf and be a mage. Beat the game? Not a problem, next create a dwarf 
 and become a mechanic. Create guns armor traps explosives and other inventions. Or mix it up, create 
 a dwarf mage or an elven mechanic. Make a human bandit or a gnome thief. There are many different 
 possibilites for this game. Arcanum is well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CroCorwin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  What I was thrilled to see in this game, is the magic vs. technology. This is perfectly made only 
 it's easier to beat the game as a mage than as a technologist. The story is incredible with lots 
 of twists and turns and it kept me glued to my computer up to 6 hours per day. One of the best 
 sides of the game is the soundtrack. It is played the the Budapest orchestra and at some places 
 in the game it really blows you away. What I liked, as a RPG fan, is to see that there are quests 
 that are beatable only through conversation or sneaking, and not just bashing people with a sword/spell/gun. 
 The character creation is also very good where you can pick one of the many colourful backgrounds 
 for your character. The world setting is incredible, and what is most important you don't have 
 to follow the main quest, you can just walk over the entire world and do the side quests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Fallout fans will straight away recognise the mechanics of Arcanum and fit in quite comfortably, 
 but will definitely realise the flaws in no time, such as imbalance between the magick and technology 
 classes, and the uninspired enemy encounters. Personally, I feel it's a decent effort that revived 
 the Fallout mechanics of gaming, but it has a lackluster production value in terms of its combat 
 system and plotlines that reduced its hype.
  
  Most things are similar to Fallout other than the look. You can select a main character based on 
 gender and assign points to the standard stats and skills. The turn-based combat system follows 
 strictly to Fallout too, other than the use of magick. Even the random encounters tries the same 
 formula but are blandly scripted.
  
  Well, one main flaw of Arcanum is that, it's heavily biased towards the magick user. By learning 
 the Disintegrate spell, you basically destroyed your own enjoyment by being able to thrash everyone 
 else, including the last boss, with ease. On the other hand, being a Steamworks engineer allows 
 much more involvement with the equipment and treasures you find along the game that enables you 
 to fashion your own armor, weapons and gadgets, but then, your character is much more weak and 
 vulnerable than the magick counterpart. The only replay value here may be to try out both the sorcery 
 and science method of combat system.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keithburgun
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Arcanum has great combat, TONS (I mean TONS) of ways to individualize the way you play... Character 
 creation has so many options, you can be a technologist, herbalist, magician, fighter, thief, so 
 many different things or a blend of them all. The style of the game is completely unique... reminiscent 
 of fallout in that sense. It's a kind of 1800's look, but blended with fantasy elements like orcs 
 and monsters. The story mode is great and long and has great dialogue and I just can't express 
 enough how great it is. Sadly, there's a half-assed multiplayer mode that's not worth even trying 
 to play. Combat is excellent, sound is great (awesome voice acting) , and the music is a string-quartet 
 arrnagement with memorable, beautiful melodies. It breaks my heart to know that this game is less 
 popular than Oblivion.
  
  I would go as far as to say that this is the ULTIMATE CRPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MutilatedBunny
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  This is a great game if you like RPG's. There are of course the good or Evil paths, but you have 
 so many different things you can be, and so many roles, its really a whole new game each time you 
 play. The story line can get you hooked and you can easily lose track of time while completing 
 quests and getting further sucked in. You can do everything in this game, sleep with hookers, be 
 a hooker, kill shop keepers, screw sheep, teleport, pickpocket people, ride trains, ride boats, 
 gamble. Its loads of fun, definitely worth getting if you are RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scullyy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  One of my favorite CRPGs. A list of cons and pros below:
  
  Pros:
  - The HUGE world...
  - The character creation. Some days I just created characters for fun
  - Good story
  - Freedom 
 of choice
  - Tons of sidequests
  - Interesting characters, like the smartest orc in the world :)
  
  Cons:
  - The fact that 
 no matter how close I was and how much points I had in perception I still couldn't hit a damn thing 
 (with a gun)
  - Sometimes your followers drop their weapon and don't pick it it, and you probably won't notice 
 until it's too late
  - Very hard to complete some of the quests without a walkthrough
  
  Overall this is a great game. If you enjoyed Fallout 1&2, you'll enjoy this I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlstar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 30, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  you can just tell that people who made this game made fallout aswell. it is huge, and the main 
 plot even though good is almost a back story for the actual player development. they designed a 
 game and game system so that how you want to oplay is the game, not the game is what you have to 
 play. i found myself completely off the main plotlinne a number of times cause the character i 
 had i felt would have wanted to go off and do the side quests.
  
  tried playing the game in real time combat mode and felt that was very much a floored system, which 
 of course didnt help the multi player side of it which was really non existant. it was a bit unbalanced 
 with spells that summoned a vorpal bunny and other schools that charmed and harmed. a magic user 
 was broken as it made it too easy. meanwhile a tech character took a whole lot of time and micro 
 management of ingrediants and parts which can be tedious.
  
  overall it was great but i did have to self regulate the characters from being to strong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p1mptazt1k
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2007 3:28 am PT
Review:  This game follows the type of gameplay that so many people fell in love with in fallout. It does, 
 however, have an altered skill and leveling system. The interactions with the NPCs in this game 
 are very well done, and just overall the game is amazing for its time. Even today, it still is 
 worth spending a weekend on if not more. It's pretty underappreciated too, it sucks that troika 
 closed down, i would have loved to see a sequel to this game. Hopefully fallout 3 is finally made 
 and we can once again have a game that is of the high calibur that fallout and arcanum are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalphose
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is very underappreciated. After you take a while to figure out the options and play the 
 game for around an hour you'll get hooked in. One of the greatest RPG games out yet. You have many 
 different possibilities and options throughout the game that effect the outcome of the story. Pretty 
 much endless possibilities in a vast world. Spend your time playing it and try to discover what 
 options you have now, they will change dependind on what you do. Oh, and don't just kill anyone 
 you see. I did this and saved another file, but if you keep this as your main file you won't be 
 able to do many things you would without killing NPC's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_last_devil
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I still can't get over the loss of one of the greatest studios creating cRPGs - Troika. Surely, 
 some will say that Troika will be remembered for hordes of bugs in their games. But if you really 
 are a cRPG fan, you will very quickly forget about the bugs and forget about the real world. Arcanum: 
 Of Steamworks and Magick Obscura is no exception. The story is quite good, great even. The system 
 reminds me of Fallout - fighting isn't always the best solution. Your character can be a stupid 
 orc, whose only lines are ummm... , a great magician or a dwarf wielding a... gun and an armour. 
 Arcanum's world might be strange at the first glimpse but I'm sure you'll love it. The game has 
 the biggest city in all the cRPGs (well, in my humble opinion) . Walking around it to the sound 
 of an old music is an experience that can't be forgotten. The fighting system is very difficult 
 - you can try the real-time fights or with an active pause. It takes a while to feel it .
  There's much to be said about Arcanum. I play and finish it every year, still finding more secrets. 
 If you like Baldur's Gate 2, Planescape Torment, and especially Fallout, and if you can overcome 
 and forget about some nuisance in the game, Arcanum is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SveNitoR
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  Even though it was quite some time since I played this game I still have fond memories of it. The 
 music, primarily violin and cello, has a bit of a sad feeling to it that complements the story 
 and the world in a very good way. The graphics feel a bit dated, but that is to be expected, since 
 the game is from 2001.
  
  The story, very briefly summarized, is about a world where steam engines and magic exist side by 
 side in a constant conflict with each other. You have been in a zeppelin crash and has lost your 
 memory. In your travels you will discover more about yourself and of something bad going on. Classic 
 rpg story but told with intelligence and humor. Although not as twisted as Plancescape Torment, 
 or quite as entertaining as Fallout, it is still different from most.
  
  As in most rpg's you start of with creating a character. The creation can be a bit confusing the 
 first time, especially to know what skills are important. It feels quite fun to create different 
 characters since it feels as if the race and skills you pick really do make a difference to the 
 game play (especially if you choose a stupid ogre - their conversational ability is not too great 
 - expect to be made fun of) . The manual is not very helpful here. It is better to use an Internet 
 guide.
  
  Once character creation is finished it is time to play the game. The interface is somewhat similar 
 to the one in the Fallout games. A bit clumsy to understand and learn, but still ok. A bit of warning 
 should be given here: the beginning can be really tricky. Make sure to investigate the first area 
 completely. Once you leave it you can not go back to get any missed experience. The first time 
 I played it I got stuck because my character was too weak to continue past a critical story event. 
 Possibly a miscalculation on my behalf but nonetheless annoying. The difficulty will vary greatly 
 in different areas which I see as a good thing, as long as you keep some backup-saves. You will 
 not see what is coming and will always feel at least a bit excitement when traveling to a new location.
 
  
  After this the game will just keep on growing. Though feeling really huge and open in the beginning 
 this is a bit of an illusion since some quests can break and some characters will respond to something 
 you have yet to do, if you manage to get to certain points before you are supposed to . Also some 
 of the places you can travel to sometimes feel a bit empty and added only for the content in itself. 
 This may attract people who like to do lots of side quests, but will slow down the progression 
 of the main story.
  
  After a while in the game you will regret choices you've made while leveling. There is no way to 
 undo them, except load an earlier save (at least if my memory serves me right) . This, together 
 with the afore mentioned openness, is one of the biggest flaws of the game. So I would once again 
 recommend using an Internet-based guide to understand better what skills are useful and which ones 
 are not.
  
  All in all this game is very enjoyable. If you have a lot of time, a bit patience and like games 
 similar to Fallout, then this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KittyCakes
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 5, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game! I bought it knowing nothing about it and was quite surprised. One 
 the best elements of Arcanum is being able to Pick Locks and Rob any damn person you want! This 
 game has some great weapons, upgrades and status bars. I like being able to keep a journal of the 
 people you encounter and the task they ask you to do! The fighting on this game is another thing 
 I love, you are able to up levels so fast that it is easy to slash into any creature with out concerns! 
 Ever since I bought this game and played it I have been looking for more like this! Baldurs Gate 
 doesn't even come close to being this great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brutalus7
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  I played the Arcanum demo when it first came out because I knew that some of the original Fallout 
 team developed it. I was really impressed by the different game universe Arcanum was set in - this 
 is the main thing that sets it apart from other RPGs. They picked out a time similar to our history 
 where steam engines were just being developed and six-shooters still ruled the day, and threw it 
 into the usual fantasy mix, allowing for unusual magick vs. technology battles that were a blast. 
 I sided with technology early on, which meant I spent my time crafting weapons, armor, and elixers 
 from found parts throughout the world, but I still dabbled in a bit of magick, so my view is biased 
 to that style of gameplay. Your available side quests are effected by your choice of magick or 
 tech, as well as the usual good vs evil alignment, allowing for some pretty good variation and 
 good replay value.
  
  For the most part, besides the magick vs. tech area, there isn't much new to this game, which is 
 good. You can team up with party members along the way, and you can easily spend more time doing 
 side quests than the main storyline's quest, which is great, if you don't mind getting distracted 
 a bit from time to time. When you are on the main quest, you will appreciate the depth and completeness 
 of the world you are in, much like Fallout. The story was very good, combat was good, and the whole 
 game took me many hours to complete. This game is so close to being an all time classic like Fallout 
 was, and many times you will feel it's greatness.
  
  However, there is one major problem that keeps it from being superb, and that is the character-leveling 
 system. Other people might find other flaws in the game, but as far as I am concerned, this is 
 the only one. When your character levels up, you will get the choice of increasing you attributes, 
 magick/tech skills, or general skills like melee, lockpick, or heal. There is nearly infinite possibilities 
 for character customization, but therein lies the problem. Each level you gain only gets you one 
 point to spend over all of the areas mentioned above, making it difficult to improve your character 
 quickly. This is especially bad when you realize the level cap is only 50. I reached this point 
 only about halfway through Arcanum, and I only had about 2/3 of the skills I wanted, and it made 
 the end of the game somewhat difficult, when I couldn't make the things I needed.
  
  Arcanum is a great universe to host Troika's RPG, and in the end it falls just short of greatness. 
 You can download a level-cap increase from some third-parties if the leveling issue really bothers 
 you, but it really brought the experience down for me, having to rely on someone else than the 
 developer for game improvements. If you like RPGs, be sure to give it a try though, the moments 
 of greatness stored inside make it much worth the effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 21, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Troika Games' Arcanum: Of Steamworks and Magick Obscura is fairly traditional turn-based roleplaying 
 game with enough substance and flavour to carry it to the top of the heap. Though it may have a 
 few shortcomings, this is one game whose whole is much greater than the sum of its parts. 
  
  Arcanum takes you to a world where magic meets technology and sword-swinging knights meet gun-slinging 
 riflemen. Well, "meets" might not be so accurate; "clashes" is probably a more suitable term. In 
 the world of Arcanum, magic and technology are at odds, for they represent the steadfast ideals 
 of the old kingdoms and the changing ways of the new capitalist societies, and the people who value 
 either side rarely see eye-to-eye. For better or worse, magic and tech  and not just the people 
 who use them  actually disrupt each other, causing the rift between mages and technologists to 
 grow even larger. 
  
  In this world of conflicts, you are to be a passenger aboard the IFS Zephyr, a classy, state-of-the-art 
 zeppelin bound for Tarant, one of the largest and most technologically advanced cities in the world. 
 Your reasons for heading there are literally your own  the game's great, in-depth character creation 
 system leaves the character's backround up to you. Each of the pre-made characters that you may 
 select to start your game with are given a unique and interesting history as to why they are aboard 
 the IFS Zephyr, but if you're the type who would rather create your own character from scratch, 
 the option is yours. 
  
  Character creation in Arcanum is both simple and powerful. After selecting a race  from one of 
 several, each of which has its own strengths and weaknesses  and gender, you will get to choose 
 a character portrait to represent you (there are about four options for each of the race/gender 
 combinations) . You will also be able to choose a "background", which may alter your ability scores, 
 grant special resistances or weaknesses, provide items after character creation, and more. These 
 backgrounds provide a little bit of history for your character, and are great for fleshing out 
 his or her personality. Once the aesthetics are taken care of, a world of options opens up to you. 
 Arcanum's character creation system does not run on the traditional class-based system that so 
 many roleplaying games are still using today. Instead, you are given a number of skill points and 
 a huge list of skills and attributes by which to apply them. Your options range from placing your 
 skill points in character attributes (such as Strength or Intelligence) to skills (such as Melee 
 or Pick Locks) to magic spells or technical knowledge. Placing skill points in to magic will increase 
 your Magical Aptitude, while placing points in to any of the Technical areas (which will later 
 allow you to create items using a mixture of ingredients) will raise your Technical Aptitude. Your 
 Magic/Tech Aptitude will determine the strength of your magic spells or tech item usage as well 
 as your defense against such things, and will have a large part to play in the game. Finally, once 
 your skill points have all been allocated, you will be given the option to purchase what ever equipment 
 you will need for the upcoming trip to Tarant, and once you're finished, the game will begin. 
 
  
  It's no spoiler as to what happens next: the IFS Zephyr has an ill-fated crash with you on board, 
 and you are its only survivor. Just before emerging from the ashes, a dying gnome hands you a ring, 
 and with his last breath he begs of you to "find the boy". As if that were not cryptic enough, 
 you are shortly thereafter greeted by a young man named Virgil, and acolyte of the Panarii Temple, 
 who immediately begins groveling at your feet and spouting something about a prophecy of a god 
 who will be "reborn on wings of fire", and he obviously believes that YOU are this god. From here 
 out, it is up to you to unravel these mysteries; who is this boy you are supposed to find, why 
 does the young acolyte think you are a god, and what will your role be in the grand scheme of things? 
 
  
  Arcanum does an excellent job of throwing you in to the game and it leaves the world seeming like 
 a large and daunting place. In fact, the world of Arcanum is enormous, and you are given the freedom 
 to travel freely around it for the majority of the game. Freedom is what Arcanum is all about; 
 you may choose to play the game in any number of ways, be they good or evil, magical or technological, 
 by brute force or by stealth, or by any combination you can manage. This is reflected by the fact 
 that Arcanum has numerous story paths and multiple endings; there is no possible way to see everything 
 Arcanum has to offer by playing through it just once, which adds greatly to the replay value. 
 
  
  The open-ended character system of Arcanum allows for plenty of customization, but it can admittedly 
 be a bit tricky to get the hang of at first. You are given a set number of skill points to apply 
 any way you choose between attributes, skills, magic, and technology, and you gain more skill points 
 every time you level up. Because you have so many option to choose from, and so relatively few 
 skill points to use, you must choose to either focus in one particular area of expertise (such 
 as melee combat, or magic) or spread yourself thin between all of your different options. It can 
 be easy for new players to underestimate the number of possibilities, so a thinly spread character 
 may wind up being the result of your first character unless you plan ahead. Once you catch on, 
 the freedom granted by the character system will feel much more open and expansive, and you will 
 have little trouble creating a unique character to fit your personality and play preference. 
 
  
  Despite the wide range of character options, gameplay can feel a little bit stale at times; it's 
 easy to settle in to a niche and get comfortable for a while. On the bright side, each style of 
 play varies enough that  should you make the wise decision to play Arcanum more than once and 
 try a different character type your next time around  you will find a world of new options opened 
 to you, and the game will play differently enough each time that it will take several rounds of 
 play before the limits of the character system are reached. For instance, you may choose to be 
 a magician at one time and a charismatic leader the next. While the magician may focus on blowing 
 people up with fire and electricity, a diplomat will attempt to talk his way through most situations. 
 The beauty of Arcanum is that both options are completely viable which, in the case of the diplomatic 
 character, can be extremely rare in video games. 
  
  Through dialogue alone, it is possible for an Arcanum player to completely bypass certain conflicts 
 and even entire dungeons. The variety of options a character is given while speaking may be the 
 largest I have ever encountered in a video game, but not all options are available to all characters. 
 For instance, it takes a character focused in Charisma, Intelligence, and Diplomacy to get the 
 widest variety of dialogue options, so not every character may be given the choice to avoid combat 
 all of the time. Conversely, characters of an exceptionally low Intelligence will be given a completely 
 different set of "dumb" dialogue options  most of which are extremely hilarious  and the reaction 
 of NPCs will be drastically different. 
  
  Like everything else in Arcanum, your character's good/evil alignment is based on your choices, 
 and is never a fixed part of the game. After character creation, your alignment meter will start 
 at 0 (neutral) and as you perform good deeds, or nefarious acts, it will shift up or down. Selflessly 
 help those in need, and your alignment will slowly move towards the positive side, eventually reaching 
 an almost saintly status at 100. Should you perform wretched acts of villainy, on the other hand, 
 your alignment meter will creep lower, eventually reaching a devilish status at -100. Your alignment 
 will affect the way NPCs react to you, but will never completely define your character; even if 
 you have an alignment rating of -100, for instance, you will never be prevented from doing good 
 deeds to redeem yourself. 
  
  Similar to alignment is your magic/tech aptitude. This, too, starts at 0 and moves up or down as 
 you grow more inclined towards magic or technology. If you learn a great number of magic spells, 
 for instance, your aptitude will grow towards magic. If your magical aptitude is high, you will 
 have a greater chance of critically failing when using a tech item, such as a gun, but magical 
 rings will provide you a greater benefit. If your technical aptitude is extremely high, you will 
 be resistance to magic  both harmful and helpful  and magic equipment will do you little good 
 at all. As a quirk, particularly high aptitude ratings will even cause shopkeepers of opposing 
 types to expel you from their place of business, while shopkeepers of similar types will sing your 
 praises. It may not seem like much, but it really adds to the flavour of the Arcanum world. 
  
  All of this adds to Arcanum's overall gameplay, which is a blessing because the combat system 
 can feel a little weak at times. Combat is primarily turn-based (though the option for real time 
 combat is available, this style of play is often too hectic to manage properly and should be avoided 
 unless you are inclined to frustration) and is carried out using an Action Point system similar 
 to Fallout (which many members of the Troika team also helped develop) . Each player has a certain 
 number of Action Points (AP) available to him during a given round of combat, and each action he 
 takes will deplete some of these AP. Once your AP are depleted, or when you dont have enough left 
 to perform the actions you wish to do, your turn ends and the enemy's turn begins. You will trade 
 blows, gun shots, magic spells, or arrows with the enemy, and the victor will be able to walk away. 
 It may not seem like much at first glance, so it is up to the player to create a character whose 
 combat techniques are interesting in order to keep things fresh and exciting. It is a good thing 
 for Arcanum that the game isn't entirely focused on combat, but should you choose to play a more 
 combat-oriented role, at least you have several options at your disposal to provide you with plenty 
 to do. 
  
  Graphically, Arcanum isn't much to write home about either. Character models are not extremely 
 varied, and the environments are made using tilesets, so you will have to get used to seeing the 
 same walls and floors all over the place. The good news is, most of the equipment your character 
 will use can change his appearance in some way, so the characters you will be using most often 
 will at least see an occasional graphical update. Spell effects are typically nice, though nothing 
 terribly fancy, and the entire world has a nice, earthy tone to it, which really emphasizes the 
 Industrial Revolution-style setting. The interface may seem a little flat, but it makes up for 
 it with some of the interesting quirks, like all of the many books and notes in the game actually 
 having the look and feel of paper. 
  
  If it isn't much to look at, at least Arcanum is pleasant to the ear. A beautifully orchestrated 
 sound track will accompany you throughout the game, but it is never so overpowering as to detract 
 from the task at hand. The voice acting of certain NPCs  while a bit sparse  is excellent all 
 around, with several truly shining performances. Though the voice acting isn't utilized all the 
 time, it is always a pleasant treat. The ambient noises of Arcanum are also pleasant and mostly 
 realistic sounding, which help greatly with the sense of immersion that the game offers. Only a 
 few of the sound effects might drag down the game's audio quality; in particular, a few persistant 
 magical spells never seem to stop emitting little noises, which causes them to get quite old after 
 a while. Aside from those isolated cases though, Arcanum's overall sound quality is excellent. 
 
  
  Arcanum may not be perfect, but it is a game that every roleplaying fan owes it to themselves to 
 play. The world of Arcanum is enormous, the options provided are nearly endless, and the sense 
 of immersion is unparalleled. Troika went out of their way to add details to the game that really 
 increase its overall quality and its sense of realism. For example, there are dozens of books available 
 to read for your enjoyment alone  many of them have little to no importance with the game's overall 
 storyline, but they all offer information about Arcanum's past and present; flavour text used to 
 draw you deeper in to the setting. Likewise, the Caladon City Zoo houses many of Arcanum's rare 
 and interesting beasts, but beyond being a place to look at the wildlife from the safety of the 
 city, it offers no significant plot devices. Unlike many games, Arcanum's world feels alive because 
 not everything in it is directly related to what your character's primary objective is. There are 
 hundreds of side quests which can be played or ignored, whichever the player chooses. While they 
 may not matter in the long run, they serve to add a sense of adventure, accomplishment, and genuine 
 feeling to the world. 
  
  Arcanum may not be for the casual gamer due to its high level of involvement, but f you are at 
 all a fan of roleplaying games, I highly encourage you to look past the minor faults of Arcanum 
 and give it a try. Despite its few flaws, you may find its endless supply of options and great 
 replay value too grand to pass up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easy0neasy0ff
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Arcanum was one of those games that had all of the ingredients for success , but released under 
 bad circumstances. At the time a few major titles had recently been released, making this one bumped 
 lower and lower on people's must buy lists. Even after its release it got some pretty harsh reviews 
 just because of ingame bugs and dialog errors. For a while this game didnt get any credit for taking 
 chances in making a really great game. After a few years more and more people gave it a chance 
 after only finding it in bargain bins or hearing about it from a friend or on a forum. Currently 
 there is a fairly large Arcanum community, along with mods, community patches, and scripting tools. 
 After extensive patching Arcanum is more than playable and is a must own for action RPG enthusiest 
 everywhere. The openeing cut scene sets the stage for the game as a couple of rogue thugs shoot 
 down a zeppelin that carried you and your fellow passengers and now you need answers - seeing as 
 your the only survivor. Now the time setting is supposed to be like a late 1930s, in an alternate 
 earth like realm. There are no cars or planes ( so you can see why thugs shooting down a balloon 
 in a 'flying contraption' would grab some attention ) . This is the time of MAGIC vs TECHNOLOGY. 
 There are steam engines ( like trains ) and mythical creatures ( like dragons and zombies ) . This 
 game has it all. You have a few choices from the very beginning. Will you ge a moderately evil 
 character ? Will you be a magic user and summon otherworldly creatures and fireballs? Or will you 
 let machines and bullets do the talking for you ? Will you concentrate on stealth and lock-picking 
 , or maybe summoning and shooting things from a distance with your bow ? There are so many choices 
 and each one effects your magic/tech rating. When you level your given a few points to put to different 
 schools of either magic or technology or you can spend them on attributes. The gameplay is close 
 to that seen in games like Diablo. Real time and action oriented, the action is fast and if your 
 not prepared ahead of time you will most likely die. This is not an easy game until you are fairly 
 high in levels. The sounds and soundtrack are perfect for the game and the voice acting isnt bad 
 either, though sometimes a bit over acted. The graphics where one of the issues for some people 
 as they are below par for the time this game was released. This is just another example as to why 
 eye candy isn't everything. I still reinstall this game and play it occasionally just for fun and 
 I STILL havn't done everything there is to do. If you can borrow it from a friend or find it for 
 a bargain somewhere then do yourself a favor and play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  At first i could't understand a thing that was happening in this game, all this technology and 
 magic existing altogether...
  But soon i realised that i haven't seen anything more mysterious and exciting than the world of 
 arcanum: dark elves living in the dark forest and the tales of people about them that they are 
 bloodthirsty killers made me believe that when i'll enter this magic forest i'll come up face to 
 face with a horde of flesh eating monsters, but everything turned out to be really different.
 
  All those crazy NPC'S that give you unbelievable quests to solve is really something - sarcastic 
 humour elements add some spice to the game.
  All the enemies has a big connection with a story, not some kind of piece of meat to be split in 
 half, furthermore, everything is connected in game somehow - makes more fun to solve difficult 
 puzzles and finding your way through the distorted world of "something" that i call it and which 
 left a big stain of emotions in my mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Munkwunk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 26, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Troika Games' Arcanum: Of Steamworks and Magick Obscura is fairly traditional turn-based roleplaying 
 game with enough substance and flavor to carry it to the top of the heap. Though it may have a 
 few shortcomings, this is one game whose whole is much greater than the sum of its parts.
  
  Arcanum takes you to a world where magic meets technology and sword-swinging knights meet gun-slinging 
 riflemen. Well, "meets" might not be so accurate; "clashes" is probably a more suitable term. In 
 the world of Arcanum, magic and technology are at odds, for they represent the steadfast ideals 
 of the old kingdoms and the changing ways of the new capitalist societies, and the people who value 
 either side rarely see eye-to-eye. For better or worse, magic and tech  and not just the people 
 who use them  actually disrupt each other, causing the rift between mages and technologists to 
 grow even larger.
  
  In this world of conflicts, you are to be a passenger aboard the IFS Zephyr, a classy, state-of-the-art 
 zeppelin bound for Tarant, one of the largest and most technologically advanced cities in the world. 
 Your reasons for heading there are literally your own  the game's great, in-depth character creation 
 system leaves the character's background up to you. Each of the pre-made characters that you may 
 select to start your game with are given a unique and interesting history as to why they are aboard 
 the IFS Zephyr, but if you're the type who would rather create your own character from scratch, 
 the option is yours.
  
  Character creation in Arcanum is both simple and powerful. After selecting a race  from one of 
 several, each of which has its own strengths and weaknesses  and gender, you will get to choose 
 a character portrait to represent you (there are about four options for each of the race/gender 
 combinations) . You will also be able to choose a "background", which may alter your ability scores, 
 grant special resistances or weaknesses, provide items after character creation, and more. These 
 backgrounds provide a little bit of history for your character, and are great for fleshing out 
 his or her personality. Once the aesthetics are taken care of, a world of options opens up to you. 
 Arcanum's character creation system does not run on the traditional class-based system that so 
 many roleplaying games are still using today. Instead, you are given a number of skill points and 
 a huge list of skills and attributes by which to apply them. Your options range from placing your 
 skill points in character attributes (such as Strength or Intelligence) to skills (such as Melee 
 or Pick Locks) to magic spells or technical knowledge. Placing skill points in to magic will increase 
 your Magical Aptitude, while placing points in to any of the Technical areas (which will later 
 allow you to create items using a mixture of ingredients) will raise your Technical Aptitude. Your 
 Magic/Tech Aptitude will determine the strength of your magic spells or tech item usage as well 
 as your defense against such things, and will have a large part to play in the game. Finally, once 
 your skill points have all been allocated, you will be given the option to purchase what ever equipment 
 you will need for the upcoming trip to Tarant, and once you're finished, the game will begin.
 
  
  It's no spoiler as to what happens next: the IFS Zephyr has an ill-fated crash with you on board, 
 and you are its only survivor. Just before emerging from the ashes, a dying gnome hands you a ring, 
 and with his last breath he begs of you to "find the boy". As if that were not cryptic enough, 
 you are shortly thereafter greeted by a young man named Virgil, and acolyte of the Panarii Temple, 
 who immediately begins groveling at your feet and spouting something about a prophecy of a god 
 who will be "reborn on wings of fire", and he obviously believes that YOU are this god. From here 
 out, it is up to you to unravel these mysteries; who is this boy you are supposed to find, why 
 does the young acolyte think you are a god, and what will your role be in the grand scheme of things?
 
  
  Arcanum does an excellent job of throwing you in to the game and it leaves the world seeming like 
 a large and daunting place. In fact, the world of Arcanum is enormous, and you are given the freedom 
 to travel freely around it for the majority of the game. Freedom is what Arcanum is all about; 
 you may choose to play the game in any number of ways, be they good or evil, magical or technological, 
 by brute force or by stealth, or by any combination you can manage. This is reflected by the fact 
 that Arcanum has numerous story paths and multiple endings; there is no possible way to see everything 
 Arcanum has to offer by playing through it just once, which adds greatly to the replay value.
 
  
  The open-ended character system of Arcanum allows for plenty of customization, but it can admittedly 
 be a bit tricky to get the hang of at first. You are given a set number of skill points to apply 
 any way you choose between attributes, skills, magic, and technology, and you gain more skill points 
 every time you level up. Because you have so many option to choose from, and so relatively few 
 skill points to use, you must choose to either focus in one particular area of expertise (such 
 as melee combat, or magic) or spread yourself thin between all of your different options. It can 
 be easy for new players to underestimate the number of possibilities, so a thinly spread character 
 may wind up being the result of your first character unless you plan ahead. Once you catch on, 
 the freedom granted by the character system will feel much more open and expansive, and you will 
 have little trouble creating a unique character to fit your personality and play preference.
  
  Despite the wide range of character options, gameplay can feel a little bit stale at times; 
 it's easy to settle in to a niche and get comfortable for a while. On the bright side, each style 
 of play varies enough that  should you make the wise decision to play Arcanum more than once and 
 try a different character type your next time around  you will find a world of new options opened 
 to you, and the game will play differently enough each time that it will take several rounds of 
 play before the limits of the character system are reached. For instance, you may choose to be 
 a magician at one time and a charismatic leader the next. While the magician may focus on blowing 
 people up with fire and electricity, a diplomat will attempt to talk his way through most situations. 
 The beauty of Arcanum is that both options are completely viable which, in the case of the diplomatic 
 character, can be extremely rare in video games.
  
  Through dialogue alone, it is possible for an Arcanum player to completely bypass certain conflicts 
 and even entire dungeons. The variety of options a character is given while speaking may be the 
 largest I have ever encountered in a video game, but not all options are available to all characters. 
 For instance, it takes a character focused in Charisma, Intelligence, and Diplomacy to get the 
 widest variety of dialogue options, so not every character may be given the choice to avoid combat 
 all of the time. Conversely, characters of an exceptionally low Intelligence will be given a completely 
 different set of "dumb" dialogue options  most of which are extremely hilarious  and the reaction 
 of NPCs will be drastically different.
  
  Like everything else in Arcanum, your character's good/evil alignment is based on your choices, 
 and is never a fixed part of the game. After character creation, your alignment meter will start 
 at 0 (neutral) and as you perform good deeds, or nefarious acts, it will shift up or down. Selflessly 
 help those in need, and your alignment will slowly move towards the positive side, eventually reaching 
 an almost saintly status at 100. Should you perform wretched acts of villainy, on the other hand, 
 your alignment meter will creep lower, eventually reaching a devilish status at -100. Your alignment 
 will affect the way NPCs react to you, but will never completely define your character; even if 
 you have an alignment rating of -100, for instance, you will never be prevented from doing good 
 deeds to redeem yourself.
  
  Similar to alignment is your magic/tech aptitude. This, too, starts at 0 and moves up or down as 
 you grow more inclined towards magic or technology. If you learn a great number of magic spells, 
 for instance, your aptitude will grow towards magic. If your magical aptitude is high, you will 
 have a greater chance of critically failing when using a tech item, such as a gun, but magical 
 rings will provide you a greater benefit. If your technical aptitude is extremely high, you will 
 be resistance to magic  both harmful and helpful  and magic equipment will do you little good 
 at all. As a quirk, particularly high aptitude ratings will even cause shopkeepers of opposing 
 types to expel you from their place of business, while shopkeepers of similar types will sing your 
 praises. It may not seem like much, but it really adds to the flavor of the Arcanum world.
  
  All of this adds to Arcanum's overall gameplay, which is a blessing because the combat system 
 can feel a little weak at times. Combat is primarily turn-based (though the option for real time 
 combat is available, this style of play is often too hectic to manage properly and should be avoided 
 unless you are inclined to frustration) and is carried out using an Action Point system similar 
 to Fallout (which many members of the Troika team also helped develop) . Each player has a certain 
 number of Action Points (AP) available to him during a given round of combat, and each action he 
 takes will deplete some of these AP. Once your AP are depleted, or when you dont have enough left 
 to perform the actions you wish to do, your turn ends and the enemy's turn begins. You will trade 
 blows, gun shots, magic spells, or arrows with the enemy, and the victor will be able to walk away. 
 It may not seem like much at first glance, so it is up to the player to create a character whose 
 combat techniques are interesting in order to keep things fresh and exciting. It is a good thing 
 for Arcanum that the game isn't entirely focused on combat, but should you choose to play a more 
 combat-oriented role, at least you have several options at your disposal to provide you with plenty 
 to do.
  
  Graphically, Arcanum isn't much to write home about either. Character models are not extremely 
 varied, and the environments are made using tile sets, so you will have to get used to seeing the 
 same walls and floors all over the place. The good news is most of the equipment your character 
 will use can change his appearance in some way, so the characters you will be using most often 
 will at least see an occasional graphical update. Spell effects are typically nice, though nothing 
 terribly fancy, and the entire world has a nice, earthy tone to it, which really emphasizes the 
 Industrial Revolution-style setting. The interface may seem a little flat, but it makes up for 
 it with some of the interesting quirks, like all of the many books and notes in the game actually 
 having the look and feel of paper.
  
  If it isn't much to look at, at least Arcanum is pleasant to the ear. A beautifully orchestrated 
 sound track will accompany you throughout the game, but it is never so overpowering as to detract 
 from the task at hand. The voice acting of certain NPCs  while a bit sparse  is excellent all 
 around, with several truly shining performances. Though the voice acting isn't utilized all the 
 time, it is always a pleasant treat. The ambient noises of Arcanum are also pleasant and mostly 
 realistic sounding, which help greatly with the sense of immersion that the game offers. Only a 
 few of the sound effects might drag down the game's audio quality; in particular, a few persistent 
 magical spells never seem to stop emitting little noises, which causes them to get quite old after 
 a while. Aside from those isolated cases though, Arcanum's overall sound quality is excellent.
 
  
  Arcanum may not be perfect, but it is a game that every roleplaying fan owes it to himself to play. 
 The world of Arcanum is enormous, the options provided are nearly endless, and the sense of immersion 
 is unparalleled. Troika went out of their way to add details to the game that really increase its 
 overall quality and its sense of realism. For example, there are dozens of books available to read 
 for your enjoyment alone  many of them have little to no importance with the game's overall storyline, 
 but they all offer information about Arcanum's past and present; flavor text used to draw you deeper 
 in to the setting. Likewise, the Caladon City Zoo houses many of Arcanum's rare and interesting 
 beasts, but beyond being a place to look at the wildlife from the safety of the city, it offers 
 no significant plot devices. Unlike many games, Arcanum's world feels alive because not everything 
 in it is directly related to what your character's primary objective is. There are hundreds of 
 side quests which can be played or ignored, whichever the player chooses. While they may not matter 
 in the long run, they serve to add a sense of adventure, accomplishment, and genuine feeling to 
 the world.
  
  Arcanum may not be for the casual gamer due to its high level of involvement, but f you are at 
 all a fan of roleplaying games, I highly encourage you to look past the minor faults of Arcanum 
 and give it a try. Despite its few flaws, you may find its endless supply of options and great 
 replay value too grand to pass up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jammy411
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Arcanum is a weird game, probably like no RPG youv'e ever come across. an excellenct idea. old 
 style swords and sorcery crossed with science and guns n' stuff. at first, its hard t o get into, 
 but if you preservere, you find it grows on you. it's a very non-linear rpg. i found myself going 
 to places witch had nothing to do with the story at all! but with all the things you could do, 
 the way you could interact with everyone, was a welcome experience. the combat was sometimes annoying, 
 but other than that, it's great. i haven't played this game in ages, i just thought of reviewing 
 it when i was trawling through my big box of games when i came across my old copy of arcanum. if 
 your into RPG's, and want to try something different, this is a must buy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  As I stated this game is far from pretty. I was excited for it to come out. I figured coming from 
 sierra it had to be decent. It was a good game, much like the balder's gate series and such. But 
 you must remember this came out much after the Balder's gate II. The graphics of that game were 
 even far beyond the ones of this.
  
  I know development of this game was a substantial amount of time. The gameplay and story were great. 
 The sound was decent as well, but, me not usually being a visual person, this was awful.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sampharo
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 10, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Fans of RPG games can forgive a lot of things. They are a pretty low-demanding crowd when it comes 
 to high-maintenance graphics, smashing sound effects, or glorious music themes. RPG players never 
 mind the occaisional slow-down, frequent loadings, or other sort of developers "shortcuts". However, 
 someone writing this game was thinking just that, pushed too far, and then ruined the holy grail 
 of any RPG adventure: immersion. With that, count me out.
  
  The game started out with a moderately good story. The story was further enhanced with good writing 
 and artistic twists that made it... interesting. The theme of the game was novel without being 
 too far out that you can actually imagine and understand the angles and the characters: Magic versus 
 technology, newspaper announcements of failed scientific attempts at combining them, communities 
 fully adopting one over the other while some made a successful balance, power hungry politicians 
 against freedom-seeking rioters, racial anotations, ancient civilizations, etc. It is rich, and 
 interesting.
  
  As many have mentioned, graphics and action were slightly disappointing, combat (which is integral 
 to the game needs serious work) , and the soundtrack could have used additional pieces to offer 
 variety as halfway across the game you grow weary. However if that was all, I would have still 
 given it an honest shot of being a great RPG. What made it fall into my recycle bin? Read ahead 
 (Slight spoiler warning though) :
  
  A role playing game is an experience where you simple just do that: Play the role. In order to 
 do that you need above all, immersion, and control. The game offers neither! First off, the game 
 starts with a blimp crash from which you are the sole survivor. Met with a priest who claims that 
 you are the Living One (part of their religious prophecy) you embark on a twisting long journey 
 to discover who you are, what this World is, and what can be done to avoid an apparent apocalypse. 
 However, that only involves you 20% of the time only, for the rest of the time you are performing 
 side mini-quests that has nothing to do with the main story. Many of them are too simple that they 
 get tediously mundane (delivering payment slips for a few pennies of gold, getting ore from a mine, 
 telling someone that he's needed back home, moving rocks for a farmer!) and with every single one 
 you start building frustration as the result of such stupid tasks is that a bit of necessary information 
 is revealed, and somehow, the vast majority of characters in the game are machined towards getting 
 you to do their laundry first before delivering usefulness. What frustrates you further is that 
 some of them don't make sense. You are asked sometimes to kill just to be given a lousy dagger 
 that ends up sold right back. 
  
  On the other hand, more "elaborate" quests seem to be purposely built in an attempt to add depth. 
 The attempt fails miserably as you feel the complication is merely an intent to prolong time spent 
 and reuse locations over and over again without regards to playability and enjoyment. The whytechurch 
 demon quest will take you easily across the whole landscape twice over just to find someone across 
 the map who will tell you who to kill, another on the other end to tell you how to get the weapon, 
 which sits in a cave back across the World, where you pick it up without a fight and go back to 
 use it. Moreover, some of the quests seem to unravel without making any sense or clue as to how 
 next step step came about, or puzzles that are interconnected in solution but not in context, as 
 for example Mannox journal and Iron clan were really badly fabricated in that sense, and thanks 
 to the badly built conversation system, you are left in doubt more times than not as to whether 
 you really should interact with the character further. 
  
  This brings us to the other immersion destroyer: conversation. The way you communicate in the game 
 is through a multiple choice style list of sentences that come up as a response to every statement. 
 An attribute (Explained in the manual to be your character's Intelligence however it failed over 
 and over to show any worth!) supposedly governs the number of choices and the appropriateness of 
 them. However, time and time again you find yourself being given limited choices that while you 
 are sitting across the keyboard you simply feel "no way I'ld say any of that!" bringing you back 
 to your growingly uncomforting chair and putting you more and more into a "how do I move the game 
 forward" kind of situation. Close to the end with me I just wanted to get the game over and done 
 with. 
  
  Additionally, it is bugged to the teeth, where many times the responses do not match your sentences. 
 Outside of immersion, you feel you have little control, at some point you feel the game is playing 
 you rather than the other way around (Mr. Misk death investigation as a stark example) . Options 
 come up that you didn't think of or want, and associations you made that are so clear so many times 
 do not happen because the dialogues and trail of events almost dictate how to solve puzzles and 
 tasks (try to pick up the Stillwater Giant Pelt before its time) . In many situations it becomes 
 outright moronic (Asking for Burbottom's address in Tarant only comes up if you're holding the 
 note in your own invesntory and not a follower, have been to Ashbury to speak to the book writer 
 AFTER the murders, and only if you have dug up Misk's grave, as well as been thrown out of his 
 house when you exhaust the conversation with the butler!) .
  
  Such imbalance extends further than conversations. Being attacked by an angry villagers is a tricky 
 affair: your followers will object if you strike the villager even if he strikes at you first, 
 but by simply passing your turn they will be rushing in and happily bashing their heads in. People's 
 reaction to your presence is out of context, as you can talk to someone, insult them, close the 
 conversation and then reinitiate it after changing into a smoking jacket in front of them and they 
 will be friendly. Not only that, but your follower's feelings towards you change as well depending 
 on what you're wearing. 
  
  The end result is a bad experience, and that is not forgiven in any game, let alone an RPG, which 
 is almost what most would solely require. There were many technical faults as well with the build 
 up of the game. The weaponry and armour don't advance well at all, as I found myself equipping 
 every one in my party way early on with the non-magical swift Balanced sword, and only upgraded 
 at the absolute very end! Non-fighting characters are very weak in comparison to warriors, and 
 the game is practically hell to play considering the frequency of combat and that levels are gained 
 so easily from striking and killing opponents. An attempt at giving alignment freedom where you 
 can actually play the quest as evil to provide wider scope was not interesting, considering that 
 it affected only solid reactions from specific characters while most of the others remained the 
 same. Completing quests whether for the prize or for personal interest made no difference from 
 completing it for a cause. Somehow you gain evil alignment (and lose good follower's favour) if 
 you defend yourself against an unprovoked villager who actually mistook you for someone else, but 
 looting locked chests and killing castle guards who catch you in the act seems to be no problem 
 at all.
  
  In my opinion the game is built badly and with a lazy attitude, falsely widening the story and 
 quests to give it way more playability than it really delivers. Shortcuts in programming show in 
 clear bugs (even after patching) and the most basic interface actions sometimes can be difficult 
 at best. This game is rated 4 out of 10 in my book, and aside from the interest you get in the 
 first two hours of play, the frustrations, decreasing anticipation, and lack of immersion, simply 
 take the whole experience downhill from there.
  
  Sam 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Cryomancer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 30, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  This game is way to under-appreciated. Arcanum: Of Steamworks and Magic Obscura, has a LOT to offer 
 players. Arcanum has a lot of different endings, lots of skills, lots of NPC's. You can have almost 
 any type of player you want. A techie, a mage, an archer... a mage archer, anything! And the story 
 changes depending on wheather you're good or evil! The game's story line is somewhat weird.... 
 You start out on a Blimp, but it crashes and Virgil, the coolest NPC in the game, thinks you're 
 a religious figure... and it goes on from there. Now the developer of this game, Sierra, also made 
 Fallout. But this is just Fallout in the past. Not that that's a bad thing. In fact it's good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I played and finished this game a long time ago, and i have to say that i waas fascinated in the 
 way this guys merged the magik world with the science world, its very interesting and weird to 
 see a combat in which some guys are casting attack spells while the others are shooting firearms!
 
  
  The plot of the game is immersive, first of all, you dont know who you are and there its a bunch 
 of people telling that you are the Chosen for who knows what... that catches you!
  
  The skill system its not what youll call a standart RPG system but it works well with the game, 
 but youll never left behind that weird sensation that accompanies you along the game, because it 
 is a really unusual game that its not a masterpiece, but its worth playing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morgue13-2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Arcanum is an unparalleled piece of absolute perfection. Or whatever. It is the ideal RPG. The 
 training is non-compulsory, and easy (ish) to obtain. The skill effects and chance factors are 
 realistic, since pickpocket in a less excellent RPGs wields little option as to what you steal 
 and its almost impossible to not get caught at any achievable level of ability. Various bugs make 
 the game entertaining and give a much-needed reprieve for really useless players. The game does 
 not require specialisation, I. e.: Youre a fighter so you cant do anything exiting, youre a thief 
 so you must fight bad, youre a mage, once youre out of mana, youre stuffed. This means that 
 you can do what you want. No class limitations to fuss over. Many people complain about the movement 
 slowness, but this is often useful as a way to obtain skill points (In combat, as you walk along) 
 although faster movement speeds still implementing the walk across the screen system would be useful. 
 The storyline is interesting, the characters adorable. The auto-levelling schemes are impressively 
 bad. The level-cap is tolerable, and doesnt destroy the game. There are no official cheats but 
 this is not a problem because this is one of the rare games that are just as fun without. There 
 are almost limitless objects in the game, which adds to diversity and interest. A huge improvement 
 to, all the available objects are listed in the manual, games. An easy to use world editor means 
 that it is possible to use the format to create any world you wish. Other forms of user-editing 
 are also possible, which is extremely useful. Its an old game, which means- Cheap. (er than most) . 
 The manual is a work of art and large quantities of fan literature make the game seem like a indispensable 
 clique. When people ask where I live, I reply Arcanum. Okay, Im a geek, but hell, this is more 
 than a game, this is a world. Fifty real-time hours of a world. And these are just the good things 
 I thought of off the top of my head. The only downfall is an increasing difficulty in availability. 
 Well, not the only, but the one that might stop people from buying it. If you can, do. Playing 
 time will keep you occupied forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riharddz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  When first launched it might not seem a graphically brilliant game, but when it comes to the big 
 picture it just drives you mad (in a good sense) . At first this game can be found a little unsuitable 
 for the mass rpg market because of the individuality of the game, but after a few hours it gets 
 more and more breathtaking. The main plot is beautifuly grown with various side quests and has 
 very very interesting twists and bends. A lot of items in this game are unique which can be found 
 more personalizing for some rpg fans. Whole world of Arcanum is alive and throughout the game it 
 may seem that it is not possible to explore all the possibilities at all.
  The biggest downfall of Arcanum is the presence of a bunch of bugs that can make your playing experience 
 a bit frustrating. The incorrect damage calculation system, magic bugs ect. can spoil some portion 
 of fun. But don't think of it as total destruction of the gamplay because it is far from it.
  
  Now-days the role playing game market turns its concentrations towards graphical experience 
 leaving the gameplay and a bit aside as it may seem to by some old rpg fans. Though just a bit, 
 it feels like rpg world has lost some of it's glory to graphical performance. That of course is 
 a matter of taste and therefore the opinion expressed here should be taken as very subjective view. 
 Nevertheless Arcanum is a classic that has to be at least taken into account when choosing a deeply 
 and colorfully satisfying game to play, 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rihardzz
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  When first launched it might not seem a graphically brilliant game, but when it comes to the big 
 picture it just drives you mad (in a good sense) . At first this game can be found a little unsuitable 
 for the mass rpg market because of the individuality of the game, but after a few hours it gets 
 more and more breathtaking. The main plot is beautifuly grown with various side quests and has 
 very very interesting twists and bends. A lot of items in this game are unique which can be found 
 more personalizing for some rpg fans. Whole world of Arcanum is alive and throughout the game it 
 may seem that it is not possible to explore all the possibilities at all.
  The biggest downfall of Arcanum is the presence of a bunch of bugs that can make your playing experience 
 a bit frustrating. The incorrect damage calculation system, magic bugs ect. can spoil some portion 
 of fun. But don't think of it as total destruction of the gamplay because it is far from it.
  Now-days the role playing game market turns its concentrations towards graphical experience leaving 
 the gameplay and a bit aside as it may seem to by some old rpg fans. Though just a bit, it feels 
 like rpg world has lost some of it's glory to graphical performance. That of course is a matter 
 of taste and therefore the opinion expressed here should be taken as very subjective view. Nevertheless 
 Arcanum is a classic that has to be at least taken into account when choosing a deeply and colorfully 
 satisfying game to play, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizer
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 1, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  The game is short and has plenty of bugs, but it was fun while it last and I must say I found the 
 game's concepts ingenius. 
  
  Storywise there are not to many games that would mix the magic of elves, dwarves, gnomes, halfings, 
 ogres and orcs with the industrial refolution of steam engines, hot air ballons, sherlock homes, 
 monicles and handelbar mustaches. It works out wonderfully as a setting, though. I found the ideas 
 of the game's setting, culture and history strikingly deep. It comes with a booklike manual full 
 of the stuff. But I'm afraid the artists behind it who have been better off writing a book serise 
 about it rather than starting with a RPG. There a a ton of sidequests and characters to meet and 
 team up with, for good of evil, along with the continuing personal struggle to developed the overwelming 
 amoung of skills and alignments reguarding newer forming technology and the old ways of magic. 
 Everything is about choice and cause and effect in this game. In the story begin with your character 
 being the lone surrviver of an attack on a zephlin carrying immegrents to Acanum. A monk tries 
 to help you and you both look for other survivers. You happen across a dieing gnome who gives you 
 a ring that is significant in some way. The who situation throws the holy man who found you into 
 a fit about some phrophacey. From there, you can choose to beleive him or not, but from there, 
 every choice you make totally twist the story and nothing is what is seems, even the ring is unimportant 
 although it serves as a great clue as the mistery unflods.
  
  Unfortunately, the story becomes null once you reach lvl limit 50. I don't know why but for some 
 reason they made it so you'd reach your max lvl before halfway through the game, so the rest becomes 
 pointless fighting.
  If you can get it cheap though it's a good buy if you just want something temporary. It really 
 was based on a good idea.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: srgdrasco
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Really awesome game, best mix of RPG i have seen in a long time! Only game that MIGHT beat Arcanum, 
 is the Fallout series... But very few games beat Fallout! If the multiplayer worked better, there 
 are way too many bugs, it would have had a perfect ten, but im sure 9.5 is a worthy rating. I still 
 highly suggest this game though and for any RPG fans, or people interested in a different, interesting 
 game where magic and steampunk machinery mix, play this game. It is AWESOME!! There are like 16 
 schools of magic with 5 spells in each, you do the math, with 8 technologies with like 10 'items' 
 each you do the math, and there are about 8 races and you choose your background, and build your 
 character to what you want while you play! So if you want to be a gun wielding dwarf, raise your 
 Perception and gun skill! If you want to be a head smashing half-ogre, raise your Strength and 
 melee skill! this game is so open and flexible, i couldnt put it down... until my computer crashed. 
 then i played all over again. and my computer crashed again... now im playing for a THIRD time... 
 its like digital crack (yeah yeah i know its been said before) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_Ronaldo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 2, 2005 8:37 am PT
Review:  Sure the graphics aren't great, but this is one of the best and most ummersive RPG's around, and 
 i loved it and have played it many times even thogh the story was much the same all times.
  The characters are unique, with each having special abilties, with people reacting differently 
 to who yuo are. The combat systems good and the story is great. The world is huge, included many 
 areas like deserted wasteland and elven forests! The graphics are good enough, and the NPC's are 
 fun to talk to. Little added extras like the option to get newspapers is great!
  Sure it may be old now, but I'd still recommend it ovr mnany games currently on the market! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CivroN
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 24, 2005 5:06 am PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorite because its the same as the Fallout genre where non-linear gameplay 
 is applied. You can shoot the store seller to get his goods and kill everybody in the town so that 
 you could run for mayor. This game solid rocks and rolls with fun although you will be a bit confused 
 with the overload of skill sets and perks but the gameplay is just plain FUN to put in simple terms. 
 You can do anything you want and it also has a world editor that i really do not know how to use 
 it. But all in all this game is an instant classic and i hope Arcanum 2 will be released as soon 
 as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 28, 2005 6:32 pm PT
Review:  A very interesting RPG to say the least. 
  
  It has a few bugs here and there, one prevented me from finishing the game, and the game in general 
 feels a little feels a little unstable/unfinished/unpolished (though that might just be for me) . 
 
  
  The game is still really interesting and very fun. There are MANY ways to design your character, 
 which really adds to the replayability of the game (which is why the bug that prevented me from 
 finishing didn't set me off from this game) , and just as many ways to actually play the game. You 
 can have numerous NPC's join your party (depending on your charisma) , and all of these can be customized 
 to yoru liking, or you can just set them to level up by themselves and not worry about them at 
 all. 
  
  One thing that REALLY surprised me about this game was the NPC's voices, just about everything 
 they say is voiced over, and voiced over well. It really brings a feel of realism to the game that 
 I didn't expect, and made the game much much better. 
  
  Now the graphics, I don't know what to say. Maybe 'dated'. I don't want to say they're bad, just 
 because I didn't like it. It's more about taste; look at a few screenshots and see if you like 
 them. 
  
  The game allows you to fight in real time as well as turn based, though I saw little advantage 
 in playing real time. More often than not, I'd lose a simple battle in real time, where as I'd 
 win the exact same battle easily in turn based. Again, this is why I saw the game engine as a little 
 'unpolished'. On the other hand, there were battles that I'd win easily in real time and lose in 
 turn based. Probably due to the fact that, in turn based, you can only cast spells a certain number 
 of times your turn (usually 2-4, depending on a few of your stats) , where as in real time you can 
 continuely cast them (your computer controlled allies can atleast) . Healing for instance, in turn 
 based you could only be healed twice a turn, whereas in real time you can continuously be healed. 
 A bit of an annoyance if you want to stick to one type of play. 
  
  Despite my distaste with the graphics and the engine, the game truly is a great experience. I'd 
 say atleast to give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satori
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2005 3:06 am PT
Review:  An RPG set in a magical version of Steam punk is honestly a bit of a stretch for me. I would have 
 much preferred straight up Steam Punk, but then again I do not own a software company so I'll make 
 do with the wonderful works that are given to me. 
  This game smacks of Fallout, but in a good way. The story is well put together and the characters 
 make sense. I was compelled to keep playing for hours on end and enjoyed every minute of it. Sure 
 the graphics are low end, but this sort of game is hardly about graphics. Acting was decent enough 
 so all in all I really enjoyed this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mauro_Rosati
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 25, 2005 10:22 am PT
Review:  Hi guys, lets talk about Arcanum, this RPG developed by troika games and plubished by Sierra Entertainment.
 
  I don't want to talk about the story and plot because I want you to discover it for yourself.
 
  Arcanum it's a very good surprise for the RPGs fans, and believe if I tell you this because Arcanumo 
 deserve at least a chance (even if the Gamespot score it's not so high, but it's a good game, believe 
 me if I tell you this.
  You can find it for a few bucks, so go out and get it and enter the magic world of Arcanum, you'll 
 never repent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 16, 2005 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I replayed this game 4 times and every time I just got bored at the end. Part of the problem wasn't 
 just the lack luster graphics, or glitchy controls or weird story line. It was the feeling that 
 it wasn't complete. Don't get me wrong. There is a lot to explore in Arcanum. In fact you can walk 
 clear to accross the whole continent. The problem is you wouldn't see much along the way because 
 it all looks the same and evenutally you would just go to the map and then do the auto walk to 
 some location.
  
  The story involves the return of some evil elf that almost destroyed the world before but the real 
 interesting dialogue involves the change occuring in the world of Arcanum. magic is in a decline 
 and technology is taking over. Which is a good thing since the magic spells you can choose from 
 are pretty lame and if your a great inventor in fire arms or explosives or armor you can build 
 some interesting things. To become a builder you have to choose a path for your character to follow 
 in life (choose the mechanical field to really enjoy the game in my opinion.) Before that you have 
 to choose what race you are too. You then pick and build your stats and head on your merry way 
 to explore the world after the zeppelin you were riding on crashed (all part of the story.) This 
 is probably the most difficult part of the game as the wolves are relentless and you really lack 
 any kind of offense to really attack or defend yourself with.
  
  Its too bad Arcanums story turned so dull towards the end because there was an amazing amount of 
 detail that went into describing events and locations in the game. Its just unfortunate that you 
 can't unlock everything in the game even after four times thru unless you used cheats (which yes 
 I did and was still unable to unlock everything) . The graphics are really not that great and I 
 bought this game as a recommendation since it was developed by the same people that did Fallout. 
 Unfortunately it was not what I was hoping for. Sure there were plenty of options, just not all 
 of them what I wanted to do with my time in this game. There are some hilarious back stories that 
 happen and other stories that make you wish they had let you finish discovering what was really 
 going on. Such as the slave trade involving human and ogre breeding for half-ogres. But with that 
 being said, it was sad to not see that done.
  
  Anyways, the musical score was kind of victorian as were the designs in the game. The voice acting 
 was ok and not really all that great in my opinion. The game also lacked a lot of cutscenes for 
 areas I felt would have been interesting to see a cutscene in.
  
  My recommendation is look for this game at a yard sale or something. I sold my copy four years 
 later for 5 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cakcool
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 12, 2004 12:28 am PT
Review:  Arcanum: Of Steamworks & Magick Obscura defines the genre of Role-playing games. In Arcanum you 
 are taken to a world in the midst of an industrial revolution. Mixed reactions amongst its denizens 
 at the causes of technology on nature, and wild effects of magick when used near technology has 
 created an innovative but more importantly impressive an environment. When you finish installing 
 the game and begin to run it the opening cinematic revealing a traditional knight being outwitted 
 by a knight with a gun who then kills the traditional hero. This scene could not better symbolize 
 every aspect of the game. To begin with you are forced to create your avatar or hero (well duh) . 
 The first step is to create a person and his background. You are given the option of being a male 
 or female; and the option of being a Human, Elf, Half-Elf, Dwarf, Halfling, Gnome, Half-Orc, or 
 Half-Ogre. Depending on which combination of these you choose (females are only offered a select 
 few races out of the general options) will then influence the reactions and quests your character 
 receives by NPCs. But more importantly, will give you a selection of beautifully drawn portraits 
 reminiscent of the Romantic eras interest in Self-Portraits, most common in Europe. Finally, you 
 are then offered several witty and interesting backgrounds to help establish a story for your characters. 
 These backgrounds will strengthen and weaken your character in several different but appropriate 
 ways. Everything from selling your soul to the devil, thusly becoming slightly more evil for more 
 magick, to being that Sickly Child who reads and becomes smart is offered. Then you are sent to 
 the next step, perhaps the best character development system ever created. This opened ended system 
 starts you off with 5 points to invest in typical statistics like strength, beauty, willpower; 
 a splendid selection of 80 unique spells; an innovative assortment of 56 different technology skills 
 (such as creating different drugs or explosives, or making that clockwork pet you always wanted) ; 
 and/or spending on your characters abilities such as using guns, the ability to pickpocket, heck 
 even your ability to dodge. This near perfect and open-minded character development system allows 
 you to create everything from a Halfling diplomat to a Dwarfen gunslinger to a Half-Ogre mage. 
 Throughout the game you will earn points through leveling which will then improve your character, 
 but you will also be able to do quests to improve different abilities by becoming an apprentice, 
 expert, or even a coveted master. This open ended system can be overwhelming at first, which is 
 why the game offers templates which will build your character for you as you level up and earn 
 points. After you create your hero or even a snobbish Gnome nobleman or Half-Ogre, circus escapee, 
 manservant you will finally enter a world of conflict.
  
  The first aspects of the game I noticed were the awkward interface and dated graphics. But, this 
 was the only time I noticed these issues because they were quickly hidden by the introduction of 
 the story line. (Because I was able to ignore the graphics, I gave it a 5 instead of a 2) Throughout 
 the game, pleasant string quartet music played on my computer to create an atmosphere of ambiance. 
 The music was very tasteful and greatly appreciated. Definitely deserving a perfect 10. The next 
 aspect of the game was the communication that I experienced with an NPC. The subtle or sometimes 
 blatant humor offered through different reaction and speech options were downright revolutionary. 
 Baldurs Gate has nothing on Arcanum. The stupid-speaking lines given to Half-Ogres who wont improve 
 on their intellect can be demoralizing at times, but the humor more then makes up for this. Of 
 course, this was before I realized just how willing to communicate NPCs are in Arcanum. After a 
 few hours, I discovered NPCs are either pleased or disgusted, based on your beauty and charisma, 
 your alignment to good or evil, and your path of following either technology or magick. Heck, they 
 even find it rude if you throw newspapers on the ground in front of them. Next time I will make 
 sure to use the trashcans located in throughout several cities. Unfortunately, I wasnt as pleased 
 with the next aspect of the game. Combat. Combat in this game suffers from a lack of polish and 
 poor pacing. There are three options offered for combat, real time which is similar to Diablo but 
 put on steroids so that it is so fast, it is not controllable; turn-based which can be sluggish 
 and boring at times; and then a hybrid fast paced turn-based option which worked for me. I felt 
 that while combat was boring at first and disappointing, the creativity put into the items and 
 skills you used during combat more then make up for the interface. I was impressed by the AI offered 
 in the game, when enemies, animals, and monsters didnt just rush at me and scream obscenities 
 (granted I liked this in Serious Sam) . Some of them, decided not to attack me based on how powerful 
 I was, and others didnt feel like wasting their breath on me. Perhaps the aspect of combat that 
 made up for initial reactions was the intuitive idea of combining combat and communications. No 
 longer will NPCs let you just place a stick of dynamite behind them and walk away or break their 
 items right in front of them. When I set my dynamite on a fence that I was about to stroll through, 
 the cutthroats guarding it promptly proceeded to kill me. This brings up the next aspect of the 
 game I became aware of. The mantra: save often and something or another completely applies to this 
 game. Like in Diablo 1, when you die, the game is over unless you want to reload. Later on, certain 
 NPCs that might join you on your quests might resurrect you. Thusly creating parties is the next 
 aspect I stumbled upon. NPCs actually care about what you do when they join you. I found it disturbing 
 that I needed a certain amount of charisma for a Half-Ogre to join me, but hey, thats what Sogg 
 wanted. When fighting, unlike in Baldurs Gate, you do not control the NPCs. And unlike in Diablo 
 2, the NPCs are not suicidal maniacs. The most of the guys that joined me in my first play through 
 were talented and used self-control to last through most of the game with me. Every now and then 
 I might abandon one guy for another. I was delightfully surprised that when I saved a mangy dog 
 from being kicked to death by a cold and heartless bum, that it became my best friend and a powerful 
 melee pet. After establishing that combat was a bit rugged and unpolished but still conceptually 
 intuitive and practical to use in the game, I discovered that combat wasnt even necessary during 
 several points in the game when I made an Elven Geisha. (Ya thats not an actual title, but she 
 did the job) Actually, to be honest the aspect of persuasion was much more enjoyable then combat, 
 but just as interactive and challenging to use. Thankfully, the attributes need to be a skilled 
 diplomat, or Geisha in my case, also helped in creating large groups with lots of members. This 
 proved to me that the Game play deserved a 10.
  
  I enjoyed, and still enjoy playing this game. The non-linear structure allows for almost unlimited 
 replay ability. Thusly earning a full value of 10 if not higher. This masterpiece is not easy. 
 Thats why the manual, full of attitude and in-character style was such a great bonus. Generally, 
 I find manuals to be boring, and frankly a waste of time. With the manual, the help of reading 
 different forums, and just playing the game, it took me a few hours to learn the games mechanics, 
 vocab, terms, and combat system, but I am still learning more and more about different innovations 
 well built in the game. After several patches, there are only a few bugs, which rarely cause any 
 problems or are noticed. So, in conclusion, not only do I recommend this game to the average and 
 casual gamer, but I urge and hope anyone looking for a thought provoking masterpiece to give this 
 game your full amount of free time and guarantee you hours of grand enjoyment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgindles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2004 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that shows just how far you can take a RPG to give the gamer as much control over 
 the universe around him as possible. This game is totally immersive, but I will recommend it only 
 for the serious RPG enthusiast since there is a lot of nitpicky things to take care of. It also 
 takes a long time to finish. If games such as Diablo II are more your style, stick with those fine 
 games, as you probably won't get much enjoyment out of this title. 
  With that said, I'll jump right in. From the very start of the game, the gamer is presented with 
 a large variety of options in "simply" creating your character. You get to choose between the standard 
 male/female and human/elf/dwarf/etc. These seemingly innocent choices at the beginning affect the 
 entire world of Arcanum. Much of the subplot of the game deals with the race relations between 
 humans and the other races in the world. Play as a human, and most orcs won't like you. Play as 
 an orc, and just about everyone won't like you. There's an even bitter hatred between elves and 
 dwarves. These reactions are important because, while a merchant may be flippant with you, an important 
 NPC may look at you differently, causing you to have to earn his trust before he'll help you.
 
  Another interesting aspect of the character generation is the ability to choose a background. 
 These range from "Raised in the Pits" (allowing your character to start with good fighting skills) 
 to "Hero" (evil deeds drastically affect this character) and everything in between. These choices 
 also affect the characters found in the game. For a prime example, talk to Virgil, your companion 
 you meet in the first few minutes, as an average character. Then go back and speak to him as a 
 Savant.
  With all of these choices, you may be worried that you'll pick a class that makes the game impossible 
 to finish. While there are certainly classes that make the game easier and harder, the programmers 
 did a pretty good job in balancing these out. My one character I played through as a diplomat, 
 meaning I had high Intelligence and high Charisma but just about nothing in the way of fighting 
 skills (even wounding myself with my own sword on occasion) . In instances where I encountered a 
 potentially hostile situation, I was able to talk my way out of a confrontation by either bluffing, 
 threatening, or reasoning with someone. My high charisma also allowed me to convince people to 
 join my party, for those times when I needed to fight.
  The story line of the game is fairly standard. You survive a spectacular blimp crash and have the 
 world's religious group peg you as "The One." Set in the industrial revolution of this world, where 
 magic ang guns are equally prominent, you must travel about trying to solve the mystery surrounding 
 the sudden interest in you and various assassination attempts. The story even features some nice 
 twists in it. However, there are also times where you will travel about for a looooooooooooooooonnnnng 
 while and not have the story progress at all. It is virtually impossible to start this game, put 
 it down for a couple of months, and then try to come back to it. Unless you took copious amounts 
 of notes, the in-game logbook of your adventures is not going to help you.
  It is also sometimes difficult to figure out what to do next. Sometimes you'll be told to find 
 a particular person who was last seen in the city. When you show up in the city, you discover that 
 it is incredibly large with hundreds of NPCs. You then find someone who heard that the person you're 
 after has been rumored to be at this or that location, so you head out again. Other times you'll 
 just be tasked with a particular quest, such as find a lost dwarf clan, with little or no clue 
 as to how to proceed on this. There are even some things you'll be clued into almost from the beginning, 
 implying that you should be able to solve the quest in the near future, only to find out the solution 
 can only be found almost at the very end of the game. That concept is Arcanum's biggest asset and 
 it's biggest drawback, appealing to the die hard RPGers but turning away the casual ones.
  The graphics and sound are not as bad as several reviews talk about. The soundtrack is particular 
 beautiful, consisting of stringed instruments that play various movements. I will concede that 
 they do get repetitive by the time you've finished the game. The sound effects are really nothing 
 too exciting. The voice acting, however, is top notch, and certainly one of the best I've ever 
 encountered in a game. And the graphics, though dated compared to the games coming out now, aren't 
 too shabby. The overhead view presented in the game is done well, though fine details are lacking 
 in most regards.
  As I mentioned before, serious RPGers will love the non-linear aspect of the game while others 
 will find this game too complex to hold their interest. If you are of the former, this is definitely 
 the game you want. It has significant value for your money since it takes a good while of gaming 
 to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomic_Mutant
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2004 8:25 am PT
Review:  When I look at the game Arcanum, I am overcome with mixed emitons. It was the game that was very 
 ambitious, from then newly formed Troika, whose founders, hailing from former reputed Black Isle 
 no doubt had hoped great things for the game as their first project. However, plagued with delays 
 and other issues concerning with either limited resource or pressure from Sierra (now Vivendi Universal) 
 Arcanum has only amounted to a shadow of what it could've been (and should've been) .
  
  You may say, "But Atomic, you've rated the game as 'great'!" Yes, even with the game not achieving 
 its potential, not even half of what was promised, the game teeters on the brink of greatness. 
 Speaking of its potential, the game was supposed to be what 'Neverwinter Night' realized with aplomb, 
 which was to allow players to design their own 'modules' with the included map editor for online 
 play with others. Alas, the editor was insanely cumbersome to use and multiplayer, well, more on 
 that later. It was a great concept that never fully materialized, just like many of its other features.
 
  
  The graphics made me feel like that Arcanum, like the music industry, had a healthy appetite for 
 anything 'retro'. They were essentially lifted up from 'Fallout 2' enriched to 16-bit depth (when 
 Baldur's Gate 2 was flaunting its 32-bit background) and spruced up with fantasy setting and its 
 trappings. But the graphics in general worked to maintain that consistent feel, however drab it 
 was, and it literally grew on me like mold. The stilted and jarring animations, the scant model 
 sizes, incongrous and clunky interface, the hexagonal tiles that force the characters go all zig 
 zag, all of them quite exude some quaint antiquity that goes hand in hand with the faux-Victorian 
 facade that lend the game a distinction of being a homage to its forebearers.
  
  'Of Steamworks and Magic Obscura' moniker isn't just there for the game to sound pretentious or 
 anything. It advertises one of its more interesting features, which is based upon the system that 
 sets the discipline of magic against the discipline of technology, and their related skill sets 
 and items. The magically inclined could choose to become a pure wizard harnessing spells from eight 
 or nine schools of magic; the opposite is equally viable with the techies who favor something more 
 tangible over casting nicely rendered magic spells. The flagship SPECIAL system is in place all 
 in its glory, along with perks and skills that are contextually relevant (some being exclusive 
 to certain character builds) . They instantly make Arcanum as replayable and engrossing as any RPG, 
 as far as character customization is concerned (although the limited amount of aesthetic options 
 for the character build does not reflect that) . 
  
  I mean, what other RPG allows you to play as an idiot savant, with exceptional prescience and knowledge, 
 but having to always suffer rude comments and neglect from almost every NPC in the game? 
  
  The problem rises from the balance issues that have generally made the overall skill sets attributed 
 to magic much more powerful than their 'equivalents' in the technology discipline. Without the 
 right combination of skill sets that the tech related skills certainly do not apply, it would have 
 been difficult to even get through early stages of the game. For example, one of what was supposed 
 to be the centerpiece of the technology skill sets, item crafting from easily obtainable objects, 
 could have been more beneficial if more than a few crafted items actually presented any practical 
 advantage. It is unfortunate the extent of the damage potential within the technological discipline 
 of skills goes as far as the type of weapons used (much like Diablo) . 
  
  The combat system is built in such a way that a lot of technological weapons based on ranged projectiles 
 are rendered pretty much useless since the enemy predominantly wielding melee weapons can cover 
 a lot of ground between them and you in a very short amount of turns. Since the party NPCs are 
 controlled by computer AI, it is almost impossible to devise any feasible formation or arrangement 
 as to provide some cover for the poor rifleman, even though you can instruct them beforehand to 
 limit their movements (such as ordering them to stay close) .
  
  The optional real-time combat only exacerbates the problem; or rather it literally debilitates 
 the gameplay by seemingly accelerating every combat animation by tenfold; it comes only useful 
 when you have to contend with a throng of low level foes that would otherwise require needless 
 labour dispatching them, taking turns chasing after them. Speaking of chasing, that is only one 
 of a few AI behaviours displayed in the game; rush headlong into close range melee fest or hightail 
 it in desperate flight, that describes the wide range of what the AI is capable of in terms of 
 combat. Strangely, there is also a suspicious lack of magic using foes; perhaps it was too daunting 
 for Troika to script competent AI for them? 
  
  Overall the game generally presents too obvious of a route for power-mongers who can opt for strong 
 melee class or magic class, for whom the game provides almost no challenge while being quite painfully 
 difficult and restricting for those who would build their characters in a more liberal fashion. 
 However, there are many possible builds that are quite practical and enjoyable. There is no particular 
 game stopping barrier or bugs to prevent truly roleplaying.
  
  The sound effects of the game are rather mundane and generic. The weapons' sound effects could 
 have used more variety and pronounced bass, since it is rather hard to otherwise lend excitement 
 to turn based combat. The music soundtrack is nicely done, however, with somewhat minimalist and 
 subtle but very distinct sound from a string ensemble. It is quite pleasant to hear, unless of 
 course you hear it for the tenth time in a loop during the game. The voice work is rather good, 
 I can recall some of the memorable lines (when Virgil first encounters the idiot savant character) . 
 
  
  Sadly, multiplayer is broken out of the box. No amount of bugs or patches alleviated the problem 
 until the developers conceded to this incorrigible fault. Along with real-time combat, it would 
 have been better for Troika to have scrapped the feature altogether from the outset during the 
 early design phase and concentrated solely on balancing the skill sets and improving graphics and 
 production values.
  
  What makes this game very memorable for me is that Arcanum has a very distinct subject matter pertaining 
 to steampunk that more than intrigues me just by the mention of it being used in a game setting. 
 The designers at Troika proceeded to craft this original world based on an interesting premise 
 and produced the atmosphere that was strangely quirky yet refreshing at the same time. 
  
  The storyline that Arcanum is based on is one of the best I've experienced, on par with that of 
 the incredible 'Planescape: Torment'. There is no compromise in the breadth of content that is 
 both mature and believable. It seems where the graphics fail to deliver in terms of the immersion 
 factor of the game, the sheer amount of content and dialogues nearly make up for it. 
  
  It would be rather difficult to experience the same Arcanum on the second time of play through 
 with a different character build. The experience could be fundamentally different every time, with 
 variables along the axis of good and evil, technology and magic, and other opposing values that 
 just beg to be tweaked to explore whatever new content the game has to offer. 
  
  I hold Arcanum in somewhat different perspective than most other RPGs, because it seemed to be 
 the last game that fully strived to create and reinforce the kind of content that taps into the 
 potential made available by a fully realized and original game property. Troika's second project, 
 'The Temple of Elemental Evil', was not so much of a throwback to an early era of roleplaying as 
 a retread to the banal and rudimentary form of limited roleplaying. Recent RPGs are bolstered by 
 prominent licenses, such as Star Wars, Neverwinter Nights, and so on. Many PC RPGs are also made 
 concurrently for consoles, and some of the conventions that I've come to identify with in RPG and 
 really appreciate are regressing into something of remote past. There is hardly an original world, 
 an original premise, that games like Arcanum have instilled in my gaming experience, impressing 
 me with glimpses into small tidbits of the history of this wonderous world to the sweeping, overarching 
 theme that can be interpreted in as many ways as one is able to approach the game.
  
  Excuse me for getting a bit misty-eyed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alec-Eiffel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 9, 2004 4:59 pm PT
Review:  What a detailed and glorious new step for the genre. It is packed with ambience and tiny details 
 that make all great games significant. But be careful! Open up your inventory page in cities and 
 don't expect everything to be there when you are done. That's right, thieves! Coniving they are, 
 as is the brilliance of Arcanum. It must be stated how much love and time went into this game. 
 While the story falls flat of anything besides decent, the vast worlds and quite intricate ideas 
 make up for it all, it short time as well. Sure, there are bugs, but what game doesn't? In such 
 a massive world to be explored, the miniscule bugs are barely noticeable. Thanks Arcanum, for depleting 
 all other contenders in the RPG genre, and my social life! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
