-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: ArchLord
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/archlord/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Familiar role-playing gameplay of &quot;kill, loot, buy stuff&quot; for players who might be happy with that.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Repetitive and tedious gameplay.
 blurry graphics and lackluster audio.
 shallow quest and crafting system.
 PVP and high-level content take hours of repetitive combat to get to.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 22, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.7
Critic Score: 4.5, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 5.7, 775 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: NHN Corporation
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Oct 3, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You probably shouldn't play ArchLord. 

  ArchLord can be summed up with two words: "dull" and "repetitive." Unfortunately, this game doesn't 
 have anything to offer massively multiplayer veterans, and if you've been playing these games for 
 a while, there's a good chance you've already found something better than this.  

          Congratulations. You are now level 2. You can wear armor.     

  Like other games of 
 this sort, ArchLord lets you create a single character to adventure in a persistent world, fighting 
 monsters and performing quests to gain experience levels and in-game wealth to upgrade your character's 
 items and abilities by purchasing new weapons and armor or new magic spells to cast. Yes, ArchLord 
 is a fantasy-themed game, but it looks and sounds generic. The environments are bland, the character 
 models look rough and blurry and offer hardly any customization options, and the game doesn't sound 
 that great.  

  You can play as a character from one of three races -- orcs, elves, or humans -- and play as such professions 
 as hunter or sorcerer. No matter what choice you make, you'll always end up wandering off into 
 the world to find monsters, pounding on them until they die or your character dies. And you keep 
 doing this until you gain an experience level. Then, you go back and do the same thing again, eventually 
 against stronger enemies, but hopefully you're high enough in level to purchase a slightly bigger 
 stick to beat enemies with. If you were making sweeping generalizations, you could arguably make 
 this kind of criticism about most massively multiplayer games to date, but in ArchLord, this boring 
 hack-and-slash combat really is the focus of the game, and it's so bad, you'll notice. Your character's 
 individual power doesn't scale well against monsters, so you'll need to either sit and rest or 
 run back to town for more healing and magic potions more frequently over time, unless you "farm" 
 lower-level monsters that pose little challenge. Considering how many recent games have introduced 
 much more lenient combat systems with minimal downtime, the grind seems outdated as well as tiresome. 

  So the good news is that every few levels or so, you might qualify for slightly better armor or 
 a slightly stronger magic spell. The bad news is that it's boring to repeatedly kill or be killed 
 by monsters, especially since the monsters, your character, and your weapons tend to make only 
 one sound sample apiece -- and they all sound like cheap, public-domain audio files you'd hear on 
 a bad TV cartoon. Considering that your character and the monsters also repeat the same animation 
 over and over again in battle, this might be the best way to describe what a battle in ArchLord 
 looks like -- not an epic struggle with a human warrior fighting for his life against a vicious monster, 
 but two cartoon characters repeatedly whacking each other on the head for hours on end. The game's 
 subdued, faux-opera soundtrack doesn't help either; listening to a generic-sounding song with a 
 trilling female vocalist doesn't add much to the experience most of the time, and when it's laid 
 down behind the same two looped sound samples of your character playing whack-a-mole with a giant 
 spider, it's kind of embarrassing.  

  Unfortunately, this is most of what the game will ever offer for many players. ArchLord was originally 
 billed as a competitive player-versus-player game with the unique twist that one extremely high-level 
 player could ascend to the rank of "ArchLord," the ruler of the in-game world, possessing awesome 
 abilities. Unfortunately, to get anywhere near that level, you absolutely need to belong to a high-ranking 
 guild -- a permanent association of players who fight monsters and perform quests together and, in 
 this case, stand in lines for the next shot at the epic quests that lead to the crown. Without 
 that kind of support, you'll take much longer to gain your experience levels and will have to constantly 
 run back to town to purchase healing and magic potions to replenish yourself. You also won't be 
 competitive in player-versus-player combat -- unless you have a good group of high-level players 
 to back you up, your character will pretty much be a sitting duck when you wander out into the 
 wild.  

          You're able to type in a command to make your character smile, but ArchLord probably won't 
 be able to make you smile.     

  Unfortunately, most players may not even see that part of the game because to get to the lofty 
 character level of 50, you'll need to endure hours and hours and hours of grinding away at killing 
 increasingly tough monsters, selling loot, buying potions, and then going out and finding even 
 tougher monsters. It's possible that players who have very little experience with this sort of 
 game might find the treadmill-like game of killing, looting, and buying better stuff to be somewhat 
 addictive, but there are more-compelling, more-enjoyable games out there by now that offer more. 
 Yes, the game has halfhearted quest and crafting systems, but the quest system just gives you some 
 bland missions that boil down to killing monsters or delivering items as one-off tasks that don't 
 seem connected to each other with any kind of context or story, and the crafting system is simplistic 
 and not all that interesting.  

  What you're left with when playing ArchLord is a whole lot of grinding away, repeatedly fighting 
 off both monsters and the urge to stop playing ArchLord. There are already plenty of other decent 
 massively multiplayer games out there that offer a better experience, and you'd probably be better 
 off playing one of those right now.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (88 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: timjharvey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 2:50 am PT
Review:  Gamespot is by far my favourite review site, however every now-and-then i find a review that i 
 disagree with, this is one of them. I've been looking for that MMO that keeps me hooked with good 
 gameplay, familiar enough to not be too much of a mission to learn, nice graphics, game depth, 
 and a good user base, and this is it... I have only played Archlord since the 3rd episode, but 
 i'm hooked - i've tried probably 2/3 of the other MMO's out there, many of them are very disappointing, 
 from terrible graphics, to bad english translations, some of them are so cluncky that they just 
 don't work. Archlord wins in almost every department, i'm absolutely loving it, now all i need 
 to do is become Archlord, Look for me in-game, on the Evengarda server, we can form a guild and 
 take down the Archlord, i'm KillerHarvey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariadarabi
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2009 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I've read the Critic review and I thought "Hey! Why not see this game for myself!", now I know 
 what you're thinking. You probably think that this is a grind-to-level game, and to be honest it 
 is... until you reach level 30. That is when the fun begins. When you are level 30, you are able 
 to use mounts and explore the massive world of "The Archlord". You can assassinate the Archlord 
 if you see him, but be careful! The Archlord has special skills which allows him to summon a huge 
 dragon, change the weather, or he can send his knights to kill you. You are able to put bounties 
 on people's heads and kill people for money. The crafting system is amazing! You can kill ANY animal 
 and use the resources collected from their bodies to make potions to help you transform into them. 
 There are so much to this game that I can't even type it enough, just try it out yourself! Once 
 you reach level 30, the fun begins with tons of quests and action. The "noob" levels below it are 
 just plain grinding but it is fun if you grind with friends. A con about this game is that the 
 journey to level 30 is frustrating. I would advise that you are always in possession of health 
 potions and mana potions. When you run out, sitting down won't help. It only heals like 1 HP and 
 1 MP per second which is very different from other games. PVP combat is amazing, you can have castle 
 sieges with Humans VS. Orcs (kinda like Lord Of The Rings) , you may have an all out 60 vs 60 war 
 ANYWHERE if the two opposing guilds see each other they can practically kill each other in cities 
 or in the middle of the desert if they wanted to.
  
  The final mark I would give this game is a 7/10. And no I'm not being generous. I've had such good 
 memories from this game, I just want others to have great memories just like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoleFpsAction
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 9:33 am PT
Review:  I have played many F2p MMORPGS, but this is one what i like play most. It has good grind system if 
 you use AoEs, also there is PvP selection if you don't want to grind all the time. There is lot 
 of quests to do and some are good and some bad. There is people who help you and be your friend.. There 
 is events and double xp and item days sometimes and updates. GvG system is good and you can test 
 it when you find a good guild. 4 servers: Brumhart, Gaihaon, Evengranda and Cyripus (PvP) . You need 
 friends in this game cause there is lot of dungeons where is bosses. Archlord has 3 races: Humans, Orcs 
 and Moonelves. All those have 3 different class except moonelves. Humans have: Knight, Mage and 
 Archer, Orcs: Berserker, Sorcerer and Hunter, Moonelves: Ranger and Elementalist. Some skills in this 
 game t are cool. But the idea in this game is that you can become ruler of the world (server) Archlord! 
 You can become to Archlord by killing Archlord or if your guild win a siege war. Many ppl just think 
 grinding that is bad , but if you just don't mind it's bad you can play this game for fun not for 
 grinding. Game has beautiful graphics, nice gameplay, good idea. Just some little bugs and controls 
 are just bad. But you can only like this game or hate it.. If you like it just play! Also it's totally 
 free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaintedSaint666
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  Before I begin I would like to say I didn't pay for this game. After it had been out for a year 
 and the first 'Arch Lord' had been named, the game switch to a f2p format. Whether that made my 
 experience differ to someones who payed for the game, I do not know.
  
  The game begins with a little promise. There's a couple of characters and classes. As soon as you're 
 thrown into the world of your choice (two different locations) you notice there's some level of 
 detail and scope. The buildings are crafted nicely. Wander out of the gate and you'll notice the 
 world is pretty big, huge in fact. The first you'll do is kill something. And then that's the game. 
 
  
  You see, the game consists of clicking on a creature and then watching your generic character kill 
 the generic animal. There's little more too it. All the quest are 'Kill X number of Y' or 'Kill 
 X number of Y and bring back X number K item.' 
  
  There's some plot elements dribbed and drabbed around. Although those that are there are very weak 
 indeed. The story is about as shallow as the quests and combat. It basically consists of 'Kill, 
 Kill and kill and maybe you can become the beefiest guy in our generic world'. 
  
  As far as graphics go for free games they are quite good. Codies have done themselves proud with 
 their game world. All the creature look like they're from the same models and animate reasonably 
 well, but the same. There's some texture issues but they can be overlooked. 
  
  In terms of online play the game doesn't do a good job. The servers frequently crash, the game 
 will lag and it takes minutes from pressing Enter to your message appearing on screen. Even on 
 an awesome internet connection you'll still finding character jarring and skipping and jogging 
 on the spot.
  
  The community aspect is where the game excels, sort of. You can invite all your friends to a party 
 and click and complain together. There are boss battles simlar to other online games and you can 
 get good loot by teaming up. The player economy seems rather lively. There are auction house but 
 it seemed to me that by simply announcing what you're buying/selling in a major city you can get 
 a transaction from another player.
  
  In conclusion, you should probably stick your hand in your pocket and pay for a good MMO. This 
 game is a beautifully generic waste of time, that lags.... a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lingojac
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  It's another pure grind from Korea. You need to have way too much time on your hands to have a 
 chance at excelling, assuming you would think that the act of killing, looting and buying over 
 and over is a productive use of your precious free time. Graphics are decent. If the world in Archlord 
 looks enormous, that's because it pretty much is, but in the bad way where it takes a large ****load 
 of time to run to your destination. PVP looks promising, but only if you've leveled towards the 
 cap. And it's not likely you'll find a helpful guild, either. It's a waste of time.
  
  The concept of being able to become Archlord is a gimmick. You (pointing at you) will never become 
 Archlord. I will never become Archlord. Every single player you see if you start playing will never 
 become Archlord. Don't even consider the fact that it's a possibility, because it's not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harry4herms
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the best free MMORPGs I've ever played, and yes, I've played quite a few.
 
  
  There is nothing that genuinely sets it apart from its genre mates. BUT it is just the way it is 
 executed; the sounds, the audio, the visuals, everything is spectacular! I must also add: I'm a 
 fantasy addict, so seeing some of my favorite mythological and fantastical creatures surely made 
 the experience more fun!
  
  And people who are so quick to compare it with other games of the genre, let's be honest. Is all 
 MMORPGs not the same? Create a character, do quests, make friends, spend hours upon hours reaching 
 maximum level and then storm the high level dungeons with fellow no-life-having online gamers. 
 Get bored with the game, forget you have it. OO wait! Expansion!! Do it all again etc etc etc.
 
  
  It is a vicious circle. So yes, in essence the aim of the game is the same as WoW, LOTRO and other 
 free MMORPGs (who's names I will not give) .
  
  If you are looking to have some excellent fun FOR FREE!!! This is what I recommend. If you are 
 looking to compare this game with other games in the genre, don't wast your time- Just stick to 
 your prejudice mindset and play the game you know other games will never really be better than... 
 in your opinion. 
  
  I, on the other hand, enjoyed this game far more than WoW.
  
  What it all comes down to: game is free. You curious? Download it, play it, don't like, didn't 
 cost you more than time. Liked it?? I'll be makind a noob Guild soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zynqu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Archlord is one of the most incredible games i have ever played on a PC. before archlord i was 
 highly addicted to WOW but now that is of a distant past. i dont know why so many people gave this 
 game such a bad review but it isnt as bad as they say it is.
  
  only those who are ametuers at this game will hate it. u muat give it some time and uy will most 
 certainly enjoy it. 
  
  if u have any doubt about what i have just said, go to www. archlordthegame. com and download it 
 for free and try it out. anyone who truly loves action adventure will love this game. 
  
  Futhermore it is true that once u reach lvl 20 lvling uo is a pain. that only makes it better. 
 because if the main goal of a game is to be archlord, it would make sense to make lvling up difficult. 
 
  
  in conclusion this game is an aesome game and should be played by many others. if u are still plaing 
 rune scape, u should come and play archlord. personally i feel that archlord is even better than 
 WOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gggames_se
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  In a world filled with ancient legends, myths and heroic stories a war is brewing between the Humans, 
 Orcs and Moon elves. Mythical power stones known as Archons spread rumors of incredible powers 
 bestowed upon the bearer. To gain the upper hand in these harsh relations between the races, heroes 
 from all creeds and bloods set out to pursuit the Archons and archive the ultimate power  to become 
 the Archlord, the ruler of the world.
  
  Archlord is a free to play fantasy MMORPG. This means that you can download the game, install it, 
 and play with no fees. What's the catch? The most obvious problem in this game is quite simple; 
 It just isn't any good.
  Like many other similar games you get to create a character before you can enter the virtual world 
 in which the game takes place. You have some choices here; will you play the Humans, Orcs or Moon 
 Elves? Do you want to play as the melee character, or attack from a range with either a bow or 
 with spells? All this can be done in Archlord, but sadly nothing more.
  
  When you start to play the game, you'll notice that you start at a location specified by your race. 
 It will take some hours of playing before you will encounter anyone from the other races, as their 
 hometowns are virtually on the other side of the world. So in order to proceed in your character 
 development you need to gain experience points. This is done by killing monsters, and completing 
 quests. You'll find that the whole land outside the cities is chockfull of monsters. As you start 
 culling their never ending numbers, you'll find gold, health potions, mana potions and sometimes 
 weapons and armor.
  
  There are some variation to different skills your character can learn. It can be high damage attacks 
 or passive skills that increase your change to dodge incoming attacks etc. There are many skills 
 that increase resistance to different types of attacks, and many skills that can hit many targets 
 in an area. Unlocking all possible skills will mean that you have to level up your character to 
 the higher levels  a deed that will demand dedication and obstinacy beyond human capabilities.
 
  
  Archlord follows a very standard formula. It is a very generic game in every perceivable angle, 
 but it has issues that most other games manage to avoid. First of all you will notice that gaining 
 experience points is painfully slow. There are quests to help this, but the quests are all similar 
 and incredibly uninspiring  for example; kill x number of y monster, or collect x number of items 
 from y monster. If you keep doing quests you will be introduced to quests that require you to explore 
 new parts of the land, and thus introduce you to new towns, and the next set of quests.
  
  There are also some dungeons where even harder monsters reside. Killing monsters in a dungeon can 
 be very dangerous and hard, depending on your character level, but the rewards will be far greater. 
 Generally the dungeons will be well visited as many players kill monsters there to collect experience 
 points and items. This is also where many cheaters spend their time.
  
  Many MMORPGs suffer from gold farmers and botters. Archlord is no exception but is instead quite 
 the opposite. You'll see bot-players kill the same monsters day in and day out, often having high 
 level bot-players protecting them and automatically attacking anyone who tries to interfere. This 
 alone really defeats the purpose of playing the game. But the point is this  the game is so slow 
 in progression, and doesn't reward players at all, but instead punishes them should they die. Every 
 time you die of an monster you lose three percent of your hard earned experience points of that 
 level  making deaths very harsh on higher level where you might be fighting to gain one single 
 percent of experience for minutes, or even hours.
  
  This means that the game more or less only rewards those who cheat, and regular players are set 
 aside  because no normal human being can stand the monotony of killing the same monsters day in 
 and day out in order to gain some petty experience points that you might lose anyway should you 
 happen to die. This is in my book utterly game breaking and despicable. It seems that I'm not the 
 only one thinking so - looking at the games official forum it seems that players generally aren't 
 too happy with this game in its current state.
  
  Free-to-play MMORPGs most often have "Item shops" supported by microtransactions. This allows players 
 who pay real money to gain rare or unique items, and even items that boost the amount of experience 
 points gained. This of course gives paying customers an advantage over regular players who just 
 play the game for free. In Archlord some of these items really can give you an advantage, but most 
 importantly do they give cheaters an even extra edge  not only do they have all the gold in the 
 game, but they also have the rare items to their disposal, as those can be bought by other players 
 with gold.
  
  Archlord has many bugs in it. I have logged in to the game a few times only to find my avatar dead 
 and suffering the experience penalty for no reason. It also crashes to desktop depending on how 
 you set your graphics settings. The game servers also suffer from high network latency lag, which 
 often lead to death because your character can't use potions as your client fails to send that 
 information to the server during high lag. So looking at all this ugliness, it's safe to say that 
 Archlord is a very poor game.
  
  The controls are click-to-move based. You click on the ground where you want your character to 
 move. Codemasters have tried to implement a "WASD" control scheme, but has failed miserably - it 
 is delayed by a full second or so, and it tends to make your character flicker on the screen as 
 it is alternating between two animation cycles. You'd better just stick to using the click based 
 movement, even though in narrow dungeons it will make you click the wall instead of the ground 
 which in turn means that your character will either start running in a wrong direction or walking 
 into the wall.
  
  The game sports some features that are not seen in every other game though; there are castle sieges, 
 and those are played on a guild vs. guild level, meaning that you must join a guild to participate 
 in these battles. There's also the Archlord in the game. One player (the strongest of them all, 
 or most likely the one who has cheated the most) who proves him- or herself to be worthy will become 
 the Archlord of the realm. The Archlord is bestowed with the incredible powers of the Archons, 
 giving him a dragon mount, power to control weather, ability to summon guardians from his or her 
 guild and so on.
  These features are all very cool, but it doesn't keep this sinking ship above water!
  
  Archlord 
 is supposed to be a "player vs. player" game, revolving around conflict between the players rather 
 than "player vs. environment". It's true that you can battle other players, but you generally won't 
 be encouraged to do it. Should you attack someone unprovoked flags you as player killer for a set 
 amount of time, which means that anyone can attack and kill you without any penalty. This makes 
 you a walking target and most everyone will try to kill you, just because they are able to do so.
 
  
  The graphics are great. There are many nice effects to enhance the visuals in this game, such as 
 sun glare, bloom effects and such. The general art direction in this game maintains a high standard 
 too. Some of the locations and cities look unfinished, but generally the game is beautiful. The 
 characters look nice and the armor sets sport some cool designs. It's just too bad that the game 
 only looks great.
  
  The music in Archlord is following the grand and epic theme. Epic can't really ever fail, and it 
 works in Archlord too  it's like a safe bet. The music in game is nice and sounds great too, but 
 it really doesn't fit the theme of the game  some of the music sounds like relaxation music you'd 
 buy in the music store.
  
  Should you pick up Archlord and give it a try? I certainly wouldn't recommend you to do it, because 
 the game is extremely harsh towards honest players and keeps rewarding cheaters  that should be 
 the other way around, really.
  If you are into collecting cool items and equipment and enjoy trading gold and items in a virtual 
 world, then Archlord isn't a very good choice either. The economy in the game is skewed to hell 
 - the gold farmers and gold sellers are ruling the market, leaving honest players once again in 
 the gutter. Just forget about this, and move on to better games  at least until the developers 
 have fixed all issues mentioned above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macondo311
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I think its a good game. But Codemaster has show us that they are not an expert on MMROPG games.
 
  
  Bad things:
  
  - Since the first Episode I (Beta) . The Game has bugs.
  
  - If You have problems with your account dont wait for help, cause CM wont do nothing about it. 
 the tech support is poor.
  
  - Game is full of bots and Spammers.
  
  - The bugs has become a Excellent Reason for Ban users
  
  Now Codemasters, not only release 
 patch with bugs. they release the patchs and start a hunt against the players because of this bugs
 
  
  - Server crash like 2 time each 6 months
  
  - Lag (almost always)
  
  -------------------
  
  Good things:
  
  - I like the Graphics. 
  
  - I like the community 
 because is small so you can know all the players from the server you play.
  
  - Excellent for PvP and Pk
  
  
  P. S. BTW if youre thinking into play this game. Dont Create 
 a (human) Mage cause the passives skills are bug. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: symustafakamal
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 18, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  yup just like the title getting banded for no reason is sucks so here you go 1.0 ....... any ppl 
 decided to play please note asian = banded...... a note from codemaster :
  
  Dear players,
  
  As part of our on-going commitment to protecting legitimate players, we have 
 now implemented an IP blocking system that prevents players from territories that are not supported 
 by Codemasters from accessing the RF Online and ArchLord games.
  Whilst this implementation shouldn't affect bona fide players, there is a small chance that some 
 will be blocked. If you believe you have been blocked in error, please fill out an appeal via our 
 online form at this URL:
  
  
  
  The countries/territories that are not supported and hence affected are: Brunei, Cambodia, Canada, 
 China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Myanmar, Pakistan, Philippines, Republic of 
 Korea, Republic of Lao, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam.
  
  
  so write an appeal saying bla bla bla you follow all the rules bla bla bla why banned my ip will 
 get you with = no answers..... :)
  
  
  so take a look at Gamespot review 2.7 by Andrew Park the things he pointed out make sense.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alarikulf
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 6, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  The title says it all, really. As I started the game and went to create my character, the first 
 thing I noticed was the pitiful excuse for customization. You aren't able to choose your gender, 
 the point-click is is as laggy as it is poorly maneuverable, and the only customization offered 
 is preset hair and face modules of dull quality. I will say they did well with the class choices, 
 though. Nonetheless, I wasn't going to let that deter me from playing.
  
  I entered the world as an Orc Berserker, and the surroundings didn't seem bad. The graphics were 
 acceptable, late 90's style, so I had a little hope for the game; until, that is, I actually decided 
 to move around. The movement in this game lags horribly. As you try to rotate your view while running, 
 it takes almost 2 seconds before the character moves to catch up.
  
  Of course, despite this little glitch, I decided to try my hand at a quest. The quest system seems 
 fairly descent, although there was still the not-so-descent point and click. So I then set out 
 to check out the combat in this, and I'll say that the melee attack was smooth, however the player 
 HP is reduced much too fast - I died 4 times killing six newbie-level spiders.
  
  That is when I decided to take my leave. All in all, I believe that if the developers would have 
 put a little more time and professional effort into designing this game, it could have been somewhat 
 good. But seeing as that wasn't the case, this game is so terrible that it had to be reduced to 
 "100% Free" status in hope that someone might just play it for 5 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingparsons
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 11, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  ok ill start when the beginning.... i look at the website i think "wow this looks cool" then im 
 downloading the game waiting to play this... so i make my account and make my character. now im 
 on the game killing boars and spiders and such. im thinking "this is fun and good graphics" then 
 at like lvl 17 i started to realize that this game leads nowhere. all u do everyday is grind, grind, 
 and grind. also there is only 3 races elf, orcs, humans, and like 80% of the players choose orcs 
 so it gets boring when everybody looks alike and does the same things. in a pvp or when ur fighting 
 an npc its pretty much "who can click the spells on their hotbar quicker" the models of the characters 
 look good (except no blinking -_-) but the world environment and textures are slightly blurry. the 
 pvp system is horrible due to no limitations once ur lvl 30+. for example, im in a dungeon (i was 
 lvl 31) and grinding when a lvl 58 comes running up killing everybody insight in 1 hit and then 
 we all go back to train just so it can happen again later. also people can just sit there and guard 
 areas/cities/etc to prevent u from enter/leaving the place. one time a lvl 67 orc ranger just sat 
 outside of Kahn and ranged anybody who dared to leave or enter the city.... it was terrible i meen 
 of course u coulda used the teleporter in the middle of Kahn but i meen come on u shouldnt have 
 to. also when u grind u hardly meen anybody (which can be a good thing for peace and quiet) but 
 it also makes it even more boring. doing the quest are a waste of time ull get nothing worth of 
 value and the exp u get from quests is just a total rip off. in this game all u do is grind all 
 the time just so u can get new armor and weapons and then after that u admire ur new gear for about 
 10 mins then get bored with it and try to grow another 5 or so lvls for a newer set. all in all 
 this game is extrememly boring and repeatative.............. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperGamer911
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  When i first started playing Archlord I found it quite interesting. Being the ruler of Chantra 
 seemed wonderful. However i was a stupid person back then. You have to be at least a lvl 50 or 
 60 somethin to even survive the castle sieges and even if you make it through that you still have 
 to fight the Archlord which is most likely a lvl 77 or more. The graphics are bad (characters don't 
 blink , it looks awkward when your character runs, but the armors are kind of decent. The towns 
 and other areas look cool but you can't enter any building. Now let's get to the gameplay. It looks 
 cool when you attack, and there is no turn based gameplay, but you can't jump or swim at all. In 
 short Archlord is a Decent and a Bad game at the same time. No wonder Codemasters made this game 
 free, no-one would want to pay the monthly fees for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lexxyman
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Not something special but neither something terrible. I still can't understand why I was so bored 
 of that game. It is far better than Rappelz or other similar free games but still awfully boring. 
 I already played for many hours and every time I run to complete my quests, I wonder: "For What?". 
 In order to PVP you have to be level 30+. Believe me, you need to waste a lot of hours in order 
 to be there. The experience gaining philosophy is really uncool, it calculates the killing experience 
 points relatively to your level and monster levels. This leave you a feeling of staying the same 
 no matter what. The graphics are ok, the gameplay is bad, really bad, I always stuck on trees and 
 the menus doesn't work well. The combat is solid though. And none of that made me believe that 
 it was terrible. I still can't find out what frustrated me the most. Maybe because I though there 
 was something good going on there... I have already played around 5 free mmrpg and still I believe 
 that Archlord is closer to what I look. Don't Play it, thats for sure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ratatonic
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 21, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrible. I know they are trying to shy away from the"pay to play" but come on , at 
 least pay to play games always add new content every month or so and are usually packed full of 
 different choices to do besides the "KIll and loot" found in Archlord. Thats basically all you do. The 
 guild set-up is flawed also you get one person (guild leader) that has dibs on everything looted 
 on raids and you only get it if its crappy or they dont need. So unless you got time to burn to 
 help build up someone elses character then by all means have at it. I personally would be more than 
 happy to shell out 10-15$ a month to play a game. I really wish the game had something positive 
 to write about , but it dont. The only good thing i think about this game is.. its not on my cpu 
 anymore! I only wish i could move the ratings slider below 1 , cuz that is about 2 too many. And 
 for the people complaining about Gamespots review rating , i think Gamespot was being to generous!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yeakisen
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Since Archlord has become free-to-play, one should compare this game to other free MMORPG's. Most 
 free MMORPG's have many bugs, but that is not the case with Archlord. Archlord has outstanding 
 graphics (Remember... comparing free MMORPG's) , the visuals never bore you. This MMORPG has all 
 the necessities that you would normally find in most MMORPG's plus more. The features are endless 
 from potions that mutate one's character into an animal to clicking on the minimap making one move 
 to a location. Quests are organized in the quest window. Guild windows show a lot of interesting 
 statistics such as one's rank in the guild and the guild's rank to other guilds.
  
  Graphics - 10
  ==========
  From what I've seen for free, these graphics put all other free-to-play 
 MMORPG's graphics to shame.
  
  Music - 8
  =======
  The background music never gets old, yet doesn't have any climatic moments.
  
  Sound - 10
 
  =========
  The sounds in Archlord are very crisp. No sputters or white noise.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  ============
  Besides quests, leveling, and player versus player, Archlord introduces 
 bounties on players, and the ultimate goal of becoming Archlord.
  
  Overall - 10
  
  Now that Archlord is free-to-play, Game Spot should seriously consider a new review for this game. 
 Archlord is really one of those hidden treasures out there just waiting to be discovered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickenhide
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot is making the game sound horrible, when really, its not THAT bad.
  
  The game is very repeatative, I'm not going to lie, but the soundtrack and the game play itself 
 makes up for it - truly.
  
  The graphics are quite good, honestly, and for the controls, you'll get used to them.
  
  The 
 game's soundtrack is so good, that sometimes the music becomes so touching that I want to cry. 
 It really is that good. I've never played a game with a better soundtrack.
  
  Combat in-game is actually quite fun. The ability and spell animations are neat, and it gives that 
 fantasy type of feeling.
  
  Leveling can be slow at times, but like I said, it doesn't get boring quick.
  
  I havent played 
 enough to reach the PvP part of the game, which from word of mouth I heard was good. They set the 
 PvP level to 30 or something only because they want experienced gamers PvPing.
  
  Overall, Archlord has its goods and its bads, but Archlord is for the type of gamers that enjoy 
 a laid back, friendly enviorment.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobster12
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  ok. i started playing this game around last decemberish and when i started i thought. this is great! 
 but when reached lvl 27 i really got sick of it. because of how much lag there is and how many 
 bugs there were. it really did my head in so eventually i just quitted. but i have to say. it has 
 some good ideas to it but they arnt actually making any changes to this game. so for example:
 
  
  on dragonfable (lol) you get wars and everything and it updates every week but on archlord you dont 
 even get wars. 
  
  citys dont get attacked. man i thought this game was based on the lord of the rings trilogy! citys 
 get attacked on that! so why not on archlord??
  
  as you get higher in levels it gets harder and harder to lvl up. so say i was lvl 83 (i wish) it 
 would take about 100 monsters just to make the xp bar go up 1% lol.
  
  overall i think this is a good game but could do with some fixing. thats all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Archlord gpt a 2.7 on Game Spot, and not a whole lot of people play over here in the U S. So now 
 the game is free to play. You can get this game right off Game Spot. 
  
  Archlord does have a lot of good, but it does have its bad. The game play in Archlord is pretty 
 simple, and that was part of the reason why Game Spot gave it a bad score. But this game is good 
 for new comers. A bad thing about the controls is when you character turns direction, it moves 
 really clunky. I mean in like Guild Wars for example your character actually looks like it is turning, 
 but in Archlord, your character almost shifts. It is hard to explain so you will just have to play 
 the game to see.
  
  There are 3 character classes. Human. orcs, and moon elves. All three classes have it strengths 
 and weaknesses.
  
  So the main objective of Archlord is to become the Archlord. You basically become the ruler of 
 the realm. Archlords can change though. If another person beats the Archlord, then he becomes the 
 Archlord.
  
  The graphics in Archlord do not look that bad. In fact they look pretty good, except for a few 
 areas.
  
  The sound is not that bad either. The music is pretty good.
  
  If you want a good free mmorpg to play, then you should go download Archlord, and give it a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god_wotan
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  I don't understend why GameSpot rated so low this game... It is not the best game but is still 
 good. At start is a little boring because all you need to do is grind or takeing quests that are 
 simple "go there" or "kill that monster" and "gather resources" but after level 30 you can go player 
 vs player (PvP) and that is real fun. The PvP in Archlord is better then in World Of Warcraft and 
 WoW has a 9.5 rate. Also the graphics are better then in WoW or Guild Wars.
  I seriously think that Gamespot has something with Free MMORPG because i found here games worst 
 than Archlord and rated with 8+ and a lot of free MMORPG scene isn't here at all.
  
  Game stats in my opinion:
  
  Graphics:7/10
  Char Creation:8/10
  World:8/10
  Gameplay:5/10
 
  Sound:5/10
  
  There are some problems in controlling your character but that is because of lag. I think the bigest 
 problem with this game is the bigg lagggg, but is a free game so if you want to play a good game 
 download it and forget about gamespot score.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephallim
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Archlord is not a good game.
  
  Let's just get that out of the way in the beginning. It is not something that I would recommend 
 paying money for. But then, it's free, so the adage that "you get what you pay for" is proven once 
 again here. In the restaurant that is MMORPGs, Archlord is a meat and potatoes dish. It has all 
 of the necessary components to be a complete and satisfying meal, but there are no frills and it 
 could use seasoning. And perhaps another side. 
  
  As with EVERY MMO out there, no matter what character you make, you will end up running around 
 slaughtering lacklustre mobs for experience and loot so that you can get your next level for more 
 powers or buy that next piece of equipment so that you can go slaughter tougher lacklustre mobs 
 for more experience and loot to continue the cycle. Maybe you get a ridiculous reason (ie a quest) 
 to be doing it that adds to the benefit, but it is all still standard MMORPG fair with no innovation 
 or imagination to it.
  
  Despite other claims, the graphics and sound quality are more than acceptable. They aren't cutting 
 edge, top of the line... but we are still talking about a free game here. They are at least comparable 
 to Guild Wars, if not more varied and, thus, a little better. The gameplay is okay, continuing 
 the standard expectations of how you move around and interact with the world. The crafting system 
 was great, conceptually, but it never seemed to be worthwhile to actually make anything and it 
 was a little annoying that the interface would ask me if I wanted to skin/butcher/ransack a corpse 
 before I had the necessary skills or equipment to actually do those things.
  
  It is definitely worth noting the game's instability. Certain vendors had a tendency to lock the 
 game up when regurgitating their audio bites and lag issues were prevalent enough not to be ignorable. 
 This was by no means a constant problem, but when it would be happening the game would be unplayable 
 in any enjoyable fashion.
  
  Again, you get what you pay for, so don't be spoiled by games that are supported by money and can 
 afford more of their developer's attention. Don't expect high quality for nothing. Archlord is 
 a basic MMORPG that can be satisfying to play but it is lacking so much as to be incompetent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErkiB
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  The game has good graphics, no idea why everybody is bragging about that, gameplay is sweet with 
 weather changes and all that, I love the castle sieges,,, it makes the game worth while with great 
 wars ahead.
  I think Character creatuon is fun and You can play as different races is really cool, you can also 
 use mount and all kinds of weapons with magic powers.
  
  TOP 5
  Graphics:6/10
  Char Creation:8/10
  World:8/10
  Gameplay:5/10
  Sound:4/10
  
  Overall its really fun for 
 a while but hasnt got alot to offer. play it if you havent got anything better to play or just want 
 some easy game to play with some exciting stuff. being in the guild is great. and peaple hustle much 
 thats really bad alot of spamming going on so you cant see what everybody is writing... but if you 
 just wanna play a mmorpg just play play untill you cant play anymore 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_thepharaoh
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Well I think GameSpot didn't look at the game recently and they didn't even update it's info ... 
 the game is totally free and episode two has alot of good and root changes in the game that made 
 it a great game indeed ... like the graphix of the game it's really encourging the way u choose 
 the face and the hair of ur character is making a uniqe shape that has high odds of finding someone 
 looks like u giveing the game some realism ... again the aucation service or the item seller ... 
 it really saves time for u to stand in a shop or to stall ... and saves time looking for an armor 
 or a weapon u look for also make u comapre between prices well ... all of that makes u concentrate 
 more on leveling and gaining experiance since the game is mainly a PVP type ... also the idea of 
 being the archlord of the whole chantra is a great idea ... making it a great competing idea to 
 gain control of the world ... - it fill the ambition of alot of people there XD - ... anyway GameSpot 
 should reconsider rating this game ... because it really deserve more ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bossjerico
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 20, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  I Cant play anymore just wasted time & money for this crappy game, they banned my IP cuz Im playing 
 from Japan (which is outside of their working territory)
  
  In my opinion this is a big scam that every gamer should know about. Just spent money buying from 
 their freaking Chantra Shop and now what?! I CANT USE THEM ANYMORE! Without any warning COG just 
 suddenly decided to ban IP outside of their working territory. This is the worst online game support 
 team I've ever seen, not even a single reply on their own codemaster website forum to just even 
 clear things up and not let their players hanging in thin air cluelessly thinking whats happening 
 why they can't connect on their game.
  
  "Yes is Archlord 100% FREE Yehey but also turned to 100% GARBAGE now!" This is what I received 
 in return of my inquiries why I cant connect to their server for almost 2 months now. Be the judge 
 and read this reply from Codemasters Customer Services ------ 
  
  Thank you for submitting your recent request to Codemasters Customer Services concerning Archlord.
 
  
  Due to high levels of fraud and player support for illegal activity in the game, we have had to 
 take significant measures to maintain the integrity of the Archlord service.
  
  We have blocked a number of IP addresses that fall outside of our operating territory. We have 
 also blocked IPs associated with suspicious activity. If you are unable to connect to the game 
 and are trying to connect from outside our operating territory, you will no longer be able to play 
 the game, unfortunately.
  
  This changes will remain in place for the foreseeable future, and we will not respond to any appeal 
 emails I'm afraid, as these changes are not reversable.
  
  We are very sorry to have been forced into this action, but this action is absolutely necessary. 
 The in-game economy and the commercial viability of the game are both threatened and action has 
 to be taken to protect the future operation of Archlord.
  
  If you need further assistance, please reply to this email and INCLUDE THIS LINE IN YOUR REPLY:-
 
  
  {|CALLID|} =XXXXXXXX
  
  Or include the entire text of this email.
  
  Kind regards
  Rob
  Codemasters Customer Services 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KurialGod
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is just like any other MMORPG game but free. It has almost the same to offer as other 
 MMORPG but just aren't as good. But there are other MMORPG game where you pay money to play but 
 isn't as good. I like this game alot and I find this game really fun. So stop complaining this 
 game suck. If you don't like it, just don't play it. Don't stop others from playing it. This game 
 is awesome!
  
  Gameplay: Simple and fun. It'll keep you playing this game
  
  Graphics: Simple and pretty much detailed.
  
  Sound: Not much background music but you can 
 listen to your music.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myth_88
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  I am playing this game for a year and i am finding great.. This game has the potential to become 
 1 of the best games at mmo section but the support of Codemasters is dissapointing.... They should 
 reconsider their thoughts about this game... I mean 1 year 3 patches : ( ... they dont deserve this 
 game at Codemasters imo ....
  
  P. S if u are finding this game worse than anything else ... i suggest u to actually play it for 
 more than an hour ... cause the game is from KOREA and i think we all know what that means ... 
 ( grind grind grind )
  
  So if you actually want to play it you have to put some time and effort on it... I mean yes u can 
 do other things instead of wasting ur time to lvl up but in the end it pays back... So i suggest 
 to play it for a month ... I reassure u that since u hit lvl 30-40 u will change ur mind about 
 this game...
  
  P. S codemasters doesnt deserve this game ... lack of support and 3 patches at 1 year .... the game 
 has the potential but the company doesnt ... thx for reading :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  Simply put, this is a crude take on the MMORPG experience. This will be one of the better free 
 fantasy online games you will play. You have the normal options: class selection, object/ item 
 creation, mining, harvesting.... blah, blah, blah. Pretty basic stuff, what we have come to expect. 
 The interface is pretty good and the graphics don't dissapoint. This is part of a new genre of 
 free games that allow you to upgrade your experience with purchase of in-game items with real money. 
 You buy/trade keys to open chests, buy auras to level faster, items that offer revival and power 
 boosts.
  
  There are many negatives, but this will be a breath of fresh air if you have played other free 
 fantasy games like 2 moons, dungeon runners, or Eudemons (or whatever it is called.)
  
  The team play is well thought out, with significant bonuses for players that team up. The community 
 side is weak, and playing with the same players is pretty rare. That can detract from the experience.
 
  
  PVP stinks in this game. It is sporatic and random. People can fight without permission almost 
 anywhere. It has a villian system that is supposed to punish griefers, but seems to have no effect. 
 You can go a whole evening without being powned and then another night, you cannot even enter some 
 zones because of griefers.
  
  Remember, this game is free. You can get almost all of the same content as someone who pays. It 
 will just take you longer. I gave it a higher rating for that reason.
  
  The Pros: 
  Good graphics.
  Nice player auction system.
  Good twinking ability. 
  Free
  Good monster 
 variety
  Relatively bug free
  nice teleport system for navigating world quickly
  Nice mission/mapping system
  
  The Bads:
  Weak commnitiy
  a bit simple, feels like grinding 
 most of the time
  PVP, supersucks
  
  Bottomline: If you cannot afford WOW, go for it. 10 bucks goes a long way in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  ArchLord For PC
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ===========================================================
  THE GOOD : Graphics Are Alright, 
 The Ability To Control The World Is A Great Feature, Different Classes For Each Race Makes The 
 Game Feel Unique, Enviroment Sound Is Great!
  ===========================================================
  THE BAD : Sound Is Recycled, World 
 Doesn't Have Enough Variety, Can't Wear Armor At The Start Of The Game, Weapons Lack Variety, Leveling 
 Up Feels Like A Chore.
  ===========================================================
  
  
  ArchLord originally started off as a game where you had to pay to play but as it lost it's 
 fanbase CodeMasters decided that the only way to reel them back in would to be make it free to 
 play and yeah the rest is history!
  
  Gameplay : When you first get to the character creation screen you will presented to choose your 
 Race and Class, there are only 3 Race's and 3 Classe's for each although in the long run they all 
 boil down to the same thing Meele, Range and Magic. The different Race's are Human, Orc and Moon 
 Elf, which pretty much are the general races on any RPG/Fantasy game which leaves something to 
 desire.
  The Leveling up system is a chore, it is basically killing foes over and over and over again which 
 gets boring after a while OR you could do quests which more than less task you on killing foes 
 so you lose either way.
  
  In order to start using Weapons and Armor and Spells you have to progress to Level 2 but you will 
 not hav nearly enough money to buy anything of the sorts until you get to a level such as 4, 5 
 or 6. The variety in weapons and armor is okay because each different set/type of weapon has a 
 different model so that adds some depth to the game. Apell casting is a chore and feels as though 
 it was just tacked on to make the game more appeling to fans of other MMORPG's.
  
  Graphics : The graphics in ArchLord have improved over time, lighting effects have improved and 
 so has all the other aspects of graphics BUT they still do not make for more than average graphics. 
 The character models are about on par as the enviroments which pretty much means they are bland 
 and plain. Foe models are detailed enough to be different from different types of them.
  
  Sound : The sound in ArchLord is recycled and old, the basic sword hits and misses are in it and 
 so is the world famous dying enemy sounds which don't sound nearly as good as some other marketing 
 MMORPG's, the enviroment sounds on the other hand are great! These range from trickling water and 
 that smokey bell ringing in towns, Enviroment sounds really add atmosphere to the game.
  
  
  
  All in all ArchLord is an alright MMORPG, it let me down in a few area's but in some area's 
 it went over my expectations!
  If you want to play a free MMORPG then don't go pass ArchLord because it's good even's out it's 
 bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolmanx
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  This game is not that bad as gamespot says, it probably was, but it have been updated, and now 
 that is free, is a good choice. It is now called Archlord episode II. The graphics are the best 
 for any free MMORPG that i have seen (and i have tried every one i have found) , good sound, good 
 community, and a lot of fun.
  
  The game is now what it should have been when it was launched as a retail game, so now you get 
 a quality game, with no ads like others free mmorpg, not many bugs, and it is for free.
  
  I recommend to read this review http://www. gamecron. com/archlord-review
  
  And give this game 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rymer1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most addictive mmos i've ever played with good grafixs and even better game 
 play. I have been playing this game sence Sep 23 and haven't gone back to alot of the other mmo's 
 i find fun and great. The quest system is easy and plays out like a good story. The character build 
 is simple and the skill system is almost flawless. But for a game thats free you can't beat it 
 it plays ike most mmos even wow and eq but has a differnat feel to it thats just awsome.
  
  Secondly it has a great player base and theres always people on for almost anywhere in the world. 
 A plus is that you can solo the whole game with out a guild or a group and with 3 races and each 
 has its own class makes it a deverse game. But i have my own oppinion about mmos and i am just 
 stating what i think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NonSpog
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  So Archlord recently went to a free to play model, and, being bored, I decided to give it a try. 
 All I can say is after playing for a couple of hours (really, 10 minutes was enough, but I wanted 
 to give it a chance ) I felt that being even being free to play didn't help. The Good:
  its free
  
  The Bad:
  The controls and interface are clunky, and feel like they were designed 
 for the mouse challenged . The graphics would have been considered sub par 5 years ago
  Limited character creation and customization options
  Bland, repetitive quests with bland repetitive 
 mobs (ok kill 8 green worms! Great now kill 10 Yellow Worms! W00t! Time for, you guessed it, 15 
 red worms!)
  Boring, uninspired combat that makes WoW look like action game of the year
  
  I could go on, but I've already wasted 2 hours playing this turd, so I'll end with a warning 
 to anyone looking for a decent, inexpensive MMO: unless you are a huge fan of dry, boring games, 
 or really really desperate to chat with pre-teens, spend your time elsewhere, you'll thank me later. 
 And seriously, anyone giving this game a high score has got to be a fanboi, I mean a 9+ for graphics? 
 That must mean Bioshock scores a 900. You can like a game and still be honest about its shortcomings. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DreamingWolf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  At first glance, Archlord is another one of those WoW imitation type games without the extra features. 
 While I will grant that Archlord lacks in many areas, it is by far a unique game in it's class. 
 Even now more than ever.
  
  In Archlord, you can start out your humble being as an Human, Moon Elf or Orc. Each race has a 
 class that can be chosen from, however your gender in classes is not optional. Each race and class 
 will have their own sets of skills for use, including Buff Skills, Combat Skills, Passive Skills 
 and Class Skills. While many of these skills are not flashy like many MMORPGs show, they do get 
 the job done.
  
  After your character has been created, you are moved to your race-specific continent on the map, 
 where you will receive an abundance of quests and missions. For those of you who like TONS of quests 
 and things to do at each level, this game should satisfy your thirst.
  
  Once your first level up, a box will display in front of you for around 10 seconds, explaining 
 some of the things you can do at that level. Each level seems to have some new skill or ability 
 that you can bite into.
  
  Archlord's shop system is an excellent example of how other MMORPGs should save their game from 
 confusion and lag. Instead of allowing individual player shops, their is one universal shop that 
 can be accessed to sell your items from anywhere in the game (to buy items from this shop, you 
 have to visit a town) . When buying items you can search for what your looking for by typing the 
 name of the object, or you can manually browse the categorized lists.
  
  The game also has a fairly interesting stat system because, THERE IS NONE! Archlord's system will 
 automatically raise your stats each level, and of course armor and weapons increase or decrease 
 these stats accordingly. This makes almost every player equal in build, which brings up another 
 subject, PVP.
  
  In Archlord, PVP is available almost anywhere except towns. If you go into a monster field, you 
 are open to other player's attacks. Likewise, you can attack anybody, but not without consequences. 
 If you want to duke it out with someone, the best place is the PVP arena which can be accessed 
 from any town.
  
  Another appealing feature from Archlord to the hardcore gamers out there is the scroll system. 
 We all know that many MMORPGs have a return scroll that will take you from your current position 
 to the nearest town, but how about a scroll that generates a copy of itself to take you back to 
 where you teleported from? Well Archlord has just that.
  
  And finally we come to the actual source of Archlord's name. The ultimate goal of Archlord is to 
 BECOME the Archlord! This is achieved by becoming a guild leader and starting a massive raid on 
 the Archlord's castle. There are many defenses along the way to the throne room, not to mention 
 the other guilds contending for this position. If you do become Archlord, it's only because you 
 have become the most powerful player thus far in the game.
  
  An Archlord has several special abilities, including changing night to day, making it rain or snow, 
 summoning a meteor shower or his personal dragon. In addition he/she can also summon soldiers and 
 armies to protect him/her.
  
  So we have faced Archlord's good side, but what are it's downfalls? Well the main thing I noticed 
 is there is no storyline, or hard foundation like Guild Wars has. Another thing is the blandness 
 of the skills and upgraded weapons (however it's very realistic, which is what takes away from 
 the fantasy side) . You can carve, skin or harvest and loot from a kill, but you can't do much more. 
 There is no riding system, other than race specified mounts, to get you from A to B.
  
  So although Archlord may seem like a ripoff, it really isn't. The players are friendly and helpfull, 
 and for gosh sakes IT S FREE!!!!
  
  Give it a try!
  
  Learning curve: 1-2 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tron563
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  OK now This about my review well the game was quite good enough for me but not enough because theres 
 a sligthly problem on this game the pvp has a problem and when u attk monsters u will always die 
 not all times u will have to use red pots to heal ur hp everytime and the only thing makes me happy 
 is that it is F2P game now and the sound ,music and graphic not bad but only the bad thing is PVP 
 and little difficult so i suggest that if u guys wanted to play this MMORPG well i think it will 
 suits u and if not then dun play this game but i will =) i will give for 7.5 since the game quite 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3ox
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  This is not something like WOW imitator.. some of you may know World Of Warcraft from the father 
 of MMOG but thats not the only reason why you should say it looks like it.
  First, the races are not the same, skills are not the same so I dont think its even similar to 
 Wow, I just dont get why the rating is so low!
  This game has good graphics, good gameplay, and its free! It has the quality of any Monthly Fee 
 Game.
  try ti play the game at least one week and you'll see it's not that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtotheLEX
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  This Game has so many things wrong with it, its kinda funny -The monsters attack is so much higher 
 than yours, requiring you to heal yourself before every battle, also making it impossible to fight 
 more than 1 enemy at a time -The armor sets, oh where should i begin, there are about 12 armor 
 sets for each and every class, and they are all equipable at different level intervals. You can 
 start to wear armor at level 2, the next armor set comes along at 10 then 20 then 33 then 55 and 
 on and on. And of course there are the classic magical armor sets, but, they are extremely hard 
 to find let alone make, and other players actually sell it in the in-game bazaar for about 5 billion 
 gold apeice
  all around i would say that this game sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CounterZeus
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot gave it 2.7/10... it's not that bad, but there are better mmorpgs on the market. But recently 
 is has become free to play, but you can buy special items for real money, luckily for the gameplay 
 most of these don't have a direct effect on the abilities of the player.
  
  Graphics: the game hasn't the most advanced graphics up to date, but it isn't bad looking, animations 
 are fine, but there aren't quite enough. Due to one of the many bugs, you have to cranck up one 
 of the default graphic settings to see spell animations etc... overall not that bad at all and you 
 don't have to own a very expensive card. It runs fine with everything on except AA with my overclocked 
 GeForce 6600GT.
  
  Sound: is rather shortcoming.. there is a hitsound for about every type of monster, but it's always 
 the same. background music is good, it doesn't get annoying but it doesn't add any value to the 
 gameplay. environmental sounds are OK, but not overwhelming. Due to bugs you should experiment 
 with the different kind of sound devices 'cause with some settings you get a soundcrash.
  
  Gameplay: it's a simple click system, that works surprisingly well :) (WASD is broken+double mapped 
 keys on AZERTY) you can also click on your map to move, so that's very handy. you have several 
 quickbars for your diffent attacks (normal attack is automatic) , also you can adjust a slider for 
 the use of autopotions on your health and mana bar, which will be used throughout the whole game. 
 When you make your character, there are 3 available races (human, orc and moon elves) , each of 
 them having a warrior, mage and archer class, except for the moon elves, they don't have a warrior 
 class. Every class is gender bound and you can't edit the appearance much of your character, But 
 that isn't important, cause mostly you'll view your character from afar. There are additional changes 
 ingame... even facelifts (this is a fantasy medieval world :p) There are a lot of armour types and 
 weapons for each race/class, but not too much, so that's OK I guess. One thing that bothers me 
 though, is the slow leveling... you really need to grind a few hours nonstop to lvl up. Luckily 
 some quests are mega-rewarding. yeah, some say the game doesn't have many quests, but every race 
 has a lot of quests. 800+ for each race. There are also enough skills for each of the races/classes. 
 The skills are divided in 4 categories (combat, buff, passive, class) . there is one free reset available 
 and should be used in a later stage of the game to correct beginner mistakes and (by that time) 
 worthless skills.
  PvP combat is very depended on your lvl and is available from lvl 15. You have to hold ctrl and 
 doubleclick on a person to attack him. If you kill someone who's more than 3 lvls below you, you 
 get a villain point. If you collect enough villain points, you become a rogue (which has 3 stages) . 
 Each stage comes with more limitations to the game.
  
  Other: the game's free so I can live with the many bugs it has. It has a horrible netcode, so at 
 castle siege days, everyone lags... and everyone gets lagkilled at some point. Even one of the Archlords 
 has been killed by a mob while flying his dragon... Also I suffer from about 10-15 disconnects if 
 I game all day long + up to 5 crashes which mainly happen when I click an NPC. The guild system 
 works nice, also the rogue/wanted (bountyhunters!! :p) works nice.
  
  I really hope most of the bugs get fixed with episode 3 of the game (currently we are in episode 
 2: season of siege) and this game is really more worth than a 2.7, but then again, you had to pay 
 back in those days... If you want to spend the money, play WoW or LotRO, else you should give this 
 game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkinvasion25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Seems pretty good, i was like at first thinking from the beginning this games seem kinda stinky 
 but as i went on, it's not that bad, you can do quests for leveling or you can grind, and make 
 your guy ultra strong by upgrading your guys armor and weapons. and there's a huge variety of blunt 
 weapons, swords, 2 handed swords, 2 handed sticks, armor, and so on, and spells for all the classes 
 races, and you can get animals to ride on, and you can become arch lord at level 60. and i'm a 
 level 36 orc berserker almost level 37 and this game has incredible graphics!!!, looks so realistic.. 
 and it's free!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkttTPmbysS
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  At First glance I was very disappointed, yet as I continued to play I found it addicting and a 
 very fun game to play. This is a game which seems to bring out the best of the original Nintendo 
 and Sega game where it seems to be grind grind grind to level up. What differentiates this game 
 is the fact that you can play this on your own as a single player, and get help when needed on 
 a hard mission by teammates. Unlike other games which almost require you to have a team even when 
 none are available. I have found there is never lack enemies to fight. And the Crafting and auction 
 system is pretty self explanatory. And easy to use. The graphics are moderate and the Sound is 
 more or less a nature CD with a bit if squeaking. It is a pleasant game to play. The best part 
 about this game is the fact it is now free. Originally designed to have a monthly fee plus you 
 have to purchase the game. Then you only had to purchase the game. And of course it's now free 
 to play and free to download. You may also purchase points to buy items at the Chantra Mall (A 
 place to get upgrades for real money) I consider this game well designed and the concept great. 
 Anyone can become the Archlord the ruler of the whole server. I would be willing to purchase this 
 game if it was required. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadlilMart
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  I like this game and find the graphics are damn good, there may be many bugs and it is repetitive 
 but if you can get into a good guild you can take part in great guild battles and castle sieges.
 
  
  It may take a while but it gives you more of a sense of achievement.
  There is some issues with teh crafting system but they have fixed most of the issues with the latest 
 patch and is also now completely free to play.
  
  There are ingame items that you can buy for real money that give you quite an advantage though 
 so be warned.
  
  This is a great game if you can stick it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatskull
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ __ ____ ____ 
 ____ ___ ______ ______ ____ ____ ___ ___ ___ ___ When i saw the trailer, i was omg nice. But later..... 
 First FEE. But at the end when the game free...... OMG THAT CANT BE TRUE... It wasn't so as aspected. 
 I Give this game a half way to good game. COME guys make some better scene
  __ ___ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ ___ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ ___ __ __ __ _ _ _ _
  __ __ __ __ _ _ _ 
 _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: power4ward
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  I bought it when it first came out thinking it would be fun, but the graphics are horrible, the 
 movement sucks, and theres nothing fun about the game. If you want a good online game than this 
 is not the way to go. WoW is 10 times better, even though i dont play it anymore. If youre looking 
 for a free online game then go with Guild Wars, it is also much better than this game and its free. 
 I don't play online rpg's very often anymore but when I did, I would never play this game over 
 WoW or GW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonka123456789
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  This is without a doubt the worst game i have ever played ever, ever. Dont get this game, the fact 
 that its free doesnt matter, its dreadfull. The graphics are poor, the audio is slap dash, gameplay 
 is boring and just the whole look of the game is cheap and naff. Just dont get the game, basically, 
 with much, much better games such as WoW only being 7quid, and even better games like LOTRO and 
 eq2 on offer, this game is pretty pointless.
  
  The only good thing i can say about it is that if you have played MMO's befour you will be used 
 to the format and style of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kineas454
Rating: 3.2
Date: Aug 7, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  The game is a waste of time compared to other MMORPG's. All of the quests consist of killing 10 
 of a certain monster. The armor and weapons are limited as there are only set equips for each level 
 - if you're a level 50 warrior for example, and you fight another level 50 warrior, chances are 
 you'll have the exact same equipment.
  
  Graphics arn't that bad, but good graphics alone don't make a good game. Judging from the price 
 fall of this game in every shop, and the fact that CodeMasters removed the monthly subscription 
 from it, I'm guessing it only has a few thousand players, if that.
  
  Like all MMO's, you'll get some fanatics who think this is the best game ever, and it beats WoW 
 and they'll play it 24/7. But in my oppinion, MMO's that don't have monthly subscriptions, don't 
 have them because no one would play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PnSdPs
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  the game might not have alot of choices for your character but its really fun and intersting while 
 you play the game! Yes, there might be alot of grinding (BUT ISNT EVERY GAME A FREAKIN GRINDING 
 GAME) because how else will you be able to lvl up? Once u start the game you start to feel the 
 complete AWSOMENESS of the game and the way it plays! now that its free to play AND 20 $!!!!!!!!!!! 
 its a bargain worth buyin and playing!! ( go to gamestop its 20 dollars there) each race starts 
 in different places that are different but the quests are almost the same! hah! but you can travel 
 in a ever chanching conteneint thats amazing!! i give this game a FREAKN 9.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 30, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Have you really played this game a bit or you just write this review at your pathetic whim? Yes 
 I'm pretty sure you haven't. Yes you can say this game has fewer classes and races than world of 
 warcrft or lineage 2 but game has the best pvp possible... for example here dosen't matters too 
 much if you have a superstrong character with 20 levels higher than your opponent... one mistake 
 can mean the end of the duel for you! So now it's clarified that it has the best pvp.
  
  What about graphics? yes if you haven't played the game and just look at the images on gamespot 
 you would rate it with 2 or 3... at least that's what I thought when I first saw that pictures.
 
  
  Actually I never intended to play this game but a friend of mine bought it and gave me that free 
 2weeks acount. And man this game is awesome. You know what is better is that it's not so complex... I 
 mean that at WoW for instance there are always too many things to do... and well you get bored one 
 day! I am not sure why did gamespot rated this game so low but it deserves 4times that rating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ser_Zim
Rating: 1.5
Date: May 11, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Bad is the nicest thing i can say about this game it is really really bad ok horrible the worst 
 game i have ever played its a mmo with everything striped down to the barest minimum there it no 
 nothing its the world of gameing blasted to oblivion and not comeing back. so its really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 TERRIBLE!
  so in case this has not totally convinsed you to never play this game as long as you live then 
 mabey this will its so bad my comp died 2 times when i was playing and it wasnt even loading! can 
 it get worse than that at all? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samslayer
Rating: 4
Date: May 5, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Archlord, disappointing. That's really all there is to say about it. The game itself has a very 
 interesting idea, become the ruler of the game, the Archlord. This great idea was skwandered thought, 
 by the game's horrible gameplay. I've only played the game for ten hours now, and it seems like 
 I've done the same quest about 300 times, go kill X for X gold and X experience. I mean I enjoy 
 grinding, I enjoy it in WOW, but in this game that is all it provides is grinding, and bad grinding 
 at that. Character designs are blah, the environment is blah, and pretty much the whole game is 
 blah. I would have never purchased this game for full price, and I would have never paid a monthly 
 fee. But good old ebay came to the rescue, and they took away the monthly fee, so I bought it. 
 All in all, if you can find it for under $15 sure go ahead, but never ever pay for this game full 
 price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokey6996
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 15, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  I have been playing archlord for a while now. It has its down falls. I doesn't have to much flair. 
 Yes it can be repetive. yet it has no differents standing the w. o. w or everquest. Archlord is a 
 good game for newbies to the mmo exp. Now I have played C. O. H, C. O. V and W. O. W as well as The Matrix 
 Online. Archlord has been the only one to keep interested to keep going. I admit that the graphics 
 for the creatures ar a little middle class no comparison to world of warcraft. The audio could 
 use a little fine tuning. yet for the most part the game is wonderful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hendericeric
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  Archlord is a very cool game, if you are willing to infest some time into it, and with the release 
 of the patch it will even be better then it already is. A cool PVP system, and nice community of 
 Hardcore players.
  
  A change to fight in epic Guild battles, support you Troops in every way you can, and get the respect 
 of other players,
  You get the change to be the ultima fighter in the world of Chantra, what other MMO offers you 
 that eternal glory, will you be the Archlord?
  
  Check it out its worth playing.
  
  -Yrroth- lvl 71 Zerk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ake_Gamer
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 14, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Let's get some basic assumptions out of the way. You want to play Archlord for the PvP. If you 
 are going to get hung up on the PvE based levelling model, stop reading now and go choose a PvE 
 oriented game.
  
  If you made it to this paragraph then you accept that the levelling model, or grind, as some so 
 affectionately call it, is going to be a steep up hill climb. You level in AL because the levels 
 mean something. Most people can't hack the levelling curve and QUIT before they even hit 50 in 
 a game of 99 levels.
  
  Archlord is one massive experiment in King of the Hill . You form a guild, recruit good people 
 who will climb with you and then you stop for no one! Need to kill couple million mobs to get to 
 the top? So be it. I've been MMOing since December 2005 when I heard the call from Asheron and 
 descended into Dereth. I've been grinding ever since. I've yet to find an MMO where you don't do 
 something repetetive to ascend some ladder of power. Everyone wants to cry about that fact, yet 
 we vote with our incomes and the same model keeps being produced. Sometimes we just want to go 
 into a trance and grind in peace, escaping from the stress of the real world. I don't see things 
 changing. Humans are creatures of habit.
  
  Ok, so you thrive in PvP based games where the politics are neck deep and you know that the levelling 
 curve in AL is harsh, the grind tough. Why should you invest your precious time in AL? The bottom 
 line is that you can win! Yes, one individual each month will ascend to the throne of the Archlord. 
 You'll need to be a good leader, a strategist, a motivator and not a quitter.
  
  If that is appealing to you, then the following critiques will not be as important to your decision 
 making, because in the scheme of things, they are just aesthetics. Things that you will gloss over 
 in time as you focus on the prize at hand.
  
  Grahics are good but not cutting edge. The graphics model is designed to optimize large scale PvP 
 encounters. This forces a cap on the number of customized character models. You'll thank the developers 
 when you tell the server you move into range of 50 enemies and your PC is able to load them all 
 up instead of choking on requests to load fancy graphics. Call a target and kill... who's looking 
 at hairstyles or facial tatoos?
  
  Get used to mouse based click n move. The WASD implementation is terrible.
  
  Quests are not 
 the rich deep storylines found in other games. They tell a tale, but when the quests only fill 
 a small portion of your experience for each level come mid game, the story gets lost to you as 
 you aren't immersed in it. Instead you find a good hunting spot and get your groove on.
  
  Class balance is interesting during the first 45 levels or so as some classes mature at different 
 rates to cope with PvE and PvP needs. Come 50+ though, PvP is a chess game. It's not a 1-1 game. 
 Some classes are killers and others can't be killed. 1-1s usually come down to who has more bullets 
 in their gun . Theoretically some of those fights could go on for hours.
  
  The castle siege and Archlord systems are currently not in game and are anticipated with Episode 
 2, expected by the end of Q1 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_link749
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Archlord, a Korean fantasy MMORPG, has been released in the USA and the UK by British publisher 
 Codemasters. After realising no one would pay a monthly fee for this boring, dull game, they dropped 
 the monthly fee. Since then, the player base has grown... a little. Yeah, i said boring. This game 
 is just one big grind fest. It follows the same typical MMORPG format as lineage 2. Kill monsters, 
 get more healing potions, kill more monsters, level up, get better armor, kill more monsters for 
 twice as long, level up.... yada yada yada. I shouldn't use the word boring, I LIKE THIS KIND OF 
 GAMEPLAY. It ain't half bad, especially since when you grind enough, you get to look pretty bad-ass. 
 I've put in 45 hours of gametime into Archlord. i'm level 21. The cool armor starts coming into 
 play (for orc berzerkers (a melee class) at level 23-28) If i get to have cool armor and weapons, 
 i can tolerate the grind... until it starts taking 1 month (of casual play) per level... Which happens 
 when you hit level 45.
  
  As wtih many other MMO's, this game has absolutely no pathfinding. Meaning, you can't click on 
 the other side of a fence and expect yoru character to find a path there. Expect yoru character 
 to take the most direct path to your destination and walk straight into the fence. Very irritating.
 
  
  if you look past the grinding in Archlord, you will find a pretty sweet gem. The armor and weapons 
 are sweet, and farming monsters to find the unique armor sets (super rare, super awesome, super 
 strong) is well worth the wait. The skills in this game are incredibly cool-looking and helpful. 
 Some skills create huge glowing orbs around yoru hands, and have very cool casting animations.
 
  
  I haven't gotten to the point of being able to use a mount in this game, yet, but I will say it 
 sucks that you may spend half of your in-game gold on a mount that you can ONLY USE FOR 70 HOURS! 
 Plus you need a special mount weapon (like a halberd or spear) for an additional half a million 
 gold. Orcs get huge rhinos, moon elves get giant, beastly tigers, and humans get... get ready... HORSES! 
 *_*
  
  This game has a very small player base. Get ready for hours of farming... alone... by yourself... in 
 many bland, uninspired environments. (well, only for the orcs :-D) Most people you will meet in-game 
 are illiterate or just plain a$$h0les.
  
  I know i've said almost nothing good about this game, which makes me ponder why I play it. I guess 
 it's a free MMORPG (just buy the box) and i'm satisfied with that in itself. The average gamer 
 with an attention span of 5 minutes won't find this game fun at all. For the true MMO junky, BUY 
 THIS GAME.
  
  Bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kikinchaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  The MMO market is becoming massivly competitive with fantastic titles such as World of Warcraft 
 boasting its 8 million playerbase and many others. So how does this new MMO compare? Well it has 
 to be noted that as of January 4th 2007 Archlord is now FREE TO PLAY. That means NO MONTHLY FEES 
 alot like Guild Wars. I heard the bad press about this game, along with a few good bits of press. 
 But it has to be noted that all of these reviews by critics have been done at launch at which point 
 the game was pay monthly. I decided to give it a try and purchased a key direct from Codemasters 
 due to their being no monthly fees. So your wondering on if this MMO is enough to tear you away 
 from WoW. Well no... but the fantastic point about it - is it doesnt have to! With no monthly fees 
 that means you can play at your own pace and dont feel the need to be playing for a month just 
 because youve paid for the month in advance. Now onto the more detailed explanation. Archlord is 
 a new MMO influenced by many Korean MMO's. It plays alot like Lineage 2 (but without the monthly 
 fees) . Standard combat system, with your expected array of weapons and armor, and quests to go 
 kill 5 enemies and report back. So on that aspect no.... Archlord isnt groundbreaking, but it is 
 a good amount of fun. Im yet to experience the late level content as ive only just started playing, 
 but later on there is PvP battles and competition to become the Archlord. The leader of the realm 
 with his very own flying dragon/mount to show off. This sounds fantastic and heads above that of 
 Guild Wars. The game features Humans, Orcs and Moon Elves with your standard array of classes from 
 warriors to archers to mages. Also there is an auction house. Different mounts for each Race with 
 the ability to actualy attack whilst on your mount. So we can compare this to Guild Wars due to 
 its no monthly fees. Well personally i think this is much better than guild wars. The only reason 
 guild wars has become popular is due to its lack of monthly fees. Archlord SHOULD have gained this 
 status but originally started with monthly fees which then changed January 4th 2007 to eradicating 
 these fees. Episode 2 has been announced which will be a free addition to the game featuring new 
 content ranging from the ability to become the Archlord, Castle sieges, New weapons and new armour 
 etc. The game is still in its early days as its release was October 2006. Dont be fooled by the 
 bad press surrounding this title. I say this with confidence that you will enjoy this game. Maybe 
 it doesnt have the massive community WoW has. And no it isnt an original title. But neither is 
 Guild Wars? Guild wars is at heart a Singleplayer game with a city hub where you can chat to friends 
 and PvP battles. Archlord however IS a fully fledged MMO with a real world which is NOT instanced 
 like Guild Wars. The press has NOT reviewed the game at its Free2Play or current patched state 
 and cannot therefore show a true fair opinion of this game. Give it a try, from Amazon for &pound;10 
 thats a steal! Its also possible to order a key and download the game from Codemasters directly 
 for convenience. Archlord isnt original. Archlord isnt World of Warcraft. Archlord doesnt have 
 any major features worth getting over another MMO. BUT Archlord is a fantastic game. With its No 
 monthly fees you can play at your own pace without having to cancel any current MMO subscriptions. 
 Archlord will NOT break your budget, yet it contains the standard MMO features in games such as 
 Lineage 2 but without the high monthly prices!! Overall 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linhov
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 24, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  I was interested in this game when I first heard about it, it sounded promising so I signed up 
 for the beta. I have to admit I didn't play it very long. After about 40 minutes I gave up and 
 deleted it from my pc. First of all... what's up with the character creation? Why can you not customize 
 your character more? How disappointing! Made a hunter and logged in... Could someone please tell 
 me why I could see my characters panties? Now that's just sad... :/ and to be honest... really annoying... 
 :/ Bad graphics, boring quests, there was nothing I liked about this game and I could not believe 
 it was that close to release. I wouldn't play this game even if THEY paid ME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _kukurapkurap_
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  give this game a chane people.. once u start getting use to the game
  its actually fun.. play play no more fees so play !!!!!!
  its like final fantasy 11 and wow in 
 a way.. pretty funnnnnnnnnnn funnn hahah first time ive played it for 5 minutes i was like wtfff 
 then i threw the game ahah good thing i got this game for free.. then after a month.. i installed 
 it agen and wow i was having fun ahah weerd.. its just takes getting use to the gameplay... its fun 
 to kill things in this game.. better music than guild wars.. i hate themusic there =) ... play play 
 play play play play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Ewok
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  This game actually owns, it is great to play, loads of good quests, nice leveling til lvl 30+ (im 
 lvl 30 so i dont know if it actually gets harder after this) . Good Graphics and easy to play, with 
 great moves and guilds and all sorts of goodies. The game does have a few bugs, but nothing major, 
 only getting stuck on a rock or see tthough walls, and the SFX does get annoying with the pulsing 
 noise, but all my mates play with music so we dont really care. a Good-Bad point is that it only 
 has two servers abut thats all it needs cause not alot of people play it [yet] . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: om3rta
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  the concept of archlord was amazing when i first heard of it. gain the support of many an online 
 buddy and rise to become the ruler of your server. how doesn't that sound awesome? well... it's 
 not.
  
  the fist thing you notice is that there isn't much interaction with other players other than being 
 in a group for the auto loot and other perks such as improved XP and what have you. you hardly 
 ever have to quest with a buddy as most of your time is spent grinding or killing certain monsters 
 to fetch something for some unimpressive npc.
  
  the worst part of this game in my opinion is the controls. when you go to turn as you run there 
 is no animation set for turning, you just jerk towards where you want to run. there is also no 
 jump which would help for getting unstuck from the... well.. EVERYTHING you get stuck behind.
 
  
  the character models suck. the few different hair styles and face styles leave much to be desired.
 
  
  overall this is just a horrid attempt at throwing an mmo together. some good ideas go to a real 
 waste here.
  
  please don't play this game, and if you DO play this game... please stop and do yourself a favor. 
 i can't think of any MMO that isn't better than this. play one of those. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vanderspeal
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually pretty good. There is a grind to it but hey its a hardcore game and most ppl 
 who really hate it are wow kiddies that like the easy button. It takes a long time to develope your 
 character so when you see a decked out character riding around on there horse it acually means 
 something not just another player as usual. You gotta work for it in this game. Graphics are good 
 and episode 2 is coming soon wich will revamp pvp alot. The comminity is growing fast as well. Yea 
 there is alot of bad hype surrouning this game but give it a shot and think for yourself cause 
 reviews dont mean crap even mine. Especially when you are talking about gamespot. Dont ever let a 
 gamespot review decide what games you try because I like almost every game they hate and have almost 
 every game they love!. But thats just me. Anyways is you dont feel like getting ripped off monthly 
 this is a real mmo with no monthly fee. However I must warn you it is a hard game with ppl killing 
 you at ramdom in the world. Guild politics can get heated but it is about to get alot more interesting 
 soon as well. If you like a challange with no monthly rip off try this game. If you like easy games 
 and getting ripped off play WOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaspanova
Rating: 4.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  If you're given this, play it for a week or so, starnger things have happened but you may enjoy 
 it. this is not worth buying because its a ... dare i say it.. RF Online clone with added prettyness 
 and new features, such as carving your fallen enemy's carcus to get meat for cooking (?) or to 
 make apparal for wearing (?!) and lets face it, RF Online wasn't the best game either. I really 
 did like the character design of the Moon Elfs, thats spot on. all cutesy and weird. The aspect 
 of grinding is very much apparent, they used the Kill Stuff &gt; Level Up a tad too much to get 
 where you needed to be. All in all, its really not worth buying and not the most fun you have with 
 an MMORPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerracan
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 25, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  Mixed bag says it all, very much a love and hate relationship.
  Solo it gets boring quick, the quests are generic, but in a group it is fun.
  It has the addiction 
 quality of just one more level, and I wonder what loot I'll find.
  The auction house is easy to use, the crafting is very basic.
  It is a MMO for the casual player.
 
  So far PvP has been entertaining, although I would equate it to the PvP found in the old click 
 fast classic Diablo II.
  In fact the potion system and class system owes some tribute to that.
  Classes don't vary that 
 much, untill you get to higher lvls, there are 3 types Mages. fighters and ranged. All class's 
 and races have subtle variation on them. (bar moon elves which don't have a melee class)
  Over all it is fun and addictive. If you don't expect it to be good you will enjoy it, if you expect 
 a top of the line MMO play one with a monthly Fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f3191
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 21, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I really don't agree to much with this sites score on ArchLord, but I guess for a subscription 
 game that score is probably close to correct, but that's their opinion. In my opinion the score 
 should be raised quite significantly now, since it has gone free to play. You start the game out 
 choosing between 3 races of Orc, Human, or MoonElf. The sad thing is you can't choose your gender 
 unless it goes with the corresponding class. The quest system is quite basic and very easy to follow, 
 but it can be somewhat challenging. The voices in the game sound very unique, and to me that is 
 a great factor for online games. I don't know if there is truly a story line or not, but I guess 
 one of the main goals is to become the ArchLord for a month. This game also has a pretty nice community 
 that aren't rude and are quite helpful. The graphics of the game in my opinion are quite attractive, 
 plenty of bright colors, and some of the detail is quite distinguished. I would highly recommend 
 this game to anyone who wants something that's decent and is free to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsKing
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  It's an ok game, but Silkroad holds just as much juice. I played it while it was beta and it really 
 was a little bit better than Silkroad LITTLE BIT BETTER. The only difference in this game is that 
 you get to skin things... and... thas about as much as I got into it before turing it off and continuing 
 with WoW. I recomend not getting this game... get WoW if ya want an MMO and your willing to pay 
 monthly fees. Not to mention the graphics are better and the music/sound is great in WoW. Archlord 
 only allows for a few type or character selection types. You don't much of a selection of weapons 
 either. It's either be an Elf or human practically for the good dudes and be a Orc or... some goblin 
 or somthn for the bad dudes. It's just a knock off game with a week objective become ARCHLORD ya, 
 it sounds cool, but there are already like 2 million Koreans who have been playn this game for 
 like a looong time and they'll woop our asses before we ever get the chance to even look at the 
 Archlord. This games pathetic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linknightshade
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  Heya guys and gals, well ArchLord is an ok game that is now actually free, which is pretty darn 
 cool ( (well it will be on the 4th of January) ) .
  
  I was in the BETA and lost my character sadly : ( but didn't have any money to buy the game and 
 now I got an e-mail for a 10 day trial I thought COOL!!! I would definitely of started a character 
 however one problem is there is no one else to play with...
  
  In the BETA there were so many people around always, even people that hated it were there shouting 
 how much they hated it and seeing as I reached about level 20 in the BETA I know you will need 
 a group of people for a few quests but sadly I saw 5 people... maybe a bad time at 6:30pm GMT but 
 I'm not sure...
  
  There is a good chance all fans of it are now much higher but without doing certain quests your 
 missing out on money and easy exp, and if you do get a group of friends then well, it won't be 
 because you all get along just because your the only 5 people your low level.
  
  Sorry people who liked this in the BETA like me, cya. @_@ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I had nearly forgotten I had applied to the Archlord beta by the time I received a reply. I was 
 enticed by it since I saw the first screenshots. Everything looked beautiful, somewhat magical 
 and original. My application was accepted 5 days before the beta closed. Ok, that really is a short 
 time to play and evaluate an MMO, but since this was the final beta stage, I figured the content 
 would all be in place and I could still grasp the basics of what the game would have to offer to 
 paying customers. But what was waiting in game wasn't exactly the pretty picture I had imagined.
 
  
  Let's begin by what every other MMO starts with: character creation. While the character models 
 at first seem rather good looking and interesting, you will find out that races have specific pre-set 
 classes and sexes, which doesn't offer a lot of variety. Humans can be Knights, Archers and Mages. 
 Orcs can be Berserkers, Hunters and Sorcerers. Moon Elves are Rangers and Elementalists.
  
  There is a small selection of faces, hair styles and colors, but there is a merchant that works 
 like a beauty salon, offering more faces, hairdos and dyes, for a fee of course. And it's not cheap.
 
  
  Once you have your character, you can enter the world of Chantra. I found it really odd that that 
 everyone else in my starting town (Moon Elf lands) was also a female Moon Elf. There's something 
 creepy about walking around a bunch of clones where the only differences will be the armor, weapons 
 and hair. Worst of all, everyone of the same class at level 1 looks exactly the same (head aside) . 
 The only time you can set yourself apart from others is by leveling up and upgrading your armor 
 and weapon. But by then, everyone else has also leveled up and looks exactly the same again. So 
 again, variety was lacking.
  
  The game mechanics are basically a clone of those in World of Warcraft. Not original, but it works. 
 NPCs will have large exclamation or question marks on their heads to indicate a quest start or 
 finish. More quests open up as you level, and many progress as a chain of tasks that ties in with 
 the level of the monsters you are supposed to be killing for experience. So you kill for leveling 
 and for questing simultaneously most of the time. And I say most of the time, because at a certain 
 point you are forced to group with people to be able to kill something whose name is green. Green 
 is usually the weaker con in an MMO, right? Well, there was this goblin that insisted on killing 
 me in a couple of hits even after I passed it by three levels. And that was needed for a quest, 
 and by now you know that I hate when I have to depend on groups.
  
  Something that didn't quite appeal to me was the fact that shortly after stepping out the city 
 gates, I got a message saying I was in a free PVP zone. So basically, anyone can come up and whack 
 you on the back of the head (so to speak) when you're level 1. How fun is that? Apparently, somewhere 
 in my reading I missed the whole thing about the PVP aspect of the game. Had I known, I probably 
 wouldn't even had tried it.
  
  Apparently, the whole premise of Archlord is PVPing. There is even a wanted board for players with 
 the most kills. PVP is also a big thing at high levels, since that's where the game title comes 
 in: guilds will fight over possession of a castle and crown one of their members the Archlord. 
 This person will have their character oversized, gets to wear some really spiffy armor, has a dragon 
 to ride on, and gains special powers such as controlling the weather or summoning monsters to fight 
 for him. Sounds cool? It really isn't. First, this is something for people who are guilded only. 
 It's a guild effort, a castle raid. Second, the reward is not a guild benefit, it's a personal 
 benefit. So you can imagine the bickering going on among guild mates fighting to see who becomes 
 the next Archlord. MMOs are normally based on social aspects, so this concept seems pretty anti-social 
 to me.
  
  Aside from NPC quests, there are elemental spirit quests that you get when you reach certain levels. 
 Leveling up grants you points that you use to purchase skills for your character at your class 
 trainer.
  
  The quest menu is easy to understand, but it wasn't fully operational. A lot of menu text was represented 
 by a series of squares and symbols, making you wonder what the hell the quest was until you opened 
 the tab and read it.
  
  The trade skill system seemed complex and interesting, though I didn't explore any of it aside 
 from starting a skinning profession. Yes, WoW once again.
  
  An interesting feature of the game is the Chantra Shop. This shop doesn't use in-game currency 
 but a different payment system. Upon signing up, I was given a number of credits to spend in this 
 particular place. What you find there is a series of boosters and other useful items that have 
 limited use. Most of it wasn't even translated into English though, and this was on the eve on 
 the game's launch, so a lot of things I had no idea what they were for. But for the ones that were 
 not in Korean characters, I could purchase a strength booster that lasted a day, something to give 
 me more experience for the next 3 days or an item that resurected me right away if I died. I found 
 that I could activate only one of these boosters at any given time, but it was still a pretty neat 
 feature. Every month, players receive a certain number of credits that basically is a result of 
 their subscription fee payment, but credits are also rewards of in-game events. I liked how the 
 monsters were original: flying eyeballs, deer, jelly cubes, some sort of naga women with 6 arms, 
 there's some pretty weird stuff to kill in this game. I also enjoyed the colorful and rich enviroments, 
 but running across them was a pain. There were spots where my character would just get stuck in 
 a loop over and over running the same piece of land, and other times where I'd be stuck in a small 
 rock or a thin tree trunk. It's like there were invisible walls in what seemed to be very open 
 spaces.
  
  But a couple of cool features don't make the game stand out. On the eve of the game's release (beginning 
 of October) I wondered how could they be bringing the game out in this condition. And this was 
 only by what I had witnessed in five days, at the end of beta stage phase 4. Phase 4 and this many 
 issues? Not for a monthly fee of $14.99, that's for sure. Archlord offers little new and original 
 content, aside from strange monsters and the Archlord title for high-end players. I was initially 
 taken in by the screenshots, and this experience just proved that looks really don't mean a thing. 
 There are plenty of much better games out there to spend your $14.99 on.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=archlord 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosMayCry
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Where to start? Graphics- 2/10
  
  The graphics in Archlord could be quite nice.... if they had them. The character movement is so 
 bugged that you dont run. Your character is in a continual state of dashing. His legs dont move. 
 You can't zoom in with the character, you cant rotate your camera without flipping around a good 
 1080 degrees and coming right back to the spot you started on. You can't do anything. There are 
 plentiful choices for customization of character... but you can't see them. Oh, and by the way... you 
 can't choose your gender. Gender is class specific. No.... seriously. No male hunters. No female 
 berzerkers. No male elves, period. Overall, if there were not bugs, the graphics would be about 
 on par with a 2001 Xbox game. Gameplay- 3/10
  
  Um... WTF? There are only 8 classes in the whole game, and they're race specific. So... you can 
 pick 2 or 3 classes..? Gameplay itself is repetitive, pointless, annoying, and stupid. I'd rather 
 grind my head into a meat grinder than grind on this game. The Quests are pointless. Pointless. 
 You get spells and such, but not enough to make this game worthwhile. There's no variety. So if 
 you want to round up a bunch of friends and right click the giant spider for hours on end... go 
 for it.
  
  Sound- 1/10
  
  Lowest Rating. It doesn't deserve a 1. There basically isn't any good sounds. Always the same-ish 
 thunk or whack and some dull background music. If i really had my pick, it would be a 0. If you 
 really, really need to play this though, just go to options, turn all the in game sound off, and 
 put some background music on. Trust me, you wont miss it.
  
  Value- 2/10
  
  30 bucks to begin with... then 15/month. To tell you the truth, Runescape is more entertaining 
 than this, and it's completely free. Completely. These guys had a good plan going, then decided 
 to just say, Screw it, lets halt the project in alpha, build up a bunch of hype, release a product 
 1/4 as good as the average MMORPG today, cut our losses, and get out quick. 
  
  Reviewers Tilt- 1/10 I don't know whether it's my computer ( Intel 2 Duo processor (s) ... 2 nVidia 
 7800s.... ha.) or the game (Graphics that might have been nice 5 years ago, no server activity) , 
 but the glitches and bugs just ruin any enjoyment that might have been found in the game. Don't 
 get it. This is an example of the project team deciding to be lazy and NOT make a decent game. 
 It's just... embarassing. Get World of Warcraft or Guild Wars. Those are nice games. This one... not 
 so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyokozam
Rating: 1.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  What kind of online game is this ? They simply out to make a quick buck out of it without actually 
 putting in more effort to develop the game. Actually , I'm
  looking forward for the release of Archlord as I read with interest thru introduction . But it 
 really beyond my expectation . Compliment being the graphic is not that bad but gameplay doesn't 
 provide you the thrill or challenge . Simply no replay value . If one who love slashing,
  killing all the way thru . Guess you might love it or else forget it . Might as well play Dead 
 or Alive is much more interesting .Save your money on some better game . Well , lucky for me I 
 manage to sold off the game and recoupe some money back . Buy at own risk . Who know its might 
 suit you but not for me .... ya ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarzyz
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 1, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  Hitting cubes of jelly with a magic stick should be kind of hilarious, but it really isn't. I am 
 not having fun. So far, Archlord is exactly like what people who don't play MMORPGs think MMORPGs 
 are like. The only thing that keeps me going in any way is the knowledge that in five levels' time 
 (which means about 900 cubes of jelly slain) , I'll finally be able to get a new weapon. With this, 
 I'll be able to kill cubes of jelly slightly faster, though still primarily by pressing '3' and 
 waiting. If I wanted a bit of a break from killing cubes of jelly, there's someone over there (also 
 killing cubes of jelly) who looks almost exactly the same as me. They'll continue looking the same 
 as me until one of us hits a certain level, at which point we'll be allowed to buy new armour. 
 Of course, everyone else will look exactly the same again once they hit that level, even if their 
 chosen new armour has some minor stat differences. If I so desired, I could go and hit these eerie 
 clones, but I don't really want to. They're surely as unhappy as I am right now, so it'd be really 
 mean to go and kill them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the worst online games I have experienced. It is thrown together like a mish 
 mosh of all online games, and then put out to the public under the ruse of it being fresh and new 
 . Instead it is one of the worst games of the year, and Alienware and all these other companies 
 sporting Archlord grahpics on their PC's should be ashamed. If you want to play a great PVP game 
 while waiting Burning Crusade, get Guild Wars NIghtfall. It is head and tails above this pile of 
 muck in terms of production values, gameplay and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindflayerwarlo
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  The main issue I had with the game is the cost and focus on health and mana potions. The pots are 
 mandatory to PVE or PVP. Later on in the game, you can go through literally thousands upon thousands 
 of pots to gain ONE level. You end up spending most of your gold, if not all of your gold, on pots. 
 Leaving little to no money for repairing weapon and armor, or just having the money to buy a good 
 item off the Auction House. Dont forget the mount cost which is high.
  
  If you want to PVP, you must buy the biggest pots you can afford and alot of them. The winner in 
 a PVP battle usually ends up being the one who has more pots. After the battle, their is no reward. 
 Just all the lost pots and lost gold. IF you get a few lucky hits then the battle maybe over in 
 a few seconds and you will be very happy about the little amount of pots you have used. Some players 
 are going around killing other players 5 or more lvls below them so there is little pot use.
  
  The game has a lot of issues and needs alot of patches. On the good side, graphics are not 
 too bad. There is some fun value in the game especially at the beginning. At higher lvls say around 
 30, you will probably be hurting for money just to get pots to lvl up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BagOfLiveMice
Rating: 1.8
Date: Oct 24, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Click-to-move = awful when there is no path-finding. PvP is all over in a big heaping mess -- no 
 orgamization. I participated in the beta, and saw no significant improvement from release. I was 
 excited about this game -- the graphics are nice, but everything else is just TERRIBLE. Spare yourself 
 and walk the heck away from this title when you see it. Those of you burnt on WoW and waiting for 
 the expansion, the only advice i can give you is to keep waiting. : ( This not even mentioning that 
 the entire point of the game is to become the strongest player on the entire server, and if you 
 have a job or a meaningful life, you ain't ever gonna reach that goal, so why bother playing a 
 game you're doomed to lose? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallywest
Rating: 2.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Umm, is this a game or a how not to make a game seminar? One of the most disappointing titles i 
 have ever played, because i was really looking forward to it. I played the beta with all the bugs 
 that go with it, then got the game, thinking some issues had been addressed. Know what changed? 
 NOTHING. Not a damn thing, its the same buggy, ugly mess as the beta. Its really too bad because 
 the story behind the game is really good, and the combat looks great, also the idea of the Archlord 
 is awesome.. but they did not deliver, not by a long shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cimmeriandoug
Rating: 2.3
Date: Oct 31, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I guess this means the koreans cant make games. I am a addicted online player and I quit this sick 
 game. There is no way to make enough money in this game from what I have seen. Spend 1000s on needed 
 pots (you cant level without it) and make 100s.
  
  Dang if they put the effort they put into the website into the game it might be different.
  
 
  A day in Archlord. Lets take a nice walk. HELP THERE IS A HALF INCH PEPPLE IN THE WAY.... I CANT 
 WALK OR JUMP OVER IT. Ok must use brains and plan a road trip to get around anything small.
  
  Ok here is an idea of how the game is made. I a berserker could fight a 80 year old geezer. 
 He decides he had eaten to much and had to take a dump in the middle of the fight. He bought 1000 
 healing pots and set to auto heal. I could stand there hitting his balls with my halberd and never 
 kill him. A one on one fight could last forever (half hour no joke) and you can lose all your money 
 in one battle. You could be a high level, trained hard, awesome weapons but get ur arse handed 
 to you by a low level sissy because they bought better pots. No balance or anything. On one hand 
 if you dont have the highest pots you will lose. On the other hand If you spend the money on the 
 highest pots you will win but you wont be able to afford a ho for the night.
  
  Special note for the above mentioned geezer (one of many bugs of items losing stats....... make 
 sure you save your balls on a vender before you log off because if you dont you might lose them 
 when you log back on. Hey none of us really have a right to cry about this game. After all they 
 did warn us...... Game experience may change during online play They are right. It is fun for the 
 first few seconds then changes to down right insanity later on and that later on aint to far off 
 baby :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcaldwel
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 23, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Once again, the MMORPG community has received another unoriginal boring game. When was the last 
 time an original thought has been made on this genre? This game is tired as soon as you install 
 it. Same old same old, quest that are nothing more than busy work, zero artificial intelligent, 
 stand and camp spots over and over with spawning monsters. Gawd! Stop making these games just like 
 the others. Oh wait, if you spend your entire life playing this game, you could become Archlord! 
 What a concept. Don't give them a cent of your money. I won't even mention how real money can advance 
 you in this game, legally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acalightsp33d
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 15, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Ok still cant see why people giving this bad review fine theres some bugs and they have already 
 promised to fix them you have 99 levels to play with and pvp arena to play with on the way great 
 guild vs guild fights im currently level 29 almost 30 and it gets better just have to see past 
 the bugs they have maintence every tuesday morning for 3 hours and the gms you can contact and 
 talk to straight away while playing the game no waiting times like wow when you used to have to 
 wait 5 hours for a gm to contact you.
  
  There is no reason why this wont and cant improve if you played wow or eq2 and wanted more of pvp 
 action then this is truely for you r if you want more pve then you have 99 levels compared to wows 
 60 in wow it took me 3 weeks to hit 60 but this looks like it will be nearer 3 months if not more 
 so theres plenty of gameplay onthat side of things.
  
  And fine some people are put off thats it a cm game and normaly there games are crap but this stands 
 out it has a &pound;8.99 subscription like wow and eq2 but on subscription with cm means you can 
 play any of there games without further subscriptions which is great. (cm = codemasters by the 
 way :-) )
  
  Controls are fine cant see why people are complaining as you can hold down W and right mouse button 
 just like wow and eq2 or just use point and click both easy to use.
  
  Ok finaly like all games has its bad points but tell me a game that doesnt first charater sliding 
 when starting just relog then its sorted on ah sometimes you cant confirm your sales just relog 
 and its sorted so its minor faults but like i said before they will be sorting them soon as.
  
  So please write a review if you have played the game for 100+ hours not 30 mins or just beta 
 as theres alot of things changed since beta and 30mins is not enouth time to find out about how 
 to play as theres more than meets the eye.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizcaochaos
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 15, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  if you can look past the bugs for now and give them a chance to fix them this will be a truly great 
 mmorpg. there are some issues from the start with new characters appereaing to slide but logging 
 out and back in fixes that. with the exception of so minor bugs that can be annoying the gameplay 
 is very solid and graphics are comparable or better with the rest of the genre. This is a game 
 that if you like the lineage serious you really should not miss. Many of the same elements and 
 the possiblity to expand and be really great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaz134
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 12, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Before i start I have to stress that I did only catch this game in the Beta phase. But given the 
 fact that it was only 2 weeks before release this review i feel is still relevant... anyway, on 
 with the details. Heres the run down: For anyone here who has played games like Flyff, RF online 
 or any other Korean monster grinds:
  
  Archlord is disturbingly similar but without big robots or flying broomsticks. Down to the same 
 arrangement of monsters ('groups' that sit in a specific location on the map) , the same combat 
 system and the same crap UI.
  
  For those of you who haven't played the above games:
  
  Movement is restricted to point and click with the left mouse button, camera controls manipulated 
 with the right mouse button. Now anyone who likes to have a decent amount of control over their 
 character isn't going to like this because the keyboard is practically useless not to mention the 
 fact that your character will downright refuse to have his feet leave the floor for any reason.
 
  
  The combat system is again, point and click with the left mouse button. Boring, monotonous and 
 frustrating to say the least. If you don't highlight the monster you want to attack (which can 
 be harder than it sounds) you will run right past it instead of slapping it around a bit. The less 
 said about skills advancement the better.
  
  The Quests are poorly written affairs that are as much fun as watching paint dry. ALL of them consist 
 of go kill 5 of these or go kill x amount of these until you find x item often with little or no 
 reason for doing so.
  
  Character progression is limited. Character creation is even more limited (ridiculously so) but 
 this has already been discussed in detail on this board so i will not reitterate.
  
  In short. Its just a lazy, back of cigarette packet game that really shouldn't be allowed to see 
 the light of day. The addition of a 'pay more get more' system is disgusting and should be investigated 
 by trading standards. MMOs should be about time and effort spent working your character up through 
 the ranks, not about how much money you can fill your characters pockets with by spending your 
 own.
  
  If you want a good beta, go play on Battlefield 2142.
  If you want a good MMO, your going to have to wait..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallace42
Rating: 3.1
Date: Oct 10, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  This game has been done a million times already. It is your standard grindfest MMO, little story, 
 less RP, and terrible character interaction, contribute to an overall less than stellar game. If 
 you have ever played any other Korean MMO import, you have played this game already, and probably 
 didn't like it then either. The only even remotely interesting idea in this game is the Archlord, 
 alowing one player a month to control the entire world, sort of. The graphics were ok-ish, but 
 nothing spectacular. The gameplay is pretty boring, as stated above, it is the exact same game 
 as every other Korean MMO. Character creation is also an extreme let down, you really have very 
 little control over your character, during the creation process. You can basically chose what class 
 you want to be, everything else is sort of based on that, no real race/gender selection, just what 
 is determined by the class you want to play, which is unfortunate, since you really don't want 
 to play this game. There are many fine games out there and this is not one of them, do yourself 
 a favor and play something else, anything else, really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spitfire1856
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 7, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I bought Archlord on the 3rd of October from http://gamespot. boonty. com/archlord/
  
  for $49.99
  
  So far my opinions are mixed.
  
  The game has lots of room for innovation 
 and improvement. There are many bugs, I will list a few.
  
  1. Item stats disappearing
  
  2. Low Drop Rate
  
  3. Missing class skills
  
  Codemasters, who works with Nhn Games 
 has been very slow with fixing the bugs, they have been there from day 1, and a couple days later, 
 they are still at large.
  
  Also, some areas of the game are not fully developed, there aren't many customization options for 
 characters (pretty minor) and some people say that the Archlord system is not completed yet.
  
  The game has 3 different races, the orcs (Like the Horde in WoW) Humans (The standard race 
 that has relatively nice character models, and the Moon Elves, Alot like the NightElves from WoW, 
 but clad in Hooker gear (painfully revealing)
  
  There are three main classes, Warrior, Archer, and Mage. Each race has a slightly different name 
 for their classes, however I do not think they vary by more then a spell or two.
  
  The game is a lot like a standard Korean grinding game, with a heavy emphasis on potions. If you 
 don't have any potions, you don't stand much of a chance grinding your way up the ladder, as there 
 is no healing class, and no other way of healing.
  
  The game also has a shop where using credits you gain every month, you can buy special items for 
 your character. This feature makes the game much like a Free to play game, where players would 
 use real $$ to purchase in-game points to buy special items. The twist is that you pay $14.99 each 
 month and get a set number of credits. The first free month you receive 3000 credits, and from 
 what I have heard, 1500 each month after that.
  
  The problem is that this is far too low for most players with the difficulty of the game. some 
 people use up 200 credits every 30 minutes of play. Without them, the game is much more difficult.
 
  
  On a lighter side of things, the graphics look very nice, especially weapon and spell effects. 
 Although is isn't groundbreaking, the environment looks great (think along the same lines as lineage 
 2)
  
  PVP sounds great, with guild wars, and although I haven't experienced it, I definitely look forward 
 to it.
  
  The community is helpful, which is a plus, players will answer questions you have and party up 
 to help with quests and grind.
  
  In conclusion, I would say that although it isn't the next WoW, it's a fresh breather from the 
 same old stuff, and even with the bugs, it can be fun to pick up and play.
  
  For more information on Archlord, go to the official site: http://www. Archlordgame. com
  
  Or 
 their forums: http://community. codemasters. com/forum/for... splay. php? f=336 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frodobags
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 7, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Bad, bad, game... what was Codemasters thinking? All the hype and nothing to show. This is a step 
 backwards! I will never buy another Codemasters product, and yes I know they are not the designers 
 but they are involved. To say that this is a Korean game that has be revamped for us here in the 
 West is a joke. A huge dissapointment. You can not jump, swim, or go anywhere you want like in 
 other MMO's... very linear. One word sums this game up, LAME. Only if you like Korean grind fests 
 would you enjoy this game and even then the graphcis are awful so it fails you in that respect 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hollaman123
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 13, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Archlord is a game where the main key is to take over the realm with your guild by seige cities 
 and fighting other guilds so that you can become supreme Archlord, the ruler of the world. This 
 might seems to good to be true, but well have to see, the game is to early to give an opion about 
 this, but there are definately other things to talk about the game
  
  Archlord is displayed in the world of chantra, an envirement both ugly and great. The game graphics 
 are not unique, and certainly arent that of WOW. the cartoonie look, but i honestly dont like those 
 type of graphics. OVerall, the graphics are medium , they arent great, nor terrible, some places 
 ca look absolutely horrible, while others can look astonishing.
  
  As for the envirement (creatures, etc..) it is very dull, you cant swim in the game, jump, there 
 are no forests, just random trees placed everywhere. The creatures are fairly well, but the one 
 i most think of as TERRIBLE IS THE WALKING CUBE, how pathetic, i think the producers could of honestly 
 came up with some things much better than this.
  
  So far the guild wars are somewhat fun, you are transfered to this battle square where yo begin 
 a fight to kill the other guilds men, whoever gets the most kills in mins wins. The thing i hate 
 is that you can ONLY HAVE 50 GUIILD MEMBERS. I think that is stupid, they should change it.
  
  Then come the armor and weapons/spells. Ok, there are not a huge cariety of things in this 
 game, i think they could of spent a lot more time on this, because now everyone is going to look 
 the same, which is not a good thing in an MMORPG, especially when there are only a few number of 
 classes and races, which make the game not as unique too. But the armor does look awesome on you 
 char, expecially at higher lvls, your guy will look very cool. As for spells, there are pretty 
 basic, they all do the same thing, just damage the enemies.
  
  Now we come to fighting, and PVP. the PVP is very basic, just attack whom ever you want, and if 
 the other person dies you can be considered a criminal and be hunted down by other people for prize 
 money. And when you die from creautres you loose 3 % xp, which can be annoying, but in PVP you 
 dont loose anything, so dont worry. As for the potions in this game, the game is ADDICTED TO THEM, 
 there is no other way of fighting unless you have potions, which cost a good amount of money, it 
 can get annoying because the fact that you cnat even fight one creature without a single potion. 
 Now the last thing is the communtity, is is very good right now, but obvioulsy because the game 
 just came out. Many people are alrdy such a high lvl because its a major grind game. I think this 
 game will not last long, maybe 2 years at most, so if you are waiting for a game to come out this 
 will be a game for you until your other game comes out (like lotr online, darkfall... etc) I think 
 guilds will get sick and tired of fighting, especially when they are all lvl 99 and they will have 
 nothing else to do but wait once every thinrty days to fight to beomce archlord. That might affect 
 the gaming community in the future, because the game has not focused on farming for many other 
 things and not as many crafting specilaties. That is why this game might not be a long time playing 
 game (IMO)
  
  Overall this game is pretty good, it seems to be bad at first, but after a amount of time this 
 game does begin to grow on you and mkae you want to play it more, just to see what happens next, 
 I think many people buy this game thinkking they will become Archlord, but think of it, there will 
 only be 12 archlords every year, so if you playing this game for that, you better be in a good 
 guild, and be able to play this game for a good 10 hours a day to get higher lvl than most people. 
 so that you can become supreme ruler! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danyjr
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 6, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Okay, here I am, with a copy of ArchLord game on my hand, installed on my computer...
 
  
  ... To be honest, Codemasters started great with their new ideas for this MMO, especially the ArchLord 
 bit, who can rule the world the way he wants. But it seems the more they revealed from the game, 
 it got more disappointing.
  
  1-PayPLUS system: This system is an insult to the MMO world. While most of us don't like grinding 
 and playing a game all the time 24/7, this system basically gives you everything in exchange of 
 real money. We all know that there are illegal goldsellers or item sellers in every MMO, but the 
 gaming companies react to such things. However Codemaster comes and clearly says: We don't want 
 goldsellers or item sellers sell these stuff to you in exchange of your real money, WE DO IT!
 
  
  2-Yet another Korean MMO: That explains a lot. Grinding is of course an aspect every MMO has, from 
 the best MMO's like WoW to the worst. But ArchLord has mastered the grinding art here. Some quests 
 are interesting lorewise, but overall, they all end up with kill x numbers of this monster or collect 
 y items dropped from these monsters This is not acceptable for an MMO that claims itself to be 
 revolutionary.
  
  3-Control: The control system WASD is one of the most irritating and disappointing control systems 
 I've ever seen (yes, even worst than early Tomb Raider series) . Poorly designed, while they could 
 have worked a little more on this simple aspect of gameplay.
  
  Graphics: Okay, WoW and Guild Wars hit the shelves on 2004. We are in 2006 now, so you'd expect 
 an improvement in graphics from a 2006 game, right? Sorry, ArchLord uses an old graphic engine 
 from a Korean game, and basically the graphics aren't appealing at all. Feel free to check some 
 screenshot to see the art for yourself.
  
  Sound: Well there are sound effects, which aren't very nice, but they are alright. But the only 
 impressive thing in the whole game is the music, beautifully performed by London (Philarmonic) 
 Orchestra.
  
  Value: Now the question arrises: There are good MMO's out there which cost monthly fee (WoW) or 
 other online games which are free (Guild Wars) . Is this game free? No. Codemasters tried to convince 
 people that the monthly fee is less than WoW, but when you go back and think about PayPLUS system, 
 you; ll definately change your mind. In order to improve your character, you need to pay loads of 
 money every month to achieve different armors etc which make this game even a more expensive game 
 than WoW.
  
  Tilt: All in all, ArchLord is an incompleted game which became famous because of the promises Codemasters 
 gave their costumers, but the game became worse and worse over time. Don't bother with this game 
 at all, there are definately better games out there that worth playing, and ArchLord isn't one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docmongo21
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 6, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  Im seeing alot of negative reviews about this game and I have to say I dont fully agree. I've been 
 playing for the last three days now and Im enjoying this game very much.
  
  As a veteran of WOW and FF11, this game isnt quite the revolution it might seem to be, nor is it 
 the worst thing ever. It does most of the same things all other MMO's do (fetch quests, kill X 
 amount of monsters) ect. If you dont like that kind of gameplay, this wont change your mind. Overall 
 a good game. Now these are my opinions, so heres the info:
  
  I shall start with the bad: 1.) Not much customation. Cant really change hair color, and not many 
 options for faces and such.
  
  2.) Though it doesnt really bother me, you cant make a female warrior or male elementalist. People 
 like having different options, so this might bother people.
  
  3.) The WASD controls arent perfect, but they are not bad. During the beta, they were pretty sucky, 
 but now that the patches came out, they are greatly fixed.
  
  4.) Still some glitches, but what MMO didnt have them when they first came out?
  
  Heres the 
 good: 1.) Although the combat is the same (click to attack, ect.) it jsut looks better. The animations 
 for attacking and casting magic are really good and make combat more excting to participate in.
 
  
  2.) Though there is not many classes (yet) they are well focused. I'm a moon elf elementalist and 
 the level structure, skills, and so forth are paced out well. I actually look forward to leveling 
 up and getting into combat. 3.) The communtity so far is very nice. They are willing to help you 
 out and join in a group for some old fashioned adventuring!
  
  4.) Mount combat, raiding castles, and duh, becoming the Archlord! If that doesnt interest you 
 then im not sure what will. Yes it will take a lotta work, but it will be worth it. I like how 
 theres a point the the endgame and it gives you something to strive for. Well i just want to say 
 that this is a good game. Its not the best game, but definatley not the worst. It has tons of potiential 
 and if it reachs even 50% of what it strives for, it will be well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spiral0ut
Rating: 2.4
Date: Oct 6, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  I logged in. I went to the character creation screen. Just looking at the user interface design 
 from this point onward, the game looks like it's still in beta. It is not sleek. It is not sexy. 
 It looks like a hastily thrown-together user mod of a commercial game, from the lame looking dropdown 
 menus to the filenames of the character modifications.
  
  And then there's the actual content. One of my biggest complaints about World of Warcraft is that 
 it's a little lacking in character customization features. Compared to ArchLord, World of Warcraft's 
 character creation screen offers nearly limitless possibilities. There are three races here: humans, 
 orcs, and moon elves. There are three human classes, three orc classes which are clones of the 
 human classes, and two moon elf classes. TWO. Classes are race-specific AND GENDER-SPECIFIC, meaning 
 you cannot create a female knight or a male mage, for example. As you narrow down, the options 
 don't get any better. Creating my male knight, I had four or five hair styles to choose from, each 
 style with its own color that could not be changed, and a few face models. At this point I gave 
 up on attempting to put anything resembling individuality or personal flair into the character 
 and resigned myself to choosing the least stupid-looking option in each dropdown.
  
  Already I'm a little miffed, but I decide to stay open-minded to the gameplay. After all, that's 
 what really counts, right? I spawn in the middle of a town, ripe and ready to begin my adventure. 
 I take a few brave steps forward, and... wait, what the %*&amp;#?! I'm not taking steps at all. 
 I'm GLIDING FORWARD across the ground, TOTALLY MOTIONLESS. My legs do not move. My arms do not 
 swing. My head does not bob. I slide forward like an electric football figurine, and so is every 
 other player character I can see in the vacinity. I start to wonder if something is wrong on my 
 end of things, but then I see two or three people complaining about the same problem in the main 
 chat. After gliding around for a few minutes just absorbing the hilarity of the situation in awe, 
 I exit the game and hit up the ArchLord website's knowledge base. Apparently it's a fairly common 
 problem: Sometimes when creating a character for the first time, none of the character animations 
 work. Whoops. To fix the problem, just restart the game.
  
  Okay, fair enough... pretty GLARING bug, but still, I haven't even experienced any of the core game 
 content yet, and it's easy enough to fix the problem. Let's see how it actually plays. I start 
 up the client again, type in my information, hit connect and wait. It hangs for about five minutes 
 on Waiting for response from server. No timeout, no error message, no The server is not responding, 
 please try again later, it just sits there doing nothing, giving me no input. Since there's no 
 cancel button, I hit Ctrl+Alt+Del and end the process, then start it up again. It logs in smoothly 
 this time. I'm FINALLY in the game, finally ready to experience what it has to offer.
  
  I hit the W key to move forward, as I'm accustomed to using WASD to navigate in basically every 
 video game I play, and it is more or less the most awkward experience ever. I tap W to take a couple 
 steps forward. Sometimes the character takes an appropriate couple steps forward. Sometimes it 
 runs forward for an indefinite amount of time after I've released the key. Sometimes, after releasing 
 the key, it does a 180 and takes a step back toward me, effectively cancelling out the forward 
 motion achieved. But it doesn't end there, folks. I try turning to the right or to the left whilst 
 running forward, but I don't turn so much as I suddenly change heading by 45 degrees like a half-hearted 
 Tron character. Needless to say, the only feasible way to get around is the click-to-move system, 
 which, to the game's credit, actually works. (I could mention that it would seem pretty difficult 
 to screw up click-to-move, but then, it would seem pretty difficult to screw up WASD movement so 
 horrendously too, so perhaps they do deserve a pat on the back for getting this much right.)
  
  So, after resigning myself to navigating via click-to-move, I'm instantly lost. None of the 
 nearest NPCs can give me a quest, nor can they offer me any other useful information. I wander 
 around for a little while and begin to notice just how uninspired and boring the area design is. 
 Every square foot of the village appears more or less indistinguishable from the next, making it 
 not only really boring looking, but difficult to remember where you've already explored and where 
 you haven't, which made finding the actual quest-giving NPCs a lot more difficult than it should 
 have been. Eventually I find someone with a big yellow O over their head. I walk over and talk 
 to him... aha! A quest! He instructs me to kill five level-1 enemies just beyond the city gate. 
 Predictable, but not necessarily bad, though it's worth noting that the quest receiving/completion 
 interface bears the same abysmal aesthetic quality as the character creation screen. It feels more 
 like interacting with a spreadsheet program than with a videogame character, and the visuals appear 
 designed by a C++ programmer who thinks Photoshop is just a complicated and expensive tool for 
 cropping and resizing.
  
  Anyway, I go to kill the big green worms, and I receive my first (and -- sorry to spoil the ending 
 for you -- last) pleasant surprise in the entire experience. The actual combat LOOKS really cool. 
 The attack animations look really nifty (there appears to be actual physical contact between the 
 two combatants, unlike in WoW where two melee characters can stand ten feet apart swinging their 
 weapons at thin air while combat damage numbers pop up over their heads) , and there's a bit of 
 neato bell-and-whistle effects going on with the reducing health bars. Nothing we haven't seen 
 before of course, but a nice touch. I kill the required five worms, leveling up once or twice in 
 the process, and go back to the quest giver. I find another quest giver who just wants me to fork 
 over some of my health potions. I already had them to begin with, so I didn't have to put forth 
 any effort to get ahold of them, I just have to... hand them over to him in return for a few gold 
 and some experience. Sort of a ripoff, but whatever. I get another quest from him and now he wants 
 me to talk to someone. At some point during this I get another quest from the worm-hating quest 
 giver to talk to some guard near the city gate. I go off to talk to the guard where the NPC described 
 him as being. There are four guards here, two of which are targetable but can't be spoken to, and 
 two of which aren't even targetable and appear to be merely part of the environment geometry. I 
 look around for a minute or two and still can't find the guard. At this point the boredom overwhelms 
 me and I quit the game and go back to WoW.
  
  No, folks, I didn't make it past about level 3. I didn't craft my own weapons (something I was 
 really looking forward to) , purchase any armor or upgrade anything. I did not ride a nifty looking 
 mount, and I most certainly did not become ArchLord. I did, however, experience about as much of 
 the game as I suspect any sane individual playing it on a free trial key can be expected to before 
 becoming frustrated or simply bored into giving up. It was enough, I think, to give a reasonably 
 informed recommendation to avoid this game and pick up a better title like World of Warcraft or 
 Guild Wars. ArchLord may be worth your time a year or two from now when they've patched the hell 
 out of it to fix the current bugs, add a lot more content, make the interface better looking and 
 simply make the game easier to get into for a new player, but before then, there are much, much 
 better games to invest your time and money in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anti_IMM0RTAL
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 5, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game was a real disappointment. First of all i really hate the click n move interface how 
 can you pvp with such bad controls... i thought i was in the world of lineage 2 with really bad 
 lag for a second... i crashed every few mins. The quests are horrible wanna be WoW style did not 
 fit in with this game at all. This game is a waist of time... give it to me for free and i would 
 just delete the trash.. its not worth 50 cents.. If i knew the ppl over at codemasters that made 
 this game i would spit in there faces. its a rip off good for nothing trash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghimly
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 5, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  Oh my God... these were the first words that came out of my mouth the first minute I played this 
 awful game. No story, the graphics are crap and the controls are designed for some alien race perhaps. 
 Pying 45$ for this game is a complete rip off. The game seems unfinished. And even the animations 
 are crappy.
  DON'T BUY IT... get something that actually looks good and gives you fun to play. World of Warcraft 
 is a fun game, and it it works great.
  Archlord sound more than OUCHLORD. How can anyone release a game like this. Even the races look 
 like a big laugh.... Moonelves with bunny-ears and girlish fluffy clothing.... come on.... get real.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: autumnsun
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 4, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This game, in my opinion, will be about as popular as Auto Assault, RF Online, or any game made 
 by this company. The UI and game play elements appear to be direct rip offs from other washed out 
 games including RF Online. The story is weak and almost non-existent. The ability to become immersive 
 in this game is superficial and in my opinion, never be more than a haphazard attempt to put a 
 new face on old technology. During beta the development team was absent from the discussions I 
 and my friends tried to have. They were very unresponsive and dismissive. In short, please dont 
 waste your time on this game; wait a few months for the company to offer a 14-day trial period 
 like all the other useless MMOs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhamar
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 4, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  After beta testing the game for 2 months, the producers only fixed half of the bugs, they rushed 
 to sell an unfinished product that once players get the chance to play it will find that will not 
 last for long. Navigation is terrible, they never implemented on time the WASD , is boring, same 
 old grind stuff, the PvP is the worst, basically anyone can attack you without your consent and 
 by the time you target the enemy (due to the game awfull targeting system) you are almost dead. 
 Kiting mobs is almost impossible. I sugggest if you decide to waste your money then get an Elf 
 Elementalist since is the only overpowered class that can do group AoE. There is no choice of gender 
 and only 3 jobs for humans/orcs and 2 for elves. Same armor on everyone per class and level, quests 
 are race based so you are stuck to an area.
  
  Only thing I like about the game was the graphics for outdoors, dungeons lack creativity. If I 
 was you I would wait for other games being release in November or late October. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZwOrb
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 4, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  So i played this game in beta i must say it looks like crap. I saw glitches everywhere, the gameplay 
 was not that great either cuz i couldnt kite whit my bow liek i can in other games, speaking of 
 a bow doesnt a bow shoot arrows? Well in archlord you shoot air, and you shoot a the rate of a 
 semi automatic gun o. O! The sounds were pretty good alto i missed some unique songs in some areas. 
 Price/ value is baaaad. It has dissapointed me very much. NcSoft should be ashamed of publishing 
 it after great titles like GW and L2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IronSnake54
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  On the friday of the 28th me and my freind picked this game up we pre ordered it about 2 month 
 befor release when we picked it up as soon as i got home i installed it but i couldnt make an acount 
 is bc i found out its still in beta test but the 3rd is when you will be able to make an acount 
 so as soon as i wake up im making mine but me and my freind were playing the game it it is amazing 
 great graficks controles take a little to get used to and the fighting is great most mmos is you 
 click on an enimey and you tack turns you hit he hits you miss 5 million times bc he a higher lvl 
 in this you can be a lvl 5 and kill a lvl 9 or up no problem well the higher the lvl the harder 
 to beat but the fighting rocks. The charecter creation in beta is not alot of choice but when you 
 create your acount and get the full game the chareters creation will have alot of content the cool 
 thing is it may sound bad but you cant join a guild till lvl 20 you cant fight in pvp till lvl 
 15 so new comers wont get rushed and killed. And a really cool thing is castle seages with your 
 guild members you get to have massive battles to take castle so it has you unite with your fellow 
 brothers to fight the enimey. If you like medevil warfar and fast paced fighting creating charecters 
 this you should get it. This is on my great games list and will play this for a LONG LONG time 
 so thanks for reading this reveiw. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
