-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Area 51
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/area51pc/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid shooting mechanics.
 Sharp-looking visuals.
 A number of multiplayer modes, including all the usual suspects found in today's FPSes.
 Excellent audio effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Weak voice acting all the way around (David Duchovny needs to stop working in games).
 Basic gameplay gets repetitive.
 Not much creativity in the art style or design.
 PC fans will find the game to be pretty well-worn territory.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 10, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.1, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 1,544 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: Midway - Austin
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Jun 8, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
For shooter fans in serious need of something new to play, Area 51 fits the bill adequately. But 
 for anyone looking for something more than an average shooter, it probably isn't worth it. 

 
  Chances are, if you've ever been in a bowling alley, bar, or pizza parlor in your lifetime, you've 
 encountered at least one Area 51 arcade machine. Originally debuting as a light gun-based shooter, 
 the Area 51 series has been largely dormant for a number of years now. This is perhaps for a reason, 
 considering the original game, let alone its follow-up sequels, wasn't really that great to begin 
 with. Thankfully, Midway's latest version of Area 51 bears little resemblance to its predecessors. 
 Now, Area 51 is a first-person shooter. The original game's titular setting has remained intact, 
 as has its army of mutated villains. However, Midway has decided to inject some storyline into 
 this version, as well as a smattering of Hollywood voice talent and a pretty-nice-looking graphics 
 engine. Unfortunately, all this gussying up can't gloss over what's ultimately an average shooter 
 that doesn't offer up more than a handful of satisfying thrills throughout its single-player and 
 multiplayer modes.  

          With conspiracies like this afoot, you might want to consider putting tinfoil over your 
 windows.     

  As the title would suggest, Area 51 takes place at that infamous military installation, where the 
 US government supposedly houses all its secret alien technologies picked up after the Roswell, 
 New Mexico, incident of the 1940s. As one might expect, for this to be much of a game, something 
 has to go horribly wrong; and indeed, it does. You play as Ethan Cole, a HAZMAT operative sent 
 in with his team -- a prototypically ragtag bunch -- to assess some manner of viral outbreak within 
 the walls of Area 51. After a gruff meet and greet with the local military personnel, you're sent 
 in guns blazing. What you end up finding is a horde of mutated soldiers, scientists, and other 
 alien creatures wandering about the place, looking to infect and/or kill whatever comes their way. 
 Oh, and there's also a whole bunch of nonsense involving the Illuminati, psychics, those little 
 bigheaded, gray-skinned aliens we've all come to know and love, and a whole lot of crazy conspiracies 
 thrown in to the mix. But frankly, all that stuff is utterly incoherent, and it just gets in the 
 way of you shooting more ugly mutants.  

  The core gameplay at the heart of Area 51 will be immediately accessible to anybody that's picked 
 up Halo, Doom 3, or practically any other FPS released in the last several years. The weapons, 
 controls, and general feel of the gameplay are pretty obviously derived from these games, and while 
 Midway's Austin studio has certainly done a good job of mimicking what made these games great, 
 that's about all it's done: mimic. Of course, that's not necessarily a negative criticism, especially 
 because the action can, at times, be quite satisfying. You begin the game teamed up with a bunch 
 of similarly armed HAZMAT soldiers, and during the early portions, you'll find yourself frequently 
 bombarded by swarms of enemy mutants. Your team is quite adept at fighting off the enemy (especially 
 because they can't be killed during these fights) , so they're right there, fighting alongside you. 
 These fights can be quite thrilling, as huge hails of gunfire go flying and more and more bad guys 
 keep coming out of the woodwork. Sadly, there are only a few of these moments.  

  The rest of the game feels like a pretty standard corridor crawl, with small groupings of enemies 
 leaping out at you at the most predictable times. Whether you're fighting mutants, Illuminati soldiers, 
 or just about anything else, the battles tend to feel pretty much the same. They can often be challenging, 
 and admittedly, some of the weapons do pack a pretty satisfying punch (especially the ones that 
 can be dual-wielded) , but the fights can also get fairly repetitive, especially since the objectives 
 rarely revolve around more than just finding keycards and other bric-a-brac to try to open locked 
 doors so you can get to the next section.  

  There are a couple of ways in which Area 51 does try to break up some of the monotony. For starters, 
 in grand Metroid Prime fashion, Cole can scan a number of different objects, documents, and corpses 
 as he goes. Scanning items rewards you with unlockable backstory, info, and secrets regarding the 
 circumstances of the game, although you can only access this stuff outside the main game. The other 
 X factor thrown in is the fact that early on, Ethan is infected by the virus that's turned everybody 
 in the installation into an ugly mutant of some kind. When this happens, Ethan gains the ability 
 to transform at will, and he gets a different set of powers when he "goes mutant." Essentially, 
 his melee attacks become stronger, and he gains the ability to launch two types of viral attacks 
 at enemies from a distance. The game also tunes the visual experience, colorfully highlighting 
 heat signatures for nearby enemies and giving a sort of soft blur around everything else. This 
 infected state isn't a bad idea by any means, and there are definitely times when it feels useful, 
 especially because you tend to take less damage in this state. But most times, you needn't even 
 bother with it. None of the attacks are really that much more powerful than when Ethan is in human 
 form, and apart from a change of scenery and a slight dent in the amount of damage you take, there's 
 little other incentive to get your mutation on.  

  Once you've dealt with Area 51's single-player missions, there's a multiplayer mode to partake 
 in as well, albeit a multiplayer mode that's about as average as you're going to find in an FPS 
 these days. Up to 16 players can participate in team and regular deathmatches, capture the flag 
 matches, and a game called infection, where players take on the role of either a solider or an 
 infected mutant. The maps are modeled after various Area 51 locations, so you can expect a lot 
 of corridors and stairways to navigate. For the most part, the multiplayer is pretty good, and 
 it runs as well on the PC as it does on the PlayStation 2 and Xbox, though there's nothing particularly 
 special about any of it. Between the somewhat limited array of weapons and fairly run-of-the-mill 
 maps, it's probable that you'll simply play through a few rounds of the multiplayer and then be 
 done with it, as it's never exciting enough to really grab hold of you and keep you coming back 
 for more.  

  On the PC, Area 51 excels most in the realm of visuals, though perhaps not quite as much so as 
 on consoles. The graphics have a consistently sharp, well-rounded look. All the environments are 
 nicely detailed and are actually pretty well varied, despite almost entirely taking place within 
 the confines of a government laboratory. The characters and enemies are similarly detailed, though 
 not quite as creatively designed. The HAZMAT teams just look like slightly less cybernetic Master 
 Chiefs, and most of the mutants aren't all that scary. That's not to say there aren't a few horrific 
 and creatively designed baddies here and there, but it is to say that you won't see nearly as much 
 of them as you will generic-looking mutants. Small visual touches, like excellent lighting and 
 particle effects, do little to hinder the consistent frame rate, which is even better on the PC 
 than on its console counterparts. Perhaps unsurprisingly, the PC version of the game does really 
 look like a console game that's been dolled up somewhat thanks to the benefit of more-powerful 
 technology. It's still a great-looking game, but considering how many other first-person shooters 
 on the PC market look a whole lot better, it's tough to get excited about the visuals.  

          David Duchovny turns in a pretty lackluster voice performance.     

  The sound effects 
 are also quite impressive. Weapon sounds are brutally loud and echo off the walls of the base in 
 pretty fierce fashion. In fact, during the chaos of battle, it's pretty hard not to get lost in 
 the din of gunfire and enemy growls. Unfortunately, the rest of the sound design doesn't measure 
 up as well. The soundtrack consists of mostly minimalist beats and tracks that are barely even 
 noticeable, let alone memorable, and the voice acting is pretty uneven all around. Name talents 
 like David Duchovny, Powers Boothe, and Marilyn Manson lend their voices to the game, but none 
 does much with his role. Boothe simply emerges over the radio from time to time to bark orders 
 at you, Manson's jar-encased, fleshy, psychic creature is amusing, though not because of his voice 
 work, and Duchovny sounds like he's been hitting the NyQuil as he sleepily narrates Ethan Cole's 
 story, putting you to bed in the process. In fact, the best voice acting in Area 51 comes from 
 the fringe characters that are voiced by people you've likely never heard of.  

  It shouldn't take you more than a dozen or so hours to work your way through Area 51's single-player 
 campaign, and the motivation for doing so will hinge entirely on how much you really get into the 
 game's brand of action, as well as how much repetition of said action you're willing to put up 
 with. In no way is the game devoid of fun, but FPS fans will often feel like they've experienced 
 a lot of what Area 51 has to offer before, especially when it comes to the multiplayer, and  especially 
  if they're playing on the PC. It helps that the PC version is cheaper than the console versions, 
 because the console versions were mainly recommendable as rentals rather than purchases. For shooter 
 fans in serious need of something new to play, Area 51 fits the bill adequately. But for anyone 
 looking for something more than an average shooter, it probably isn't worth it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (48 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lpjazzman220
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Well, no introduction this time, let's just start the review.
  
  Gameplay: Have you played a generic first-person shooter in the last few years? You have, good, 
 caused you've played this then. You start out in training, original, especially since you're kinda 
 like special forces. It takes all of 5 sec for crap to happening. There is a basic cover system: 
 there is a crate over there, I'll hide there. The scope on the assult rifle is aweful, but it is 
 innovative, except that I can't bring it up to my eye. Throughout the entire you have this weapon 
 equiped, you can see through the scope as if it was real, hence innovate graphics wise. This means 
 nothing for gameplay really. 4/10
  
  Graphics: Well, I found this game on either Gamespot or Fileplanet for add-supported free client 
 download a few days ago. Keeping in mind that the game is 4 years old, I didn't compare it to any 
 of the modern games, I looked to games that came out from 2004-2006 to compare graphics. Unreal 
 Tournament 2003, 2004, Unreal 2, Half Life 2, Far Cry, Breed, Painkiller, Hitman Contracts, pretty 
 much everything with the original Source Engine, Doom 3, and other games like this came out all 
 before this game. So keeping these games in mind, I think the graphics of Area 51 are just horrible, 
 abismal, utterly ugly, and disappointing. The shadows are static, and the textures are low res, 
 and the lighting is all light map and not dynamic. The special effects just aren't special. 4/10
 
  
  Sound: There is sound. It's not good sound though. The voice overs are attrocious, even for being 
 4 years old. Half Life was better than this, and I don't mean Half Life 2. It's stereo and that's 
 the only good point. 2/10
  
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Replayability: Well since I had to force myself to sit through this game the first time so that 
 I could review properly, I don't really think that there is any reason that I would want to replay 
 it. 0/10
  
  Story: No spoilers, nothing really to spoil. It mostly plays out like a 5 year old wrote the story. 
 You can predict everything, I think that I have ESP. 2/10
  
  Overall: This game is just aweful, so I recommend it to no one. If you really want to play, for 
 torture or stupidity purposes, go download it like I did. 2.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cunhao
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 20, 2009 12:07 pm PT
Review:  When i saw this game, many things passed through my mind. The Area 51 theme was one of my favorite 
 things to research in Internet, like photos, videos and read a lot of stories about it. How good 
 was to play this game and see many of that things so close and so alive that just move with our 
 imagination (and for some people, this can be called faith) .
  
  The game brings many interesting ideas, but they're bad executed. The graphics are good, but compared 
 with other games of the same period or even more older, like Half-Life 2 or Far Cry, Area 51 don't 
 stand a chance to attract you with its graphic. The sounds and music are very good, but the voices... 
 I think that the actors are a little 'uninspired'.
  
  The levels sometimes can present a great design and in others they can be confuse and repetitive. 
 This happens in a progression. In the beginning, the levels are very simple, lacking details and 
 creativity. But, in the last levels, the inspiration just 'blow' and all that stories about Area 
 51 start to come alive. Also, you can find around the levels, some spots that can be scanned to 
 reveal secrets and some stories and concepts about Area 51.
  
  Unfortunately, the game is very repetitive in all it's aspects, like the very limited numbers of 
 enemies. Luckily, the game is short, so you can finish it quickly and not stay so bored playing 
 it. The number of 'cliche' in terms of gameplay is impressive and the game only present two "innovative" 
 ideas: 
  
  1) later in game, we're infected. After that, you "gain" two forms, the human and the mutant form. 
 But there's not many reasons to use the mutant form. Was a great idea, but the game don't give 
 you any reason to use it.
  
  2) in human form, some weapons have the "two handed" mode. This means that you just doubles your 
 firepower with no penalties, giving to the combats a new level of action. 
  
  Other negative points:
  - A. I is extremely weak
  - The main history is a little confuse
  
 - Some bugs in the game physics make jump almost impossible in some situations
  - Few weapons
  - Worst sniper ever made
  - Is almost impossible to play on line because of 
 the lack of players. Also, the game don't make much to have it.
  - The lack of more options for graphic optimization can make weaker machines to get low FPS 
 
  
  Some others positive points:
  - Good alien's weapons design
  - Light effects
  - JB grenade
  
  But if you really wanna know, I don't recommend this game to anyone. There's 
 a lot of better games to play. But, if you like of the theme about Area 51 and UFO's or, just wanna 
 play something different, you can try it.
  
  #1 Revision# 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonewolf1196
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I have almost nothing to say but on filefront. com and you can download it for free courtesy of 
 the air force do somthing amazing and into the blue project.
  Just listen to the reveiw and download this game and remeber when your in bed thinking of all the 
 military consperices to thank the air force for letting you see all of it. And they say there hiding 
 some thing  
  lol lol lol lol 
 lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol 
 lol lol lololol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol olo lol
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:06 am PT
Review:  I remember when this game came out, I had just read the Matthew Reilly novel "Area 7", and just 
 wanted to jump into some similar action described in the book. Although Reillys book didn't deal 
 with aliens, the game did, and it was something I felt was a pretty OK topic, considering it's 
 implications, Area 51 in the US, should not deal with anything else.
  
  What did I get?
  
  A smooth game with some nice graphics and cool leveldesign. There where some Half-Life2 moments, 
 but for the most part it was fun. I enjoyed the fake moon-landing studio and the spectacular end. 
 And everytime I see the DVD-box at the store I want to buy it to play it again, but I resist, there 
 are plenty of good games out there, better to have a nice memory of it instead...
  
  + Graphics...
  + Easy gameplay...
  + Perfect for PC...
  
  - Could have been longer...
 
  - Some character flaws...
  - Repetitive monsters...
  
  It's a fun game, please try it...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  so.. there are 2 games who is about AREA 51.. one is the first AREA 51 of year 2005 and the other 
 is the new BLACKSITE AREA 51... now i want to talk about the first Area 51 of 2005...
  
  the good: lots of shooting... really lots of non-stop shooting no metter if you play as the marine 
 or if you play as the alien (after your transform) its really fun i think that this is the onlu 
 good thing i can say about that game.. non-stop shooting and explosions
  
  the bad: graphic is not so good.. sounds are also not so good.. the game has a bad voice acting 
 and its horrible.. i hate it... the story is really good.. i mean its nice... but the game on the 
 story is not good.. let me say that again so you can understand better: the start of the story 
 is really good.. a secret unit it send to AREA 51 to kill the aliens its awesome!!.. but after 
 the level that U transform to an alien the game is not so good and really start to be boring... 
 also the gameplay is not the best as the alien.. its to DAMN easy to kill your enemys
  
  anyway the game isnt worth buying.. if you want buy the new area 51 BLACKSITE its way better than 
 this area 51
  
  i think that the game only worth a rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baron1282
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game because I am a fan of the X-files, and Well David Duchovny did the voice 
 for the main guy in the game. This game is not bad at all. Gamespot should have given this game 
 a 7.5 at least. Yes it's nothing new, but nothing is broken in this game. The game play is solid, 
 and the gun play is great. I don't know where they get off saying the voice acting was bad, when 
 it's not. There is a couple of moments in this game, that make you scared out of your seat, and 
 some daul every day shooter moments that don't knock you shoes off. But, because it's not NEW, 
 and does not deliever anything New to the shooter games, gamespot gives it a 6.9. Makeing people 
 that take the rateings like gamespot is GOD, will never play this average joe shooter, that has 
 a great story, and fun game play. It may be average people, but get over the fact there is nothing 
 new, and play this wonderful average game. :-p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblyth
Rating: 7
Date: May 3, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  Well, Area 51 is a fast paced and extremely atmospheric FPS where, as Cole you are thrust into 
 the thick of it pretty much from the start. What appears to be pretty mundane stuff to begin with, 
 such as grabbing weapons and running around a hanger soon becomes far more complicated and engrossing.
 
  
  Game play begins with Cole and the rest of the 4 man squad going deep into the recesses of Area 
 51. There are some pretty cool team gun battles to be had here, although Cole is not the leader 
 and will have to take orders from time to time or split up with another team mate to fulfill objectives. 
 With a few weapons available at the start things really begin to hot up as the team get further 
 into the innards of this mysterious place. I really don't wish to spoil the story for you because 
 quite simply it's pretty engaging where as you are gunning down various mutants and whatnot it 
 really draws you in the further you get. Of course this is helped by some excellent dialogs not 
 only in game but also between levels where Cole's narrative gives it to you straight from the mind 
 of a very confused yet hardened character. Rag Doll is bit weird if you got shot you wouldn't shake 
 or is that F. E. A. R. I found Area 51 to be an interesting, atmospheric, engaging and most importantly 
 fun to play shooter despite being a little mindless at times and With some cool gun battles buy 
 this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romanmoga15
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  when i first played it i thought it was kinda suckish... i was like wow fighting zombies/aliens 
 again, but when i start to get into the game its really no that bad. The game is just like other 
 FPS not a real change... First of all you playing as some type of zombie killers top notch something 
 like the ghost buster to ghost but anyway. You go through a facility with your allies killing zombies 
 and stuff then somewhere in the game you get to mutated between human and zombie. The gun in this 
 game is great you have 2 shotguns in your hand that came be cool at times. I like the audio because 
 the zombie have strange scary voice. The voice helps because you can know they are near or right 
 behind you! I play this game at night and with nobody around and boy was i scared. i jumped a lot 
 during the game and I'm 16 and played far more scary games than this. The story of game is what 
 kind of make it not worth playing but its a great game if you ask me. Its a game that try to push 
 for a new type of zombie/alien game but doesn't make it. It more of a wanna be Half life 1 game 
 that doesn't cut it but its still a OK game.
  
  Final thought if this game if supposed to be scary they badly failed ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadhouse
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  When I first tried to play this game I rented. However it didn't take long and it was back at the 
 rental place. The game was for the PS2 I bought the PC version. However the problem wasn't in the 
 game I thought that when I got my playstation 2 I might have bought the wrong controller. During 
 the game I entered this dark area and according to the game R3 was the flashlight. Well I figured 
 my controller had no R3 so I quit playing and that was it. Later on I rented another game that 
 said I needed to use R3. So I jumped on the internet and looked it up. Well apparently I wasn't 
 the only idiot out there because I found all kinds of post asking the same question, "what is the 
 R3 & L3 Buttons". Well you can figure out the rest, not only did I find out but when you get out 
 the manual to the PS2 it shows you. Well enough about that I like the game some parts are difficult 
 but over all fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Area-51 has a lot to offer. From Great Sound Effects to a Epic Conspiracy Theory Story-line. The 
 game features the voices of David Dechovney, Powers Booth and Marylin Manson. I found it to have 
 lush Graphics and had a blast playing it. The Cinematics Are GREAT. I recommend it for any Alien 
 shooter or just your everyday sci-fi Fans. The reviews of many have only given it a simple 6.9- 
 Ok but it definetly deserves at least a 7.5-8.0 from me. So go out and shoot some mutant freaks. 
 I'm Sure you will have a blast. I Have to say something more so.... The story concerns Ethan Cole, 
 a Hazmat team member for the Army and he has been called to Area 51 to clear the base of a hazardus 
 virus turning men into mutant leapers. He befriends a unlikely ally and must uncover the conspiracy. 
 It no Longer a Theory! In conclusion the game is Fun, Full of great ideas and Theories but lacks 
 a real grabber to keep you playing to the next part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo_2kf
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Gameplay : 7.5/10
  
  Well i can say that yes the gameplay is linear but the shooting mechanics work very well. The movement 
 is ok and there are no slow downs or lags .
  
  Story : 8/10
  
  Pretty interesting story and it manages to keep you going. But its also very short... i managed 
 to go through the game in 5 hours in one day. But thats the good part too because it was interesting 
 to me to play it.
  
  Music and Sound : 6/10
  
  Well not the best out there but its ok. David is ok too but not the best really.
  
  Graphics 
 : 9/10
  
  Probably the best thing about the game is its graphics. Its solid, nice models and interesting 
 atmosphere. Especially at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r2d2c3p0
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  All Hell breaks loose at Area51 and your sent in to fix the problem.
  
  On the way you'll discover some simple but suprisingly nice graphics. You'll get to use some cool 
 weapons. Heck you'll even become an Alien youself thanks to some projects going on in secret at 
 Area51.
  
  Think America's landing on the Moon was real -- think again.
  
  If nothing else the game is inventive and cute and pokes fun at Area51. At the end of the day it's 
 a very standard shooter, go there, shoot this, go there, shoot that.
  
  But it is a well put together game and if you want to blast everthing in site for a few hours you'll 
 enjoy the game.
  
  I think it's under rated -- especially now a days if you can find it cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxy456
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I hope they still have the game at a store cause I WANT IT BADLY why do ppl say it's not good well 
 **** them in my opinion this is better then Doom 3. I thought Doom 3 was repetive nothing is bad 
 about this game nothing it's one of my favourites the gore weapons voice graphics EVERYTHING I 
 LOVE IT especially the BOSSES oh they are great especially the 2 transformtion of the one that 
 killed Crispy i hope there is a second one because i want ti bad also LOVE THE ALIEN powers gotta 
 love the gore gotta love it also the multiplayer is great ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neatfeatguy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  There was potential in this game. However, it was ruined by some AI, voice acting and overall game 
 play value.
  
  Let's start with the good. This game looks down right good on 1280 x 960 resolution and it runs 
 very well on maxed settings with today's half-way decent computers. The sound effects are pretty 
 good and help add to the atmosphere. The music is a bit redundant and it grows old, not to mention 
 the fact that you always know when there are enemies around because the music picks up the pace.
 
  
  The story line is pretty decent, but it is inevitably ruined by the voice acting. I hate to say 
 it, but David Duchovny playing the star role in this game did not help. He is a very poor voice 
 actor and he dragged down the mood and atmosphere that the game developers setup. He lacks the 
 ability to help drive emotion into the game, leaving the player feel like he's watching some two-bit, 
 second rate movie when the cut scenes play.
  
  The animated cut-scenes were very well done; if there was better voice acting, it would have helped 
 drive the story and immerse the player even more.
  
  The AI is a bit of a joke, comepared to other games out there. FarCry totally outperforms Area 
 51 in the AI department. Not to mention the fact that most of the time the enemies have the inept 
 ability to see through walls. There are even times when they shoot through corners of the walls, 
 making you feel frustrated when you cannot figure out where the attack is coming from.
  
  The game starts out with a lot of potential and proves to show you that this could be a very well 
 designed game. But once you make it to the part in the game where all your squad dies, the game 
 loses a lot of its appeal. Leaving you feeling cheated. If the whole game consisted of the intense 
 moments and intense battles that the first 1/4 of the game provided, this would have been one of 
 the better FPS to hit the market in 2005.
  
  Another downside to this game is the way that the aiming is built upon a grid. It is kind of hard 
 to explain, but you would know what I'm talking about once you get your hands on the sniper rifle. 
 Upon zooming in 1x or 2x on the sniper rifle, you get the feel of the grid because you have no 
 smooth movements when you're zoomed in. The crosshair dances across the screen and jerks around 
 when you try to move. Making it much more of a chore to use the sniper rifle. You're much better 
 off pulling our your pistol and popping off shots that way. I greatly dislike the fact that there 
 are just random items scattered through every level that you can scan to unlock special videos 
 that you can access from the menu screen. These random items are placed around each level, usually 
 in out of the way locations that make absolutely no sense as to why something like Alien Spacecraft 
 Schematics is laying on the floor behind a chair... The idea of finding and scanning these random 
 items is a neat way of introducing more of the story behind why you are doing what you are doing 
 in Area 51, but it just doesn't make much sense as to where and how you find these items.
  
  This game held a lot of potential in its hands, but the inability to hold onto that potential 
 is strongly felt with the poor voice acting and the direction the game takes once you squad members 
 die.
  
  If you're looking for something to kill 6-10 hours, then pick up a copy of this game. The graphics 
 are half-way decent and the game play is alright, but do not expect too much more out of this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  June 9, 2005 - In Midway's Area 51, David Duchovny portrays an ultra unlucky HAZMAT trooper, Ethan 
 Cole, with slightly less emotional pizzazz than your average over-boiled carrot. To mar an otherwise 
 polished and well presented title like Area 51 with such mallet-to-the-face drowsiness is downright 
 inappropriate. It's a wrong that ranks right alongside topping cr&iquest; me br&iquest; l&iquest; e 
 with a handful of half-melted Skittles and a pinch of Reeses.
  
  Without Duchovny and a few other legitimate problems that mainly come shackled to his ankles, Area 
 51 might have had a decent shot at being a top tier shooter. But issues in a few key areas prevent 
 Midway's wonderfully produced first-person shooter from becoming truly excellent.
  
  First, this game has absolutely nothing to do with the old lightgun shooter of the same name -- 
 bless us all. The pre-rendered insanity of 1995's Area 51 has been replaced with a topnotch polygonal 
 graphics engine and some honest to goodness gameplay. We like that.
  
  On PlayStation 2 and Xbox, Area 51 stands out as a great achievement in first-person shooting technology. 
 It features incredibly detailed textures at close ranges, truly high-resolution graphics, vivid 
 colors, and an astonishing assortment of mesmerizing graphical wizardry and sparkling particle 
 effects. All of these tricks and treats translate to the PC well enough and benefit from a potentially 
 better framerate, but when weighed and measured against the current crop of our platform's offerings, 
 the Area 51 eye candy might be found a bit wanting.
  
  So that the ears of the world won't reel back -- jealous of their eyeball cousins -- the Area 51 
 developers at Inevitable have also loaded their game with brilliantly realized audio effects. While 
 the music sometimes drunkenly stumbles into a realm of wacky sci-fi wails of the extraterrestrial 
 rave variety, it also quickens to the beat of thick bass while fast riffs help dramatize prolonged 
 firefights.
  
  Bad, Experiments! Bad!
  As the music plays, gunfire, plasma pulses, heavy footsteps, muffled environment suit stymied breathing 
 and a generally slick array of ultra crisp twangs and clanks reverberate through the hollow corridors 
 of our government's most secret facility. Eventually they all bounce off solid rock or quiet in 
 the wake of louder mutated shrieks and the punishing buzzes and klonks of high-tech gadgetry.
 
  
  It really is a fantastic audio experience that will echo in the heads of gamers long after its 
 over. From the early frantic radio chatter to the sharp clinks of hot lead, Area 51 delivers. Now 
 if only David would be silent and let us enjoy the game he's trying to ruin.
  
  Damned if we can figure how that sap got approved to voice the transitions between every major 
 level and narrate practically every single cutscene. His words can damage a healthy psyche! If 
 he were allowed to speak more we'd involuntarily succumb to a kind of aural brain trauma from which 
 we'd never recover. It's rare that a leading man comes off as profoundly bored in his work... Your 
 boys were just torn up by mutants, David, show some freaking concern already. Area 51's other helping 
 of Hollywood talent is Marilyn Manson. Marilyn portrays a fat, pulsating, fleshy, tele-pathetic, 
 monstrous beast that oozes viral decay while encased in a jar of green sap. So yeah, we're not 
 so much qualified to rate such performances.
  
  The storyline these pros attempt to deliver -- David sleepily and Marilyn crazily -- is the most 
 energetically convoluted one ever to appear in a videogame. The company meeting at Inevitable to 
 flesh out plot details probably went a little something like, So I'd like some freaking mutants, 
 aliens, Illuminati, cyborgs, telepaths, ancient conspiracies, David Duchovny, alien colonization, 
 galactic domination, modern conspiracies, men in black, teleportation, gray buggers, volcanic lairs, 
 and spaceships up in this s***. Oh, and they should all make perfect sense. After an hour of contemplative 
 silence, some poor fellow must have spoken up and admitted that they could easily bake a cake out 
 of all of those zany ingredients, but damned if anyone would ever know what the hell it tasted 
 like.
  
  And it's precisely this sloppy sense of being -- this undirected, barely cohesive, disorganized 
 mess -- that ultimately hurts Area 51 most. It can be a real downer when you're playing a game 
 and suddenly realize that you don't really know why. It's especially frustrating in Area 51 considering 
 you'll probably be struck upside the head by that painful realization whilst navigating detailed 
 environments replete with an excess of activity and gunning down vicious cybernetic assailants 
 and nimble mutants. It's an odd mix of the fantastic and the bull*bleep*.
  
  Midway and Inevitable attempted to tie the great gameplay to the sloppy story via a Half-Life popularized 
 progression system, but the cuts are too jarring and the feeling of position is too weak to really 
 make good on the, in the bad place at the bad time atmosphere that Area 51 seems to be shooting 
 for. Maybe this is where the idea for unessential scanning came into the mix.
  
  Taking cues from the sensor mechanic of Metroid Prime, Area 51 features its own laser-gizmondo 
 that wraps a point of interest in a spicy holographic shell and then provides a bit of bonus information 
 on that junk after a second or two of paid due diligence. Unlike DOOM and Metroid, the details 
 of the observation are not readily available in-game, so there's no impression that what has just 
 been scanned is actually enhancing the experience any. You can dig it all by quitting out of the 
 in-game experience and seeking out the extraneous enhancements via the options menu.
  
  It Just Looks Great
  Now, even though the story, the setup and the scanning designed to improve 
 it all never draw a player in and hug tightly, they all help establish the utterly insane series 
 of combat-driven events that make Area 51 so bleeding enjoyable. Because the graphics and sound 
 are great and the gameplay is invigorating, we're pressed to forgive most of the presentational 
 faults. &amp;#9668; Previous 1 2 3 Think of Area 51 as a sort of fast-paced combination of DOOM 
 3 and Half-Life. Blend the leaping beasts and fleshy monstrosities of DOOM with the duck and cover 
 type of precision shooting Half-Life did so well and out comes a heap of potential. For the most 
 part, Area 51 expertly delivers this kind of shooting. Well, for the first eight hours or so. Best 
 as I can figure, Area 51 should take about 15 hours to finish, mainly because it's a freaking long 
 game, but also because it can get difficult. 15 hours of Duchovny... You might be thinking, Is 
 that a good thing? 
  
  Even though similar sets of rampaging special ops troops and enraged claw-freaks are used repeatedly 
 to deliver subsequently more challenging room-by-room encounters, the game continually employs 
 a variety of whizz-bang environments (alien, human and otherwise unnatural) and wicked enemy placement 
 to keeps things fresh. In terms of action, Area 51 also gets that all important feel right. So 
 yeah, 15 hours of Duchovny ain't all that bad.
  
  Without getting metaphysical on you, Area 51 happens to be one of those rare shooters that, despite 
 featuring basic AI routines and a typical assortment of weapons, perfectly conveys the sensation 
 of unloading an entire lethal clip of bullets into a marauding band of bastards that want you very, 
 very dead. This extreme positive can be somewhat attributed to weapons that ferociously shake, 
 rattle and rumble. When that is combined with exciting environments and waves of unique enemies, 
 the game can create an air of frantic combat that's just plain awesome.
  
  When the singleplayer does eventually stop, the multiplayer begins. Using its personal brand of 
 mutant powers, Area 51 creates a few multiplayer modes that revolve around the transition from 
 dude to freak to capitalize off enemy weaknesses. Like singleplayer, the real enjoyable meat of 
 this type of gaming is still gunplay, however.
  
  Given our early experience over Internet and LAN, we expect Area 51 to be a performer, but in this 
 case we wouldn't recommend a purchase based solely on the merits of multiplayer gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knight_chat_x
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Games have come a long way and the technology implemented in the development to provide an overall 
 rich media gaming experience is often taken for granted. This game's visuals, solid game play and 
 fluidness throughout the environment while playing mixed with the audio effects makes for a fun 
 first person shooter game that includes some random challenges.
  
  The game play becomes alot more challenging with the introduction of aliens which keep spawning 
 and the amount of action mixed together, so that part I didn't like as much, especially when your 
 strongest weapons ammo is so limited, especially when fighting the aliens (which is pretty difficult) , 
 even when you using unlimited ammo cheat code it's still challenging and takes time to navigate 
 through the levels till the very end.
  
  In old games back in the days, games used to be pretty much endless or short, and if short the 
 difficulty of limited life and ill placed items often made for a frustrating game, however, in 
 this game I find items to be placed very well throughout the game and it makes gameplay a bit interesting.
 
  
  The charactors were fine, but I didn't like that they killed the charactors off, the spookyness 
 of going in alone deeper against unknown odd's was definately there, but I kinda liked the teamwork 
 of having the extra charactors around for military support like in Star Wars Republic Commando, 
 even though the level of teamwork wasn't quiete like it was in that game, it was still pretty realistic 
 in terms of combat scenario's. I didn't like the turning into a monster part that much but the 
 aspects were cool.
  
  So would I recommend this game to others?
  
  Most definately, it's a pretty cool game and the interesting Area 51 theme is played out pretty 
 well here, onlything missing is the ability to fly the UFO's and infiltrate other bases with the 
 team, I really wanted to do that!!! In this game you are basically stuck inside the world of Area 
 51 underground. This game was very interesting and fun to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 3, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Story: You are a member of a hazmat team in Area 51. Aliens invade, conspiracies are revealed, 
 you get infected, etc.
  
  Graphics: Look fine but FPS lag shows that code could have been written better.
  
  Audio: Many 
 noises ranging from bubbling test tubes to screaming crazy aliens.
  
  Missions: Many random Objectives. You usually just go push a button because you are told to do 
 so, kill lots of baddies, get ammo/health, continue.
  
  Features: Can turn into mutant later in the game, Feels cinematic with unrealistic dual wielding 
 (Rifles/SMGs, Shotgun Dualies) scanning top secret documents for bonus material
  
  Weapons: Mostly run of the mill, Shottie, SMG, Sniper but has a cool Alien weapon with bouncing 
 ammo that you can redirect around walls to vaporize your foes.
  
  The Good: Fun, Cinematic Shooting gameplay, Sci-Fi Feel
  
  The Bad: A. I. don't really put up 
 a fight
  
  The Ugly: The Alien bosses, FPS plunges
  
  Replay Ability: Short/Mild
  
  The Bottom Line: A cool Sci-Fi shooter that doesn't go above other games but is fun if you like 
 this kind of stuff plus it's cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 19, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  I had read a few bits about the game and what the hell i'd get it. I wouldn't say it was a bad 
 choice but it was far from my best choice.
  
  The game starts out with a setting that's not been used to death, Area 51.
  The whole Area 51 
 storyline has massive potential and scope but I don't think the game made full use of it.
  
  The graphics on the game aren't really anything amazing and that even goes for turning them 
 up to maximum. I found the textures and general art work to be dull and repetitive. It looks like 
 a straight port from PS2/XBox. Sorry Midway but PC FPS gamers expect more!
  
  The sound effects are really quite impressive and is probably the best thing about the game. Loads 
 of really good explosions and sound echoing.
  The voice acting is dull, boring, repetitive and uninspired. Not all famous people can do voice 
 acting in games and it's about time that the industry figured this out. As for the soundtrack well... errrr.. was 
 there one or did I change the channel?!?
  
  This console port had real potential but that potential is never realised. The game turns from 
 an FPS with great potential into one of those generic FPS games that most gamers hate.
  
  Midway must try harder! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 683B
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  GAmeplay:
  A FPS shooter to the core. That's it. But that's ok. Right?
  The plot is the usual one. Kill baddies over and and over again. I had a great fun while playing. 
 And that the most important hing in a game.
  Some conspiracy theories are made real in this game. That felt akward.
  
  Graphics:
  It could 
 have been a whole lot better. The conversion from the consoles realy shines through. U know how 
 a good looking game on the PS2 looks like! And this on one looks exactly like that. No matter how 
 high you turn up the graphics it still looks like a PS2 game.
  
  Sound:
  Weapon sounds are realy good. But your characters voice talks like he just don't care (I think it's 
 the guy from X-files) . And the dialogue is boring, not because of the actresess, but mainly because 
 of the We've seen and heard it all before .
  
  Value:
  I am going to play the game again later. I am not going to sell it on Ebay, I'll keep it in my 
 collection. And that means that it is worth playing againg. And any game worth playing more than 
 once is a great game ;)
  
  Tilt:
  Don't expect state of the art graphics, but if you like run and gun shooters this one is definately 
 worth your time and money. Although I think the game gets sorta boring 3/4 through, but still :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gzader
Rating: 1.6
Date: Sep 17, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  The game would be a great budget title but it's not, here's why:
  - Console port, thats right, low end and unfinished
  
  - Game Balance, easy and fun beginning 
 transforms into an annoyingly difficult end.
  
  - HighSchool drama class voice overwork. Some it alright, but Mr. Xfiles is boring. He's always 
 boring. He has two modes, silent or monotone. - YOU CANT SAVE. Beat the really really tough guy 
 and then limp your way along to the next check point where some peon kills you off. Now you get 
 to go fight the big guy again. Check points are for inept platforms.
  
  Combine a lack of save with a lack of balance and this game ends up with a lack of playability.
 
  
  I uninstalled it before I finished the final level. If you've already make the mistake of buying 
 it, save yourself the frustration, download the Bink video player and just watch the unsatisfying 
 ending. Then uninstall it and find something better to do.
  
  Oh and the games 'special' combat option. Why bother? You don't need it, it doesn't help, why use 
 it?
  
  It's official, WORST GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED, and that includes the old Atari 2600 games!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpshot2002
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 20, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This game can be fun but after a while it gets a bit boring but on the way you get new skills weapons 
 and more.
  
  The big let down for me was it felt like it was only take from the Xbox game and just rushed in 
 to pc leaving glitches and a bit of an upsetting game play such as the mouse speed it was all most 
 impossible to set it to your settings it has a mind of its own like it had to be the way the game 
 wants it after a while I just had to give up as the aim was not right on
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  Same gameplay as any other first-person these days.
  Graphics are mediocher, and the story line is "simple". With the engine it was developed on, yu 
 would expect better performance. I felt like I was playing Red Faction part 12, with a touch of 
 semi-kreepy zombie slayer actions.
  
  I Would not recommend this game. Unless you are very bored, and have nothing else to play. You 
 should be able to complete this game within 2 days. No real problem solving skills required. Almost 
 as big of a let down as Doom3.
  
  Bargain Bin game, at best. Maybe the game console version plays out better. But still look for 
 it in the Bargain Bin.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 6, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  The game begins as a very fun and exciting team-based shooter, but changes dramatically and becomes 
 boring. What happens is, at first, the entire game is made up of exciting firefights between the 
 player, his plentiful teammates, and mutant enemies.
  Suddenly, about 1/8th through the game, the player no longer gets any teammates. It's unbelievable. 
 The game suddenly becomes boring, repetitive and ultimately pointless.
  There's not even so much as a battle between the mutants and the evil Illuminati human soldiers. 
 The Illuminati don't come around until the player loses his teammates, so there's never an AI human 
 versus AI human battle in all of the single player.
  If the game had kept with it's fast-paced, team-based action, it would have been one of the most 
 exciting single player First Person Shooters ever. However, the game turned around and became a 
 solo hallway-crawler, leaving little to no point in even bothering to finish the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ondeckguy
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Area 51 is pretty much everything you'd expect from an average shooter. The saving factore for 
 this game is the graphics without a doubt. However, graphics can't keep the game from falling into 
 the land of mediocre. You shoot aliens, and that's about it. The guns are fairly basic: pistol, 
 shotgun, auto rifle, etc. Depsite the chance to create amazing guns with bizarre effects, Midway 
 fails to bring anything new to the genre. The good news is Area 51 doesn't fail at anything besides 
 the acting. By this point, you should be able to pick the game up for around $20, which is what 
 it should've been released at. Don't expect a whole lot and you'll have a decent time. It's no 
 Doom 3 or anything like that.... even though it tries really hard to be in the same status ring. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion_great
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wondered what really goes on at Area 51? Well this game will give you some ideas.
 
  
  The gameplay is mostly just like every FPS game out there except the concept is different. I really 
 think they should have added more alien like weapons, and to be honest the weapons did not look 
 futuristic as they should have.
  The levels at the beginning dont really make it look like Area 51 but as you advance deeper you 
 find out what Area 51 is all about.
  The gameplay does get repetitive and frustrating some times but its still enjoyable till the end.
 
  The alien powers that you gain later on are really awesome and its something you do not see usually.
 
  The multiplayer is not as much fun as the single player campaign but its still fun. Too bad there 
 isnt as many servers as there used to be when Area 51 came out.
  I also wish they would have added more different characters for Area 51, I mean common theres 
 only about 2 or 3 species of aliens and mutants.
  Its too bad the gamplay is too short (I beat it in 5 hours) and I was really disappointed at the 
 last "boss" of the level.
  Also I did not like the "Secrets" section. Its like 20 sec of boring talking.
  
  The graphics 
 are not bad for the time that Area 51 came out, but some areas makes you think this is not Area 
 51. But you will notice that there are a lot of nice level details.
  
  Just make sure that if youre planning to buy the game its no more then $10. Or rent it.
  
 
  In conclusion Area 51 has lots of great ideas in it, but there could have been so much more. It 
 doesnt really feel like its a technological Area 51 until half way of the game. This could have 
 been definitely the best game of the year if it had more ideas and features in its gameplay. Still 
 its enjoyable to anyone who loves sci-fi first-person shooter games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxic_tt_2006
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  This game is a very easy game to beat out on every diffculty. the graphics could have been a litter 
 better on the people face. I got used to this game quickly because i play many FPS games but one 
 weapon i'm not that good at is the sniper rifle.
  
  But this is not just why i like the game for but the mulitplayer is really good. I become better 
 in the campaine because of the mulitplayer but it took me a while to get use to the control because 
 the movement is a little bit to slow. If anyone wants a good mulitplayer game there should buy this 
 one. Kenshi if u ever read this review could u please tell me whats ur mulitplayer nickname.
  
  i give the gameplay a 8 because the game was easy to beat but the mulitplayer is on. I give 
 the graphics a 8 because it could have been better. Well the sound is good. If anyone know any other 
 good mulitplayer except any unreal please tell me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  This game I never really thought of getting until I saw the 8.5 in game informer after reading 
 other unfavorable reviews but this game is great. The story is basically you and a squad are sent 
 in to investigate area 51 and things start going bad. At first I thought the whole game was just 
 going to send waves of enemies at you at different areas but im glad it does change up a bit. The 
 beginning enemies are all mutated scientists who charge at you for close range attacks and other 
 security mutated that use weapons. The game does present a good challenge for someone not used 
 to first person shooters but I was so I kickd the games booty on easy mode. Im sure normal is a 
 lot harder. The graphics in the game are a little fuzzy but the animations of the squad and enemies 
 look very nice. The weapons all look fantastic to and most of them are useful until you get the 
 bbg then thats all I used the rest of the game. The sound effects work very well and the weapons 
 all sound how they should. I would definatley recommend this game at the 20 dollars its at now. 
 I havent had a chance to try multiplayer since I dont have an internet connection currently. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  I had been anticipating AREA 51 sinc E3 2004, when i heard it was delayed untill March 2005 back 
 in December 04, I cryed. But when i Played It just this past month (i waited for a sale to buy 
 it) i also cryed then too. I love The original idea of creating a FPS and Putting aliens in it 
 (for all you FPS-non veterans i was being sarcastic) The game Plays like every other futuristic 
 FPS Before It, except with weird voiceovers, Marilyn Manson? I think they should have spent less 
 money on voice overs and more on better graphics. Sure the environments look sweet, but the character 
 models look like butt.
  The Gameplay is screaming "make me better" over and over and for 50 bucks you DO NOT get ANYWHERE 
 CLOSE to your moneys worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSniper112
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  I bought this game at gamestop a couple of days ago and installed it , played it started out with 
 a boring story but then when you go underground
  it gets so intense but the blood graphics aren't really good.
  
  But the gameplay is awsome. 
 The weapons are also awsome example AMP or AMD fun i forgot lol. The X tra things like secrets 
 are cool also.
  No... i havent finished the game but its awsome get this GAME!
  
  I also wanna add the multi-player online is so sick dude. Also for people under 13 ! This game 
 is violent . Just tip if you have a good video card...
  i got Ati X300. When you unlock that generator thing watch out at the door when you leave (GORE) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sotnick955
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Area 51 definitely could have been a lot better, but I still think that it was a pretty good game. 
 There wasnt anything new about the game, but there was still a lot of classic action that was 
 entertaining. The plot was simple enough, but the graphics were pretty good and there were enough 
 aliens to kill to keep you occupied for awhile. It was real close to being a great game, but the 
 story could have gone a little deeper and the game could have been a little more challenging. It 
 was definitely better than people give it credit for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 17, 2005 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Area 51 had a good setting, but what about some outside desert levels or vehicles, hmm?
  
  Gameplay: Standard FPS fair. Nothing new here. (5)
  
  Graphics: Pretty good, considering it 
 was a cheap budget title. (7)
  
  Sound: Decent sound, but lousy voice acting. (6)
  
  Value: Very short game. It wouldn't let me play in mulitiplayer for some reason. I'm sure I didn't 
 miss anything though. (4)
  
  Tilt: Take my advise and skip this game. (4)
  
  The Good: One inventive gun (ricochet) and grenade (micro-singularity) . Dual fire modes. Mutating 
 into a mutant. For me the cut-scenes were the highlight of this game. Or is that a bad thing?
 
  
  The Bad: Too few weapons. Zoomed in feel was as if I had on blinders like a horse. Short campaign. 
 Stupid story.
  
  Bottom Line: If you get it for free and have nothing better to do it's worth playing once on hard 
 mode. Other modes are too easy. I used a cheat to access hard mode the first (and last) time I 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer2core
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 15, 2005 6:59 am PT
Review:  This game put's you in shoes of Ethan Cole, the leader of the HAZMAT divison of the U. S army and 
 he along with his crew have been sent to Area 51 to contain a viral outbreak. This game gives you 
 powers as you progress on and you discover various chilling conspiracies that you were not meant 
 to know.
  
  This game is your usual run and gun shooter and you don't need to expect much out of it. The game 
 itself ported from the CONSOLE versions is not very good looking but is an average shooter that 
 you can play once. The combat is your usual rushing enemies from all directions and you killing 
 them. The enemies like the aliens and different sort of creatures look convincing enough. The game 
 provides you with good selection of weapons like the shotgun, an assault rifle, a sniper rifle. 
 As you progress on you can even dual yield most of them,
  
  The story in the beginning is good but as you progress through the game, the gameplay becomes repetative 
 and it's the same old formula, find the key and unlock the door. The only unique thing the game 
 offers is as you progress through the game, you get infected with the Virus you were sent to curb 
 at the base. This infection gives you inhuman powers, you can run faster and enemies stand out 
 in your unqiue vision powers. There are some preety good twists the game offers and the story average. 
 
  
  My tilt 
  
  Gameplay : It is pretty fun a couple of hours but as you progress it starts getting repetative 
 and boring. The alien powers provides some fun factor for sometime.
  
  Graphics : Nothing much, average graphics. Console ported version not to expect much. Though the 
 cutscenes are hollywood class.
  
  Sound : Sound preety good, voice acting top notch.
  
  This game is worth a try.
  
  Reviewer's rig : AMD Athlon 63 3000 +, 2GB ram, XFX 6800GT.
 
  
  **gamer2core** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:08 am PT
Review:  Great game with the best sounds in a game i ever heard, except of the sleepy voice of the ethan 
 cole guy, he sucks.
  Graphics are ok but not very shiny and clear like halflife 2 and doom 3.
  Gameplay is fine, nice 
 weapons, variety of enemies.
  Not very different levels, ALWAYS INSIDE just like doom 3.
  Why didnt they make outside levels like halflife 2.
  Music is cool and very atmospheric, sometimes 
 bit scary (lol) .
  Enemies, sometimes bit hard and quite smart, especially those stupid black ops, they kick ass.
 
  Well with my review, i give this game a 7+.
  Thnks for letting me write this review, cya all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamjustin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2005 4:20 pm PT
Review:  If you like sci-fi games (which i'm sure you do) then, i'm sure youv'e seen or played the old arcade 
 machine of Area 51. When we were small, this game may have been satisfying, but if you look upon 
 it now, you're embarrassed that you've even heard of it. Thankfully, this Area 51 is nothing like 
 the arcade game. 
  
  The story begins with somesort of viral outbreak within the base of Area 51. Countless scientists 
 are transformed into bloodthirsty mutants that never seem to diminish in number. One of your fellow 
 teams of soldiers has gone in to take control of the situation but they have not returned and you 
 have to go in and find them. This is were you take control of the game's protagonist, Ethan Cole. 
 The story takes a number of interesting changes as you go, plus you are treated to some interesting 
 surprises along the way. 
  
  The gameplay is solid but a little repititive. It has all the great things you need in a FPS. Good 
 controls, sleek weapons, and challenging enemies. There's even a melee attack which is quite useful 
 as you play and fairly early in the game, Cole gets infected with the virus and has the ability 
 to change at will between a muntant and a human, making your melee attack twice as good. But there 
 is repitition, like in any FPS, in the situations you face and objectives you have to accomplish. 
 
  
  The graphics in the game are very well done. All of the environments are polished (or demolished) 
 to their very best. And the mountains of splattered blood on the walls and the general disorder 
 of the rooms was done remarkably well to a frightening point. Very immersive. 
  
  The sound, actually, isn't all that bad. I enjoyed hearing my X-files friend, Dave Duchovny, speak 
 as a torn soldier and Marilyn Manson was pretty sweet playing "Edgar" the gray. Though I must admit 
 the music wasn't to thrilling, the weapons effects along with the screeching of the mutants was 
 enough to keep me going. The guns sounded fairly good and the monsters were brutally loud. It was 
 what I expected to find.
  
  So, in a nutshell, Area 51 delivers. It isn't the greatest FPS out there but it certainly is far 
 from the worst. I was happy to see that Midway finally decided to make a decent version of this 
 game. I was pleased with my experience with it, and for twenty dollars i think you will be too. 
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 10:09 am PT
Review:  It's hard not to compare Area 51 with Project: Snowblind, because both games are quite similar. 
 They each are console shooters ported over to the PC (evident by the low-resolution textures) , 
 and both offer similar pacing and weapons. They were even released around the same time.
  
  But Area 51 enjoys one significant advantage -- it doesn't crash every 15 minutes. This stability 
 allowed me to enjoy it much more than Snowblind.
  
  Besides the washed-out, fuzzy graphics, another complaint I have against Area 51 is the voice acting 
 of its protagonist. Others have observed that X-Files star David Duchovny is a terrible voice actor, 
 and they aren't wrong. It sounds like he was barely awake while reading his lines. Meanwhile his 
 character is battling aliens, government troops, and his own crazy mutation. In the same situation, 
 my voice would betray sheer panic, not somnolence.
  
  The single-player campaign is too short (something I usually don't criticize, which really does 
 indicate its brevity) , but this is offset by the multi-player modes. Unlike Snowblind, it was easy 
 to find others online active in heated Area 51 deathmatches. Hooking up to an Internet game is 
 easy and seemless. It just works.
  
  If you can ignore the miscast voice "talent" and unremarkable graphics, Area 51 is a fine way to 
 scratch that FPS itch on your PC.
  
  By Phill "Sniper" Parker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 27, 2005 9:12 am PT
Review:  Area 51 is a mysterious place that is said to hide alien life. Whether this is true or not, in 
 this game, it is, and a virus has taken over the facility. Area 51 was designed to be a light shooter 
 but somehow came off as a first person shooter. While this may not sound very appealing, it is 
 a great and frantic shooter that has memorable moments in his hectic and heated firefights.
  
  The story of Area 51 is unfortunately it's downside. It's pretty uninteresting but revolves 
 around Ethan Cole and the Hazmat team going in to theck out Area 51 and a virus that seemed to 
 leak out. This virus turns everyone alien and well, that's how this whole game started. Pretty 
 god premise, but it doesn't take off from there and actually centers around Ethan Cole for a good 
 part of the game, which I wasn't expecting, but isnt' a bad thing either.
  
  The game itself is told after you complete each chapter pretty much, theres 18 in all and it's 
 not terribly long but it is insanely fun thanks to some superb weapons sounds and recoil that is 
 second to none except maybe Swat 4, but even then it's hard to decide. 
  
  Speaking of sound, lets talk about the voice acting, which is also one of the downsides. The voices 
 are all weak, thankfully there isn't a whole lot of it, except in between the chapters that talk 
 about the story. 
  
  It all starts off with you, Ethan Cole, going into Area 51 with Hazmat squad to see this virus 
 and for the first 2 or 3 levels your with your team and then slowly get seperated/killed before 
 it's just you and running into Bravo team and so on. This is when Area 51 is at it's best. Swarms 
 of enemies closing in around you as you try to kill them all and listen to your jackhammer like 
 machine gun noise or shotgun explosion like blast. 
  
  The rest of the game, after everyone dies, isn't to bad either. You only take on a few different 
 type of enemies, but there all pretty smart and will try to flank you out. Thankfully lots of health 
 items can be found, although towards the end, it gets pretty scarce. Still though, the games enemies 
 are pretty challenging and can get grenadehappy a lot.
  
  The games graphics are also worth noting. There pretty great looking and have some fantastic design 
 and lighting effects. Bullets bouncing off walls and you trying to keep your weapon steady by only 
 firing off a few shots while enemies surrounding you and switching between your small arsenal of 
 about 6 weapons to try and pick them off is what you'll generally be doing for most of the game. 
 All of them are fun to use, especially the shotguns and machine guns and the pistol, surprisingly, 
 packs a lot of heat. 
  
  Along the way though, you do get infected by this virus and that's why the story starts to center 
 around you. With this infection, you can turn into an alien and get health back by blasting away 
 with parasites or just mauling enemies down, this is helpful but not really necessary.
  
  Overall, Area 51 has a lot of thrills. It isn't terribly long, but whats in Area 51 is definitly 
 worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrautava
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 21, 2005 2:13 pm PT
Review:  First hour did go when I just look great graphics and learning to play but after that time it was 
 all exciting and actions.
  Story was good but the end was quite lame. Or then I was expecting more.
  Then there was some 
 parts where you where alone without any guidens and that suck. But the reason might be that I`m 
 not profesional player...
  What gomes about AI and enemys it was what I wait for. No anykind of break through there. This 
 was the thing what we have seenbefore in many fps games. 
  Then the weaposn. The where great. Not the same than all other fps games but still something what 
 can be for real.
  Total score 8.3 is good average to this game.
  So now we wait that when there will be news about pat 2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shub-Niggurath
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I have to first point out that I am at least partially influenced by the game's $20 price point. 
 This comes after I shelled out $30 for UT2004 and $55 (!) for HL2 (which I found 3 weeks later for 
 $34.99) . 
  
  Area 51 is a simple, by the numbers, fill-in-the-blanks, ad-lib type shooter. It doesn't bring 
 much innovation to the table, but what it takes from other games it uses well. The story is well 
 made (I've heard a lot of reviews complaining about it being "all over the place" but I can follow 
 it) and the voice acting is good enough to not ruin anything... well the first line from Marilyn 
 Manson's character was almost as bad as anything in House of the Dead 2, but he gets the hang of 
 it eventually.
  
  Let's examine the game itself. Like I said, it lacks much innovation. There isn't anything in this 
 game that hasn't, in some way, been in any other shooter. But that isn't necessarily a bad thing. 
 The game treats pre-existing shooter concepts like a buffet and picks and pokes around, eventually 
 assembling a plate that the people at midway found palletable. This is not a bad thing. The amalgamation 
 of shooter elements may hurt it in originality, but it works very well for the game by creating 
 an atmosphere of familiarity. The control is a mostly solid though aiming with the sniper rifle's 
 scope is dodgy at first. The "puzzles" in the game harken back unto the days of Wolfenstein 3D 
 and the original Doom, namely the old "find this to open that" step by step progression. Eh, most 
 games do something like that anyway. The surface is seems deeper but really all shooters still 
 progress that way. Where this game truly excels is in its OTHER lean to the old school, the three 
 simple principles of challenge that made Doom endure for so long: VOLUME VOLUME VOLUME. At first 
 you start with a squad, and from time to time at first you find the remnants of other squads not 
 yet destroyed. The use of sounds, VO's, and even lighting create some rather intense fire fights 
 while you defend an objective from an attacking horde of enemies. Then you are left to fight on 
 your own, and this is where it gets interesting. Certain firefights are incredibly difficult at 
 times with enemies pouring in from all sides. It's just you and your trusty weapons against a multitude 
 of foes. It's good, old fashioned shooter action.
  
  Like I said, this game isn't for the thinkers. If you want an intellectual challenege, look elsewhere. 
 Often times objectives are indicated by not just a pointer arrow which shows the exact location 
 of the objective (even through walls) , but an accompanying meter showing the metric distance to 
 the objective. Yeah.... spoon fed answers.... this is a shooter, but seriously.... I think I can find 
 my way back to the elevator I just stepped out of. This would be helpful if these objectives where 
 hidden or even slightly difficult to see, but they're not. They're in plain site and the only thing 
 that would make them more obvious is a big, neon green flag...... oh yeah, they gave you that too.
 
  
  The story is deep and rather twisted, but I am not having any trouble following it. It's a conspiracy 
 buff's wet dream come true. Everything from the Brotherhood of the Illuminati to Crop Circles and 
 back again! They even toss a couple of litte things in like a member of the Illuminati wearing 
 a Masonic symbol on his back and a few other Masonic symbols on things from the Brotherhood (There 
 is a longstanding conspiracy theory that the Brotherhood of the Illuminati went underground and 
 seemingly died out to protect their identities, all the while infilitrating the worlds most powerful 
 organizations from governments to the Free Masons) . This is all rather interesting, but I don't 
 see anything being so twisted it's absurd. Quite frankly I'd rather play this game than watch 99.99% 
 of the movies that were realeased this year (then again I'd rather lose a few toes than watch those 
 movies) . The good voice acting holds everything together. I'm not convinced that David Duchovney's 
 voice truly fits his character's appearance but he does such a nice job that I don't care.
  
  ONE SERIOUS FLAW I MUST POINT OUT! I HAVE TO WARN YOU:
  The PC version needs a patch. Midway. com 
 has the patch on their website but if the game crashes on you, you're going to need it! The game 
 has a problem with the Intel 915G chipset family! Any of them. It creates a bug which will intermittently 
 crash the game. The patch is a self extracting file and a perfect fix so I advise you to check 
 your PC hardware and then DL this patch.
  
  All in all if you're not burnt on PC shooters and have played all of the "Gotta Play" games so 
 far (and already paid off your reserved copy of Quake 4) then seriously consider parting with the 
 $20 for this well made (if not plain and common) shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B3atB0x
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 13, 2005 4:51 pm PT
Review:  can't say a lot but... this game really suxx.
  Something mixxed up from The Suffering, Quake (meanin BFG-like weapon) , Half-Life 2 and... bad 
 ideas. 
  The developers could work out much more interesting storyline from such idea like aliens.. and 
 what we got? 4 (FOUR!!!) types of enemies and primitive objectives.. 
  worth playing 4-5 hours, not more. n o t m o r e, you hear?
  oh, btw - the graphics are out-dated.. 
 I have a question - does developers know that it's already 2005 year? don't think so... 
  
  p. s.
  sorry if there mistakes. English is not my language.
  
  It's not a game.. it's freak-show. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 30, 2005 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Area 51 is a well-conceived shooter with a cool setting. It has a few good ideas, but unfortunately, 
 theres not much about it that stands out. Area 51 ends up being as average as you can get, and 
 pretty soon into it youll feel like youve done it all a hundred times. This is definitely not 
 a bad game, and if youre looking for another first person shooter youll be satisfied, as long 
 as you dont expect too much. 
  
  Like many others before it, Area 51 draws its inspiration heavily from Half-Life and Halo. The 
 levels are pretty small and claustrophobic, without much variety to their look or design. Youve 
 got lots of scripted events mixed in with button pushing and door-and-key puzzles. You find vents 
 or high places to get around high doors or places where a bunch of crates have been inconveniently 
 stacked in your path. Ho hum. Where have I seen this before? You perform simple tasks like starting 
 up the generator so that you can get into the elevator so that you can find the keycard, etc, etc. 
 Its all pretty mundane stuff, but at least it doesnt get in the way. 
  
  Area 51 was touting its great graphics on the X-Box and Playstation 2, but on the PC, its just 
 an average looking game. The NPCs and monsters do look great and they have lots of detail, but 
 the environments are bland and ugly, and the weapons look really plain. The second that you start 
 up the game, you can tell that it was made for consoles. It has the ugly menu screens low-res environments 
 that you find in almost every console port. Every room is adorned with average-looking crates and 
 shelves to go along with powerups scattered here and there. The games environments get repetitive 
 immediately and they never provide much thats interesting. On the bright side, it does have a 
 couple of nice stylish effects, like the look of the screen when you turn into a mutant, and the 
 miniature view of the world on the scope of your sniper rifle.
  
  One of the important aspects of a first person shooter is that it provides weapons that are cool 
 and feel powerful. Area 51s weapons arent all that interesting. They consist mostly of the staples 
 of the genre (like the assault rifle and shotgun) , and a bit of alien technology. This is another 
 letdown in the game that keeps it from approaching the lofty heights of a game like Painkiller 
 or Half-Life 2.
  
  Area 51 may suffer from dull level design and weapons, but at least the action is good. Its not 
 very innovative, but its fun when it wants to be. The game has a low variety of enemies that it 
 throws at you in groups of up to five or six at a time. There are mutant/alien enemies and human 
 enemies, who are pretty good shots and make for some good challenges. Early in the game are numerous 
 sequences where you fight alongside your fellow Hazmat buddies against large waves of enemies. 
 These parts are fun but not as much as they should have been, for one reason: Your buddies are 
 invulnerable, so you can just sit in a corner and let them kill off all the bad guys. All of your 
 friends are scripted to die during certain cinematics instead. Its a weak copout on the part of 
 Midway.
  
  Area 51s one unique game mechanic is the ability to mutate into an alien for a short time. Other 
 games have done something like this, but Area 51 is one of the few that has done it very well. 
 You will find this ability to be somewhat useful, and about on par with using the games weapons 
 loadout. While in this mode, your melee attack is a one-hit kill, and you can launch parasites 
 that leech an enemys health. You can also launch an infection that temporarily causes an enemy 
 to attack his buddies. You cant use guns, so that can make you somewhat vulnerable. Youll probably 
 find yourself using a mix of human and mutant tactics as you play through the game. 
  
  Besides mutation mode, the game does have a couple of other bright spots. The one thing that you 
 cant say about this game is that Midway didnt try to make a good presentation. The games cinematics 
 are nicely done, and so is the voice work  especially Powers Booth. David Duchovny also does a 
 good job narrating the games story with that pensive, concerned voice that only he can do. Unfortunately, 
 their performances are sort of wasted on a poorly written story and their characters are never 
 developed. Area 51s story ends up being another of the games big letdowns. It randomly throws 
 out a bunch of stuff involving The Illuminati, some weird doctor, a pact with aliens, and some 
 other stuff without explaining whats going on. 
  
  Area 51 is also a near budget game, because it retails for only $30. For that price, you get a 
 fairly vanilla but fun shooter that lasts you the typical length of 8-10 hours. Since its tightly 
 linear and highly scripted, theres little reason to go back and play the game again. Area 51s 
 forgettable graphics, level design, and story wont make you forget about Half-Life 2, Painkiller, 
 or Far Cry anytime soon, but its definitely not bad. If you like the alien/government conspiracy 
 subject matter, then youll find that the game is satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenshi_is_god
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2005 5:17 am PT
Review:  Area 51 was rejected by most, and Gamespot flunked it with a 6.9. I highly disagree with this score 
 and suggest you pick this one up. You start the game with a little training and then jump right 
 into action. The AI in this game is very very good for the parts of the game that are team based. 
 The graphics could have used a little touch up, but besides that everything is great. The gameplay 
 is one its strong point, along with its multiplayer, and i'll tell you why. 
  
  
  Right when you start, you and HAZMAT BRAVO team (your team, you are not the leader though) jump right 
 into action, mowing down the mutagen infected life forms that stop at nothing to reach and tear 
 you apart. You can dual wield the Machine Gun, and Shotgun for insane damage and chaos. You can 
 melee the enemy with anything you got, weapon, fist, 2 weapons (while dual wielding) . Aside from 
 that, throughout the game there are various top secret files you come across in Area 51 that you 
 can scan with your scanner thats built into your suit. These unlock videos, pictures, and documents 
 that further explain the story. 
  
  
  That's another thing. The story. This story kept me guessing, kept me loving the game, kept me 
 interested and involved. Before each level, your character, Ethan Cole (which is beautifully voiced 
 by David Duchovny) talks about whats going on, about how he feels, and what he thinks will happen, 
 if he will survive or not, etc. (usually while images of the past and past levels and events are 
 shown on the screen) . Marilyn Manson also does a voice over, and yes, it is actually better than 
 I thought. He gives a creepy, scary, voice to his character, Edgar. 
  
  
  The multiplayer is one of the best multiplayer FPS's i've ever played. The various modes and level 
 designs really offer you an incredible experiance like nothing before. Some of the modes include, 
 Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and one called Survivor, or Patient Zero, or some call it Mutagens 
 vs. Humans. In this match, everyone starts as a human and one person is the "Patient Zero". This 
 means that in a few seconds (20-25 seconds) that person will turn into a mutagen infected human 
 and his objective is to kill the humans and each human he kills, they respawn as a mutagen infected 
 human also. The object is to turn each human into one of you, and if you are a human the object 
 is to LIVE. Once all the humans are turned, it starts over and picks a new patient zero. You are 
 given a hint as to who the patient zero is at the beginning of the match to give you a heads up.
 
  
  
  The game is very well balanced and is both very fun and addictive. The single player alone is worth 
 the 30 dollars, but the multiplayer on top of it, just makes this game a MUST BUY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garnog
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 15, 2005 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Watching the intro CG movie, I was thinking to meself "Hey, this don't look too shabby." THEN, 
 the CG was over and the actual game graphics raped my jaded eyeballs. "Hey!" I thinks again, "I 
 thought I had a Xbox, not a first generation PSx!" Surely, this was merely just a transitional 
 phase from the sweetly rendered CG to a somewhat sub-standard (for the Xbox) jagged mess of pixelated 
 horror... Nope. This is the game. OK, I thinks again, (this time without all the annoying "") maybe 
 the GAMEPLAY will save this underdone crapfest. WRONG AGAIN my bleeding thumbs scream in agony. 
 Gameplay formula as follows...1) walk into a room B) watch a fairly decent CG scene 2a) Get dumped 
 immediately into a firefight surrounded by an insane number of enemies without a chance to even 
 get your bearings X) swear like a landlocked sailor as you have to sit through the same @#$% CG 
 scene all over again, hoping THIS time you can get away with at least half your health intact rinse/spit/repeat 
 Add to all of this a sloppy aiming system , a really annoying 'floaty' jump and maddening reload 
 animations, you got a recipe for a call to your gaming therapist. To call this complete waste of 
 time a complete waste of time would be a complete waste of my precious time; otherwise, it is fairly 
 uninspired and boring. On the positive side, I saved a bundle with Geico. I really feel like sending 
 these game companies a bill for dented furniture and destroyed controllers (and the Xbox controller 
 is fairly tough) . I only gave this an 'easy' rating because there is no rating for 'boring'.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JW_Cleve
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 15, 2005 7:36 am PT
Review:  Be forewarned that there is a known issue with control on the PC version of Area 51 - jumping. 
 Sometimes you can, sometimes you can't. This gets real annoying real fast and has haulted my game 
 progress for now because I am at a point in the game where I must jump but can't. I searched around 
 for a fix, but there isn't one as of yet . For now, I can't play the game until the fix is released, 
 and that sucks because I've only played it one time for about 45 minutes. 
  
  Other than that, the game seems fairly desent so far. Graphics could use a little sprucing up, 
 and sound could be better, but overall not too shabby. The storyline is a bit confusing and hard 
 to follow at times as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conkerreload
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 9, 2005 2:44 am PT
Review:  its not good as the one on the ps2 or the xbox but its still good. I played the demo and I thought 
 it was ok but you are better off getting it for the ps2 or the xbox. pick it up for the consles. 
 you are better off renting it or playing the demo for the pc verious. there are better shooter 
 games for the pc like duke nukem games. its a rent game don't pay the game. its better to download 
 free demo. I can't recommended this game. my friend returned his within 4 days of owning the game. 
 there are better midway games. I deleted my demo after a week. don't buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 28, 2005 1:37 am PT
Review:  This game was given a pretty poor rating because it didn't do anything new or original and brought 
 nothing to the table. I have to disagree. I found this game to be very entertaining, well designed, 
 and visually stunning. If you are a fan of the FPS, than this is a game that I believe you shouldn't 
 miss. This isn't the Area 51 you remember from your arcade days, this is a much darker, more intense, 
 and rather disturbing vision of the desert enigma we all know so well.
  
  Graphically I found no fault with this game, and only things to love. The base was well designed 
 down to every little detail. The alien ships were eerie glowing mazes, with new shocks around every 
 bend. The game played smoothly with no framerate problems that I could see. The textures and lighting 
 were well done, and make sure you shield your eyes when you get hit by a BBG round. The creature 
 designs were excellent as well as most of the characters, each with their own features, not just 
 identical clones. The change to your view as an alien had a very animalistic feel to it. 
  
  The voice acting I found helped the game a lot. David Duchovny is the only person that should 
 have been allowed to voice the main character Ethan Cole, and I though he did a great job. Marilyn 
 Manson is creepy as ever with his character. Every weapon had a distinct and satisfying sound. 
 Changing into your alien form sounded as agonizing as it looked on the screen. 
  
  Probably the least amazing thing about this game is the play itself. Not to say that it's bad, 
 but certainly it's like most other FPS games. I found the action of the game to be interesting 
 and satisfying, plenty of enemies to shoot with a nice variety of weapons. There is not a lot of 
 difficulty to the game, not a snap, but certainly not difficult. I find this a good thing since 
 I like a challenge, but not frustration. Area 51 is not a highly original shooter, but a solid 
 one none the less. The fun is not just in the action, but in the exploration of this world that 
 has been created for us.
  
  The game has an interesting bonus section, opened by finding secret documents in the game and scanning 
 them with your hazmat scanner. Each one you find opens up a secret document, some of which are 
 creepy, some funny, all of them interesting. Every few documents opens up a secret movie too, those 
 of which I have seen are interesting also. These little bonuses are enough to get me to continue 
 playing the game to make sure I find them all. Along with a decent multiplayer this game should 
 keep you occupied well after you finish the campaign.
  
  Overall this game is well worth the time and effort of playing if your a fan of the FPS. You won't 
 find any new and fascinating action, but you will get an interesting story with excellent graphics 
 and well done voice acting, at a price that is much less than most new games. Can you handle the 
 truth? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knight37m
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 26, 2005 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe the demo, it's nowhere near as good as the actual game is. For one thing, the demo 
 doesn't even let you save the game, but in the full game you can save at checkpoints which occur 
 every 5 or 10 minutes of gameplay. The demo also doesn't have any squad mates, but in the full 
 game you have fellow soldiers who are helping you complete the mission objectives. The Area 51 
 in the demo is stark and void of anything interesting. In the full game it's full of action and 
 excitement. Even the graphics seemed better in the full game compared to the demo's to me for some 
 reason. If you thought the demo was just "eh" you might like the full game a lot better. Plus the 
 price is right on this bargain-priced title that retails around $30. I say go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royboy2100
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 23, 2005 9:41 am PT
Review:  I have to admit, Area51 caught me by surprise when I saw the game box for the PC in a game store. 
 Best of all, the game was only 30 dollars, 20 dollars cheaper then the Xbox and the PS2. Upon going 
 home and trying out the game, installation was a breeze. The game played out like a mixture of 
 Half Life 2 and Doom 3 which was one. The storyline was kinda vague at best and the characters 
 in the squad was so and so. If Midway had not tried to shorten the game, they would have created 
 something that would rival with Doom 3 and Half Life 2. The big flaw of the game was probably the 
 graphics. Given that someone claim that this was the Unreal 3 engine, this is probably a very poor 
 use of the engine in the game. The texture you can tell were ported from the Xbox or PS2 or from 
 both makes the Half Life 1 engine look alot better then the Unreal 3 engine. Another thing was 
 the game didn't have quick save, but that was a minor complain since the checkpoints weren't that 
 far. But I do prefer to quicksave the game, turn off the computer, and go to bed instead of walking 
 around trying to find a checkpoint that could be like 15 minutes away or something. Other then 
 that, I did feel I got cheated out of my 30 dollars because Chronicles of Riddick was more fun 
 and the game was made in the highest quality in terms of graphic, story, and PCgamer friendly. 
 For me, it seems like you're playing way too much for a game that ported as a milk maker for Midway 
 who usually don't do PCgames very well. But if I were you, I would just pick up Chronicles of Riddick. 
 Believe me, you wouldn't even believe that game was a port at all unlike Area51. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stedmon8
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 16, 2005 8:51 pm PT
Review:  When i first played it kinda sucky... i was like wow fighting zombies/aliens again, but when i start 
 to get into the game its really no that bad. The game is just like other FPS not a real change... First 
 of all you playing as some type of zombie killers top notch something like the ghost buster to 
 ghost but anyway. You go threw a facity with your allies killing zombies and stuff then somewhere 
 in the game you get to mutated bewteen human and zombie. The gun in this game is great you have 
 2 smps 2 shotguns in your hand that came be cool at times. I like the audio because the zombie 
 have strange scary voice. The voice helps because you can know they are near or right behind you! 
 I play this game at night and with nobody around and boy was i scared. i jumped a lot during the 
 game and I'am 17 and played far more scary games than this. The story of game is what kind of make 
 it not worth playing but its a great game if you ask me. Its a game that try to push for a new 
 type of zombie/alien game but doesnt make it. It more of a wanna be Half life 1 game that doesnt 
 cut it but its still a ok game 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
