-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: ArmA: Combat Operations
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/armedassault/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Provides an authentic simulation of military operations.
 Impressive scale makes most shooters seem tiny.
 Full-featured multiplayer is impressive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustrating difficulty and brutal mission objectives.
 AI disappoints, and the controls are complex and clumsy.
 Dated graphics engine lacks the sophistication of modern games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  9, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 1,164 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Bohemia Int.
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     May 4, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
ArmA is a challenging and immersive game of modern warfare, but one packed with plenty of frustrating 
 moments and flaws, as well. 

  Let's point out the obvious, first. Yes, ArmA: Combat Operations is a very weird name. Short for 
 "Armed Assault" (which would have made an infinitely better title) , it's much easier to think of 
 ArmA as the spiritual sequel to 2001's critically acclaimed Operation Flashpoint: Cold War Crisis, 
 an innovative military-themed game that's as much simulation as it is shooter. That's because ArmA 
 is the product of Bohemia Interactive, the European developer responsible for Operation Flashpoint. 
 Save for a different name and a different setting, the gameplay in ArmA is unmistakably that of 
 Flashpoint. And that pretty much sums up what's both good and bad about it.  

          ArmA is not as much a first-person shooter as it is a first-person simulator of military 
 operations.     

  The things that set ArmA apart from the rest of the crowded military first-person shooter field 
 are the same things that set Flashpoint apart from this pack. There's a feeling of verisimilitude 
 in ArmA that you don't get in most shooters, and that's due to the way that Bohemia Interactive 
 approaches the game. Instead of putting you in a relatively small environment or holding your hand 
 while taking you on a heavily scripted rollercoaster of a ride like most shooters do, ArmA plops 
 you down in the middle of a huge island that's 400 square kilometers in size. While individual 
 missions won't require you to traverse the entire breadth of the island, you will still operate 
 in huge patches of territory, and that really gives you the sense that you are in some real place, 
 as opposed to being in the level of a game.  

  ArmA is set on the Atlantic island of Sahrani. Think of it as an allegory to South and North Korea, 
 but on a much smaller scale. The Kingdom of South Sahrani is an ally of the West, and the United 
 States has deployed a small US Army contingent there. The NDRS is a totalitarian regime armed with 
 Warsaw Pact equipment and has a nasty habit of invading its southern neighbor. Of course, the North 
 invades the South again, and you'll play from the perspective of the American side, trying to slow 
 and then reverse the invasion. This means that you'll participate in large-scale battles on foot 
 and in a variety of vehicles, as well as volunteer for numerous side missions that require stealth 
 or speed.  

  The campaign, told through some surprisingly well-done voice-overs narrating otherwise low-budget 
 cutscenes, does feature some nice twists to it. There are basically two kinds of missions in ArmA: 
 primary and auxiliary. The former are required to progress the story forward, while the latter 
 are completely optional and can make your life a bit easier. For instance, if the main mission 
 is a defensive one where you have to stop a big assault, you can even the odds a bit by conducting 
 an auxiliary mission beforehand. This can involve sneaking behind enemy lines to assassinate a 
 key enemy officer or ambush enemy convoys en route to the battle. This provides plenty of gameplay 
 variety, as you can experience the wide range of modern-day military operations, though the downside 
 is that these auxiliary missions can be so brutally difficult that they're often worth skipping, 
 but more on this a bit later.  

  There are moments that happen in ArmA that are possible only due to the game's scale. You can be 
 crouched on a hill, overlooking a vast valley, and watch enemy soldiers and tanks maneuver several 
 kilometers away. Engagement ranges are much more like they are in real life, as you're trying to 
 nail a target that's a couple hundred meters away. Or, you can literally get lost in a big town, 
 with the crack of assault rifles and the boom of tank cannons around you. Each noise can send you 
 scurrying for cover. Sure, a lot of games have these kinds of immersive sound effects as well, 
 but for the most part they're just general background noise. In ArmA, if you hear assault rifles 
 in the distance, you know that there's actually a firefight going on nearby, and you can investigate 
 or run away from it, if you want. It's amazing how immersive this game is. A perfect example of 
 this is early on, when you're on Humvee patrol and rolling through the countryside and towns of 
 South Sahrani, only to be ambushed. The transition from tranquility to war is jarring, and experiencing 
 it feels like watching news footage or a documentary movie.  

          Combat is very unforgiving, as you must rely on tactics to survive, but even then there's 
 plenty of luck involved.     

  ArmA isn't just a sophisticated first-person shooter, either, as you can command squads of infantry 
 and vehicles. Waging a firefight and commanding your squad at the same time is awkward, though, 
 as there are a mess of commands that you have to master. Even the act of shooting your rifle is 
 not as intuitive as in most games because various controls are scattered all over the keyboard. 
 When you're not running around on foot, you can be riding around in style, as you can jump into 
 pretty much any vehicle in the game as a driver or a passenger. This includes civilian cars, Humvees, 
 armored personnel carriers, tanks, helicopters, and even aircraft. The freedom to tear around the 
 roads in an armored column or soar above in a Black Hawk is impressive, but the price of this is 
 an overly complex control scheme and some very loose physics modeling.  

  All of this can be said about Operation Flashpoint, as well. And that's the problem, because there's 
 very little evolution on display, not only in gameplay but also in technical terms. The jerky animations, 
 the bumbling artificial intelligence, the stilted manner soldiers talk to one another (as if they 
 were automated voice machines and not human beings) , and the overly complicated controls from Operation 
 Flashpoint are all here. While annoying back in 2001, these flaws are glaring in 2007, as technology, 
 expectations, and competition have risen considerably since then. Watching your elite troops run 
 around in a circle or get confused when trying to pass another vehicle on the road can ruin the 
 illusion that the game works hard at establishing.  

  It also doesn't help that ArmA can be brutally frustrating, even at the easier difficulty setting. 
 A successful mission is hard won in this game, as it most probably required numerous attempts and 
 lots of teeth gnashing. Thankfully, the easier difficulty setting lets you save the game as much 
 as you want, which is a huge improvement over Operation Flashpoint's one save per level. But even 
 then you've occasionally got to overcome ridiculously difficult mission objectives, compounded 
 by the fact that combat is so unforgiving that a single bullet can, and often will, ruin your day. 
 It's so frustrating that it's far easier to simply skip the optional missions, as many of those 
 have you venturing solo against difficult odds. What the game desperately needs is a much easier 
 difficulty setting that's a lot more forgiving to new players and those learning the game, while 
 those who want the realistic challenge can stick with the one-shot, one-kill gameplay.  

  At least ArmA's multiplayer component is both extensive and impressive. You can participate in 
 a wide range of matches online, ranging from cooperative battles against computer opponents to 
 team battles. There is a big hitch to things right now, though. Currently, North American and European 
 players are playing on different versions of the game, which means that finding a match can be 
 difficult due to version incompatibilities. That should change over the coming weeks and months 
 because future versions of the game should let players everywhere sync together. Still, being in 
 a cooperative game and relying on smart teammates as opposed to easily confused AI makes a huge 
 difference, as players can really cooperate and coordinate with one another to feel like a well-oiled 
 military machine. There's even a ranking system that allows veterans to use the more advanced vehicles, 
 as well as a mission editor that lets you create your own custom missions. With that said, ArmA 
 has a lot more competition in the multiplayer realm than Operation Flashpoint did, and ArmA's highly 
 realistic gameplay may prove glacial to those that were weaned on the run-and-gun, over-the-top 
 action of Battlefield 2.  

          The graphics engine does a great job of creating a virtual world.     

  The graphics 
 engine doesn't feel all that different from Operation Flashpoint's. The main improvements come 
 in the form of higher resolutions and sharper textures, but the underlying foundation remains pretty 
 much the same. The result is a game that's nowhere near as impressive or as advanced as its competitors, 
 but then again, those games don't attempt to create worlds anywhere near as large or as impressive 
 as ArmA's. It helps to boost the graphics settings to maximum, though with everything maxed out, 
 the frame rate still suffers on a fairly high-end system.  

  ArmA is a game that delivers mixed reactions because there are flashes of brilliance here, along 
 with plenty of frustration. This is a game that appeals to those who like highly realistic simulations 
 or difficult challenges -- or to those with plenty of patience. But if you're looking for adrenaline 
 thrills, you should look elsewhere. Bohemia Interactive should be commended for developing a shooter 
 that's unlike almost anything out there, but at the same time, the company should have evolved 
 the game to keep up with the times.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (98 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JerryYeh712
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 5:09 am PT
Review:  Seriously...., can someone tell me what happened to this company? Operation Flashpoint was such 
 a great game so I think this game shouldn't be too bad, after 10 hours of play, I can't stand it 
 anymore, what is with the crappy control anyway? I know they are trying to simulate human body 
 movement, but why the hell when I press forward it takes 0.5 second to start running? and sometimes 
 he just keeps running like he has a mind of it's own, can't even stop my character when I press 
 backward key, it's just ridiculous, and in some mission you are required to take a vehicle , but 
 every now and then the AI refuse to drive, they just sit there, and when I left the car try to 
 see what happens, he droves off...... , what kind of stupid design is this? and why is machine 
 gun more accurate than assault rifle? even a sniper rifle? too much more but I'm tired of typing, 
 all in all avoid this game and save your money.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikapoka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  I reviewed this game when it came out and i gave it a brutal bashing because it was so horrendously 
 bug ridden that it would be plain unplayable.
  
  But since i got a new computer i decided to give the game another shot. Updating to the latest 
 version is absolutely critical!
  
  The updates and expantions give this game life. While its still just Operation Flashpoint in every 
 aspect, its nice to see a new enviroment and a bit nicer presentation.
  
  The game trys to appeal to your morality, but the wooden voice acting and downright bad animation 
 detach you from any kind of story.
  
  But overall the gameplay and options it gives you are quite enertaining, to the point where you 
 sit at the game for hours at a time.
  
  The multiplayer is nothing worth mentioning.
  
  Overall, its a nice waste of time if you have time on your hands... give it a go. 
  
  Just be 
 patient with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brain_Fillets
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  I just learned about Armed Assault this week, but I have to say that I am already addicted to it. 
 I always enjoyed playing the Operation Flashpoint games, so it wasn't a very big transition. The 
 people that have never played an actual combat simulator will most likely put this game down as 
 fast as they picked it up. 
  
  I like the game a lot and enjoy the realism, but even I get frustrated. If you are new to the series 
 you definitely want to take it slow and do the training missions more than once, especially the 
 shooting range. Quite a bit of the technical aspect of the game was the development of the ballistics.
 
  
  The biggest drawback for most will be the graphics, since they aren't that great, and in order 
 to turn the detailed graphic settings up you will need a fairly powerful computer. I have one of 
 the newest gaming laptops that was just released and I still have to turn my settings down to the 
 low and high marks, depending on what details I'm changing.
  
  Overall, this is an excellent game if you are looking for more than the realism out of your shooters, 
 but don't get frustrated and give up too quickly. Give yourself time to get over the learning curve 
 and you'll be hunched over your keyboard digging the crust out of your eyes more than you'll like.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthKing93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, graphics are incredible and gameplay is okay.. the updates don't fix everything 
 but most of it, it doesn't fix all the lag. So, you need to get a computer with good specs, especially 
 a good video card. I recommend the 8800 GT, but I have a Nvidia 8300 GS but thats not the whole 
 reason why the game lags. It will lagg on anything, because it's just the game. The graphics are 
 good without so much lagg, it's a good storyline and awesome weapons! There could be a bit more 
 realism in this game, like extreme gore and legs blowing off like in Red Orchestra Ostfront 41-45. 
 And why is ArmA Combat Operations also called ArmA Armed Assault? I do not understand why a game 
 needs two names, especially when there is a series! This game is great, if you love FPS games and 
 driving in modern vehicles and tanks.. get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 16, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  ... because I thought this game was annoying, repetitive, and boringnot to mention low budget. 
 And before you begin bashing me, no, I am not a purest, or someone who is looking for an army simulation 
 game. I am just looking for a good time, and it wasn't to be found for me in ArmA.
  
  Graphics  Sub-par at best, and nothing outside of the standard in this genre. 
  
  Gameplay 
  Here is where this game lost meAre you kidding me with the robotic voiceovers and constant scrolling 
 of chatting text! I cant even begin to understand how some people found this game funand I will 
 admit that after one evening of play I was donefor good. The levels at times were near impossible, 
 and the audio made it confusing at best as to where the action was taking place. To top it off, 
 I want to spend my time playing a game, not trying to figure out the controls. 
  
  Overall  I guess for the pure at heart this game might have some aspects that make it worthwhile. 
 But coming from a gamer who likes to have fun, be immersed in the story, experience some emotion, 
 and look forward to each new campaign, ArmA is not anywhere near meeting my expectations.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  This game is every army nuts dream, an accurate simulation of what war is really like, while this 
 is a good premise, the execution will make this game very frustrating to your average gamer out 
 there.
  
  The Gameplay, its decent, if you like realism over fun, I mean, the singleplayer is a good setup 
 for multiplayer, but the problem with the singleplayer is that the one shot kill model is the most 
 frustrating thing ever developed, and the worst part, saving is not an option... your ai teammates 
 are hit and miss, they sometimes get the job done, most of the time, they will prone or duck down, 
 waiting to get shot, they fire back at the enemy, but they do, most of the time miss. The Driving 
 model feels very good in the game, it almost feels like your driving a real car at times, this 
 model is evident in the tanks, they manoeuvre very realistically, and they animate very well when 
 the main gun is fired, moving the whole tank back a bit everytime, and also creating large amounts 
 of smoke from the ground when firing, this is eye candy, but also factors into the gameplay heavily 
 since when you fire the main gun of a tank, you give your position away to any anti-tank gun in 
 the area. The gameplay can be frustrating, but can be very rewarding for your tactics in the field, 
 its like a real-time tactics game (ie. World in Conflict) , and your the soldier on the ground, 
 so again, you have to depend on your teammates if you want to succeed. The AI, again, they get 
 the job done on your teammates side, but your foes in the singleplayer seem to have precise aiming 
 when dealing with you, and with the one shot kill model, the singleplayer can be frustrating. The 
 best feature about the game is the gigantic levels, this makes every game out on the market look 
 like ants, this game is huge, over 400 square kilometers in size, this makes getting around, a 
 little lonely, but again, this is also a tactical advantage, this makes flanking, artillery positioning, 
 and real combat tactics easier, and also realistic, since in actual combat, this is what you deal 
 with, I would like to point out that this game, along with STALKER, has the most advanced ballistics 
 modelling in gaming history, bullets take time to reach there destination, there are no hit-scan 
 guns in this game, every gun has there effective distance, anything outside that, the gun lacks 
 the kinetic energy to hit the target, so killing people with any gun in this game takes time, patience 
 and a considerable amount of skill.
  
  Like in Call of Duty, the best way to get your shot off is to use the iron sight, this is evident 
 because using the crosshair on your screen can be a little difficult to handle, your iron sights 
 give you a zoom ability to get your most accurate shot off, but this can come at the expense of 
 moving slowly, and no vision outside your sights. A nice touch to the game is the ability to go 
 into third-person, giving you more of a visual on your surroundings, and a very handy feature is 
 the look ability, holding alt gives you the ability to look around the area, while still holding 
 your gun in one other direction, this comes handy in sniper missions, and factors heavily when 
 your the commander in a tank, making sure that no one sneaks up on you is important when doing 
 overwatch on the hill for your teammates.
  
  The Story in Armed assault isn't very special, but does work, your part of the US Army, and you 
 have been drawn to the island of Kingdom of South Sahran for natural resources, during the course 
 of the campaign, you fight the SLA, the Sahran Liberation Army, but again, this experience trying 
 to get past the singleplayer can be very frustrating because of the 1 shot kill model.
  
  The Graphics in the game great, considering what the engine has to be capable of, the engine does 
 very well for itself, the environment can be somewhat interactive (this heavily depends if you 
 are in a tank or some sort of armored vehicle... running over cement walls and shacks never felt 
 so good in games) but for the most part, they are just static objects, you can't do anything to 
 them, but you can forgive that because the detail on very high is so good, you can just stop and 
 gaze at the sights in the game, the detail on the soldiers is remarkable, realistic if anything 
 else, the lighting and shading in the game is done very well, the grass draws shadows, pretty much 
 every thing has a shadow to it, the tanks in the game all are very detailed, including the animation, 
 the suspensions on the tank are done very well, and when you fire the main gun, the suspensions 
 with the tank realistically move accordingly, the rest of the animation of all characters are done 
 nicely as well. The star of the show is obviously the visual distance, its eye candy, but also 
 a tactical advantage because snipers can now engage targets at thousands of meters away, so for 
 those about to play multiplayer, watch out for those snipers.
  
  The sound in the game is done very well, every object, from the weapons, to the vehicles, all sound 
 appropriate to each other, they sound they have a mean punch, especially the tank guns, every gun 
 in the game however has a distinct sound, making it factor into the gameplay heavily, snipers sound 
 big and heavy, so when you hear that, you run for the nearest piece of cover, rifles you will hear 
 often, Tanks can be heard often, so when you see one, be afraid if you don't have any anti-tank 
 guns available, and finally helicopters are the scariest thing on the battlefield, the weakest 
 thing about the voice acting, is that the voices sound hacky and disjointed, they sound like robots 
 when speaking, making the immersion in the game, a little transparent.
  
  The multiplayer is like a giant chess battle between many players, to see who can work together 
 better, its a blast to play, to see if your plans pay off, the most interesting game mode is warfare 
 that is seen in the patch 1.14, a blend of RTS with FPS, an interesting concept that works very 
 well, just make sure you have a good commander and planner or you won't win....
  
  Another interesting fact that I would like to point out that there is an armory mode in the game, 
 where you can test out various weapons in the game, its a good way to train since, when trying 
 the various weapons, they throw different challeges at you, primaries (defend location, attack 
 location, etc.) and secondaries that happen during or after primaries (get away from you current 
 po etc.) its fun, and a good way to get to know you weapons in the game, to see which you are better 
 with.
  
  A fun game to military nuts out there, some might be frustrated with experience, but what this 
 game lacks in singleplayer more than makes up for in interesting modes and multiplayer options, 
 so if you want to get a taste of combat operations today, pick this up, if you don't like one shot 
 kill models, this game definately will disappoint.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arizonaisbetter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Armed Assault is one of those games that very few people actually appreciate. In place of the arcade 
 play styles of Battlefield and Call of Duty, ArmA brings realism and an emphasis on teamwork, something 
 that big fans of the previously mentioned games are not always used to.
  
  There is a very steep learning curve to the game that often includes customizing the keyboard layout 
 to better fit the person playing. The tutorials in the game do a good job of teaching the basics 
 of the game, but they do not cover everything. The number of controls and options can get overwhelming 
 to new players. Luckily, ArmA has an Armory play option that allows players to quickly jump into 
 a world with an object of their choosing. Going into the armory and playing around with a vehicle 
 or weapon from the game is a great way to get past the steep learning curve.
  
  Some of the better features in the game are: Drivable vehicles to traverse the enormous game areas 
 throughout single and multiplayer gameplay, including ground, air, and some water based craft. 
 Different communication options for Global, Side, Squad, Vehicle, and direct communication, all 
 with available Voice options for even faster communications (voice over direct chat is transmitted 
 from your character in game and works as if your character was actually speaking in the game world) . 
 A map which can display the movement of people close by, user created markers on the map (which 
 can be created and erased by anyone) , a compass, watch, and a list of objectives and other useful 
 information. Custom user skins can be created and seen by everyone in your MP match without having 
 to download a thing. Patches made for clans can also be displayed on the character and when the 
 character enters a vehicle the patch is displayed on the vehicle. A built in mission editor makes 
 is easy for users to create missions (this also has a learning curve but it is no where near as 
 big as the actual game itself) . The realistic style of gameplay is great for sim fans who want 
 a great combat simulator. Custom levels and modifications are abundant, sound mods and effects 
 mods are very common and are very well done. Buildings, walls, bridges and a lot of other structures 
 are destructible (all buildings seem to be destructible but most require more missiles and explosives 
 then other games. 
  
  Some of the bad parts of the game are: It has very good graphics which require a very good graphics 
 card to play (its not as bad as Crysis but its still a very needy program, and also a recent patch 
 has optimized the game even further) . Some of the animations are not quite as smooth as other games 
 (when changing from a crouched to a standing position, even while moving, the character stops what 
 its doing and stands/ crouches. Very odd when the transition from running to prone or prone to 
 running is very well done) . The weapon and sight alignment aren't always what they seem as displayed 
 on the screen (not a coding or scripting error) this is namely because is real life when a rifle 
 is rested at waist height it is lower than your normal sight lines which is faithfully recreated 
 in the game causing some confusion on the part of the player (its not really a horrible thing it 
 just takes time to adjust to it) . The AI in the game is good, but not completely tactical, and 
 a lot of times they seem to possess sniper like marksmanship at the higher levels, and complete 
 stupidity at the lower levels. There have been times on multiplayer coop games when a T72 would 
 be struck with a missile and a glitch would force it into the air where it would flip over and 
 come back down. Some of the effects in the stock game look okay but they could be better (luckily 
 this can be fixed with mods) . The game hasn't always been stable, nor have the servers. There have 
 been crashes that require a simple restart of the game, they don't happen very often but are quite 
 annoying. The automated voices in the game can be quite annoying to people who just started playing. 
 They are not natural sounding and do take away from the game a little bit.
  
  ArmA is not a game that can replace Battlefield or Call of Duty, but rather it is a game that presents 
 realism and team work on a level that can not be done on any of the previously mentioned games. 
 Sim fans or anyone looking for a tactical game that still allows fun to be had will love this game. 
 The few problems in the game can easily be overlooked and forgotten, and beneath them is a great 
 game that most people should at least try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adzy28394
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I was told about this game from a friend of mine, he referred me to some videos of the game on 
 YouTube and I thought "Hey, that looks pretty good". The following saturday, I went to my local-ish 
 HMV just to browse, and to my surprise, I saw this game in the Gold Edition (ArmA base game + Queens 
 Gambit + 1.08) for 14.99 (the original which was next to it was 17.99 LoL) , and told my friend 
 about it, and he said something along the lines of "14.99?!? GET IT GET IT GET IT NOW!!!111eleven". 
 The next saturday, I went to the same HMV and bought the game.
  
  I have never played Operation Flashpoint (OMG that's so weird 'cos everyone else who played ArmA 
 has done OMG) but from what I know, you didn't need to play that game to play this (although if 
 you had, I can only imagine it would have been an advantage) .
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  
  When I first played this game, I knew it was an FPS, although strangely, I find it easier to play 
 in Third Person (apart from aiming of course) . The only thing wrong with the gameplay is... well...
 
  
  Me, I can't fly choppers well in this game, I can't do the Combat helicopter tutorial, the helicopter 
 flying would be much easier if it were like the helicopter flying controls for Grand Theft Auto 
 San Andreas, but then again, I guess they're not that bad, and you're only really 'forced' to fly 
 helicopters about twice during the Armed Assault campaign.
  
  The shooting is great, I know in COD4, you run around like Rambo and accumulate kills by the second, 
 but in ArmA, being a military simulator, you have to think about what your enemy is doing. Does 
 he know where you are? Does he know what gun you have? Is it him or you that is in a better position? 
 AI can be a little lackluster and uncooperative, but they ultimately get the job done.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  My computer is horrible, take my word for it, if it was a person, i think 
 it would be one of those "F*** the government, pessimistic, nothing ever is good with modern society" 
 types. But when I got this game, I was shocked that I could play it at high quality, which gave 
 me the chance to see how good this game can be. But then later on, it got too much and I have had 
 to put my setting down to low, however, even at low, the textures look relatively good (not up close 
 of course) and there are some great looking vehicles in the game.
  
  Sound 8/10
  
  Some of the little things in this game amused me, like when you are hiding from a convoy of BDRMs, 
 your character says "Jeez, this vest is killing me", or at one point he'll say "Damn weather"or 
 something similar.
  Gunshots sound pretty good, if a little dry, but you can tell what type of gun the enemy is firing 
 from it's gunshot sound (which is always a good thing) .
  The customised oices are also pretty good, you can make your guy sound like his voice didn't break, 
 or like he could be a crokey voiced biker.
  
  There's not much I can say about multiplayer, it was confusing for me, and I seem to die instantaniously, 
 but that can be put down to 2 things, 1) I suck, 2) I lag.
  
  What is in single player is definately enough for me, it truly is good (if a little difficult at 
 times, but virtually nothing impossible) . Addons can enhance the gaming experience ten-fold, be 
 it a gun mod, a vehicle mod (UFOs lol) , or anything else, it doesn't slow down the game and only 
 makes it more diverse, the ArmA playing and modding community has churned out some pretty fantastic 
 stuff.
  
  All in all.. this game is one of my favourites, the cutscenes are great, there is some (well it's 
 a war game, so I'll say dark) humour, and the plot is very good.
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigOne1
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Seriously. If I am not able to hit a man siced target with a M4 at 50 meters somebody screwed up 
 and it was not me. I tried the first mission a couple of times and for every oponent I needed about 
 half a clip because hitting somebody with the aimpoint M4 seems to be just a matter of luck in 
 this game. I was in the German Army so my experience with American weapons is, well, nonexistent 
 but I know how German weapons handle. A G36 hits it's target. I have never fired a single shot 
 that did not hit at a stationary target and that where shots at up to 300 meters so why am I not 
 able to hit a guy at 50 meters with a weapon of the same caliber here? Should they not have a similar 
 accuracy?
  After that I wanted to check out the other weapons so I opened the editor and placed weaponscrates 
 and targets on an airfield (nice, clean, no hills, long firing range) . To sum it up, It is easier 
 to hit a mansiced target standing up with a M60 then prone with a M4. Personal experience wth the 
 MG3 (A German machine gun of the same caliber) tells me that it is not possible to hit anything 
 with a machine gun standing up. It goes all over the place. but in this game the machine guns are 
 more accurate then assault rifles. If you have the game, try it. Stand 50 meters from a wall and 
 then try to empty a clip of 30 bullets as fast as you can into a single point on the wall. Then 
 try it with an MG by just holding the trigger down. This is ridiciolous.
  For some reason assault rifles are more accurate in FullAuto then in SemiAuto which also contradicts 
 my experience.
  
  Let's talk about the AI now. If I had to work with these guys I would desert. I would run straight 
 to my enemies and try to join them. My people are not able to hit anything (I am understanding 
 that. After all I can't hit anything either) . The enemies on the other hand are extremly good. 
 A guy with an old AK47 with ironsights gets better long range accuracy then I with a scoped rifle. 
 Are the programmers serious?
  
  I own the old flashpoint with all addons and I played through it. Several times actually. And I 
 think I'm going to do it again. It's a lot more fun with realistic weapon models where the MG is 
 hard to control, and scoped rifles are precise on the first shot. And there you can, in military 
 fashion, fire 2 or 3 rouns in SemiAuto from a crouched position in fast succesion and they all 
 hit within a 10 inch circle at 50 meters. Soldiers who are not able to do that never get into combat 
 units anyway (at least they didn't in my time) .
  
  I like hard and difficult games but not if they are hard and difficult because of stupid gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Frist of all, I will review this game based on the 1.09 version and with many mods: Maddmatt's 
 effects, Chammy's sound mod, NWD_Ballistic, SIX Sense tracers, SIX sense pack 2 and Drug's vegetation 
 fix... cause this game without mods is not the same game. Those mods enhance the gameplay and the 
 realism to a point never seen before.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Even with mods, this game is really one of the toughest game I've ever play, you will die and die 
 often.... so if you're the run and gun type of gamer, stay away from this game as far as you can.
 
  
  Of course, with the mods, the gameplay is changed, more realistic ballistic, more realistic enemy 
 AI
  
  But there's things mods can't change.... your friendlies can be super stupid at times and just don't 
 want to listen to your orders.... enemies can also be really dumb at times or super soldiers in 
 other situations = killing you with a single shot from 400 meters.
  Also, one of my biggest complaint, is the way you give orders, there's to many menus and options 
 to choose from and it is really confusing at times.... giving quick orders during a firefight can 
 be a real pain **** meaning your squad will die often. (considering a firefight can last 3 sec 
 if you're not covered well enough) .
  
  The campaign is awesome, there's the main missions and other objective you can accomplish before 
 the main missions to soften a bit the enemy... this missions (main or side) are a mix of everytype 
 (stealth, sniping, machine gunning, heli, bomb drop, defend, assault... etc, etc) .... and with de 
 mod community, there's always interesting new missions or full campaigns to be add
  
  Graphics & Sound:
  
  I could not maxed out the graphics due to my specs but even on medium 
 1280 X 1024 at 2500 metres view distance, this game is amazing... with every thing maxed out at 
 1600 X 1200 and view distance set to 10 000 metres this game would be incredible..... For the visual 
 effects, the default ones are ok but with Maddmatt's effect and SIX_sense Tracers, your game is 
 just a totally insanely new experience (better bullets impacts, better explosions/smoke, lifelike 
 tracers... etc) .
  Sound, this is where you definitely need at least a sound mod... the default sound is just ugly 
 and unreal.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Coop is where you'll get a better experience, it's like a single player mission but with friendly 
 that can drive well, fly well and overall play way better than your dumb friendly AI.
  
  Overall, this game is the best game i've played to date in terms of near lifelike war experience 
 (i've been in the army... not in a real war but i guess its pretty close to that) . If you're like 
 me and you love military sims, go get this game but make sure you use some mods.
  
  My specs:
  
  P4 HT: 3,4 ghz
  Ati radeon X850XT PE
  2 gig RAM
  Sound Blaster Audigy 2 
 ZS
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Tactical shooters can be allot of fun if done correctly. When I learned of a new game being created 
 by the developers of Operation Flashpoint, I couldn't help but get excited. What I experienced 
 was a game that has a very unforgiving single-player campaign but makes up for it in community 
 mods and multiplayer. It's time to lock and load, your going to yet another remote island.
  
  I always play the single player portion of a game before I even think about moving on to the 
 multiplayer elements. This is where I had my worst moments with ArmA. My game version was 1.08, 
 and I still had quite a few problems. AI of your squad members is nothing but a sick joke. Your 
 men will willingly run right out into an open field to engage an enemy, even after setting them 
 up for cover. The enemy is none the better. Often times they will just sit and stare at you when 
 you lock guns allowing you to pick them off with ease. Other times however, you will find that 
 a typical enemy soldier will be able to blow your head off easily from 1000m away, without the 
 need of a sniper. Friendly units often time lag when it comes to their execution of orders, costing 
 lives of your team and resulting in completing the scenario solo. 
  
  Even with a poorly packaged single-player campaign you can still reinvent the wheel. The game comes 
 with an excellent mission editor allowing you to create customized campaigns with full control 
 over the scenario. You can create some really intense battles, which will keep arm chair generals 
 happy for a long time. This is also where the community shines, as there have been some great campaigns 
 made available to download.
  
  The game also provides a tactical multiplayer element that makes you work with other soldiers online 
 to take over the enemy. As a fan of games such as WW2OL, its nice to see other options for realistic 
 simulators being played online. The multiplayer community is small compared to others such as Battlefield 
 2, but still provides for some great entertainment if you can find a dedicated team. 
  
  ArmA is a game that lives up to a true tactical simulator. The game takes patience and will not 
 go easy on you if you slip. The bugs are there, more in the form of poorly implemented AI. The 
 single player campaign is nothing but frustration, showing the need for improvement. The saving 
 grace of this game is none other then it's dedicated community members and multiplayer gameplay.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pehota
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  ARMA. Eventhough the game came out at 2007, it's still lacks many key points that Operation Flashpoint 
 has. First of all : GRAPHICS. It really blows, many of you think that ARMA has better graphics 
 than its ancestor OFP... you wrong! I have GeForce6600 video card and after running two games in 
 same week, one conclusion came: no significant graphics improvments, but more computer sources 
 are used during ARMA gameplay.
  
  Second of all: Gameplay in some aspects is better (like campaign) you can choose which missions 
 you will play in each campaign mission mode and results will take you in different story line . 
 That is cool, something new!
  
  Third of all: Weapons are cool and even more realistic, but graphics texture for tanks ApC and 
 tracks is so horrible OMG! Remember OFP! for 2000 graphic enviroment and armour is amazing! ARMA 
 has problems
  
  I consider this game as waste of money and time.
  Thank you all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: semperfi122
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Armed Assault is a civilian version of the military training device used my military organizations 
 across the globe to simulate combat called Virtual Battlespace 2. Meaning this isn't your typical 
 run and gun FPS. This game is a game that has surprisingly good graphics and a good amount of blood, 
 but really is just a crapped down version of VBS 2 (Virtual Battlespace) , the developers dumbed 
 down the AI and removed most of the units and features making ArmA about 1/50 of VBS 2 but many 
 mods for this game make up for it, and make this game quite enjoyable to play. I think the developers 
 really could've put alot more time into this to make it much better. Because it's a verry buggy 
 game even with a top notch computer. But bugs aside ArmA is an awesome game that is fun to play 
 if it is fine tuned to your liking's (using mods and other things) ArmA without any community made 
 mods and addons would probably get a 6 from me but thank god for a good community. Before I say 
 a closing statement let me just say this is not for your typical FPS player this is a pretty realistic 
 game one or two bullet rounds will take you down, you have too think like a real soldier to be 
 O. K. at this, for example say your a sniper, a mile away from a target you can't just put your 
 cross-hairs on a guys head you have to aim up or down depending on distance and elevation and if 
 the target is moving make sure you use the right timing. Your enemy's are pretty good shot's too, 
 they can take you out in a matter of seconds if you don't use tactics. Another cool thing that 
 I absolutely love about ArmA is it's mission editor. You can create any scenario you want from 
 a simple firefight to a full fledged combat operation with a huge force. So I'm giving ArmA a 9 
 for it's great graphics and awesome community made things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Savages_Havic
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Well I recently bought the game today because I have been wanting a very solid simulation based 
 game, and I found out about this game from a few friends. I install the game and start playing 
 on stock patch. Graphics are ok, sound is ok, nothing really jumps out at me. Though Im still very 
 interested in the game. I go to install the latest patch which is 1.08. I install it with no problems, 
 as I go to launch the game, it refuses to load.
  
  Ive done every possible thing / solution to get this game to work. Ive turned off all Anti virus 
 software, made sure i got the US patch, Ran CC cleaner to clean my registry, and ofcourse I have 
 direct x 9.0c running on xp home.
  
  The game looked promising but unless I figure out some type of solution this game will be returned, 
 and I cannot rate it any higher then a 5 at this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fred1102
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Ofp-Arma (How i name it) . Only for ofp lovers so if you dont ,rent it first or download the full 
 version (demo sucks) .
  
  the first thing you must do after geting the game is go to the internet and download some addons 
 for mission editor. THATS THE REASON I STILL PLAYNG THE OFP RESISTANSE that have billions of addons 
 or paches for it. 
  Ok then open mission editor and dont waste your time on comp. or missons becose you will disepoint.
 
  then put your self in city and learn the controls . then i think you will like it.
  
  NOTE: To play this game on maximum and smouth you must to have a real fast Gr. card. I have 8800gtx 
 768mb ram 2gbVRAM
  and it work exelent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  ArmA: Armed Assault is a new combat game from Bohemia Interactive, the makers of the amazing Operation 
 Flashpoint. I am a big fan of Flashpoint so I went and bought this game, ArmA. And I love it... it's 
 all Flashpoint was, maybe a little better.
  This is the ultimate combat simultation game. Oh wait, forget the word 'game'! Basically, ArmA's 
 difference compared to Flashpoint is that it's not set during the Cold War, it's set as a modern 
 day war, so you can expect to be using modern, real-life weapons. There are 3 armies: US Forces, 
 a made up Communist army and the Independant army (basically the island's small army, who are onthe 
 same side as the Americans) . The controls and gameplay is basically the same as Flashpoint, and 
 it has that funny talking when you fight.
  Like Operation Flashpoint, you will be fighting on a made-up island called Sahrani. The island 
 is huge (again, like Flashpoint) , over 400km squared and it's full of realistic towns, forrest's, 
 beaches, mountains etc. But this time it feels a lot more real. There are more vehicles than ever 
 before including tanks, jets, helicopters, motorbikes, civilian cars, and now boats... plus more! 
 In the single-player campaign you battle on this island in aq number of different missions. The 
 campaign is fun, but not the best part of the game.
  You also get single-missions, which are longer than the campaign missions and you play them in 
 a random order, as there is no story to them, you play as different people each time. These missions 
 are great, but again, not the best part of ArmA.
  You get the editor in ArmA. It works EXACTLY the same as Flashpoint, which is really easy to use 
 thank god (unlike Far Cry's ridiculously complicated editor) . You can make some fantastic missions 
 and it is limited only by your imagination. You can now have way over 100 men in one battle! So 
 it's a major improvement over Flashpoint. As well as the Sahrani island which you can use for mission 
 editor, you also get a small map with flat terrain and no things like Forrests, towns etc. This 
 map is ideal for building giant action-packed battles rather than tactical battles like Sahrani. 
 ANd of course, in the editor you can play as any army you want... including civilians!
  The graphics are a lot better than what Gamespot say. They are not 'outdated', they are really 
 impressive for a such a huge, complex game. The character models, vehecles, terrain... they all 
 look great but one really impressive thing is the lighting and shadows. They look damn good. However, 
 you are really going to need a good PC to run it on max. My specs pass the recommended and I get 
 the best frame-rate from all details shadows etc on medium running through 1024x768 resolution. 
 But luckily the game still looks very nice. My specs are: 3.4GHz processor, 1GB RAM, 256MB nVidia 
 GeForce7300.
  The reason why I only give this game a 9 is because I cant seem to get the multiplayer working. 
 I have tried patches and fixes but it doesnt do anything. But, aside from that ArmA is an amazing 
 game and the most realistic, challenging game ever with great combat and tons of hours of gameplay 
 thanksto it's many features. But this game is only for a patient gamer. It's not a run-n-gun no 
 brains shooter so beware! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PISTOL_IS_GOD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  This is the hotly awaited sequal to, Operation Flashpoint. While this game has a few minor flaws, 
 the glorious online play makes up for it all.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5
  It takes a patient gamer to play this game. I have seen countless Call of Duty and CS players attempt 
 to play this game with a 'run n gun' type attitude. If you are going to play like that, it is better 
 that you should uninstall this game now. Your team does not need you. This is a strategic FPS, 
 and a good one at that. You have to find cover, set up shots, lead your enemies and acount for the 
 wind and distance. This is NOT CS!
  
  Graphics: 8.0
  This was the big let down. It is not well optimized, and the textures are middle-classed. It looks 
 like it should run better than it does. The weather effects are really nice, but the explosions 
 dont have that oomph you would expect. The character models are VERY detailed, and you can customize 
 your facial features and such.
  
  Sound: 7.0
  This is really a questionable aspect. The gun sounds are 'meh' at best. They sound really underpowered. 
 One good thing is, you can customize your voice, you can sound like a female.. or slide the bar 
 over, and sound like Ahnuld! This doesnt make up for many low quality sounds however. You can download 
 mods that will provide better quality, but who wants that hassle? The sound can some times hang 
 while playing online, which is really annoying. The voice chat is rarely used because it's so buggy. 
 The chopper sounds are great though.
  
  Replay/Multiplayer: 8.5
  The single player campaign is OKAY, but Online is where this game truely shines. The co-op mode 
 has been long overdue, we are seeing less and less of this each year. Some multiplayer co-op matches 
 can last 3-5 hours! You can leave, and return in 45 minutes in time to cap the next town. This 
 is definately not a negitive thing.
  
  OVERALL: 8.5
  This is a game worth picking up, but only if you are willing to leave your run and gun play style 
 at the door. Good graphics, okay sound, and killer Co-op multiplayer... This is overall, a VERY 
 cool game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel52587
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 16, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  I am kind of disapointed in ArmA. For one, their is only 1 real island with towns and such. Operation 
 Flashpoint had 2. Why take the step back? The AI is so dumb. They can not coordinate how to move 
 about through the cities efficiently. The Campaign is garbage to say the least. But there are awesome 
 things about the game that make me happy. For one, obviously, the graphics. The graphics are amazing. 
 Another thing is the mission editing. This is the only real reason why I am keeping the game... 
 for now. If you know the basics of mission editing, then there is no point to playing campaign.... 
 because user created missions are much better.
  
  But there are so many downsides to the campaign and the AI. If you want to make your own missions, 
 then I suggest buying the game. But, if you just want the campaign.... stay away. It will make 
 you slam your face into your keyboard. The AI is just too stupid. All too often to they Engage 
 an enemy by just standing up and running towards them. Only to be shot. In mission editing you 
 can adjust the skill level of your teammates and coordinate massive battles, or small special forces 
 tasks. And usually, the AI does ok. But in campaign, it is just horrible. Basically, if you have 
 played Operation Flashpoint, you know what is up. Stick with the mission editing because the campaign 
 is horrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keycodewanted
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  from the operation flashpoint makers the great game arma a has come out of it its the same thing 
 but modern day wepons vehicles and helicopters in the single player campaign you play a solider 
 protecting south sorani form the democratic north its like there preiouse game flashpoint instead 
 of resistants you have south sorani army theres also great online play but annoying like when you 
 get shot you reswan back like mile away but still great if your a seroiuse first person shooter 
 check this out and it mite be your sort of game playing in large battles and cillage to village 
 fights are the best thing of combat simulation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LUGIAHUA
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  ArmA is build for some players who looked for realist, not for action style like Rambo. In real 
 world, there even shouldn't Waypoint display in front of you (besides FCS system..) I know some 
 players in this game turned off all HUD display, no crosshair, no waypoint, no ammo display.... 
 and also for new players, remember the core of ArmA is not game itself but the Mods! some mods 
 such as VIRUS, XAM, 6thsense totally change the game to another style. they changed AI, waypoint, 
 HUD, and added new weapons, maps even campaigns. if you don't believed it, you can go youtube and 
 type XAM 1.3 ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beeker1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  This game has great graphics but very difficult gameplay but the thing is the army itself is difficult 
 and ArmA is made to bring the most real army simulation in gaming. Two shots and game over but 
 in real life one or two shots and game over but the sound is not that great, the gun effects aren't 
 that great
  so with you want a game that is not that real just get MOH Frontline hahahahahahahaha
  
  So 
 I will give you this (Gameplay) 8/10 (Graphics) 9/10 (Sound) 6/10 (Value) 8/10
  
  I no not a long review but who cares :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookj71
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This game shines via editor, user provided content, and core gear. The campaign that comes with 
 the game is good at first. Then when you find the user provided campaigns as well as the overall 
 weapons list the game comes with; the built in campaign starts looking very bad. The root campaign 
 allows you to use about 10% of the usable weapons in the game. Your load out always gets reset 
 after each mission. I really find the dot sights in the game to be terrible simulations of the 
 real thing. Yet that's the weapon you use most of the time.
  The other issue is close range unit size. I'm X-military and dread any close combat of 100m or 
 closer in this game unless I have the SAW load out. In real life taking out 5 dispersed targets 
 at 100m or less was cake. In real life there is a huge margin for error. In this game margin for 
 error is like a constant 200m distance in real life.
  The game shines with iron or fully scoped sites, assault and sniper missions.
  There is no possilbe 
 stealth game as no matter where you shoot someone they always cry out. In turn any active enemy 
 within 60m is alerted to the death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l337Bossman
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  The spiritual successor to Operation Flashpoint, I think of ARMA as Flashpoint 1.5. Despite the 
 poor reviews, I took a shot with ARMA and I am extremely glad that I have done so. For those who 
 are interested in a more realistic military experience (you will die and you will die often) ARMA 
 delivers. ARMA is based on a fictional island where two factions are on the brink of war. You are 
 tasked with completing certain missions to advance the main plot with optional missions available 
 to make your main missions easier. For example, you may play as a Spec Ops and covertly destroy 
 a group of enemy armor. In your next main mission, the enemy will have less armor to use as you 
 destroyed it in the side mission. The single player story in ARMA is fairly laughable and there 
 are already fan made missions that exceed it in quality.
  
  ARMA features incredible draw distances and the modelled grass that Oblivion taught us to know 
 and love. The game has decent textures and character models, but does allow you to import your 
 own face onto your character which I think is a nice bonus. There are moments where you will go, 
 Wow, this game is beautiful. One such moment for me was when I was tagging along on a Little Bird 
 and looked down to see the landscape spread below my feet. And yes, you can actually look down 
 and see your arms and legs in this game. For those who do not like the original graphics, the fanbase 
 has already created mods that enhance the smoke and explosion effects, as well as providing new 
 fully detailed vehicles.
  
  Speaking of mods, ARMA is EXTREMELY moddable. There are already campaigns, new vehicles, some exceptional 
 sound packs, and re-textures available. Whether you want to defend a beach head or storm a hotel 
 floor by floor, you should be able to find what you are looking for.
  
  ARMA is very difficult with a moderately steep learning curve. You will typically die from a far 
 off enemy in one or two shots, often wondering where you are getting hit from. The difficulty is 
 manageable however as the game offers such a rewarding experience. When you successfully take-down 
 an enemy base and look around you at the flattened buildings, fallen trees, and crushed walls, 
 it will actually feel like you survived, rathen than simply saying Nice, another level down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M4ajid
Rating: 2.9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  First, i would like to stress that this game is great, but its engine is straight from OFP (2001) 
 and not something you would expect to take 7 years of hype
  the engine was what everyone wanted to be improved first the rest was not urgent at all. Please 
 also note that if you don't play OFP (Operation Flashpoint) this game brings you all the old stuff 
 and some new glossed over with some eye candy.
  
  All the hype... we (community) suggested on the official forums of Bohemia interactive forum hundreds 
 of suggestions and not one was implemented any of the simplest suggestion like shooting from vehicles 
 or adding the obviously necessary rope around the gun that mysteriously is flying around at the 
 players whim. People say its a simulation but the engine is a *** it lags every movement that the 
 player makes and flying is just like hanging in the air with no realism at all its practically 
 a arcade game if the shooting was downgraded !
  
  All the animations where ok in the late 2000 - 04 but now calling it a new game with a new name 
 that is out of the question.
  
  All animations are set pieces that do not flow and are only on request basses the same counts with 
 airplanes and vehicles nothing is smooth as expected and they don't even bother to look at BF2 
 their defacto war game rival for any clues on the engine and where its going!
  
  you only need to look at flashpoints striving moding community and what they made of OFP in its 
 later life and you will be ashamed that you ate the hype... presuming that you where lucky to avoid 
 it as a fan.
  
  end of rant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4blizzard
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 21, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok I have been playing Operation Flashpoint/ Resistance (AND STILL IS PLAYING IT) since August 
 2002. It's only natural that I get part two aka Armed Assault. That was the second biggest mistake 
 in my life.
  
  Now let's start at the most obvious issue (the game engine) . Now if your reading this then you 
 know something about computers. I have friends with Nvidia 8800GTS THAT CAN'T PLAY THIS GAME. I 
 have friends with ATI 9800's, Alienware and $2,000+ custom PC's that can't SMOOTHLY PLAY THIS GAME. 
 Yes, it's eye candy when you turn up the graphics. BUT, you will fry your processor and the lag 
 is enough to make you kill your favorite uncle (or aunt ) out of frustration.
  
  Now I'll tell you something that the game developers won't. Remember how we (the OFP community) 
 had to do more work modding the game then the game makers put into making it. Meaning they may 
 have spent a 8-12 hours day programming. We (the OFP community) would spen 8-12 straight days modding, 
 scripting, and testing. You still can't: HALO, SCUBA, Static line parachute, shoot from a moving 
 vehicle, VTOL the harrier and my personal favorite you STILL CAN'T CARRY TWO Primary Weapons. We 
 the OFP community are having to script all that ourselves. So why buy the game? I'll tell you why 
 because you'll be giving to a charitable organization called Bohemia Interactive. They ripped us 
 off by selling us a 20% completed game. They know we OFP lovers will carry on their work.
  
  Remember, JUST SAY NO. Wait on 'game 2 from codemasters that's my only hope. If not I always 
 have my Falshpoint/Resistance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNaKeyy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  As i said in the Review Deck, ArmA is a exceptional simulator for the Operation Flashpoint fans 
 and for the people that likes realism and hard missions.
  You need patience to finish all the missions, principal and auxiliary because they are very hard 
 and you need to repeat them many times until you get the right tactic. The graphics aren't extraordinary 
 like Far Cry or other exotic games, just right for a tactical-simulator-shooter, but you need a 
 good system. At the time the game was released it had a lot of bugs but with the time the patches 
 fixed this problem.. and the Editor option make this game customizable and become immersive. A 
 good thing the producers did.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruuman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  You need a decent PC to play this, I've heard far to many people moan about frame rate when all 
 they did was jack all the settings to max, I doubt there's a computer in existence that can run 
 this full detail, max distance at a decent FPS.
  
  This is one hard game, you will die constantly and only get a few kills if your lucky. But this 
 makes for an extremely rewarding game, especially in multi play where the teamwork is on a level 
 you just won't find anywhere else.
  
  Basically if you have no patience and attention span stay away, stick to the regular bunch like 
 BF2.
  
  If you like Sim games and complicated missions and a bit of realism this is the one for you.
 
  
  Get it now, if in doubt download the demo, it's great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilurfoe1006
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  Takes everything from the old Operation: Flashpoint and improves in most things. Even more realistic 
 combat tactics and movements, better dev support to fix problems than in previous games. Also, 
 the addition of a better multiplayer structure. Overall improved over previous games. Game was 
 released with many bugs and glitches but devs have worked round the clock to address these issues. 
 Still many problems but they are slowly being fixed in patches. So if you are into realistic combat 
 action I strongly recomend this game. Also keep and eye out for Codemasters Game 2 coming 2008. 
 It is a full game that takes place after the events of the first OPFLASH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake9123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 11, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  how i reviewed it gameplay 10/10-i gave it a perfict score becuse there is a game mode thats like 
 battlefield but better, once you get a command post, you need to wait for a supply convoy to build 
 you base so you can spawn there.
  
  graphics 10/10 basically COD3 grafics with a huge map and destoyable enviorment, you can blow up 
 buildings, noc down trees, exc
  
  sound 7/10 the sound fx were OK but not good, they basically had the sae sounds from flashpoint. 
 but some are good thogh like the helicopter and the new explostion sound FX
  
  Value 10/10 worth the 40$
  
  Tilt 10/10 idk what this is but i gave it a 10 lol! and you will 
 learn a lot with this game, total realism, all the vehicles are realisic, no werd fuchure crap. 
 and i had only a day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockingMadDog
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  I really bought this game because i liked Operation flashpoint! Its quite realistic with the way 
 the weapons work and with good graphics ,which my computer Obviously doesnt have, it will help 
 you see the smaller more pointless details even more clearly like flies and stuff. Operation Flashpoint 
 had a good modding community and Arma's modding community is also increasing now with loads of 
 great addons being produced nearly every day which is sumthing which really keeps me in love with 
 this game but Mods also have some problems with Multiplayer with servers that wont let you in if 
 you have certain mods and annoying people entering and some how using there mods with the game. 
 this happened to me once when i was in a game there were random explosions going off and then suddenly 
 loads of crappy zombie mod people suddenly popped up. Being commander of squads with A. I. is also 
 something which could do with improvement. It takes ages to actually fully understand the mission 
 editor especially with scripts and triggers and stuff but it is fun sharing your own missions with 
 freinds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobzebeam
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  this is the worst game i ever bought. its slow, clunky, dull, too hard, its plain poo! i love this 
 kind of game normally but the engine is very lazy and they shoot you before your player reacts 
 to what you tell it to do. its really awfull steer clear. i hardly ever write reviews, but i just 
 had to warn people off this bag of poo. i feel utterly ripped off. i have tried hard to like it 
 and play it, but it just wont let me! i cant understand why they would release such a poor piece 
 of work, it sounds great on paper and looks good on the shelf, but just leave it there and dont 
 take it home. buy if you must, but dont blame me when you put it back in its box and never open 
 it again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbkilla
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Armed assault is the unofficial sequel to the legendary OFP series. Let me just say right now that 
 the vanilla Arma (especially the campaign) is a little dissapointing. The campaign and single missions 
 feel a little rushed, but it is saved by the phenomenal community and mission editor. Seriously 
 with the mission editor and the right user-made content you can make ANY mission you can think 
 of; you want to have a small squad of seven defend against a horde of soviet troops? go ahead. 
 Wait you don't like soviets what about zombies (not in vanilla arma) , or how about civilians, or 
 even be a soviet fighting against Americans. The user-made content and the mission editor literally 
 saved what would've been a mediocre simulator. Oh I forgot to mention this is definitely the most 
 realistic military simulator I have ever seen all the guns are realistic from the rounds to the 
 recoil. And you actually have to be scared of bullets. If you get shot in the arm you aim is affected, 
 if you get shot in the legs you wont be able to walk, and if you get shot in the head your dead.
 
  All in all if you can't download stuff made by other people then don't buy this game, but if you 
 can buy it at all cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoLake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  This game contains all the essence of Operation Flashpoint and, under my opinion, it includes the 
 correct changes. As it predecessor, it's realistic, very realistic. Some missions can become frustrating. 
 So this game is only for experienced gamers who loves the genre and the original game.
  
  The good: the realism, updated graphics, amazing gameplay, the immersion, some sound effects.
 
  The bad: it requires a high-end computer to play it decently, a lot of bugs in the original release, 
 sometimes it can become frustrating.
  
  I recommend it for all the hardcore gamers who love the genre and have time to enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  I loved Operation Flashpoint, was great for it's time. When I heard about ARMA I got very excited, 
 I saw a modern version of a game I liked a lot, but still needed improvements. Of course I assumed 
 with the years they had to improve upon OPF this game would be very good, as soon as I heard the 
 Humvee engine sound I knew I was going to be disappointed. Then I drove it and it came full circle. 
 The vehicle controls are still crap, the sounds are still crap. The game is full of bugs and crashes 
 to the desktop frequent even with the patch. My home built system runs other games flawless at 
 max detail, I cannot even get past the cut scene in the opening mission in the campaign in this 
 game without crashing. This game is nothing but Operation Flashpoint v2. Don't let them fool you 
 too. The editor and multiplayer is the only thing worth playing, other than that crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ric96
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  When i started playing arma i went onto campain and started playing and it was really hard on the 
 first misshion 1st reason: I should of clicked on misshions and done training 2nd reason: it is 
 really hard even with training done but its still fun so anyway after eventually doing that it 
 showed little cinematrics and then it showed a map of where the US is and when the enemys are so 
 you gota pick where to attack. So you got 3 choices a sniper misshion, a sabatour misshion or the 
 main battle. I didnt know at the time but you suppost to do the sniper one and sabateur one to 
 make the main battle easyer. Darn i lost lol. So i got pussed back further down the map by then 
 i still haddent realised so pushed back again. Eventually after being pushed back 3 times i reilised 
 so i did the assasination misshion so the main battle would be easyer. Guess what the main battle 
 was impossible. Anyway the multiplayer in arma is class after spending about 2 hours downloading 
 patches from armaholic. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoody12
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  ok,
  Iam going to make it an short Review, this game deserves no long review
  ok, lets get started
  
  Gameplay:
  the gameplay is rather good IF you can find teammates 
 on MP that will work together with you, what can be an pain in the ass. the AI is Descent, but 
 makes to much mistakes to make the AI an challange. also the controls aren't what they supposed 
 to be, they just react to slow
  
  Sound:
  the sound isn't much better, it fails to really merge you into the game
  the weapon sounds are 
 to soft, and driving a tank makes to much sound ( believe me, it aint nice)
  
  Graphics:
  it can be nice, but you will need Duel 8800 to run it on MAX (1680X1050) on my system it plays 
 like crap.
  all the textures are mediocure, but the character models are nice.
  the explosions are not very good either, when you shoot with a rocket launcher at a truck, just 
 fire will come out, no real special effects
  
  Value:
  
  believe me, after a week, you want to throw this game in the dustbin, and cry in a corner. only 
 if you are a real simulation lover, this might be a game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123456_1267
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  This game is perhaps one of the most accurate and extensive that i have played in a long while. 
 with a fully playable map of over 400km. Over 100 weapons and vehicles including planes, helicopters, 
 tanks, boats etc.
  It also has a decent multiplayer which avoids useless member forms with a large dedicated mass 
 of players.
  
  However its not as good as it seems.
  It has hundreds of annoying bugs with a slow pace of play providing plenty of moments of irritation 
 making playing the game a challenge at the best of times.
  However if you can get past this it is a very plesant experience and one which has a long lasting 
 appeal due to the sheer extent of the game.
  
  If your looking for another half life done bother with ArmA, however if you have a few hundred 
 hours to waste and fancy a accurate war simulator then you wont be too dissapointed.
  
  It works on pretty old graphics cards and can push new ones to their limits, making this game quite 
 accesible unlike some of its competition.
  dont expect it to work though if you have anything under 1gig of ram becuase it will be, even on 
 the lowest settings, shockingly slow.
  
  The patches (1.05 and 1.08) fix many of the bugs and do a lot to improve the playability of the 
 game adding to the overall experience.
  However these are well over 500mb and can take up to 2 hours each to install with no garuntee that 
 they will work. sound is gritty and realistic with small musical scores which heighten the atmosphere 
 of the game.
  It cost me &pound;20 and gave me well over 30 hours of gameplay so decent value for money.
  
 
  in my case it took me 2 hours to download the patches and a further hour to install them.
  however they caused a error in the game so i had to reinstall and install the entire game + patches. 
 This wasted virtually a entire day of my life. So could be perhaps a bit more user friendly.
  Once this was done gameplay was greatly improved in my opinion, and despite the time it is still 
 well worth doing even if your not going to play it online.
  
  overall a very pleasant game but nothing revolutionary.
  dont expect to instantly like it though, 
 give it a chance and it grows on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redpipe
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 2, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  I'm a Gamespot suscriber, I read your articules every day and let me say something: You miss the 
 Game Genre .
  Arma is a combat simulation, you need to study terrain and enemy forces, planning your moves, select 
 the right strategy and after all of that, pull the trigger.
  I played Operation Flashpoint and his expansions for years. Arma is a great advance over OFP. Arma 
 adds great multiplayer, intense cooperative combat and a simplified squad control. The SP campaing 
 is very difficult, but remember, this is a simulation.
  The only flaw I see is the voice acting, soldiers sound like robots.
  Look over the Net the tremendous 
 size of the community (many of them are OFP players too) , the tons of addittional free content 
 and addons.
  
  Take the challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adeboli
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  With Armed Assault, Bohemia Interactive builds upon it's earlier game Operation Flashpoint (OFP) 
 released more than five years ago in 2001. Little has changed, both in the good and the bad sense 
 which means the reviews from OFP and ArmA end up being pretty much the same.
  
  The graphics engine has received a nice makeover, making the world of ArmA far more alive and filled 
 than that of OFP but still the same at it's core. Towns, bases, airports, roads and mountains, 
 everything feels like you've seen it before and it will depend on the experiences and expectations 
 of the player if this is a good or a bad thing. There is one area where ArmA puts OFP to shame 
 though, and that's in the forests. This is where the additions really shine, making the thick forests 
 of ArmA an excellent place to be in the game.
  
  Unfortunately the physics of the game have not received the same treatment, while the flight model 
 is still quite impressive for what is of course not a real Flight Sim, and players can now swim 
 instead of instantly drowning, the fact that 60.000 kilograms of armoured tank can still bounce 
 into the night sky from hitting a small rock is simply unacceptable in 2007.
  
  The standard campaign and missions do little to impress, but they do the job of introducing new 
 players to the concept of a full scale military sim. The real strength of ArmA is the extremely 
 flexible Mission Editor and multiplayer options.
  
  The future of ArmA will depend on the addition of user created content, both in single and multiplayer, 
 but considering the scale and enthusiasm of the Operation Flashpoint player base there seems to 
 be little reason to worry for the fans. The standard, out of the box, game leaves the feeling that 
 while it's nice, maybe it should have been a content patch for Operation Flashpoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 29, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  To begin, allow me to say I haven't played Operation Flashpoint so I don't have much in the way 
 of comparisons for either Bohemia's style or the hardcore military simulation genre. That's not 
 to say I didn't purchase OF; I bought the Gold version and have yet to get it to function on any 
 system. Regardless, I have played many other games of various types and am fully aware when gameplay 
 is sacrificed for experienced, of which Armed Assault is victim of in mass doses.
  
  I'll start with my criticism, of which my first is the lack of clear objective and focus. I found 
 while in-game, there isn't much in the way of clear direction or objective other than a waypoint 
 marker. The pre-mission briefings offer minimalistic goals, but the way in which it is presented 
 leaves much to be figured out. Additionally, actual objectives frequently involve trudging vast 
 distances only to A) gun down one or two enemies or B) have your  
 AI teammates slaughter the enemy with ease before returning to the original point or a more-distant 
 alternative. How is this entertainment in its most fundamental form? I realize Armed Assault is 
 not a run-and-gun first-person shooter a la Doom 3, but the vast spaces the game requires you to 
 walk in order to accomplish menial tasks is frustrating. And to top that off, the locales are completely 
 barren. There is nigh a single civilian to be seen and this transforms the vast cities and towns 
 into ghost towns with a boring atmosphere of drabness.
  
  While default controls in games shouldn't necessarily be spot-on, they ought to make some rudimentary 
 sense. Armed Assault is utterly unplayable without an insensible amount of adjusting, switching 
 back and forth between the game and the menus (which are very pretty, might I add) . From scanning 
 reviews of Operation Flashpoint, I found Bohemia was criticized for including cumbersome controls, 
 but to tag Armed Assault's controls as such would be a compliment. Also, common actions such as 
 entering a vehicle or operating an artillery piece are too confusing and no in-game help is provided 
 - expect much trial-and-error to ensue when the first howitzer is dangled in front of you only 
 to be blown to bits when you fire the gun in what would seem to be a logical angle and is not.
 
  
  That's not to say Armed Assault is all bad, because it most definitely is not. The astonishing 
 scale is jaw-dropping. Every mission after the second or third features the features which have 
 made Bohemia notable amoung hardcore military fans. Seeing an enemy armored column form up and 
 blast my position with cannon while I scramble to counterattack is simply stunning - they truly 
 are at realistic distances and use real-world tactics. Unfortunately, the enemy is also deadly 
 from any range and is it not uncommon to be sniped by an assault rifle-toting foe from 300 meters, 
 which makes no sense in reality. The menus, as previously mentioned, are very attractive and make 
 sense. Also, while Armed Assault has rarely been lauded for its appearance, I found the graphics 
 to be impressive and truly convey a sense of realism and effect. And lastly, the sound effects 
 are simply astounding. Every weapon is presented in perfectly-accurate quality and vehicles sound 
 even more intimidating in surround sound. However, the voice chatter reduces the otherwise-brilliant 
 sound to meager proportions - I don't understand how confusing it is to record realistic radio 
 chatter, but Bohemia failed in such an epic manner I break into laughter every time something occurs 
 in-game (about every three seconds)
  
  Armed Assault is another lesson in games not playtesting nearly enough by a variety of gamers. 
 I am positive every wargame nut or Operation Flashpoint diehard would be drooling over the realism, 
 unfortunately, FPS fans or anyone expecting entertainment will be shunned away with a bayonet. 
 Not only is the learning curve high, Armed Assault simply is not fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I dislike how gamespot rated this game so low which puts ppl off buying this. That pisses me off. 
 I will give u reasons why this deserves more than a seven.
  
  Gameplay- Very nice simulation and if you like Operation Flashpoint you will love this. The interface 
 feels like OFP and so does the gameplay. The enemy is quite hard to hit since they r usualy hundreds 
 of meters away but it simulates real life situations. The campaign is good because you can pick 
 to do auxillary mission before the main mission. One thing I dislike is the small variety of guns. 
 Most weapons are just different variants of the M-16 but there are a lot of easy-to-install addons 
 to add more units and weapons. 9/10
  Graphics- Not exactly DX10 but no rubbish either. I like the graphics with HDR and they are pretty 
 realistic. Gamespot, how could you say the graphics are dated???? 9/10
  Sound- Gunshots and explosions. You will get a lot of messages across the radio saying enemy spotted 
 and so on which gets kind of annoying even if it is useful. 8/10
  Value- for only &pound;20 you get one of the best or THE best FPS simulator around with good campagne, a 
 400km map to fight on (I know omfg!) , decent multiplayer, extra missions, lots of files to be downloaded 
 AND a map editor. Must buy. 10/10
  Tilt- I liked OFP and I really like this. Usually I prefer the CS: S or BF2142 or even F. E. A. R type 
 where you just run around shooting but this game was very nice. It makes you feel like you are 
 in a war, not a tournament or deathmatch, and makes you think before you mindlessly run out of 
 cover. Very immersive. This is a bit like Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter but more realistic. 9/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webbo1
Rating: 3.4
Date: May 27, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  its a shame because this game could have been brilliant, clunky controls terrible graphics and 
 dodgey sound even a high end pc cant save it.
  
  i want to like it but theres so much that is frustrating it just annoys the hell out of you.
 
  
  take the best bits of this (the large schale map, stratergy elements, realism, vast number of vehicles 
 and overall concept) add the best bits of BF2 ( easy to use controls and graphics) and you would 
 have a truley awesome game.
  
  problems arised with loading earlier save poins then the last one i created
  mapping joystick 
 controls to the chopper
  clunky controls made aiming difficult no matter what settings i tried, and AI were all nearenough 
 sharpshooters even on easy level.
  meaning most of my time was spent watching the loading screen, which also seemed to go on forever 
 and the game crashed on the odd occasion.
  
  it feels rushed, unfinished and dated!!
  
  a real shame 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 26, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  If you played Operation Flashpoint, ArmA: Combat Operations is pretty much the same game, with 
 updated graphics and audio, but its core game play is unchanged. (Over half the keys are mapped 
 the same)
  
  The fact that there is not that much new in ArmA isnt an overall bad thing (just disappointing) . 
 Bohemia Interactive made several improvements to the User interface, making it slightly easier 
 to navigate the menus, also you can now change options, such Audio and Video settings changed in 
 game.
  
  There have been updates to the single player campaign, as it has auxiliary missions that can make 
 the primary mission of the campaign easier, but overall they are not all that useful. They also 
 added a well voiced Monolog during the loading screens to help build the story for the single player 
 campaign.
  
  Although I like ArmA, I cant get into it like I was able to in Operation Flashpoint, I guess I 
 was just expecting too much of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson32
Rating: 1
Date: May 25, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Like I said, extremely slow downloads of maps cause me to wait about 90 percent of the time for 
 file downloads. On top of that it has to load once it downloads. I never really did get to play 
 as I waited a total of a half hour for downloads every time I joined a server. I finally got the 
 map download and the map loaded then I guess the mission was over because I was kicked out to the 
 lobby with a bar that said receiving data . I suggest you go to the ArmA site and try the demo 
 before you buy this piece of crap. I can''t believe Atari put their names on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pemobian
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 25, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  After six years, you'd think Bohemia Interactive would have put together one whopper of a gaming 
 experience. Operation Flashpoint in 2001 was one of the best combat simulations in the history 
 of gaming on any platform. So it stands to reason that over half a decade of work should have culminated 
 in extreme coolness, but what we got is a mess of a game that barely would have met graphical standards 
 three or four years ago.
  
  First, the good. OFP veterans will recognize the interface and gameplay. Indeed ArmA and OFP are 
 practically identical in this regard. One big improvement is that you can now command squads larger 
 than twelve men. The tilde key selects everyone, or you can select units one at a time with F1-F11, 
 and you can use (I think) the F12 key to scroll to a second list that shows more of your squad. 
 In the Mission Editor, I have placed up to twenty men in one squad, but I'm not sure what the limit 
 is. Nonetheless, it is a vast improvement over OFP.
  
  Speaking of the Mission Editor, it is great (arguably the only thing worth having in the whole 
 game) . Anything in the game can be incorporated into a custom mission. The scripting and such are 
 very similar to that used in OFP, so those who edited the previous game should have no problem 
 modding ArmA.
  
  The concept behind the single-player campaign is interesting, though implementation of it is lame. 
 There is a linear path of missions that carry the storyline, but for each one you can choose one 
 or two side missions beforehand that are supposed to have an effect on conditions in the main mission. 
 I've been unable to verify whether this is true, because it sure ain't noticeable if it is.
  
  And that's the extent of the good. 
  
  ArmA's graphics are horrible. It looks like the 
 same engine that powered OFP, only improved just a bit. Had ArmA come out in 2004, it might have 
 been passable, but even then it could not have stacked up against the likes of Far Cry. Foamy wave 
 effects on shorelines are laughable. By default the game runs with some kind of haze effect that 
 I guess is for realism, but it just makes everything hard to see (thankfully, it can be turned 
 off) . Some of the animations suck or aren't even logical, like your character going through the 
 motion of reloading a LAW launcher, but there's no rocket in his hand.
  
  Oh, and related to these pathetic graphics, the sound is awful, too. In the aforementioned LAW 
 launcher scenario, not only is there no rocket, but the sound you get when reloading the launcher 
 is the same sound you get when reloading a rifle. Did Bohemia Interactive's quality control people 
 get stoned on testing day? Further, the same annoying Go to ... tree ... at ... three o'clock voices 
 from OFP are back. They were okay in 2001, even cool, but now they're just annoying and sloppy. 
 In the heat of a large battle, the voices pile on top of one another constantly and make you want 
 to stab a screwdriver into your ears to make the pain stop. Combat should be chaotic, indeed, but 
 ArmA's audio is just absurd.
  
  The gameplay is ridiculously difficult. As with OFP, every AI player in ArmA is an elite sniper. 
 No, I'm serious. These guys can take iron sights and shoot you in the head from distances at which 
 most normal infantry would be hard pressed to hit a fifty gallon barrel. No exceptions. The AI's 
 aim is superhuman, and it spoils the game at times.
  
  As another OFP hold-over, the bots are as dumb as ever, gleefully throwing themselves in front 
 of bullets for no good reason. They might be more intelligent than those in OFP, but we're really 
 just talking about the difference between stupid and really stupid.
  
  The single-player campaign, beyond the valiant attempt at innovation with mission selection, is 
 a joke. There is actually a mission where you are dropped off in a town and ordered to demolish 
 a bridge. Upon exiting the Humvee, you are given satchel charges and a rifle ... but no ammunition. 
 After blowing the bridge, you have to run through an alley to some ammo crates, where you pick 
 up a rocket launcher and some rockets, but there are still no magazines for your firearm. So you 
 creep around and shoot enemy armor with rockets, and if you happen to come across any infantry, 
 you are completely screwed unless you can kill them with a rocket and scavenge an AK.
  
  Isn't this supposed to be a cutting-edge combat sim? Maybe I'm just ignorant about how soldiers 
 operate, but I'm pretty sure they usually aren't dropped knowingly into a hot zone without ammo.
 
  
  Other missions have similar quirks, but the bridge-demolishing one really stood out. Mostly, the 
 missions are just way too difficult due to the previously mentioned AI sharpshooting.
  
  Anyway, that's enough. ArmA: Combat Operations is not a good game. In fact, it's a complete waste 
 of money. The flashes of brilliance that made OFP great do show up, but they have not aged well. 
 What was new and interesting in 2001 is not new and interesting in 2007. It's a shame that fans 
 of the old game had to wait this long, weathering a long conflict between Bohemia Interactive and 
 Codemasters, only to ultimately receive an outdated, unpolished pile of junk like ArmA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylerev07
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 22, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games ive played in a long time and the best graphics and realism ive seen 
 in a game ive always liked the modern warfare type of games and this game hit the spot! Everything 
 I hoped this game would be it is. The view distances are unbelivable! The only thing I didnt like 
 as much as the rest of the things I liked about this game was the game play mostly because it was 
 alot harder than most of the other games ive played it seemed it was alot harder to find the enemy 
 and get them before they got me thats all i really noticed. But other than that great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 20, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  First off... The graphics in the game arent bad AT ALL, the sound, physics, AI &amp; object destruction 
 are. I would secondly like to criticise the simulation factor of the game, this IS NOT A BATTLE 
 SIMULATOR!!!! weapon recoil effects are pretty lame and unrealistic, bouncing up and down just 
 a tiny bit appose to actually forcing upward and coming down slowly with the screen rocking like 
 it should, weapon accuracy &amp; impacts are pretty realistic but arent anything special at that. 
 The character trying reload an AK47 like an M4 and a SAW reloading the same way and speed at an 
 m4 is a little rediculous, you cant see your character reloading the SAW so I guess when it flips 
 down and comes back up 3 seconds later its just a miracle it's actually reloaded. And considering 
 that 'weapon jamming' isnt an entirely new concept it and weapon cleaning could have been implemented 
 here without a struggle. But the blur effects and muzzle flashes arent too bad at all. Vehicle 
 traits are okay but their explosion effects are about at the bottom of the barrel... they basicly 
 just turn rusty and catch on fire with a little puff of smoke coming out to surround the vehicle 
 during initial impact.. saying that, physics are just about as non-existant as a shooter of this 
 generation can get. Barrels fall over in a staged-animation effect, crates just disappear when 
 shot and characters dont die realisticly, they die in this SOCOM-style of dramatic death effects. 
 Friendly AI about as dumb as it gets as well... imagine GRAW (PC) but with less of an understanding 
 of following 'Advance' orders, however the enemy AI isnt much either as the just walk around in 
 groups and dont really have any tactics but their aiming no matter what level of difficulty is 
 so good that you cant really ever find the game gripping and/or realistic as the game is really 
 just a long campaign of trial and error appose to learning and then leading. The Campaign isnt 
 as diverse as many make it sound either... the 'side-missions' dont have a very effective impact 
 on the main missions and they can be so hard to accomplish that you'll just take the harder main 
 mission on full-force because even though it's terribley hard itself, its easier than attempting 
 the stupid side-missions. The Mission Editor is fairly user-friendly but the gameplay is still 
 pretty harsh reguardless.
  
  The combat in the game can be very emotionally rewarding and during intense firefights the combat 
 almost reaches this unheardof cinematic/realistic level but it's all ruined by trying the same 
 point in a level time and time again. The ultimate realism &amp; glory you gain from the simulation 
 will eventually be shattered from pressing your quick-load key all too often. I am sure some people 
 will read my review as well as others and think we are just run &amp; gun idiots that hate simulation 
 games like this is supposed to be but that isnt true. I was hoping this game was much more and 
 thats it. The difficulty is sooooo hard even at the utmost lowest enemy accuracy &amp; tactical 
 level and the highest friendly levels combined, it is in fact so difficult that I simply uninstalled 
 the game completley, not out of a heat-of-the-moment thought from frustration but from thinking 
 of how gloriously the cons outweigh the pros for this game. If the enemy accuracy wasnt so damn 
 good or *unrealistic* at that and friendly AI wasnt so terribly untacticly sound, the command interface 
 wasnt so damned complicated and weapon actions and other big and little things didnt just slam 
 against the 'Wall of Goodies' then it might be a great game, or atleast a playable game. I doubt 
 patches will fix anything others than crashes and maybe some performance issues but overall its 
 basicly what you see now is what you get.
  
  Simply Put the game is broken by a poor community thus far, little thought to realistic detail, 
 especially considering this is supposivley a Combat Simulator . I have tried to my last nerve to 
 like this game but in the end it just cant hack it due it's clumbsy, weak and broken presentation 
 from Bohemia.
  Visuals 8/10
  Physics 3/10
  Sound 6/10
  Worth 4/10
  Presentation 4/10
  Difficulty 9/10 (Not Affecting Overall)
  Overall 5/10
  Word: Broken
  
 
  Recommend To Others: No 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nabeel200
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  well to start with ArmA: Combat operations is one hell of a realistic game, you gotta have a loads 
 of patience to play this game, Too much realism is a damper here, you r not directly placed in the 
 combat zone you have to walk a great distance to reach the combat zone. ArmA does a good job in 
 achieving the chaos that follows in todays battle field. but the problem here is that often you 
 are left clueless of your objective, with all the gun fire around you. your team dose a perfect job 
 ,they move in coordination, but you are the only one who seems to be clueless in certain missions. they 
 are some single missions in which you are left lone to do a job, which is quiet difficult at times. you 
 have to singe handedly take a large group of hostiles who have quiet commendable AI. a single gun 
 shot and the whole group take position, and its a matter of time before they locate and gun you 
 down. the AI works in coordination, so you have to be on guard. the graphic are average if only you 
 have a good pc to run .at the end its too realistic to be enjoyed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geoffandhalo234
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 15, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Arma is a very trilling game at times with a few minor glitches but overall Arma is an Excellent 
 game. The campaign can be very hard at times and can be very fun I think the developer did a very 
 good job at balancing the amount of simulation and FPS. Arma's multiplayer portion I have not tested 
 yet so I will review that later.
  Arma is not a game to think aw Ill just snipe at all the hostiles and wait for the officer to 
 come, you got to plan when say the officer arrives you snipe him fist the hit the machine gunner 
 in the rooftop and run to the extraction point. Simple as that.
  The graphics are all right I think there good and the sound is very well done, blood is nicely 
 simulated and last the guns are nicely detailed.
  Overall Arma is a simulation FPS so remember check your six and think tactically and last dont 
 waste ammo I find a lot of times that if I only shoot what I think I can hit and if you remember 
 that youll probably survive.
  Good Luck on the battlefield!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: survey77
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Using the latest and greatest video cards (SLI8800gts 640mb each) and vista ultimate along with 
 an AMD FX60 and 4 gigs of ram ... the game upon installation was flickering white to the point 
 of being unable to play.
  
  Installing the 1.07beta patch seemed to fix the white flickering ... but now some of the training 
 missions are borked.
  
  I really don't understand today's games being released with sooo many bugs. Its not like Vista 
 is brand new anymore ... nor are the 8800's. I'm very disappointed with this thus far.
  
  Maybe later ... ill give it a try again and be able to give an honest review, but for now ... the 
 bugs don't seem to be worth the headache. Then again .. maybe this is why the game is 39.99.
  
  I've yet to try the online part ... but trying to learn to play .. while numerous crashes and 
 bugs keep appearing ... make it near impossible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhmed327
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 14, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. You play the part of an American Soldier in Eastern Europe and fight a Soviet 
 like army on an island. Great vehicle controls and awesome multiplayer/ singleplayer. Realistic 
 combat and enemies. Cool visuals and intense combat. Mission editor is excellent at helping you 
 make missions. Weapons fire realistically and are well rendered. Missions are fun and extensive 
 and let you command troops effectively. This game is perfect for a modern combat enthusiast and 
 packs a big punch. I started off on the German version which seemed to be more extensive than the 
 American one. Beats Battlefield 2 by a long shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socomfan21
Rating: 7
Date: May 12, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Yes this games one of my favorite titles that i have chosen, for my pc. It runs perfect on my voodoo 
 pc if you want an great game that will never keep you not shooting in action, this is a good choice. 
 Also make sure you have a good pc to run this game on. I love this game and it offers a that great 
 online capability. A great choice to pick because it offers that great online mutiplayer that every 
 gamer loves. If you want a game to keep you none board this will be a great choice pick this great 
 game up and join the fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsb247
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 11, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of Operation Flashpoint. I have been looking forward to some kind of sequal and/or 
 new game of the same type to be released for years now, and Armed Assault has made my dreams come 
 true. I fell in love with this game from the moment I played the demo. First of all, I was very 
 impressed with the graphics. Sure, some people complain that they aren't up to par with today's 
 standards, but I would have to disagree. No other game out there (save Operation Flashpoint) , has 
 attempted to do what Armed Assault has. It renders a HUGE environment all at once and it is available 
 for the player to explore without any load times in between. I'm amazed that the graphics are as 
 good as they are. Sunlight dances across the water, windshields reflect, uniforms and soldier's 
 faces look realistic, and the environment is more immersive than that of any other game that I 
 have ever played, and that is largely due to the graphics. I am especially impressed at how well 
 they managed to work the HDR into it and make it run as smoothly as it does.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, I would also have to say that it is quite impressive. The missions seem 
 realistic and you really get the feeling that you are participating in a real military operation. 
 While some of the missions can be brutally hard, it is extremely rewarding when you finally find 
 a way to complete them. While there are a few bugs with scripting that may cause necessary events 
 not to trigger and hose up a mission from time to time, I haven't had too much trouble with this, 
 and I am sure it will be address with a patch.
  
  Multiplayer impressed me as well. while it's not quite what I was hoping for, I can see that it 
 has a lot of potential. I joined a game or two, and I was teamed up with some good players that 
 worked as a team and gave me the feeling that I was part of a well-oiled special ops team that 
 was dropped in the middle of a combat zone in order to destroy some enemy armored assets. While 
 the quality of the multiplayer experience can hinge on the experience of the players you are with, 
 I find that it is VASTLY superrior to that of Operation Flashpoint.
  
  Overall, I really enjoy playing Armed Assault. I have yet to finish the campaign, but I can't wait 
 until I do. Even though there are some very difficult missions that require a lot of patience, 
 thought, and skill, it's a very enjoyable simulation for people that want to get close to the battlefield 
 without taking a huge chunk of lead to the face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 9, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your in the military. You serve your country. Hooah.
  
  Graphics: Decent looking, Tracers look kinda funny
  
  Audio: Voiceovers are laughable. When 
 the A. I. tries to complete a sentence, it sounds like 5 different people said his words.
  
  Missions: Variety, Medium amount around 20+, also skirmishes
  
  Features: Good setup on Campaign, 
 Barely any HUD, Realistic to the max
  
  Multiplayer: Fun, not so much on the BF2 side, large environments
  
  Requirements: Very Taxing 
 on your PC, Medium High PC to run fine, Higher PC to run smooth
  
  Weapons: M4, SAW, AK, all the modern day weapons
  
  The Good: Realism is the main point of 
 this simulator, teamwork, weapons-feel
  
  The Bad: Voiceovers, A. I. can act quirky, Get shot once, maybe you'll live, twice? Your dead buddy
 
  
  The Ugly: Requirements, Solo Missions are VERY difficult Replay Ability: Medium/High
  
  The Bottom Line: A intense, Realistic Simulator that puts the Real in Realism. If your a military 
 buff, get it. If not? Check out the demo then decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sovetski
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 8, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  After having played just the demo of this game, considering Bohemia's awesome work with Operation 
 Flashpoint, I can say I'm appreciative of a few things about this game. Yet, there were some serious 
 things keeping me waiting till Codemasters publishes Operation Flashpoint 2. First off, the weapons 
 mechanics in Operation Flashpoint were simpler. Basically, it was easier to aim and line up targets 
 in that game. In ArmA, however, the aiming system is much more like real life, in my opinion. A 
 small degree of mouse movement just adjusts aim slightly, whereas a large degree of mouse movement 
 changes where the player is looking. That, in my opinion, is an improvement, although it's somewhat 
 difficult to get used to. Once you master the fine-tuned controls, however, you can aim and move 
 pretty effectively.
  
  Secondly, having ArmA experience an update to graphics opens the possibility for something that 
 totally awed me about this game. I was playing the Command mission in the Demo, and I proceeded 
 up a hill overlooking the city I was to attack. I ran my platoon right into an ambush, and a huge 
 firefight ensued. Tracers were zipping everywhere the eye could see, which to me was breathtaking. 
 I've never experienced that level of detail in a game such as this. America's Army comes close, 
 but falters when it comes to scale.
  
  Speaking of scale, a downside to ArmA is that the player seems small when compared to the rest 
 of the environment. As an example, when you load up the game next, pick up a dead terrorist's AK74. 
 Then, sight the dead man's rifle through the iron sights. You'll notice this game's major flaw 
 after you do. The rifle seems tiny, and it's nearly impossible to see the sights on the rifle. 
 I own a civilian copy M16, the AR-15. When I compare how this rifle appears to me in real life, 
 as opposed to the model of the AK74 in the game, the rifle seems very, very small. I might not 
 have shot any of the AK variants in real life, but I know that when you sight a rifle, you do not 
 hold the rifle at arms length in front of you, which is how the model in the game seems to appear. 
 It's quite difficult to use iron sights in this game.
  
  Another fault with the scale of the game is that targets at distances greater than 200 meters appear 
 like ants in the game. They are nearly impossible to hit for this reason. Targets in Operation 
 Flashpoint at 200 meters appeared scaled to realistic sizes. You could iron sight in that game 
 and hit targets at that range. You cannot do that in ArmA.
  
  While the firefights are spectacular, the scaling flaws just simply keep me away from this game. 
 Having experience with shooting assault rifles in real life, it's just nearly impossible to let 
 the scaling flaws go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmonfort
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 7, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of Op: Flashpoint for years and held in as most realistic combat sim out there... not 
 the best looking or most stable, but certainly the most realistic. Most OFP fans always knew that 
 there was a version of the program that was used by the US Armed forces for training purposes and 
 when ARMA came out I thought this was that product. I played the Demo endlessly with a few friends 
 and when it finally hit the shelves this week I couldn't resist. Here are my initial reactions:
 
  
  I recently bought a new PC, but found that ARMA ran very poorly unless I dropped my graphics down 
 to 640x480... Although I have to admit I'm running Vista and I'm not happy with it and will be switching 
 back to XP soon. The graphics have been greatly improved over OFP, but Bohemia did very little 
 to update the sound... why? The sound of OFP was never good to begin with. The new depth of field 
 blurring is great and does bring some level of realism, but it would have been better if they could 
 have made some sort of way to adjust your focus. The amount of tall grass is a bit troublesome 
 as well...90% of the time I layed prone, I couldnt see my target because the view was completely 
 obscured by tall grasses. This might not be a problem for conventional Milsims, but when you take 
 into account the deadly range of the weapons in ARMA, you need to be able to see you target through 
 all those plants. I havent had a chance to go Multiplayer yet, but hope to as soon as I can a few 
 friend to buy a copy of the game. They did leave the old Mission Editor which is very easy to use 
 and tons of fun... you can create any possible situation you want and with a little help from online 
 guides anything is possible. Another great thing about ARMA is the ability to create skins and 
 mods... so soon there will be hundreds of new islands, units, weapons, vehicles; not to mention 
 new campaigns, MP maps, SP missions, ect.... this alone will most likely put ARMA as the most comprehensive 
 Milsim game out there (as it did with OFP) .
  
  Pros: *New graphics engine
  *Depth of field Burring *Easy to use Editor
  *Vast online resource of free mods to enhance the 
 original game
  *The most realistic battlefield experience on the PC
  
  Cons:
  *Horrible antiquated sound (someone should hack and rip the GRAW sound files to replace existing 
 ones)
  *Running high graphics is extremely taxing on PC.. even newer systems.
  *Not enough to deem it as a new game, but rather a rehash of OFP
  
  In short, ARMA is a revamped 
 version of Op: Flashpoint, but while most will say that little has changed, fans of the original 
 will tell you that's a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c0de_red999
Rating: 1.5
Date: May 6, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  if u like games that u walk for like 10 min and then kill 2 people and then walk another 10 min 
 to compleit a mission then this is the game for u but not for me. the multi player engine sucks 
 and the multiplayer itself sucks. there is like no one playing and when u find one that looks good 
 u have to figuer out how too join {wich is a pain} and then walk arount for 10 min till u find 
 some one. and the graphics suck they are like 2002 graphis and i put it on high!!!! so all together 
 save ur money and get quake wars or stalker or even bf2 {that is like this but soooo much better 
 and because it was made in 2005 dosent mean anything and it still has better graphis than this 
 crappy game} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabre
Rating: 2.8
Date: May 5, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I have played and was a great fan of Operation Flashpoint (OF) so I was expecting great things 
 from Armed Assault (AA) but I was sorely disappointed. In a first person shooter you need great 
 movement control with the mouse and keyboard. AA does a poor job of it! Just trying to navigate 
 the simple obstacle course in training camp was like pulling teeth! Your movement controls are 
 conventional but the latency between stopping your character and the character actually stopping 
 is abysmal! In many cases it can take up to 4 seconds for your character to stop! This is terrible! 
 Before each mission you have to sit through a cut-scene that you can't abort so if you have to 
 replay a mission you have to sit through the same cut scene over and over again. Poor. The sound 
 effects are almost the exact same as OF if not identical! Driving the Hummer around sounds like 
 an electric golf cart! When your squad members talk over the radio the audio is pieced together 
 from short sound clips that sound different. In one mission I was targeting an enemy and he walked 
 right into a brick wall and disappeared! Go back and play Operation Flashpoint and steer clear 
 of this dud!
  
  Pros:
  Hmm. I'm thinking.
  
  Cons: Extreme latency on control inputs
  Poor sound effects
  Graphics set at maximum will tax 
 even the most robust systems
  Graphics are merely ok even at maximum
  Unable to stop cut scenes from playing
  Buggy
  Poor collision detection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 5, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  Regardless of the fact this is not an Operation Flashpoint Game it might as well me, as it is so 
 similar. First impressions of this game were quite good, the training missions are fairly simple 
 but the do get harder. Once you complete this you are shipped out to Sahrani, an Atlantic Island 
 which is about to be ripped apart by war. The story is well interlinked with news reports before 
 missions. The missions are fun with a good variety from transporting things in a truck to being 
 in the heat of the battle. All of these missions take place on a huge game world which you can 
 sometimes feel lost in. While the island is detailed the graphics engine feels dated and is inefficent 
 resulting in possible frame rate drops for lower end machines. Even at Ultra High setting the graphics 
 are not very impressive. This asside the draw distance is quite good. The Multiplayer is where 
 the game shines also, with HUGE maps and many players all battling it out along a series of game 
 modes. The only problem is the game is a little bit buggy. All in all this is an enjoyable experience 
 for Operation Flashpoint Veterans and new players alike, and should't be snuffed at. The Good: 
 Huge Maps, Variey of gameplay, Generally Fun
  The Bad: Inefficent and Dated Graphics Engine, Minor Bugs
  REVIEW RIG:
  AMD Athlon 3500+
 
  2048MB DDR2 512MB Nvidia Geforce 7600GT Overclocked 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appers
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 23, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  I expected great things after Operation Flashpoint. This game is unfinished - there are lots of 
 bugs, the missions are not always clear and the logic is bizarre at times. This is the first time 
 in years I have given up on a game out of sheer frustration. I sold mine on Ebay after a week of 
 play as it was just too annoying. If I wanted to be a beta tester for an early build of a game 
 then I would have said so! I do hope they act on all the feedback they are getting and sort this 
 game out in the coming months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evandavies1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Anyone who liked Operation Flashpoint will love this latest incarnation. There is no other game 
 like it for realism, scale and immersion. The US marines, New Zealand and Australian army use a 
 version specially adapted for military training. Its the same basic software with a few mods.
 
  
  This is a completely free environment with a gaming area of 400square miles. With terrain ranging 
 from desert to dense forest, there is plenty of variety for combat situations. It is reputed to 
 take 45 mins of real-time to run across it. (from BIS WIKI website)
  
  There are cities and some enter able buildings but most of the action takes place outside and so 
 you can use about 40 different vehicles (boats, trucks, cars, bikes, planes, helicopters, APC's 
 and of course tanks)
  
  There are also a huge number of accurately depicted weapons with realistic ballistic dynamics including 
 ricochets and bullet penetration through soft materials such as wood structures. The sound is also 
 calculated to have Doppler effect and being hidden by objects.
  
  This is NOT a shoot'em up. If you run into combat like Rambo the enemy will be laughing as they 
 mow you down. The AI behaves quite realistically at times, taking cover while others use suppressive 
 fire and they do try and outflank you. Sometimes they will stand about for a second before reacting 
 to you but any delay in taking them out will result in your instant death as they are usually deadly 
 accurate once they've targeted you.
  
  It comes with a mission editor that allows you to create anything from quick battles to complex 
 multi-objective missions with cut-scenes. Scripting is involved for complex stuff but much can 
 be done just with the icon based editing.
  
  ARMA really shines online in a good server.
  One great moment I remember online was sitting on the outside seat of an AH-6 LittleBird helicopter 
 flying low at dawn. I looked back and saw another LittleBird following as we dove and swerved along 
 the canyons before being dropped off at the landing zone near a town.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  If you want total immersion in a combat sim then THIS IS IT...
  It does need a powerful PC and 
 GfxCard to run near full settings but it still looks great with medium settings. Some complain 
 that the animation changes eg. from prone to running are a bit slow and you are very vulnerable 
 while reloading but I think these are quite realistic.
  There are some minor bugs but free updates are constantly being produced with great improvements. 
 There is also a very strong modding community creating anything from missions and maps to new weapons 
 and vehicles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  For many years ago, I tried Operation Flashpoint. It was one of the best war games I had ever played. 
 Now Armed Assault is the new winner. The good: Nice graffic, good gameplay, VERY good editor.
 
  
  The bad: Even with a very new and good PC, I can't run this at full without lagging. (See further 
 down for my PC spec)
  
  A very great thing about this game, is the mission editor. That is what makes this game so spesial. 
 You can create your own mission, or yust have fun by placing things around on the island. It's 
 very easy to learn, and it can do some quite advanced things. It's yust great! The graffic is also 
 very good, but I'm supprised that my PC can't run it at highest.
  
  You could probably call this game Operation Flashpoint 2, becouse it's almost exactly the same 
 as the number 1, yust many, many oppgrades and all the things are new.
  
  If you like war games, shooting games, is this a very good game for you. With this game you can 
 make a war in your way. But it has to be said that this ain't no easy game. You can yust go and 
 play Rambo and shoot everything you see, this game is very realistic, and you have to think before 
 you do anything (if you want to live) . There are also some bugs, the game crashes, AI is weak, but 
 most if this has or will be fixed in some patches. If you have played Operation Flashpoint, and 
 thought it was great, is this a game you yust can't missed. Have fun and enjoy ;)
  
  Tested on:
  
  Intel 2,4 ghz E6600 core 2 duo
  2 GB corsair ram
  XFX 640 MB Nvidia G8800 
 GTS
  600 gb hardrive (s) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UKPartisan
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 1, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Having waited 5 years for a sequel to OFP was it worth the wait? In short no. I was an ardent fan 
 of OFP I still play it from time to time and have oodles of mods and community built add-ons with 
 production values that far exceed ArmA e. g. Finnish Defence Force Mod.
  
  What gets my goat more than anything is the atrocious dialogue! Some of the voice actors sound 
 like they were picked up of the street, anyone playing the campaign will be stunned at the sheer 
 amateurish presentation. I know BI are an small Independent Czech developer but surely they could 
 of done a better job with the translation, some kind proof-reading for example.
  
  As for the graphics there is some improvement, however it would appear that the game engine just 
 seems to be a highly modified version of Flashpoint's.
  There are times (such as entering vehicles) where the new character models shed their new textures 
 and you're left sitting opposite a character model from OFP, baffling!
  
  The music and general sound has all the same problems as OFP, uneven fluctuating levels and distorted 
 samples. Squad samples like orders and radio transmissions sound as if they're being shouted out 
 by bored robots and vehicles moving way off in the distance actually sound as if they're right 
 on top of you leaving your situational awareness completely shot!
  
  All these problems were prevalent in Flashpoint and as such the score I've given reflects this. 
 I was going to rate it far lower for stability issues and poor dialogue but due to the core game 
 dynamic the game play just about saves ArmA. For fans of Operation Flashpoint only I'm sorry to 
 say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nic_la_fripouille
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  I was a total fan of OFP original and was waiting for OFP2 (transformed to ARMA once Codemaster 
 fired Bohemia) . What a disappointment when I installed it and played with it for a couple of minutes. 
 Those guys actually took 4 years to improved some of the textures and add grass!
  
  You still have brainless soldiers that can only drop flat when getting some fire but wait there 
 for the bullet. You end up doing micro management and baby sitting until you get yourself killed. 
 I totally understand that doing AI for that kind of game must be very difficult but sometimes I 
 don't understand why they can't code behaviour like find yourself some cover or think before shooting 
 or don't waste your RPG on a tree . Same thing goes when leading a tank. Pilot should be able to 
 drive alone instead of waiting for you to baby sit him and get a rocket in the face while idle.
 
  
  Another thing those guys could have think a bit is how to improve the order menu. Unless you know 
 all the different assignments by hart, you are loosing a lot of time going in those endless menu. 
 I'm pretty sure nobody uses half of them anyway! They should have introduced a right click contextual 
 menu of something similar ... or maybe a simple dashboard.
  
  They took too much time to improve things we don't care like bullet velocity or sun blinding soldiers 
 but didn't work on what really matters. I could go endlessly with those kind of details but I think 
 it's not the appropriate pace to do it ...
  
  Don't buy it ... you'll waste time!
  
  PS. Did I tell you about those really bad animations in between missions? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gs167
Rating: 4.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  this game is so slow to get started, half the time you don; t know whats going on where. The graphics 
 are pathetic, around 3 years old even at the highest setting. Simply an update of operation flashpoint 
 but even that was better than this crap. Do yourself a avour and get something else, this game 
 dosn; t even bother trying to make it fun, a simulation? What for, like we; re going to go and use 
 this game as a simulation for real life war fare. It also needs a high end PC but dosn't deliver 
 on the graphics which are outdated and jagged, i have an ATI XTX Crossfire 512mb, one of the best 
 around, so it iant the card, this game is a pure wate of money. Adios. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goffik
Rating: 2.2
Date: Mar 17, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  I wont bother with much detail as to what the game is, because there are plenty of other sources 
 for that. Instead, I'll simply stick to my experiences and opinion of the game itself.
  
  First of all, I considered this game a must buy due the classic that is Operation Flashpoint (OFP) . 
 Imagining that game, but better, seemed like a dream come true. Unfortunately, it wasn't to be.
 
  
  The problems began just after I installed the game. Being in the UK meant that my version already 
 incorperated most of the patches, making it v1.04. I couldn't wait for the 200mb v1.05 patch, so 
 went ahead without it. Sort of. I clicked the games shortcut and, boom... my computer completely 
 locked up. No splash screen, no error messages, no nothing. I left it for ten minutes hopingthat 
 it was just... doing something... but was forced to hit the reset button in the end. I downloaded 
 and installed the latest patch, clicked the shortcut and, boom. Same thing again. Not a great start.
 
  
  At this point, I was already considering returning the game. However, I thought I'd check for some 
 info first. I went to the official website and the wiki, but there was nothing related to my problem. 
 I went to the official forums, and whats the first thing I see? A HUGE thread dedicated to complaints 
 about the copy protection. After reading the entire thing I didn't find anyone with my exact problem 
 (they at least got an error message) , but I thought it was safe to assume my problem was protection 
 related. Another thing I didn't see was ANY official feedback on the issue whatsoever.
  
  After a few hours of searching and messing around, I finally suceeded in getting the game to actually 
 start. However, to do so involved downloading a DVD mini-image, a well-known virtual drive emulation 
 program and software to fool the copy protection... on top of which I had to make some manual changes 
 to my registry. All that just to get a LEGIT game I'd paid &pound;30 for to even start. The only 
 thing that prevented my from returning the game at this point was the hope that the gameplay would 
 be worth all the hassle.
  
  It was clear as soon as I started the first training mission that it wouldn't be. With all graphics 
 settings on medium, the performance was so bad that I couldn't even navigate the simple assault 
 course. Choppy doesn't do it justice. To get a framerate that was anything near playable, I had 
 to reduce all settings to the absolute minimum... on a computer that meets/exceeds all the RECOMMENDED 
 specs. Even then, during large battles or when anywhere near a town, the choppiness is so bad you 
 cant hope to actually play the game properly. For some reason I dont fully understand, I still 
 didn't return the game to the store. Maybe I hoped the campaign would be fun or something.
  
  It wasn't. After just a few hours, I'd completed the game. Without going into too much detail, 
 I found it was far too short, the missions were rather short and/or boring, and it just didn't 
 feel like there was any structure to it at all. It felt more like a bunch or unrelated single missions 
 than the story of a war being fought from beginning to end. On the subject of single missions, 
 playing those revealed that many are just clones of campaign missions set in a different area. 
 Ho-hum.
  
  Finally, theres the bugs. To be honest, there are simply too many to go into here. If you're interested, 
 check out the official forums. On the first page alone you'll see a whole host of bug posts, all 
 of which are unique.
  
  And on that note, the game went back to the store. I'm saving the voucher I got in return for something 
 far better than this rubbish.
  
  Like many people that played OFP, I was expecting big things from this game. To be honest, the 
 potential is right there for all to see. Unfortunately it was completely wasted by sloppy design 
 that produced a bug-ridden mess of a game. My advice to anyone is to AVOID it at all costs. If 
 you haven't already, play OFP instead. Maybe in a few months time when the bugs, performance and 
 copy protection issues have been fixed and we have an expansion/downloadable campaign or two, it 
 will be worthwhile. Until then, its dustbin material.
  
  The only good thing that came out of my experience with this game is that it reminded me of just 
 how good OFP is. I'm playing it now, and loving it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lageste
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 16, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  Was an original opf fan back in the day so when i heard the team were releasein part 2 i thought 
 all my birthdays had come at once, unfortunately it is rather a case of all my nightmares at once!!!!
 
  
  The control scheme in this game although similar to opf seems far more complex an unweildy, you 
 will spend a lot of time canning your keyboard for the key you want instead of scanning your screen 
 for the enemy you want to kill --- strike one
  
  By now you have read what the games about so this review will give you the detail of what its like 
 to play:
  
  Movement is clunky and cumbersome- from the point you decide you want to stop to hitting the stop 
 key to you stopping is in the region of 3-4 seconds!!!! on screen movent seems to suffer from brain 
 lag, REALISM I HEAR YOU SCREAM!!!!!!! When i was a soldier i could hit the dirt out of a run in 
 full kit in 0.25 seconds flat. ---strike two
  
  Difficulty -- This game isn't hard it is just hard to play!!!!!!!!!! It has been said the A. I in 
 this game is super inteligent, nope it has just got super sight, The dev team have masked basic 
 failures in the A. I by giving them all an internal radar and A1 marksmanship skills. At other times 
 you can pick them off at range with a sniper rifle and as there mates drop like flies around them 
 they go about there business BUT most of the time a tank WILL snipe you at 200 metres within seconds 
 of you lifting your head, THE ENEMY WILL SEE YOU LONG BEFORE YOUR PUNY HUMAN EYES SEE HIM. ---strike 
 three
  
  Graphics are different and can take a while to adjust to, plus you need a beast of a machine to 
 crank it up, forget what the tell you in the minimum specs, voice acting is horrible but forgiveable 
 as long as radio comms remain realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCFlett
Rating: 4.1
Date: Mar 14, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of OFP so I really looked forward to OFP. A new, improved, stable base to bring 
 they game up to date. What could be better? Well, as it happens OFP with some mods. Actually, OFP 
 even without mods. It offers a few cosmetic changes, many of which fans already provide for the 
 first game while few of the real problems with OFP have been delt with. The interface is still 
 clumsy beyond belief, control and joystick options are actually poorer than in OFP. Land vehicles 
 still drive like supermarket trollys and sound is still very weak. Add to that lazy and dull missions 
 which provide no atmosphere, and almost no feedback or guidance. One mission, for example, tells 
 you to pick up two squads without telling you where on the island to find them. Most have triggers 
 that go off almost at random meaning you never know if good guys or the enemy will do anything. 
 Remember the quote, One day they'll have a war and nobody will turn up ? Well, here it happens 
 all the time. Add to that an AI which switches from zombie like, even walking across a street can 
 be to much for it, or an entire squad that decides to hide behind sandbags where they can't take 
 a single shot at an enemy who drive in circles anyway, to superhuman, spotting an enemy at several 
 hundred meters, in undergrowth, behind trees and taking then out with one burst from an assault 
 rifle, all in under a second. There could be plenty to keep the game going if your willing to keep 
 it online but for a single player there's hardly an element of this game that isn't broken. Do 
 yourself a favour. If you don't already have OFP pick up the gold edition for less than half the 
 price of this and hope that six months down the road BIS will have patched this to the point where 
 it can actually be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RGAF_Iso06
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Review: Armed Assault (ArmA) About the game:
  
  Armed Assault is a tactical first\3rd person shooter which u can be played as a soldier (from any 
 kind if its from a private to a special forces soldier) , tanks, jeeps, helli's, boats and planes 
 ohh and i hope i havent forgot anything Gameplay:
  
  gameplay is more realsitic then arcade which is a great thing to have in that kind of genre. soldier 
 control is pretty fun u got a few kinda walking\running mods patrol, stealth walk , stealth crouch 
 walk , run , sprint and prone. the game difficulty can be changed all the time from lots of mods 
 for example enemy tags friendly tags etc. but the basic default diff is cadet or veteran. Their 
 is lots of moden weapons u can use in the game from a simple pistol to M-16, M-4, AK-47, sniper 
 rifles adn lots more some of the weapons can come with another weapon for example M-4 with 203 
 etc. Tank control is great and it feels like u are sitting in a real tank most of the tanks for 
 example the M1A1 abrams and the Russian T-72 is being operated by 3 soldiers a commander , driver 
 and a gunner. The commander orders the drive where to go by commands like forward, reverse, right 
 ,left etc. and orders the gunner where to aim at which sometimes your gunner wont hit depends on 
 the difficulty. the gunner just aim and waits for an order to fire and the driver just driving 
 lol.
  
  The Air planes and helli's control the most sad thing about this game are the controls of the air 
 units except of the paratroops . The planes are hard to control they get in this kinda strange 
 stall evry time u make a little move. helli's are pretty good but when its being flown by AI its 
 all choppy the helli is jumping up and down like u are in a snow storm.
  
  Graphics: One of the Next Gen games for sure great Graphics nice fire effects and smoke effects 
 , when u aim u see around of the sight everything is blurred out of focus which is giving the game 
 a great realistic look the environment is stunning a great looking trees ground grass bushes great 
 anisotropic detail sand on the shore looks real. maps over 150KM big. great looking towns lots 
 of civil cars trucks and more
  
  The game texture is awsome u can see the soldiers uniform like was made of real fabric. great reflection 
 effects Summary: the storyline is great i wont tell it to you guys i just dont wont to ruin it 
 for u but its realy a great game will keep u busy for at least for the next year u can download 
 ADDONS and mods for the game. there is a mission editor u can make missions in it or just check 
 your big arsenal of weapons.
  
  anyway GREAT game my score for it is 9.0 out of 10 if someone got the game and wants to add something 
 for the review well then add a comments in the thread hope i helped 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirtylarrygb
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 21, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  Ok, you've played PC war games right? From running around in Counter Strike, to p'wing entire squads 
 in BF2 in a tank? ARMA is all the best bits, from all those PC military shooters since 1990, on 
 Crack!
  
  Problem is, you'll need a real beast of a pc to run it properly, ARMA has one of the most stunning 
 DX9 engines yet seen, it can compete with Crysis on several points! As usual, the recommend and 
 min' specs on the box mean the game will just about run in low res'. To see ARMA how it should 
 be seen a 8800 GTS/GTX GPU is needed. Since the latest drivers from Nvidia on 3dguru and beta 105 
 ARMA , the 8 series card now work great with ARMA. This is the first game to really stump the 8800 
 GTX, yep, even the GTX can't run everything at very high settings at 1600 res widescreen at better 
 than 30 FPS. But, if you have a decent gaming rig, ARMA is about the best looking Game on the PC, 
 till Crysis and Alan Wake hit later this year. Sadley the screen shots here on Gamespot look like 
 they were taken on P2 300 Mhz running a Geforce 2 card and look nothing like the game I'm playing.
 
  
  If you have a 4000 mhz + (Single or Dual core) CPU Geforce 7800 + ATI 1950 +, 2 GIG RAM or better, 
 the visuals are simply breath taking. ARMA does for FP games, what Company of Hero's does for RTS 
 games. It's a literal genre definer, visually, as well as with gameplay.
  
  ARMA has a 400 Sq KM map, that you play single player, or multiplayer missions on. Graphically 
 the outdoor enviroments are at least twice as good as even the best outdoor bits of Oblivion were 
 on the PC, that's If your PC can run arma at high settings!
  
  The ocean on high settings, is really 3d! Waves deform the surface and race to shore. Sunlight 
 filters through the blades of a helicopter onto the cockpit when you fly towards a sunset and glint 
 of the cockpit glass (and the helmet of the gunner sitting in front of you!) . With true HDR lighting 
 effects which leave you squinting at your monitor. The wind ruffles trees and plants, raindrops 
 splater on tarmac .Flies buzz around you when you lie under a tree looking down your optical gun 
 sights. You get the drift, but on a high end system, this game is simply breath taking. I've spent 
 about 40 hours just flying walking and driving round the map exploring. Depth of field focus effects 
 are used when you raise a gunsight for aiming. In fact I've seen ARMA do quite a few effects I've 
 never seen any other DX9 game do and I thought only DX10 would do! but to be honest unless you 
 have the very latest hardware you won't see much of this as you will have to lower GFX settings 
 to get ARMA to run at a decenmt FPS.
  
  All the military hardware and personel are high def', they are well modelled in 3D and texture 
 detailed. Many appear much more complex than even the units from BF2. A huge variety or trees and 
 plants litter the vast landscape and 100's of different sorts of 3d buildings make up the towns 
 and villages that litter the landscape. The only downside is some of the face texture maps on the 
 soldiers are a bit lame.
  
  ARMA is a true next gen 3d engine, it has time of day simulation, tides, phases of the moon, even 
 weather and fog patterns. Just like Operation Flashpoint before it ,which was the first PC game 
 I remeber could do that. While playing a mission you can start in day and during the course of 
 play watch the sun go down and the moon rise as the fog rolls in. It's uncannily real sometimes.
 
  
  On very high graphical settings, shadows are so realistic they are almost lifelike. If like me, 
 you have an 8800 GTX/GTS card. You can crank up AA and all the visual settings and get an idea 
 just how good Crysis and Alan Wake might look! On low settings it looks like Operation Flashpoint, 
 on Medium (normal) you get to see a few more bits and know that ARMA is something different but 
 basically unless you run everything at Very High your missing one hell of alot. Only a few reviewers 
 have even noticed just how good the 3d engine is, Like Supreme Commander, this game has been built 
 for the next few years of hardware upgrades, unless you want to spend out on an at least a 8800 
 GTS card and at least 2 gig RAM. ARMA will look ok, but you won't see the real engine.
  
  Now gameplay, just like Bohemia's first game, Operation Flashpoint, ARMA is a tough as hell. It's 
 a military simulator, so well done, real armies use a modified version for training. Single player 
 missions are like the tough stuff from the Delta Force series, with the added bonus, that on many 
 missions, if you die, you can swap to another unit and carry on the fight. A bit like BF:2 Modern 
 combat on the X 360. This means, you can start as a sniper but jump to being the pilot of Cobra 
 attack chopper etc kinda fun for single player but is one of those features you will love or hate..
 
  
  Single Player missions are not ARMA's strength in some ways although there are some decent training 
 missions. Single player is there for you to enjoy if you can't get online. ARMA single player side, 
 has more depth than BF2 or Delta Force: Joint op's, but the current missions test a variety of skills 
 and are all practice for multiplayer. Like many games the inbuilt AI in ARMA can either be quite 
 smart or really dumb. Nothing beats playing with other human players and multiplayer is what ARMA 
 is really about.
  
  Realism wise for single or multiplayer, even on the novice settings, it's hard. Bullets drop through 
 gravity and can be affected by wind, you can only carry a realistic amount of ammo, trying to shoot 
 anything while running around rambo style (like you would in Counter Strike) leads to instant death. 
 The learning curve of this game, is you unlearning all your quake/doom/counterstrike/BF2 skills 
 and becomming a real soldier. You have to aim! Go prone alot, flank the enemy have the right weapons 
 for the job as it's no use taking on a tank if you don't have an RPG.
  
  Get ready for realism, before you play RAMA, understand the fact a sniper can hit you from 1.5 
 Km's, a tank can sit in the forest and hit you from 2 km's. You will need to learn to fly choppers 
 at 150 mph at 10ft above the ground to become a reliable pilot. The level of realism and distance 
 is unlike any other game. In mulitplayer you will spend alot of time wondering who shot you. In 
 take 20 mins to find a well placed sniper who is butchering people at a spawn point. Because he 
 can be 1km away on a hill! There is a level of experience to be gained before you can start to 
 enjoy multiplayer. but with so many online modes, and levels of realism on offer there is something 
 for everyone.
  
  The game has grass and so much foilage you can spend your learning curve cursing the AI for being 
 able to see you when you can't see it. Practice makes perfect after 10-50 hours you start to adjust 
 and learn to use tatics and real military methods to overcome the AI. The big trick is to make 
 the Ai attack you and leave cover! Trying to outshoot the AI will just get you killed. And this 
 will come as a shock. having a firefight at 500 meter ranges is not like anything else you have 
 played before. The average fight in ARMA is normally at 100m + !
  
  It can take a couple of days of playing to even begin to progress through the supplied missions. 
 On harder settings, you have to navigate using landmarks or even the stars in the night sky (yes 
 at night, they put the real accurate starscape in the game!) . No handy you are here display on 
 your in game map. On the harder skill settings, AI units will try and flank you and trap you etc. 
 On anything but novice you will find out just how deadly modern warfare really is.
  
  It's almost a surprise that ARMA doesn't make you strip your rifle and clean it!
  
  Many reviews 
 will say the Ai is faulty, but they miss the point this is a FP Military Simulator NOT a First 
 person Shooter. Yes, the Ai units are much better than you at spotting you through trees and grass, 
 but since patch 1.05 you can turn off the grass and make it even. Bohemia are still refining the 
 AI as they patch. The ARMA mod communtiy have been given tools to make very complex AI scripts 
 now. The AI in ARMA can be stunning or very dense, AI soldier can run to a fallen comrade and grab 
 ammo. if you sit 1.5km away and snipe an Ai squad they will either sit there and all get shot, 
 or start moving towards you and hunting you. The Ai is unpredictable but but does either show real 
 smarts or is really dumb. This is one of the current problems of ARMA.
  
  Like Operation Flashpoint before it, you have to command AI units in tanks and choppers, to move 
 and shoot, you can't be a 1 man army. It takes 3 people to operate a tank effectivily (Commander/Gunner/Driver) . 
 2 people for a helicopter gunship. which takes a bit of getting used to, although this turns out 
 to be fun, as AI chopper gunners do as they are told and are excellent shot's unlike real players 
 in BF2 who would jump in, as your gunner and could not hit a barndoor 3 ft away!
  
  Single Player wise, it could take you several weeks to months, of play, to complete the current 
 included missions. This content ranges from simple snipe a few squads on your own, to controlling 
 huge offensive operations of Air and Armoured divisions to take a city, with lots of special op' 
 type go do 4 things to complete it missions in between. There are simple select an play single 
 missions as well as a full campaign.
  
  The current single player missions are OK, but not fantastic, already 100's of users missions can 
 be downloaded. But offline ARMA is only a taster of the real game.
  
  But, soon as you have installed ARMA, you have access to use the in-game mission editor (which 
 works inside the game and isn't a seperate thing!) . Which should lead to weeks of fun, while you 
 build missions that suit your very own tastes. Want to re-inact the gunship attack from Apocalypse 
 Now , or the even D-day landings with modern Military hardware?
  
  You can just place units on the map, choose their skill level, which ones you want to play and 
 test in seconds. Up to adding waypoints, mission objectives etc. If you want to start building 
 missions to share, there is a very helpful website provided by Bohemia were you can read how to's 
 and share/download missions with others. Player made missions are very popular. This gets rids 
 of the problem of having to wait for the developer to launch an expansion 6 months later.
  
  At this point, I should add Bohemia Interactive are one of those rare games-creators, who keep 
 adding content and patches years after the game is released. Right now in patch 1.05, there are 
 about 30 unit types to choose from, in about 12 months time, there will be 100's as Bohemia and 
 the ARMA mod community constantly add to the games database.
  
  Multiplayer in patch 1.05, now works for me. ARMA's true strength is its MP options. As a BF2 fan 
 I am addicted to HOLD mode (very much like the BF2 MP game) maps made by Zhaphod of Beserk are 
 the most popular online and they are stuuning huge 30sq Km areas were sniper can pick you off at 
 2 km's and massive armour/infantry and air engagments happen. It's like the fun of BF2 in the space 
 of the joint-ops maps. There is nothing like it on the PC or any console. If you like FPS military 
 MP, and you have a good PC ARMA is about the most fun you can have. COOP mode, were teams of 10-50 
 humans size up vs an AI army are also very popular. The action of HOLD mode is then replaced by 
 the tatics and squad work of COOP it can take hours of effort to finish a mission. You will gasp 
 in awe as people work as a team to enter a hostile city under fire while other players act as pilots 
 and drop you into combat at low level. The scale is amazing. Several battles can be going on, 100's 
 of AI units engaging the human force across the 400 SQ Km map! With a 400 sq km map it could take 
 ages for it to feel like you have seen it all before.
  
  The EVOLUTION map for COOP mode by Natutal Selection is now very popular basically its a 400 SQ 
 Km map full of 1000's of enemy AI units. you start at your base and then pick either missions to 
 complete, or go clearing cities to earn points that give you ranks which lets you unlock new weapons 
 and viechles and Ai unit to help you. There is really nothing like it on the PC. To clear the island 
 can take hours of upto 40 human players working together.
  
  Soundwise, it's surround, and open AL, some of the sound effects on the guns are a bit rubbish, 
 but like any other game of its type ARMA can replicate the sound of bullets passing over your your 
 head in surround sound. These sound like crackling pop's and are the mini sonic boom bulltes really 
 make. If you look on you tube at real combat footage this effect is stunningly real and can be 
 very unnerving. When you here this effect it's time to move as someone is shooting at you. some 
 guns/cars/jeeps don't sound as good as they do in other shooters. But this like Operation Flashpoint 
 before, will be corrected over time, by either Bohemia or the modders getting better samples. You 
 do hear bullets retort just like realife, you can see the flash of a gun fire then here the sound 
 which is very life like. Guns even puff smoke when they fire which means the sharp eyed can spot 
 a sniper by the smoke his gun lets off. Something to note, is ARMA features a very clever text-to-speech 
 engine, when an AI unit shouts an order, it doesn't play a simple sound file, the engine puts it 
 all together. For instance a unit will really shout Machine gunner at 3 oclock!, fire at will, 
 unit 2 down , all this is generated on the fly, which means entire squads chattering away as you 
 play, which leads to AI units giving you the same sort of game info only real players normally 
 would do over VOIP. There's a very detailed command system that can take some getting used to. 
 It's time consuming and very much like the system from Op' Flashpoint. You can create you own macro's 
 though, to speed up the process. Over the course of a few days it becomes second nature but yet 
 again, you have to invest some time and effort. There is an overhead top down view for controlling 
 your squads thats a bit like the commander view BF2 as well.
  
  ARMA is one fo the few current games that supports triple head monitors configurations, right out 
 of the box, that's right, if you have a huge games rig and three monitors (hardware details on 
 bohemia website) you can get ARMA out of the box to display front left and right views on seperate 
 monitors {even just one big 32 widecsreen LCD, which is a surreal experience!) . This makes tree 
 top level choper runs so realistic, you will dream about flying them when you stop playing the 
 game. You will need EXTREME hardware to get this to work in high res. But as Intel Duo/Quad cores 
 and 8800 cards continue dropping in price over this year, many hardcore players may be running 
 triple head set ups for games like ARMA by the start of 2008.
  
  Add to that, ARMA also supports trackir, a hardware head motion tracker , which lets you look around 
 in 3d on a single/dual/triple monitor setup, I Imagine Military's all over the world will be snapping 
 up and modding the ARMA engine for years to come. And hardcore Military Gamers will be running 
 huge hardware by the end of the year and running ARMA at levels of realism the games industry has 
 only just started to think about.
  
  ARMA, has it flaws, the in-game physics of some objects can be a strange, once I witnessed, was 
 when i blew up a jeep with a mine, the jeep then flew about a mile of the map. Building's can't 
 be damaged to the level desruction, of the buildings in Company of Hero's or Crysis either, the 
 buildings are like the buildings in BF2 (Sadley no driving you tank through a house yet in ARMA) . 
 Some buildings can be demolished but not all. Perhaps this is something we may see corrected as 
 the game is patched. Still you can actually blow the buildings up which is an improvement over 
 BF2, Joint op's etc.
  
  I get the feeling, with all the clever hardware support ,ARMA, has been really made for the Military 
 worldwide and Bohemia will sell a professional version of the engine and mod it for Millions. ARMA 
 is just the public offshoot we get to play now, while Bohemia are busy attending meetings at the 
 DOD and MOD etc.
  
  Summary:
  
  ARMA like Oblivion, Halflife 2, BF2, before it, is a genuine genre changer, Visually It's about 
 the most stunning game on any platform right now with so many visual first's, if you want to test 
 your PC for CRYSIS, install ARMA and see if your PC can run it*. Unless you have a &pound;2000 
 games PC, ARMA won't look that spectacular, but if you have a high end rig, this is the game that 
 you can show off and get people to say holy cow is that possible? to.
  Fighting at night on a high spec PC has to be seen to be belived you can see tracers arc in from 
 Km's away. Burning tanks light the landscape with glows. Flares light up using complex dynamic 
 lighting and shadows. Many guns will create tell tall flashes and light their surroundings. Chopper 
 spolights show the world in color while you can see the dark in a dusky brown.
  
  There are some flaws, like with even the best games, but, with an inbuilt mission editor and great 
 support from the company who made it, if you ever played with toy soldiers as a child, or wnated 
 more than the arcade fun of BF2 then this IS the game for you. The longevity of ARMA should be 
 fantastic.
  
  If ARMA achieves anything it should be that FP: MS should be considered a game category just as 
 much as RTS, FPS, 4x, etc are now.
  
  Many of the negative user reviews you will read here are by people who didn't know this is a military 
 simulator or are running ARMA on older PC's. Like Supreme Commander this game can toast even the 
 best PC's. ARMA requires the latest drivers for hardware and your machine in tip top condition 
 to play well. The difference between the normal setting and very high are vast. Very high shadows 
 enables raytrace style lighting and effects (much like Crysis) anything but very high results in 
 basic shadows. The Min spec for seeing ARMA in HD is an 8800 GTS 640 meg vram and a 4000mhz CPU 
 and 2 gig ram. The lastest patch now enables the 10km view distances on the 8800 cards. To fly 
 around with 10km view distance through the forest into the sunset is so real its hard to discribe.
 
  
  * Anti Alias to x4/x8 AF to x16, all visual settings in game, to VERY HIGH (in game View distance 
 4km) at screen res 1280x1024 (4:3) 1600x1024 (16:9) or better, with gamma correct AA turned on, Transparency 
 super sample enabled (Nvidia users) . If you get better than 30 FPS, you might be ok for the eye 
 candy in CRYSIS!
  
  ARMA's true strength is Multiplayer with so many modes and styles of play there is something for 
 everyone. The biggest shock factor is that the game is so hard. Humans and Ai can kill you with 
 ease from even long range. It takes a couple of weeks to adjust to this if your used to BF2, CS 
 etc.
  
  I can do the above with an AMD 4000+ single core, EVGA 8800 GTX KO ACS3, 2 GIG RAM and XIFI, at 
 about an average 25 FPS best 80 FPS in the 16:9 res at 4x AA.
  
  Note: when you read most other reviews of this game you get an impression of the reviews Crysis 
 will get later this year with people running X800'/6800's Intel P3's and 512 megs ram etc saying 
 Hey, it doesn't look any better than Far Cry! and the select few running Modern kit saying Holy 
 Sh*t!, this is Amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 12, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  After waiting four or five years for the sequal to one of the best computer games ever, Operation 
 Flashpoint, and after following all the hype and speculation on forums, I was expecting so many 
 things from Armed Assault. I was expecting improvements to what must rank as one of the best games 
 for PC ever. My reviews for Opertation Flashpoint, and the Resistance add-on, here at gamespot, 
 clearly demostrate my enthusiam for the forerunner to Armed Assault.
  
  I did not expect Armed Assault to have the same impact as Operation Flashpoint did; but neither 
 did I expect the disappointment I was in for. Very little has changed! This is basically the same 
 as OFP, with but with the option of heavier graphics that kill your computer. I have a decent computer. 
 It's got 1.5GB of main memory, and GEForce 6800 with 512MB of memory, an P4 3.2 Ghz; and yet I 
 had to use 800 x 600 resolutionand turn all graphics settings to low or very low , in order to 
 get acceptable frame-rates - I'm getting about 18fps now. Not good, but acceptable, and at least 
 playable.
  
  The graphics are definitely better, but they aren't anything special by today's standards. I'm 
 not too worried about that. It just seems odd that this is the same 3D engine as used by OFP, that's 
 just had some pretty things added to it like grass, reflections and heavy textures. In other words, 
 a 3D engine that is six years old. Nothing clever at all when one compares it to 3D engines like 
 Source or Unreal .
  
  Prior to it's release, I had heard so much about this vast new environment we would have as a battleground; 
 but all we get are two islands - one big one like Malden in OFP Resistance, and the other a tiny 
 desert island. That's it. I was left wondering whether I'd bought the right game, or whether I'd 
 bought a lite version or something. I was definitely starting to worry at this stage. I couldn't 
 believe it.
  
  One of the things I'd heard had been improved was damage modelling. So I checked this out. They've 
 certainly got rid of the horrible mesh deformations that were used in OFP. Vehicles that explode 
 are swapped, under a big cloud of fire an smoke, with burned out models. Firing a big gun at a 
 structure will eventually cause it to collapse in big cloud of dust, again to be replaced with 
 a wrecked model - this time a rubble mound. Fences, walls, trees, pillars fall over exactly like 
 they did in OFP. This new damage modelling actually works quite well, and after an hour or so of 
 battle a town can look very different and unique due to the number of variations the new damage 
 modlling brings.
  
  Driving certain armoured vehicles - view modes are now limited to virtual cockpit, or third person. 
 The optics view that was available in OFP seems to be unavailable in certain vehicles. Not sure 
 if this is a bug or not. The problem with the virtual cockpit view is that is has a poor visiblity 
 for driving - and it is a fixed viewpoint so you can't move the position of your head a little 
 to get a better view when needed, as you would in real life. The third person view is just gamey 
 , but now we're forced to use it in some vehicles.
  
  This game, although very playable, gives one the impression that the developers lacked the enthusiam 
 that was behind the original OFP. I think the original OFP was brought out to impress the big potential 
 customers like the US military, as a kind of fore-runner to Virtual Battelfield. A lot of effort 
 went into that original game. It was new and innovative, and must rank amongst the best ever games 
 for PC. ArmA, on the other hand, bears the hallmarks of a game that was rushed &amp; brought out 
 prematurely. There are quite a few bugs in it - the fact that they've brought out a 500MB patch 
 so soon after the first release is a telling sign that the first release left a lot to be desired. 
 I just think the developers' hearts weren't in this one. But, let us not forget that OFP is still 
 a great game, and so is this. It is at least equal to OFP, and as such, ranks as part of the best 
 battle simulation series there is. It is still in a league of it's own. Of course I will continue 
 to use it, and hope that it improves over time. We shall have to wait and see what future patches 
 come out, and what add-ons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trinitytx
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I'm an OFP vetran too. I bought the UK release since I was aware of the EU's launched version still 
 having some issues. And there as still things BI are addressing, but as a whole it blooming rocks. 
 Bought two copies, my 15yr old son has been playin OFP right up till last week for YEARS. He loved 
 OFP and he thinks this is brilliant. Now, he's played Gears of War, he's got a respectable gaming 
 taste. But he still fires up OFP and gets right into it. The atmosphere is very much the same on 
 ArmA. Newer graphic engine is actually nicer than some would give credit. Methinks that 'NextGen' 
 train of thought is spilling out onto the PC game reviews. trust me if you've got a reasonable 
 graphic card and CPU (PCIE works better on this than AGP obviously) and ram to hold it all together 
 then your set for a great War SIMULATOR. BF2142, GRAW, BF2 players and vets may not enjoy this. 
 But if you liked OFP (at all!) then get this. An essential purchase for me, and I would really 
 recommend any OFP fans to get it too. You can also now join multiplayer games mid-game! Old ofp 
 wouldn't let you!
  
  It rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arry_ng3
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 26, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  When i seen that this was coming soon, it put me in the mood to re-install Operation Flash point... 
 then the date finally come to buy it, bought it installed nice music when installing to get you 
 revved up, nice main menu with soldiers walking around in the desert looking very real, so i start 
 new game and I'm stuck thought this stupid news reporter for 5 minutes only finding out i can skip 
 by pressing esc then skip scene. anyway after i skipped that i had to wait ANOTHER 5 minutes in 
 a silly jeep ride looking at soldiers that don't even breathe!!! but that didn't bother me at all 
 because the graphics looked amazing, shadows over the wavy grass looked very nice, you could even 
 see the material in his clothing very nice. Then I heard the soldiers speak - OMG - I've never heard 
 anything so pathetic in my life, move to the tree 2 o'clock in what it sounded like 4 different 
 male voices- total let down.
  Apart from the pathetic sounds the game is OK, AI is abit dumb still but nothing too serious, when 
 they hear fire they still hit the dirt. On a serious note, stick with Operation Flashpoint if your 
 not too fussed about graphics and what not. its about &pound;2 in shops now haha so your grabbing 
 a bargain... TIP: Don't trust the spec req on the back of the case... this is a VERY greedy game, 
 you will need alot of power behind you to run it nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bsan89
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  As a Veteran Operation Flash Point Players, you sorta know what to expect from Armed Assault. Operation 
 Flash Point was way ahead of its time during its release it was an awesome game but sadly unappreciated. 
 Now the EU Armed Assault is finally release and I got my hands on it after waiting years since 
 its E3 Announcements. Here's the Good:
  -Awesome Graphic Engine! If you want a Crysis Look alike engine. Armed Assault has it! Though sadly 
 this is mainly if not only its feature.
  -Minor Tweak, an Extra Iron Site zoom for those far range, grass wavering, also you leave footprint 
 if you step on dirt or something wet till it drys off. Also If I'm not mistaken bullet also bounce. 
 Also I believe you have to arch long range shot. -Sound is very good if you have EAX, you hear 
 cracking noise of bullets and hissing. Also Tank burning, explosions, grenade popping off etc.
 
  
  Here's the Bad:
  -Nothing much has change since OFP, basically just better graphic engine. The Vehicle, boats, planes, 
 is still around and the same, but it actually has LESS in Armed Assault. -1 bullet gives out tracer 
 for some reason? -insert laugh- -Sounds a little mess up during fire fight. -Same Basic feature 
 in OFP
  -BUGS BUGS BUGS It gets its own category: -Graphic is REALLY mess up when it has a lot of model 
 to render. Sometimes it DOESN'T render. There is so many complain about this game and making this 
 game unplayable even if you have SLI 8800. Sorry guys. -1st mission, it shows a cut scene and fade 
 out... problem is. It stays that way! It suppose to load me in the game in first person after it 
 fade out. Which is never did after I gave the game its 10th tried the day after it work. -Path 
 finding for A. I always been a problem. But going through building? -Plain unplayable, Patch 1.05 
 should be coming in a month. Just in time for the U. S release. If not, its Might and Magic: Dark 
 Messiah for you Armed Assault! Closing Comment: Don't Get me wrong. This is a GREAT GAME. Though 
 its unplayable right now, just the developer's need to make some MAJOR fix. Once it done that, 
 this game will probably avg from 7.5 to probably high 8 or maybe 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironblindfold
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Dirt, its a good thing the devs focused on making it a believable fact that you're laying on the 
 ground, as you will find yourself hitting the dirt time and time, its like you live there. This 
 game really isnt for the weak of heart, dying is literally a part of the game. It can be frustrating 
 trying to complete missions, but therein lies the beuty, as you are at your own discretion when 
 it comes to deciding how to go about deystroying a convoy. Or sneaking into a base undetected and 
 sabatoging an ammo supply. This game will remain one of my top played for as long as I play video 
 games at all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattman17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  Now I loved OFP, and I do really love ArmA, but I wish they would have done a few more things to 
 it. The AI still seem a tad bit dumb, as they run right at you as you and your squad fire them 
 down. But really that doesnt effect my level of satisfaction while playing.
  
  I really cant wait to get into the campaign more, it really is loads of fun while also being a 
 good challenge. Although it does get me frustrated when you get your pecker shot off from who knows 
 where by the OPFOR. I recommend buying this game. If you liked OFP you are going to love Armed 
 Assualt.
  
  Klay Abele 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bireno
Rating: 2.1
Date: Feb 23, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately, this is by far the worst game I've ever played.
  
  Upon starting the game, you'll be forced to sit through an intro &amp; then a hummer trip that's 
 probably the better part of 5 minutes long. During this trip, absolutely nothing happens and you 
 can't even skip through it. After that, you FINALLY get to play the game. Unfortunately, that's 
 hardly better. At this point in time, you'll find that the controls totally suck (aiming is a pain 
 compared to your normal FPS) . Not only will you discover that, but you'll also find that the poor 
 graphics don't mean good performance. The graphics are comparable to maybe Battlefield 2, but the 
 game runs horribly, like.. Supreme Commander maxed out on an 81x81km multiplayer map with 8 players.
 
  
  The sound isn't much better, voice acting in this game will probably make you want to tear your 
 eyes out.
  
  I'm sorry to be so harsh, but I couldn't play this game for more than 5 minutes, it's just that 
 bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 23, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  7.30AM. A secluded clearing a few clicks inland of South Sahrani's coastal highway. A man heavily 
 laden with weaponry moves from the zebra-stripe shadows of the spruce forest to a beat-up pick-up 
 truck parked in the centre of the clearing. He gets in and drives away.
  
  7.37AM. The truck sits abandoned in the middle of the highway. The driver is a hundred yards down 
 the road crouched on the verge fiddling with a small canvas satchel. As the rumble and squeak of 
 approaching traffic grows louder he finishes his work and jogs up a nearby hill towards a small 
 stand of pines.
  
  7.40AM. For the man under the pine trees the world is now ten yards of tarmac framed by the steel 
 circle of an M136 AT weapon sight. Grass waves languidly in the lower half of the circle. For a 
 few moments a turquoise dragonfly hovers in the centre. As the nimble insect departs the squat 
 sluggish mass of a BMP-2 infantry fighting vehicle takes its place.
  
  7.41AM. Hungry flames, swirling smoke, unseen death. The BMP-2 burns merrily on the melting blacktop. 
 When the pair of lorries behind it lurch to a stop, the man sets-off the satchel charges. KA. BOOM.
 
  
  7.45AM. Troops from the third lorry are working their way up the hill towards the pines. The man 
 tracks one through the green-tinted scope of his M4 Aimpoint assault rifle and fells him with him 
 two shots to the chest. A crouching machinegunner gets three rounds.
  
  7.53AM. The crackle of small-arms fire has died away and the hum of the insects and the glitter 
 of birdsong has returned. The man walks down the hill, surveying the grim carnage as he goes. He 
 takes a Dragunov sniper rifle from the bloody hands of one corpse and examines it. He's still holding 
 the weapon when the sound of an approaching reconnaissance jeep reaches his ears. 'Handy,' thinks 
 the man.
  
  8.12AM. With the aid of the requisitioned ride the man reaches the rendezvous point in good time. 
 Before the Black Hawk arrives to carry him off to the land of soft mattresses, hot showers, and 
 cold beers he has time to read four pages of All Quiet On The Western Front and pick a glossy yellow 
 buttercup for his lapel.
  
  
  With the exception of the book reading and the flower picking (poetic licence) the above is a pretty 
 accurate account of the wonderfully immersive mission I completed earlier today. If I had ten times 
 as much room (and you had ten times as much patience) then I'd also provide accounts of my ten 
 previous unsuccessful attempts at this mission. Chronicling every failure - the times the troops 
 or the BMP-2 cut me down, or I blew myself up with my own satchel charges or rockets - would illustrate 
 perfectly just how different ArmA is from most military shooters. Make no mistake: this game is 
 harsh.
  
  A lot of the harshness is down to something that's in rather short supply in the majority of military-themed 
 titles - realism. One-shot-kills from quarter of a mile away, far-reaching splash damage, and wounds 
 that leave you unable to do anything but slither on your belly like a snake, will come as a massive 
 shock to anyone unfamiliar with ArmA's uncompromising ancestor Operation Flashpoint. Even if you 
 know OFP intimately you may find yourself questioning the difficulty threshold in ArmA. One seemingly 
 small enhancement - the lovely carpet of herbage that now covers rural terrain - has big tactical 
 implications. Going prone in a field or wood is great for a bit of impromptu botany but is frequently 
 suicidal in a firefight. Enemies seem to have little trouble spotting you through the stalks, but 
 spotting them back can be nigh-on impossible. Bohemia Interactive is aware of the inequality and 
 is adding a 'no grass' setting to the first patch. That's great, but you have to wonder whether 
 the problem doesn't have more to do with AI than visuals.
  
  Apart from the eagle-eyed spotting, CPU-controlled grunts don't seem to act all that differently 
 to the way they acted in OFP. This means they're no pushovers, but they aren't exactly cunning 
 either. They'll approach or attempt to flank you if they're in the mood, but often they just hit 
 the dirt and return fire with fiendish accuracy. It's a shame BI couldn't have introduced some 
 more subtle and varied behaviours. How nice it would be to see opponents lean from corners and 
 doorways to unleash quick volleys. How nice it would be to see more signs of cowardice, fear, and 
 co-ordination in their behaviours. Then again, given the current challenge level, perhaps it's 
 a good thing the bad guys aren't more resourceful.
  
  
  The bad guys in this instance are the Russian-backed troops of the undemocratic Democratic Republic 
 of Sahrani (the northern half of a vast, seamlessly rendered fictional island) . At the beginning 
 of the campaign they storm across the border into the US-backed Kingdom of South Sahrani kickstarting 
 a conflict that ensnares a hapless bunch of American soldiers just about to return to the States. 
 You're one of those Americans and quickly find yourself going toe-to-TOW with a Red Square May 
 Day parade's worth of Warsaw Pact hardware. Early missions are hopeless (in a good way) - scary 
 retreats, cocky counter-attacks and daring covert interdictions. Later, support arrives and the 
 South goes on the offensive.
  
  Whether you're clobbering a convoy, sabotaging an ammo dump, or taking part in a tank battle, the 
 scenarios swarm with tactical possibilities. As in OFP there's a powerful sense of war as something 
 sprawling, sporadic and unpredictable. There are occasions - not many admittedly - when you seem 
 to spend as much time getting to and from firefights as you do actually participating in them. 
 Spending extended periods tabbing through the countryside or bouncing around in a Land Rover or 
 Stryker APC might sound deathly dull, but can be quite immersive, especially if you're the one 
 doing the driving. If the naturalism falters anywhere it's in the optional side missions. Before 
 starting one of the main campaign episodes you get a chance to improve the odds by successfully 
 completing a supplemental sortie. A fair few of these sideshows are fun but improbable lone-wolf 
 affairs. However short the South Sahrani military are of personnel you'd think they'd be able to 
 send out more than one man to take-on a base crawling with guards.
  
  On a solo operation you obviously can't jump into the boots of another team-leader if your first 
 character kicks the bucket (a welcome new feature) and more importantly you don't get the chance 
 to play with ArmA's array of command options. In addition to the first-person and third-person 
 cameras, there's also an overhead tactical camera available which allows the game to be played 
 a bit like an RTS. I say 'a bit like' because ArmA still relies on OFP's rather convoluted menu 
 system for dishing-out orders. With a Close Combat or Combat Mission-style interface, manoeuvring 
 men and vehicles would be a breeze rather than a battle.
  
  
  By far the simplest and most reliable way to get a vehicle to do what you want it to do is clamber 
 aboard and grab the wheel yourself. Everything from buses to Black Hawks, Humvees to Harriers, 
 motorbikes to motorboats, is crewable in this game. Apparently BI has improved the flight models 
 since OFP. Frankly I didn't notice. Whatever it has done there's certainly room for further improvement. 
 I can handle the choppers in Flight Simulator X with few problems, but getting the likes of ArmA's 
 Cobra and Hokum lined up with targets is a real palaver. More flight model configuration options 
 and a transparent cockpit toggle would have been most welcome. As avionics and weapons are already 
 massively simplified, there's no good reason not to offer powerful aids.
  
  Cripes, this is all starting to sound a bit negative. While it's true ArmA doesn't make great strides 
 in areas like AI, command-and-control, and vehicle simulation (none of which were awful in OFP) 
 there's one vital area where the progress is massive. Visually ArmA is a bit of a peach. There 
 are times when you glance across at a crouching comrade, stare over the rolling fields towards 
 a distant town, or peer through a gun sight at a wreckage-strewn street, the illusion is so convincing 
 - so complete - you just have to pause and savour the magic. Given Sahrani's scale - 400 square 
 kilometres - you'd expect large swathes of it to look pretty generic. The fact that you can set 
 up a skirmish with the mission editor confident that any spot on the map will be atmospheric, believable, 
 and tactically interesting is a testament to some great landscape gardening.
  
  
  The campaign is no weekend wonder (I'm 14 missions in and it still feels like there's a way to 
 go) and the single mission selection should keep you going for a long while (one of the 12 scenarios 
 is a miniature campaign in itself) but ArmA's secret weapon is that very approachable mission creation 
 tool. A couple of evenings ago I wanted to test vehicle damage models so set up a little scenario 
 involving an OPFOR checkpoint and a Humvee. The thing took a couple of minutes to create and I 
 ended up playing it for three hours straight totally forgetting my experiments. No other military 
 shooter makes fashioning your own skirmishes anywhere near as easy.
  
  Because OFP was so extensively and brilliantly modded and many of those same enthusiasts are already 
 getting to grips with this unofficial sequel (it's been out for a while in central/eastern Europe) 
 ArmA is bound to burgeon as time passes. Right now it's an essential purchase for anyone interested 
 in war simulation or tired of the contrived drama that fills mainstream military shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dozzpot
Rating: 2.4
Date: Feb 23, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  I must admit that despite the terrible control interface I quite liked the original Operation Flashpoint 
 - although it did take some time to get into and I failed to complete the final mission as flying 
 a chopper with mouse and keyboard was just too cumbersome.
  I therefore eagerly awaited ARMA which is essentially OF2, assuming a much more intuitive and common-sense 
 interface would have been developed. It was therefore a big disappointment that nearly 6 (SIX!!) 
 years after the first game we are presented with a similar though unbelievably even more complicated 
 control panel and an endless list of keys to try and remap into something sensible (developers: 
 please go away and play GRAW to see how to do it properly) .
  The graphics were also little better than OF and the sound is fairly puny too. After completing 
 the tedious (though necessary) training missions and the familiar first part of the first mission 
 (run for 10 mins and then get shot) I uninstalled it and put it on Ebay.
  I think I would rather stare at the floor until GRAW 2 comes out in a month or so... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coldkilla9
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Simple review: Don't like the missions/campaign? Make your own! Put them online! Play them with 
 friends. The modibility is insane: Make  units/artillery, 
 you name it. The game allows for scripting: Call in a bomb strike via lazer designator by radioing 
 your nearest air force base. Make sniping missions, extractions, dual multiplayer coops, coops, 
 dm's, tdms, objective, seek and distroy, ctf, battlefield flag maps (cap flags to get points) , 
 and my all time favorite: RTS. Imagine playing command and conquer, but in the view of the soldier, 
 on a battlefield 400,000sq km large. You can hid in bushes, set up ambushes, etc. build a base 
 and watch it grow right before your eyes.. build up your defences fast before the enemy finds your 
 base and tries to take you out. Partake in stealth missions, setting beacons on enemy base units 
 to allow for future bomb runs when air technology becomes available, setting satchels to cripple 
 the enemys resources.. the list goes on forever. Don't judge this game by its campaign, its a military 
 simulation, not a gripping and compelling love story. But as I said, if you don't like it, make 
 it your own. This game will have YEARS of replayability because it will NEVER be the same everytime 
 you play it. This is one of the insanely few games that give you so much replayability. That's 
 my 2 cents, give this game a chance, buy it. I've played Operation Flashpoint (this games prequel) 
 for over FIVE years and it is still a remarkable game. The 10,000meter view distance is nice too 
 if your pc can handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bravo106
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  Armed Assault feels and looks like an improved version of OFP. Which in my mind is a great thing. 
 If you loved OFP then i don't see why you would'nt like an improved version of it. In terms of 
 graphics, scripting and gameplay the game has being improved quite a bit. However there are alot 
 of bigs in the game which makes the playing experience horrible for some people and makes them 
 write bad reviews, but I'm sure these problems will get fixed in later patches. Hand animations 
 are abit wierd since there is only one way for holding all the weapons. Another problem is the 
 perfomance of the game, it requires alot of recourses to run, I have a 7900gs 512MB Graphic Card, 
 Win XP 64Bit Pro, 4600+ AMD 64 x2 @ 2.40 Ghz, 2GB DDR2 667 RAM running at 400 MHz, 250GB SATA II 
 HDD and I get around 20-35 some times 40 FPS. My other machine hardly runs at 25 FPS which is P4 
 HT Tech 3.2 Ghz, 1.5GB DDR Ram, 120GB HDD, 256MB 9800SE ATI which falls in the recommended spec 
 catogery. Hopefully the game will be optimized in later patches or it might not be playable for 
 quite alot of people.
  
  I give it 10/10 Because it has alot of potential and with support of the mod community this is 
 going to be a great and long lasting game.
  
  If you are after Slow paced, Team work, think before act shooting games then this is it with a 
 400km2 island.
  
  If you are looking for a 10 min Run and Gun game to pass sometime then this isn't for you, because 
 the game itself takes quite sometime to fully learn and with around 30-40 people on a 400km2 island 
 you might not see the type of action you are after. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 20, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  This game was good several years ago. If you played the game flash point you dont need to play 
 this game, because its the same thing. And I mean its the same thing. The graphics for lack of 
 a better word SUCK. The controls are not hard basically like most 1st person shooters. The game 
 play is very real if you run you cant aim at all. And you have 2 sites a cheesy iron site that 
 does act like a real site and a red dot site. Something I like in the gaming world but hate in 
 real life. The Ai is just plain retarded. When they hear fire they come. Ok thats kind of cool 
 but tactically they are sad. For example gun fire run right around the corner and right out it 
 the open. For the Rainbow 6 Las Vegas players that should make you feel right are home. Even though 
 I dont think you could handle the stick man graphics. This is just a steaming pile. Really no 
 different then flash point and looks the same. Buy this game if your short of saucers at your house. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aqgolda
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  I have played well over 1000 games in the past 15 years. And now I have found the perfect one. 
 This game gets 10/10 and here's why.
  
  1.) You can go anywhere at any time.
  2.) The graphics are simply perfect.
  3.) The sound is incredibly realistic.
  4.) Everything 
 is alive. e. g. the grass, trees sky, sea all move.
  5.) You can create your character have a mission editor.
  6.) You can have 100's of people on 
 the screen at once.
  7.) The controls are exactly the same as OFP. So you can instantly get on with it.
  8.) It has 
 all the little things e. g. when taking off on a chopper, the surrounding area blows in the wind. 
 Also fire on a bridge and see it collapse werever you hit it. Excellent!
  9.) There are so many vehicles to choose from. And there is a big gap waiting to b e filled with 
 add-on which will happen (can't wait!)
  10.) And the AI is brilliant, they will act incredibly human.
  
  Best Game Ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kjarrideath
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing, im a big fan of ofp and this game fills my needs. The Graphics are 
 amazing! breathtaking! the sound is very good too! and the gameplay is absolutly amazing, you can 
 have about 30 driveable vehicles, tanks, choppers, planes, cars and boats! The enviroment is truly 
 amazing too, its so beutiful and it reminds me of farcry sometimes! the campaign is pretty cool 
 too but its a little buggy sometimes, but if you have played ofp you know the missions are always 
 a little buggy because of this game generates random things, you can win every mission 1000x and 
 it will never be the same again, thats what i love about this game. And your character is just 
 like the allies or the enemys you can take probably 2 bullets in your chest and then your dead. 
 But anyway this game is amazing any tactical shooter guys out there must buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rooievogel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  ArmA is great! It has very good graphics and a great settings, just like OFP.
  There are some minor glitches though but they don't weigh up against the overall gameplay. With 
 12 single missions, a great campaign and the many multiplayer options, this game is totally worth 
 your money. Bohemia will release a patch soon and the great modding community plus the build in 
 mission editor make sure you'll play this game for months to come! It is a very demanding game 
 for your PC and you actually need one of the best videocards on the market. But when you have such 
 a videocard, it's paradise on earth!
  
  So buy this game and enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmA101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 16, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game and well worth buying if you like realistic warfare not for people who like short 
 range skirmishes or getting up close and personal. The sounds are amazing and realistic and the 
 wide array of vehicles and weaponery is brilliant multiplayer is awsome and fun. If you liked Operation 
 Flashpoint then this is a must buy for you. there are quite a few bugs and glitches but since Flashpoint 
 has such a big fanbase ArmA will to and thier will be patches out within a month or so. the map 
 editor is very good for having fun or making small to very big skirmishes and you can leterally 
 spend hours making a mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkfall_05
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  You will like ArmA (Armed Assault) if your a fan of OFP (Operation Flashpoint) developed by BIS 
 (Bohemia Interactive Studio) and published by Codemasters back in 2001.
  
  Large maps allow for generally multiple points of attack during missions, which adds a bit of diversity 
 and replayability. Optional mission objectives are good. Enemy are more often than not, good shots 
 and you may end up with a hole in your virtual head when standing up exposing yourself, but this 
 adds challenge and you will play this game for a challenge won't you?
  Plenty of updated weapon types, soldier, vehicle and air classes gives a modern day feel to the 
 game as a soldier at war.
  Due to the ability to create your own missions and download missions, you may be playing this game 
 until the next one comes around. Did I mention Addons (soldiers, vehicles, air &amp; sea units, maps, other) 
 are being created as I write this. OFP created a huge following, and a large community grew with 
 that following which many contribute to the scene with custom made addon content.
  Sure as with any release it's got bugs, some of which have been fixed by patches and these bugs 
 should not be in the english versions of the game.
  At the time of writing this, I am playing the German version of ArmA. I guess with the delayed 
 english release comes the high chance it will be much more stable and bugless in comparison to 
 the Czech and German version (they are good beta testers arn't they) . With the German version I 
 am playing at the moment, sounds are not the best and choppers are way to loud.
  The game sports great visuals.
  You can now lean left and right as a soldier (sweet I can pop 
 my virtual melon around corners) .
  I highly recommend this game to OFP fans and military minded people who like large areas of land 
 and sea to virtually create large battles or spec ops missions and blow stuff up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TECMONGOOSE
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:47 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I've been waiting for this game a long time. Before, Operation Flashpoint was my most 
 favourite, better than BF2 or any other game because of its grand schale and possibility to do 
 whatever you wanted. Not very arcadish like BF series but more long lasting and tactical.
  When I downloaded Armed Assault from the German online vendor, at first I was shocked. I run a 
 X3800 dual core with 7800GTX and 2 GB of memory and it was still running crappy, so crappy I could 
 almost cry. How on earth did that engine run so bad. Blood in the air. More people were complaining 
 because of serious performance issues. Since patch 1.02 that has been improved. The performance 
 is a lot better and I can consider the game playable now. It looks good and I start discovering 
 stuff. I loved OFP because of the Multiplayer fun. If you are smart, you can prove that by playing 
 OFP. You need tactical insight. Now, with Arma, thats again possible. The game clearly shows the 
 difference between a shoot em up-player and a tactical gamer.
  
  The graphics are great, and sound is good too. All is fine but just want to warn people who love 
 quick shoot em ups and rambo style shooters: don't play this game. You prolly wont like it.
  
  For all those who want to learn and experience the most realistic war simulator to date and 
 got tired of BF2, a definate buy recommedation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azubuike
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 22, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  IF you are an avid ofp fan then I would score this 4/10 if you are new to the genre I would give 
 it a 6/10. This game basically has a lot of potentials - the graphics are good and the platform 
 is stable. But there are way too many bugs in the system. The AI still don't obey orders sometimes 
 and get themselves killed or they get lost and you spend half the game going back to find some 
 idiot A1 who is on his lonesome. There are many other bugs, but the biggest one that really pissed 
 me off was that the 1.02 patch does not work with windows xp 64 bit computers. I tried about 30 
 frigging times and still no joy. So even after all the bugs reported to BIS - the damn patch was 
 even bugged. Things will get better thanks to a large dedicated community who will mod this into 
 proper shape. But BIS - YOU HAD FIVE YEARS TO HAVE GOTTEN THIS INTO REASONABLE SHAPE BEFORE YOU 
 RELEASED IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViSK88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  Just The MOST REALISTIC SIMULATOR OF MODERN WARFARE !
  Tactical and extrimely realistic, that's not the run 'n shot game.
  
  All the awesome stuff 
 from Operation Flashpoint, but whit new beautiful graphics and new gameplay fixes.
  
  However you need time to really learn the game's mechanics and fully enjoy it.
  So don't cry 
 if you get killed at the first times, its ok ;-) Available all kinds of Tanks, Cars, Helicopters, 
 Boats, Trucks, Airplanes that you can drive by your self like in Operation Flashpoint ...
  
  Realistic hit-effects, if you, or any other soldier get shoted in a leg, he will not be able 
 to run or even to walk, but just crawl ...
  Or if a soldier get shoted in an arm, he will not be able to shot effectively and so on ...
  
 .. You are like any other soldier, you haven't move health, or more armor, or other ... Definetly 
 a game that worth evry cent it costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmj
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 6, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  It was released last month! the Graphics are very nice ! BUT they spent more time on the new engine 
 with the video then with the game play! I have competed the campaign 3 times and just the standard 
 missions I allso have found many many bugs! #1 Team ai allwayes won, t follow orders they will say 
 yes but never move! sometimes I had to kill the antitank AI take weapon a kill tank myself! #2 
 when killing AI in night missions ai will walk over dead bodys that I have shot with no reaction 
 to buddy s dead body! ?#3 weopons are very inacurate #4 a big 1 for me are CHOPPERS i made many 
 chopper missions in OFP and RES so I consider myself a good chopper pilot in the game! In this 
 game choppers are just a nightmare to fly!
  I have crashed many times just trying to autohuver choper just goes where it won, ts usually a left 
 or a right nose dive into the ground! it is allmost imposible to fly and target enemy!#5 triggersI 
 had to find end mission cheat shift-minus on #pad then type endmission to finish mission after 
 driveing around for hours looking for that last guy that was hiding who knows where!# 6AI pilots 
 crash alot !#7 AI drivers drive vehicals in water ! #8I have lost weapon many times when swiming 
 across river! #9 enemy AI are super shots I have to hit them upto 4 times and they kill me with 
 1 shot#10ai will not stay prone they get up walk around and be easy target?#11ai medic will not 
 come when u say your injured , you have to tell him to go to a spot and stop then go to him! Other 
 then the many bugs the game was fun to play I can only hope when the USA version is released many 
 bugs will be patched! I will TRY IT BEFORE I BUY IT! I advise you do the same! oh yes the AUDIO 
 SAD ! OFP has awesome 5.1 sound u can tell where everything was and how far away it is ARMA everything 
 sounds very close and the 5.1 audio well so called stearing is just poor EAX VERYBAD when you have 
 high def audio! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoP-Falcon
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  As I said the Game itself is really good and would be a worthy OFP2, but there are simply too much 
 bugs and glitches to give it a good Score for now.... Graphics are nice and you'll find the good 
 old OFP Atmosphere behind tons of bugs, but at the moment it's more like a Puplic Beta Version 
 and you can't even be sure that you can actually play it... The Sound is poor at the moment... 
 The countless graphical Glitches and Errors are a Massacre of the Engine and Gameplay needs a lot 
 of optimisation... Missions and Campaign are alright so far, but it's not that entertaining to 
 fight against bugs instead of the enemy in every Mission.... The Editor is great as it was in OFP... 
 and the Island is huge and well designt... My Advise is to wait for 1 or 2 Patches... At the Moment 
 everyone who buys it is no more than a Betatester... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muscrat_01
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  As a flashpoint vet, I can safley say AA surpasses what I was expecting.
  
  Its a noteworthy mention that reviewing AA (just like OPF) is a bit of a difficult task, as it 
 must be reviewed as not just an FPS, more so a simulator... The campaign is very well crafted, 
 as is the single player missions, both very immersive. Well Designed and enjoyable to play. The 
 campaigns, mission selection is also very cool; making you feel asthough, you are respoinsible 
 for the tide of the confilct
  
  The Visuals are fantastic - some of the best you will see of DX9 until DX10 comes out. The draw 
 distance is unparalled, the detail is the best in any game ot date, and the lighting effects, animation, 
 focsuing effects are very sharp. You will need a relativley new PC to get hte full visual experience 
 though.
  
  The gameplay is nothing short of astounding - definatly improved over OFPs, and a real kick in 
 the guts to any first timer - of what its like to be a real soldier.
  The overall mechanics are improved over OPF, much more streamlined, and acessable. There is quite 
 a steep learing curve though, and most non OPF players will wind themselves dieing quite often; 
 further promting the use if conventional military tactics. The voice acting is fairly good, though 
 the radio chatter is disjointed like OFPs, but well - much better. If flows a bit better, and dosent 
 sound as robotic.
  Small things like the 'tone sound' when someone speaks over the radio, and peoples vocals can be 
 heard nearby; not radio chatter. The sound effects are also very good - very realisitc none of 
 the less. The music is of high standard aswell.
  Still, if you compare the sound to the likes of Other FPS shooters, it is a bit dissapointing - 
 even though there are loads of different voices, and realistic effects. However is judged as a 
 sim AAs sound is very good, and impressive - I beleive the sound is quite good - but flawed.
  
  The sheer array of weapons, vehicles, units ect. is quite astounding......
  Almost any unit 
 you would find or see in a civilian enviroment or battlefield;
  be it air, or land - even sea.
  The ground vehicles handle quite well, and fairly reailsticlly, 
 but you do need to get a grasp for it. The same goes for armoured vehicles - which if not used 
 properly in battle - can be easy targets. The flight model is a different story. BIS have taken 
 a much more relistic approach to flight, unlike the very acradey OPF style, and its not really 
 pick up and fly. You really have to get the hang of flying helicopters and jets; and you will probably 
 find yourself crashing the first time around.
  Certain Air units like the Mi 8's handling is woeful (over sensative) , and im hoping for tweaks 
 and adjustments in folliwing patches.
  
  Another noteworthy mention is the fantastic mission editor. One of the pinnicals of OPF, AAs mission 
 editor is very similar and a joy to use.
  I even just made a Warhawk esque battle with 100 odd WW1 planes,
  and a black hawk down style 
 mission. Just like OPF is very easy to jump right into making small skirmishes or large battles. 
 The inclusion of the ME opens up a world of gameplay limited only by your imagination - bumbing 
 up AAs replayability
  
  Im stil yet to try the multiplayer, but I hear its a vast jump over OPFs.
  
  The A. I is also 
 very good, but its quite glitch prone, and has a habit of doing stupid things now and again. AA 
 however is scarred by some nasty bugs here and there, which can really make the gameplay experience 
 a bit awkward, or cut the immersion.
  Im hoping for further Updates to fix these problems, and by the US / UK release all these issues 
 should be gone.
  
  AA is also quite a system heavy game, I review it on a AMD 64 3200+, 1gb OCZ, X850 pro (overclocked) , 
 and AA really does push your PC to its limits, more so than quite alot of games this year - though 
 the output is very impressive.
  
  My AA also has startforce protection - but latter releases use Secure Rom.
  
  Its also a noteworthy 
 mention of the OPF community - who procude a huge array of addons, missions and mods; further improving 
 the game - vastly.
  IM expecting the community to move to AA, improving it even more.
  
  In a nutshel, if you were a OPF fan like me, you will ,love AA and be glad Bohemia didnt change 
 its mechanics / foundations.
  For everyone else, its either a game you will love or hate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merkabah120
Rating: 3.8
Date: Dec 1, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  I played OFP for a while when it first came out. It was one of the few games that I bought. I felt 
 like I had to support the little man. For what it was, it was a great game, beyond great even. 
 Armed Assault on the other hand, is a disgrace. The sound is okay at some parts, and horrible at 
 others. You hear everything far too loudly from way too far away. And even then you can't tell 
 where its coming from. The AI and editing hasn't changed a bit. The animations are poor and as 
 sweet as the screen shots look it is a shame. I have the Czech version right now. The worst part 
 by far is the aircraft physics engine. I have flown real helicopters and although they try to make 
 it easy for anyone to get in and fly in games, they have completely compromised the look and feel 
 of the helicopter maneuvering. It looks literally like some kid is holding it up with a string 
 sometimes. I hate to compare it to BF2 because its not very similar, but BF2 did a better job of 
 making a helicopter physics model. If you thought you could take off vertically with the harrier, 
 forget it. It only flies straight, which you'd think they could have picked another aircraft instead 
 of hyping the harrier. I haven't made any games, but if I was in the business of developing video 
 games I could have done much better. Its almost like they were completely satisfied with the OFP 
 engine which was actually cool for terrain, but the physics and the sound and the gun dynamics 
 are garbage. The AI is not smart, its just like a hacking BOT, and the animation is extremely poor. 
 I am so sad because I was really looking forward to this game. I am sad to see so much potential 
 wasted to this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasTroy
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Hi everyone,
  
  I&acute; ve bought the game today in germany because I am an old OFP fan. I&acute; ve played the 
 first title no more since a very long decade but I had very much fun in singleplayer and later 
 with multiplayer.
  I was very happy to wait only some days to get finally the second title. I thought I would more 
 or less know what I will get: Priotity one, two and three: REALISM. At the end of the list was 
 of course a little improved game engine with some new effects, perhaps better sound and so on but 
 not much.
  
  Now to get to the points why this sequel really disappoints me after all although I&acute; m sure 
 that I didn&acute; t expect to much:
  
  1.) The graphic is really nice: Bushes, trees, grass and so on ... all very nice. The good known 
 day/night and weather cicle etc. But it doesn&acute; t take long and you get to specific constellations 
 (forest, many trees or so) and the performance goes down to nowhere like 10fps and so even at middle 
 gfx settings and less than 1000m view distance.
  The first single mission (not campaign) where you have to ambush a convoy: Right when you start 
 you look at a hill with many trees .... I can set the settings to low as far as I can but I don&acute; t 
 get much more performance (10fps) and I am not one of these whiny guys which gets crazy if the 
 fps goes below 24 for more than 5 seconds.
  I have an AMD 64 X2 4400+ cpu with 3GB RAM, a 512MB GF 7800GS and RAID0 ... this must be definitively 
 enough at least for middle settings.
  
  2.) The first point is only for the german version: The german description for all the actions 
 in the settings menu are so bad translated and not very good ordered; I&acute; ve needed 60 - 90 
 minutes for the essential control settings and I am really a routined one because I play several 
 games.
  Loveless finishing: Well a little love to some details have not been so bad. Sounds are not really 
 good but more sadly the volume: Helicopters or trucks are so loud as they would drive next to you 
 although they are hundreds of meters away.
  Another example of bad finishing: The minigun of the blackhawk .... well even with much personal 
 fantasy you don&acute; t have a bit a feeling of firing a high rate/caliber gun.
  Or the multiplayer user interface: A game targeting such an area should have a much better user 
 interface than whats ArmA is offering. As far as I can remember OFP did this job a lot better. 
 Very poor!!!
  
  Well I am pretty sure that nobody of you will cancel his/her order or don&acute; t buy this game 
 now; I wouldn&acute; t too. But if I can give you an advice: WAIT FOR THE DEMO.
  
  At the end it doesn&acute; t surprise me that Bohemia is waiting first selling some thousand copies 
 before serving a demo.
  
  I will give back the game and take any other. ArmA is no OFP 1, 1.5 or 2. It&acute; s a shame and 
 also a piss take. What has Bohemia donw all this time? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _NicRich_
Rating: 5.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing OFP for countless hours and considered it an outstanding game. So I was waiting 
 for ArmA to come out for a long time and was very eager to play it as soon as possible. I was 90% 
 sure I would order it as soon as I had playtested it for a few minutes. So, here's what I experienced:
 
  
  I was able to play ArmA, the Czech version, at a friend for 6 hours, and I was shocked how few 
 things have actually changed since OFP. With a better-than-average system (2.6Ghz, 2GB, X850XT) , 
 framerates were below 25FPS 80% of the time. It was possible to increase them by turning off details, 
 but then the game would look REALLY dated, probably 2002-style. It would really look like OFP with 
 a few more textures then. I'm talking about 1024x768 here. Embarassing.
  
  Unit movements have not improved, with everything that moves you can see the underlying programming 
 shine through, like infantry turning in 45 degree angles and more of that sort. This is quite an 
 immersion-killer for me when I spproach a game with today's expectations of realism.
  
  I really liked OFP, but maybe now I am spoiled by how good - and realistic! - games look today. 
 ArmA just does not live up to ANY of today's standards in my view. Btw: that's true for sound as 
 well. No immersion here at all, *sigh*.
  
  Why did I not write anything about the gameplay? Because nothing has happened since OFP. You can 
 take a AI soldiers position when you are killed, but that basically seems to be it. Could not test 
 multiplayer, so I might miss a few things, but in the SP I tested, I felt right at home - in Operaton 
 Flashpoint :- (..
  
  So, realism is still there, a huge island as a playing field is there, some nice dynamic time of 
 day and weather are still there, well, all that OFP had already.
  
  I'm giving this 5-6 out of 10 for the potential it might have when maybe everyone has a Nvidia 
 8800 in their system in a year or so. It might be playable with high quality visuals then, and 
 maybe (I doubt it a little though because maybe others will be disappointed too) there will be 
 an active, grown-up community around it then.
  
  But until then, I will not spend any money on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stanhead
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  I bought the Czech version of the game, and plan to buy the English version when it's released 
 in the UK. It's so good I think it's worth paying for it twice.
  
  I'll start off with the graphics. They're not the best I've ever seen, but considering it uses 
 a 5 year old engine I'd say they're pretty fantastic. There's also the fact that there isn't much 
 attention to small details, but this is only a minor problem that I'm willing to live with. Overall, 
 the graphics are great but could have been better.
  
  Secondly, there's the gameplay, which I believe is even better than in Operation Flashpoint. The 
 world is huge, and you can do pretty much anything you want. There is no loss of framerate even 
 when there are hundreds of units on the screen at once. The battles and immersion are truly epic, 
 and I really cannot think of a single fault. However, ArmA is more for realism buffs than the run-and-gun 
 sort of gamers.
  
  The sound is brilliant. As bullets whizz past you, you can hear the... well... whizz, as they go 
 past you. The guns, vehicles and wildlife all sound realistic. You can hear helicopters as they 
 fly by in the distance. If said helicopter flies behind a valley or large hill the sound will be 
 muffled, and then become clear again as it re-emerges. Distant firefights sound excellent, almost 
 as you would expect them to in reality. The only problem with the sound that I could find is a 
 crackling noise that happens sometimes, however I solved this problem by turning off EAX and turning 
 on hardware acceleration. Probably my hardware that was the problem anyway.
  
  The game has a few small bugs that I have found. One that bugged my slightly was that if you look 
 at the floor, while armed with your secondary weapon (so your primary weapon is on your back) , 
 and reload, then your primary weapon will move so it is above your head. It moves back into the 
 right place once the reloading animation has finished, however. There are also a few other minor 
 bugs that I won't bother going in to.
  
  On the plus side, most of the major issues with Operation Flashpiont have been fixed, such as the 
 clipping issues (being able to run through walls, for example) and retarded animations.
  
  Overall this game is absolutely brilliant, aside from a few bugs which will most likely be fixed 
 with patches in due time. It takes a bit of getting used to, even for an Operation Flashpoint veteran 
 like myself. However, once you get past the learning curve it is a really enjoyable and immersive 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmc46
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 1, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Ive just been playing the Chekz version of the game and i tell ya its freaking awesome! The graphics 
 are great and the lighting will take your breath away! I cant even tell you how sweet it is. There 
 is so much potential in Armed Assault. Its huge, the multiplayer from what i have experienced so 
 far is solid to say the least. The new interface, menus, and mission editor have been streamlind/ 
 adjusted along with alot of other things in this game. It seems more real than Operation Falshpoint, 
 which might be a turn off for quite a few folks. There are some shortcomings in the game ie sound 
 and control issues, but with some patches and the community support this will be a game like no 
 other. I cant wait for addons!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
