-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Armed and Dangerous
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/armeddang/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  5, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.6, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 597 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Planet Moon Studio
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date:     Dec 2, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Armed and Dangerous is a good game, but toward the end of it, you'll likely be far more interested 
 in seeing how the story ends -- and the jokes it tells along the way -- than in its gameplay. 

 
  Armed and Dangerous is the latest game from Planet Moon Studios, the company behind the goofy, 
 imaginative, and well-received PC and PS2 shooter, Giants: Citizen Kabuto. Humor in games can be 
 a pretty hit-and-miss affair, and while not every single joke in Giants was laugh-out-loud funny, 
 it still managed to be a funny game without feeling fake or forced. Armed and Dangerous features 
 the same humorous spirit as Giants while it also produces a fairly good -- though somewhat simplistic -- mission-based 
 third-person shooter.  

          The Lionhearts are a motley bunch of ruffians with a variety of different European accents. 
     

  Armed and Dangerous puts you in the role of Roman, a man in charge of a group called the Lionhearts. 
 This four-member group of thieves, made up of Roman, a Scottish moleman named Jonesy, a British 
 robot named Q, and a stinky, little blind mystic named Rexus, is on a quest to steal the all-powerful 
 Book of Rule from the evil King Forge. Along the way you'll encounter objectives that sidetrack 
 you from your quest, most of which involve you saving local villagers who have been enslaved or 
 kidnapped by the king's men. Additionally, you'll blow up a lot of stuff.  

  In motion, Armed and Dangerous is a pretty straightforward behind-the-back third-person shooter. 
 There are some twists to the formula. For instance, in some missions you'll have a jet pack that 
 lets you jump and glide, while in others, you're able to issue basic attack and defend commands 
 to the rest of your team. There are a few stationary turret levels, but, for the most part, your 
 job is to look at your compass, run in the direction it indicates, and shoot anything that gets 
 in your way.  

  The arsenal at your disposal adds some individuality to the gameplay, but most of the more unique 
 weapons go underused due to the insanely valuable machine gun you start almost every single mission 
 with. In fact, even the sniper rifle's usefulness is reduced by the handy machine gun's all-purpose 
 abilities. So, if you're good with a mouse, you can aim at and quickly eliminate most of the game's 
 targets without worrying about the rest of the weapons in the game. If you aren't so great at aiming, 
 the game actually has a console-game-style auto-aim toggle that makes hitting your targets quite 
 easy. Thankfully, the game tosses hundreds of targets at you in each level, so the game itself 
 never gets too easy.  

  Aside from your basic gun and the incredibly handy machine gun, you'll encounter a sniper rifle, 
 a rocket launcher, a mortar cannon, and a land shark launcher, which causes a shark to "swim" under 
 the ground's surface before attacking enemy soldiers from below. You also have secondary weapons, 
 like standard sticky bombs, a portable black hole, a traitor bomb (which makes enemies attack each 
 other) , a knockout bomb, and a weapon that lets you turn the entire world upside down for a few 
 seconds, thus causing enemies to fall into the sky while you hang on for dear life to a corkscrew 
 that's been drilled into the earth.  

  Beyond the arsenal, the gameplay in Armed and Dangerous is pretty standard. The game throws a ton 
 of troops at you, and it's up to you to mow them all down. Each mission starts you out with a different 
 weapon set, and you sometimes find new weapons along the way at a midlevel pub, which serves as 
 a checkpoint where you can save your game and rearm. The various weapons are good for a few laughs, 
 but since the machine gun is so useful, the action gets a little ho-hum after about half of the 
 game's 20-plus missions. The jet-pack levels certainly liven things up a bit, but the way the game 
 gives it to you for some missions and then takes it away for others gets a little annoying. Though 
 the levels do throw hundreds of enemy soldiers your way, the game isn't very hard -- as long as you 
 take it slowly and don't rush into the middle of a cross fire, which chews through your health 
 pretty quickly. Most players will be able to cruise through the game in around 10 hours, but there 
 is some replay value to be uncovered in the form of bonus missions, additional difficulty settings, 
 and the ever-popular big head mode.  

  The game's story is told through cutscenes, and it's here where most of the script's charm lies. 
 The game tells a standard tale of rebellion against an evil king, but it does so in a funny way. 
 There are a lot of "from out of left field" laughs in the script, including a few well-placed Star 
 Wars references. Like Giants before it, not every single joke is laugh-out-loud funny, but the 
 hits cover the misses reasonably well, and the game's quirky sense of humor never seems forced 
 or fake, as it is in most other games that attempt to draw laughs. Unfortunately, the cutscenes 
 are marred by some pretty awful quality problems. The audio is great, and the voice acting is well-played, 
 but the visuals are pretty terrible. The character models used in the cutscenes look pretty poor, 
 and the animation isn't much better. You'll see arms clipping through bodies, and you'll witness 
 other instances of poor animation as well. This lack of quality really takes away from the overall 
 impact of the cutscenes, which otherwise could have been the game's strongest point.  

  Graphically, Armed and Dangerous looks good. It sports a nice, long draw distance, which is handy 
 since some enemies can fire at you from pretty far away -- if they spot you. The textures and enemy 
 models are passable, though you'll probably get tired of shooting down the same three or four enemy 
 troops by the end of the game. Larger enemies, like the giant robots on patrol in some levels, 
 definitely look cool. Also, a lot of buildings in the game are completely destructible, so you 
 can use your heavier weapons or nearby turrets to completely raze them. The explosions that destroy 
 buildings and the rubble that remains afterward both look very good. The animation looks OK, though, 
 for some reason, the villagers who follow you around after you rescue them do so while floating 
 around and lying down, so they're completely limp. This looks pretty stupid and doesn't really 
 make much sense. The PC version has a sharper look than its Xbox counterpart, though this is mostly 
 because you can run the PC version at higher resolutions. Higher-end PCs can also fiddle with other 
 options, such as bump mapping, draw-distance control, and more.  

          The story in Armed and Dangerous is more interesting than its gameplay or mission design. 
     

  As far as sound goes, the aforementioned voice work does a great job. The rest of the game's sound 
 effects, however, are pretty run-of-the-mill, save for some good, loud explosions. The gun effects 
 are especially weak, but the game's music fits the action pretty appropriately.  

  Armed and Dangerous is a good game, but toward the end of it, you'll likely be far more interested 
 in seeing how the story ends -- and the jokes it tells along the way -- than in its gameplay. For fans 
 of frantic shooters, this is a game worth looking at, but its gameplay isn't remarkable enough 
 to recommend as a purchase to anyone who isn't a diehard fan of arcadelike shooting games.     
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the funniest games if not the funniest game I have ever played. The cutscenes 
 and dialogue just go over the top with just sweet puns and laughable movies. This isn't just another 
 game trying to be funny, it actually is. The gameplay isn't boring but it isn't very engaging because 
 all it is, is point, click and the enemy dies easily. It does get harder as you progress in levels 
 with massive groups of enemies which can be dispatched with the games unique weapons. These weapons 
 include a topsy turvy bomb that makes the world go upside down, dropping enemies on their head 
 for a laugh and the shark gun which sends a shark to eat your enemies. These are just a few of 
 the odd and unique weapons throughout Armed and Dangerous. The environments are open but limited 
 in a sense that you will have to go to a certain place in the end for an objective. The story is 
 obviously funny in itself like a twisted fairy tale. You are thrown into the story but once you 
 keep going you get the hang of it but by that time the game is over... after a good 6 or 7 hours. 
 You also lose your weapons after each mission and are given new weapons that are default, which 
 is fine but can get annoying when you find a really cool weapon. If you are looking for a funny 
 and outrageous shooter game, look no further Armed and Dangerous is what you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seansm16
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 9, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Armed and Dangerous has a stupidly great level of mindless violence. if you love third person shooters 
 and pure fun, this game is for you. The gameplay is great compared to the price you canget the 
 game for now with a lengthy mission mode that has quite a strange yet intruiging story behind it 
 to drive you through levels. The game also has many unique features that make it an individual 
 and fun game such as the team mate system where your in game friends act as wingmen you can order 
 around. And some of the weapons are ridiculous, in a good way, for example the topsy turvy bomb, 
 the black hole in a box and the vindaloo rocket launcher.
  The scenery is also mega destructable. If its visible its destructible. Shooting rocks can make 
 them roll onto enemies, trees can crus foes and towers can be toppled. This means quick reflexes 
 and good vision for destruction can kill a herd of enemies with a shot at a piece of the landsacpe.
 
  Great value, game life and fun. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brutalus7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 13, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Armed and Dangerous got good reviews for it's comedy and some quality action gameplay to go with 
 it. When I played through it, I have to agree with both of those points. Also, I think it was a 
 bit short, but it worked well with the style of gameplay, because some of the levels got a bit 
 tedious with your squad mates not following your orders so well. Also, many of the levels were 
 too easy, and didn't provide much of a challenge. It was a solid game, but not much more than a 
 'good' overall, since the gameplay was either too easy, or your mates didn't help enough to make 
 them worthwhile. Either way, there were kinks to be worked out. Playing some levels over again 
 to try to find all the secrets was fun, and some might find it worth their time, I didn't like 
 it enough to get them all.
  Armed and Dangerous is fun, and if you haven't tried it, you should check your bargain bin today! 
 It's well worth $20 or less that you can find it for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 6, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  Armed and Dangerous (AND) is the only single player third-person, playing which was a different 
 experience from all other games. Nowadays more strees is laid upon HQ graphics, suspense in the 
 story line, hidden plts, and yet the game's end is what we had expected.
  AND is different in the manner that it lays more emphasis on its humor than anything else. There 
 are very few games on shelves which have humourous storylines with funny characters; AND has it 
 all. The chain of events is nicely tied so you will never find something coming out of nowhere.
 
  The game was launched in December 2003, and has relatively good graphics considering that time. 
 Sounds are OK. I really enjoyed comments passed by dying enemies alongwith the chit chats between 
 the farmers we rescue and ytheir wives.
  AND is simple. The entire gameplay is simple with no hidden traps or missions. Very staight forward. 
 Jump in, and if you are the type who enjoy killings, you can blow enemies with all sorts of amazaing 
 weapons epecially the Shark Gun (my favourite) .
  If you have a couple of days free, you can finish this game easily and you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royboy2100
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 8, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  If you have played Giant Kabuto, then you'll probably be very familar with Arm and Dangerous's 
 style of gameplay. Not only did Planetmoon tried to make the game as new as possible, it also tries 
 to make the game funny like a Monty Python show. Although Planetmoon got the comedy and the sketches 
 well done, the gameplay for the game completely suffers which pretty much doomed the game.
  
  The gameplay is the classic FPS except its in third person view. Most of the guns in the game 
 are funny, but not really that useful like the Shark cannon. Its funny to see the Shark eating 
 the bad guys, but by the time you're enjoying watching the guys get eaten, you're dead. The AI 
 in the game takes a twist and becomes real trouble the first time you kill one bad guy. After you 
 kill one bad guy, suddenly, everybody zeros on you and become sniper, shooting you from accross 
 the edge of the map. This same problem was also inside Giant Kabuto so Planetmoon didn't really 
 address this problem. This was one of the flaws in Giant Kabuto.
  
  If gameplay was bad, the graphic was ho hum. Some of the character models in the game was so badly 
 made with some joints not fitting into others or a woman running into a hill and unless that hill 
 is a huge field of grass grown to look like a hill. The cutscene although well voiced, was very 
 low resolution. An indication that the game was being developed for the Xbox while the PC just 
 gets the ports from it. 
  
  The sound was pretty good in terms of voice acting and music. The music had the taste of celtic 
 and irish bland to it with the voices having the same which saved the game . 
  
  In all, Planetmoon kinda does the game right, unfortunately, with these flaws, once you played 
 it, you'll never want to play it again. Good thing there is the option to view the cutscene which 
 I though was one of the funnies cutscenes to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sven-Ingvars
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2005 9:58 am PT
Review:  This game got humor, and i mean alot beetwen every level it got funny video clips.
  
  4 strange characters and crazy weapons
  
  I mean the black hole not often u get one but its 
 dangerous,
  the game is to easy and short (finished in 1 day) but it's worth the money (haha i got it free 
 when i bought SW : BF for xbox) but its a funny game and if u can get it cheap u should buy it 
 directly.
  
  As i sad 4 strange and funny characters, u have 2 of them with u.
  And use strange weapons u almost uses the machine gun but somethimes u can use some cool weapon. 
 lika a weapon that firez a chark that swims under the floor and eats up the enemy trunts. many 
 action/humor packet missions
  
  If u have kids in the age 9-11 u should buy this game to them, it is prefect for kids, i think. 
 and if u are looking for some game wich isent dark as many other games just funny bright and easy 
 buy it!
  
  Value : 6,5 / 10
  
  Humor : 10 / 10
  
  Longelivity : 3 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 10, 2005 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I only wish that Planet Moon Studios had spent a little more time polishing this game because it 
 could have been one of the best. As it is the game is full of humor, from each and every cutscene 
 to the gameplay itself. The storyline seems well thought out and executed, creating a game that 
 may not be incredible, but none the less very fun.
  
  The game is played as a third person shooter, which I thought at the beginning would be hard, but 
 I got used to it quickly and found it to be very effective. Nothing in the game is complicated 
 to figure out or do, the play is very linear and you can't really get lost, and even if you kill 
 your partners, they come back in the next mission. Failure then is not severely punished. The play 
 itself was great, the machine gun was a practical and useful weapon, but the rest of your arsenal 
 can be funny and I loved using things like the shark gun or the black hole just because. The level 
 design was much better looking than any of the cutscenes which was good because it made the play 
 that much more interesting.
  
  The sound was excellent, I thought each weapon made an appropriate noise, especially the shark 
 gun. The ambient music I though was very good, although that is my own taste. The in game voices 
 were hilarious, making comments as you play, especially the villagers you rescue. 
  
  The cutscenes were terrible visually, but they were so funny at times that I forgave that little 
 problem and enjoyed them anyway. They truly moved the story along from mission to mission, and 
 there were plenty of cutscenes to watch. If you didn't get enough of them the first time, you can 
 go back into the game menu and watch them again. The characters were well developed and each had 
 their own style that only added to the game. 
  
  Overall an excellent value since I was able to pick up the game for ten dollars retail. If you 
 like shooters and are looking for a laugh, give this game a try, and even if you don't like it 
 your not out much. There are also tokens to find in the game to unlock things like big head cheats 
 so there is some replay value also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vissuluth
Rating: 7
Date: May 15, 2005 11:46 am PT
Review:  El joc comensa malament, ja que els videos de presentaci i els videos que surten ms endavant 
 entre les fases sn realment dolents i de molt baixa qualitat.
  Quan comences a jugar et trobes una mica perdut, per de seguida trobes el ritme, per un cop trobat 
 resulta que no has de canviar de ritme, s a dir tot la estona s el mateix, molt monton i simple. 
 
  De seguida et trobes amb una daquelles coses que et fan emprenyar, els teus companys tacompanyen 
 i els tens que cuidar si no vols que els matin, com si no nhi hagus prou en estar al tanto dels 
 dolents.
  Tens que matar-ho tot, i no en paren de surtir, per ves al tanto amb la munici sobretot amb les 
 mines, que no s perqu per noms en pots portar 5, de seguida sesgoten en quan comences a destruir 
 cases.
  No magrada que surtin dolents sense parar, quan et penses que ja estan tots comencen a surtir-ne 
 ms, quin rotllo.
  No s perqu hi ha m sarmes si acabes fent servir 1 o 2 en tot el joc, les altres les trobo poc 
 tils, encara que sn originals.
  Quan has passat unes quantes fases comences a aborrir-te, sort que de tant en tant surten fases 
 en les que tu ests fixe en un lloc i has de matar tot el que ve, aix trenca una mica la monotonia.
 
  Al final te lacabes en un parell o 3 de dies si ti poses en forsa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pharomarc
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 5, 2005 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Fun is the name of game. This is one hilarious fast passed action game. Although, I liked Giants 
 Citizen Kabuto a little bit better, I still enjoyed this game. The gameplay is easy to pick up, 
 and it is so much fun going gun blazing through wave after wave of enemies. The different weapons 
 are fun, but most are of no real use. The humor is good, but not as funny as in Kabuto. The only 
 real problem with that game is that it is too short, and leave you wanting more of the addictive 
 action. This is game like the previous one is so under rated, but I do not know why. It is definitely 
 a good and fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgepsp
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 20, 2005 9:53 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the game very much just got really upset that i have a geforce 440 with 64 mb and it 
 wouldn't work on my computer and i updated the device driver and everything. Yet on my wifes computer 
 which has an ati video card with 32 mb works just fine. ARRRGGGGHHHHH. But besides that gameplay 
 was fun the game is very humours they did a great job on the game its just to bad that the game 
 wasn't as successful in stores as it should have been. Hopefully they'll have more luck designing 
 for the psp cause i'm very excited about infected there newest games for the psp that hasn't come 
 out yet. I would strongly suggest this game to everyone espescially seeing the value in it i bought 
 it for $25 canadian dollars and had lots of life out of it. I'll still play it sometimes and honestly 
 its about 6 months old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrplaid
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 13, 2005 5:52 am PT
Review:  Armed and Dangerous is one of those games that was largely ignored by the gaming public. That's 
 a shame because it's nice a looking shooter with a unique art style and goofy, amusing characters. 
 Maybe it was just because it's so British.
  The game takes place over a series of missions that have you and your mostly useless companions 
 blowing up houses, robots, and people, rescuing villagers, defending towns from armies of troll-things, 
 and basically gunning down everything else that isn't you. The aforementioned gunning down of all 
 things not yourself runs the risk of getting old, but the game is pretty short (7-8 hours to see 
 the ending) and not too difficult so it stays fun pretty much throughout the entire experience. 
 Your arsenal has a few interesting and humorous weapons (shark gun, hehe) , and they're all pretty 
 useful aside from the two rifles. You won't find yourself switching weapons too often, though, 
 since the standard machine gun is so effective. The missions that have you manning turrets to defend 
 villages are also quite fun and visually impressive. You'll literally see thousands of troops move 
 across the horizon to storm the walls you're defending while you desperately fend them off using 
 a single gun emplacement.
  You'll have the most fun with Armed and Dangerous when its chaotic vibe is in full swing. The game 
 has an unfortunate tendency to let up on the action a little too often, though. There are times 
 when you'll wander around the environments following your compass with little to shoot at because 
 you can't quite locate your objective. There are also a few moments in the game that will make 
 you question whether or not the game was thoroughly tested, such as the levels towards the end 
 where you'll meet a number cheap deaths at the hands of rocket-throwing enemies. Frequent saving 
 allows you to inch through those areas, but there are a few other areas in addition to those that 
 seem poorly designed. 
  Graphically, the game is quite impressive. The wide-open environments all look nice exploded, un-exploded, 
 and while they're exploding. The textures in the landscape look muddy up close, but the characters 
 and enemies have an acceptable level of detail to them. The cutscenes, unfortunately, look absolutely 
 horrible. They are of such bad quality that you honestly can't tell what's going on in them sometimes. 
 The cutscenes obviously use in-game models (with added clipping issues) , which makes you wonder 
 why they weren't done in the game engine instead of being rendered separately and played as lousy-looking 
 movies. 
  It's a shame the cinematics are so bad, because the script has a few moments of brilliant irreverent 
 humor in it (with about an equal number of moments where the humor falls flat) . The voice acting, 
 with some performances by veteran voice actors Tony Jay and Kath Soucie, is competent. That's about 
 all you can say about it. The setting is also quite unique. The world convincingly brings together 
 aspects of science-fiction and fantasy while parodying both using a WWI aesthetic. 
  The music in Armed and Dangerous is its most mournfully under appreciated aspect. It can probably 
 be best described as 'Celtic-Western music.' I've never heard anything like it in any other game. 
 It fits Armed and Dangerous's bizarro-European, WWI-ish, quasi-Robin Hood style perfectly, and 
 it's quite cool when it swells up during a large gun battle (of which there are quite a few) . In 
 fact, that's probably why it's so under appreciated. All of the gunfire, screaming, and explosions 
 drown out the delicate, expertly-performed soundtrack. I actually didn't develop a strong fondness 
 for it until I extracted them from the game and slapped them together as MP3's. 
  If you were ever intrigued by Armed and Dangerous's unusual style, give it a try and pick it up 
 on the cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rayit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2004 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I like a bit of a story to go along with the action, not just bang bang bang! This game was well 
 worth playing and I'm planning on playing it again after it sits on my shelf for a few months. 
 If you enjoy a bit of "British Humor" you'll like this one. Graphics were good for the period and 
 the landscapes varried and interesting. Gameplay was fun by adding a jump-pack/glider gizmo and 
 a variety of "guns" to shoot. The characters and dialogue made this game just plain fun to play. 
 I don't know about you, but I just like a game that you turn on and get pure enjoyment from without 
 feeling frustrated with. This game is that kind of game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 24, 2004 12:00 am PT
Review:  I loved This game. Its story line its acualy very intresting for a comedy and gameplay aint half 
 bad. my only realy complaint here is graphics. it looks a bit stiff at times and out of date. Cut 
 off from that, its a great game. gameplay consist of running and gunning. Theres the ocational 
 sniper on a cliff and the big boss battle. the weapons are very intresting. land shark gun runs 
 a shark across the floor and swallow up around 5 enemies. the knock out bomb gives you the abuility 
 to punch opponents out, the black hole in a box will unleash its wrath on all enemies in site and 
 the topsy turby gun turns the world upsidown causeing all enemies to fall strait uowards and when 
 it wares out, causes all enemies to come crashing back down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mramm
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 7, 2004 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Armed and Dangerous was a very enjoyable game to play. The humor was HILARIOUS!! I was laughing 
 out loud during almost every cut scene. The game play was very slash and kill... no need for stealth 
 or setting up someone for a kill shot. You just go in there "GUNS BLAZING"! The graphics were pretty 
 good for a GeForce2 TI which is what I played it on. (I am geting a 9600 XT soon and will be interested 
 to see how it looks then) ... most of the bad graphics was on the cut scenes (which I may not have 
 the latest DiVX codec loaded.
  
  I will probably play it again because is was so dang funny!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 9, 2004 1:18 pm PT
Review:  The biggest thing that Armed and Dangerous has going for it is its wacky sense of humor. That and 
 its story. Everything else is kind of average.
  
  You play as Roman, the leader of a group of bandits called The Lionhearts, out to dethrone an 
 evil tyrant king. The game alternates between missions and funny but ugly cutscenes that tell the 
 games story. Unfortunately, the missions are hardly integrated into the story. Its like the missions 
 were created in a vacuum and then just thrown in after the storyline was written. For instance, 
 you will play a mission where you have to save a bunch of villagers from the evil king out in the 
 middle of nowhere, even though the previous cutscene mentioned nothing like this. Towards the end 
 of the game when you are saving a group of villagers for the 10th time, it starts to get repetitive. 
 
  
  Repetitiveness ends up being the games biggest problem. Half of the areas all look the same. There 
 is a low variety of enemies and a very low variety of mission objectives. The missions are all 
 save the villagers or Blow up 5 buildings. Theres also the occasional turret shooter mission. 
 The variety of weapons that you get is pretty low, and so are the variety of enemies that you fight. 
 If the developers had put as much effort into designing the missions as they did into the humor, 
 then this would have been one of the best games of the past few years.
  
  The game is the funniest since Anachronox. The humor is integrated into every aspect of the game. 
 Even the manual is funny to read. The sound bites during firefights can make you chuckle. The enemies 
 have this amusing throw your arms above the air and run around and scream routine that they go 
 through when you stick a grenade to them, or when you use your topsy-turvy bomb to flip the world 
 upside-down. The topsy-turvy bomb is one of the examples of the kooky weapons in the game. Armed 
 and Dangerous feels like a 10-hour long episode of Monty Pythons Flying Circus. 
  
  So in the end, its the humor that makes the game worth playing, but not a lot besides it. Ill 
 give the game a good rating, but if the developers had put as much effort into designing some good 
 shooter levels as they did into the games funny parts, then it could have been Game of the Year.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mozart
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2003 11:12 am PT
Review:  Giants was far better. In fact MDK was better, but AND was still fun but short. All this time you 
 would think they would had come out with something just as fun as Giants, which ranks up there, 
 at least in my opinion, as one of the best games ever made. The base-building & defense and the 
 cool gadgets in Giants gave the game such depth. AND is just a shooter, where the machine gun was 
 used 90% of the time.
  
  If anyone has played Giants, you'll notice that AND has the exact same enemy AI, so not much time 
 and effort went into that.
  
  Nevertheless, AND is still a Planet Moon product and still worth playing, especially for Giants 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2003 4:15 am PT
Review:  I was quite excited about this game, as Giants was one of my all time favorites, and this one is 
 made by the same people.
  
  This game has some great jokes and cut-scenes, like when one of your team members complains it 
 is too cold and they are going to do the old survival trick of putting him inside the body of a 
 dead animal to keep him warm. All by the book so far, except they just used an already existing 
 body opening, and in fact the animal turned out to be not very dead at all... Quite hilarious scenes 
 with a huge animal running about in panic with a small dude up its butt follows... :)
  
  In fact, the in-game-humour and cut-scenes is what you want to play the game for. The gameplay 
 itself is very arcade'ish and straight forward, but enjoyable. There are some twists to it to make 
 it more interesting, like powerups that can make you fly and the all different cannon levels where 
 you waste huge armies storming you with your cannon. But the game is really just around 20 levels 
 with the same kind of action over and over.
  
  If I am to point out any problem with the game it would be the length. I completed it in just a 
 few hours, and unfortunately the replay value is not very good. But still, it offers you lots of 
 satisfying action and many laughts on the way... :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrygauthreaux
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 4, 2003 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Armed and Dangerous for PC is a fun game, but only if you really enjoy first person shooters. The 
 game does have nice graphics. The player models in the game use Direct X 9 features. It more than 
 makes up for the "not bad but not that good" animation. The level design is alright, but the actual 
 level models and textures are somewhat poor. However this does not matter while the game is in 
 action because the gameplay is very frantic yet simple. The action seems reminicent of Serious 
 Sam, though not in a bad way. The sound in the game is mediocre at best. There is also no option 
 for any type of sound card acceleration/effects at all. Maybe listen to some music while playing. 
 Another good thing about the game is it takes more than 3 hours to beat. All in all, simple yet 
 fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
