-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Army Men: Sarge's War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/armymensargeswar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  8, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.4
Critic Score: 3.7, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 94 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Global Star Software
Developer: Tactical Dev
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date:     Jul 27, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
After playing through Army Men: Sarge's War, it's likely that you'll find yourself wondering why 
 anyone bothered to salvage the Army Men license at all. 

  When publisher 3DO went out of business last year, many figured that the company's inviolable Army 
 Men brand would simply disappear right along with the company. That was until budget publisher 
 Global Star Software came swinging to the rescue and took over the Army Men brand. Army Men: Sarge's 
 War is the first Army Men game to appear under the Global Star name, and it sticks to basically 
 the same level of quality for which most of the other Army Men games are known. Unfortunately, 
 that isn't really saying much, and considering that there are literally dozens of better third-person-perspective, 
 run-and-gun shooters on the market right now, it makes it pretty tough to recommend Sarge's War. 

          Yes, it's official, Army Men is back     

  In Sarge's War, you play as Sarge, a gruff, battle-hardened, plastic soldier who commands a squad 
 within the Green army. Like in the previous Army Men titles, your antagonists are the vile Tan 
 army. However, Sarge's War actually starts out with the two sides working toward a peace agreement, 
 with only a small sect of the Tan military holding out. Of course, this small sect almost immediately 
 turns into a much larger threat, and eventually, it will be up to you to become an army of one, 
 as it were, and smash up the renegade Tans. As much as this might sound like the makings of a good, 
 old-fashioned shoot-'em-up, the action in Sarge's War sadly doesn't quite live up to the premise. 

  The biggest fault in Sarge's War is unfortunately with the gameplay and control design. The game 
 controls like your typical third-person shooter, but the actual keyboard and mouse mechanics are 
 pretty bad. The default control scheme itself is exactly what you would expect, but the movement 
 sensitivity and mouse sensitivity feel more than a little broken. The turn buttons on the keyboard 
 veer Sarge too far in the desired direction, which causes him to simply miss doorways and paths. 
 Trying to turn Sarge properly using the mouse is too difficult, since no matter how high you crank 
 up the mouse sensitivity, it never moves you far enough in whatever direction you're trying to 
 turn. This is especially bad with the first-person targeting mechanic the game gives you the option 
 to use. Once the aiming reticle pops up, you get such a limited range of motion (and a jittery 
 one at that) that it basically negates any usefulness of this feature, which is especially frustrating 
 during any mission where the sniper rifle would come in handy.  

  The auto-aim feature, while seemingly able to catch the closest target, doesn't seem to help much, 
 except when using weapons with a wide fire-spread, such as the shotgun, or with a tight firing 
 scope, such as the sniper rifle. Everything else seems to just hit or miss at random. The game 
 also completely lacks any sort of useful cover mechanics. Yes, you can duck, but unless you're 
 behind an especially sturdy object that won't blow up, it basically does you no good, as you can't 
 shoot or even peer around corners, or do anything else that you can do in even the most rudimentary 
 shooters these days.  

  Further compounding the general unpleasantness of Sarge's War's gameplay is the seemingly nonstop 
 onslaught of dull missions. Each and every mission is exactly the same, with only a couple of varying 
 objectives popping up from time to time. Usually you'll just have to pick up a conveniently placed 
 time bomb and drop it on one of the Tan army's big pieces of artillery or onto a fence that's blocking 
 your path, and in the time between finding the bomb and planting it, you can shoot every bad guy 
 in your path. Occasionally, you'll find yourself using a turret gun or staving off marginally more 
 difficult enemies (such as some elite Tan soldiers that can turn invisible) ; but for the most part, 
 it's just a straight shot through each level with very few twists or turns to speak of. After about 
 four to five hours, you should be done with the entire single-player game (at least it retails 
 for a low price) .  

  While the PC version of Sarge's War already has specific problems compared to the console versions, 
 what really drives the nail in the coffin for the PC version is the complete lack of multiplayer. 
 The Xbox and GameCube versions had a couple of rudimentary multiplayer modes, such as deathmatch 
 and capture the flag. Granted, none of the multiplayer games were really all that great on consoles, 
 but the fact that they are completely absent from the PC version is just insane, and lazy to boot. 

          not that Sarge's War will make you care.     

  Much like the console versions of Sarge's War, the PC version doesn't look particularly good. Aside 
 from a slightly shiny plasticine look for the soldier models, everything in the game looks as drab 
 as drab can be. Muddy textures, ugly set pieces, and level designs that actually seem like they 
 were lifted right out of older Army Men games, make up the bulk of the graphical design, along 
 with an erratic frame rate and subpar computer-generated cutscenes. Additionally, there is no way 
 in the PC version to improve the graphics in the slightest, since there is no option to adjust 
 the resolution. Most of the game's audio seems as though it were lifted off some generic, copyright-free 
 sound effects and music CDs, and the voice acting is pretty much nonexistent, save for Sarge's 
 gruff narration (that sounds as though the actor is channeling Michael Ironside's Sam Fisher just 
 a little too hard for comfort) and the occasional diabolical cackles of the game's main villain. 
 All told, it's pretty hammy, unpleasant stuff.  

  After playing through Army Men: Sarge's War, it's likely that you'll find yourself wondering why 
 anyone bothered to salvage the Army Men license at all. Over the years, the series has shown its 
 flashes of playability, but Sarge's War isn't one of them. This game never shows anything above 
 the most minimal of efforts, and even then, it seems as though you're being entertained as if by 
 accident.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LordHideous
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to say that this game deserves even any praise, but I give it some anyway. The digital 
 cut scenes actually convey some emotion through the ape man soldier of Sarge. And after that, the 
 game falls apart completely.
  
  Story: 8/10
  
  Has emotion and feeling, conveyed well through the cutscenes. Actually made me want to keep playing 
 for a while.
  
  Graphics: 2/10
  
  Wow! That was a gunshot that hit me? I couldn't see it, or its source, but it still hit me. Character 
 models also suck by the way.
  
  Gameplay: 2/10
  
  Lock on, because if you don't Sarge will stand at attention shooting bullets into the air even 
 if a tan soldier is right in front of him. Checkpoints can't be saved, so every level must be played 
 all the way through each time. Your guns suck horribly, and the FPS view doesn't work at all. You'll 
 never realize when you've been hit, because you can't see the enemy fire at all.
  
  Sound: 2/10
  
  Gun shots and voices sound like something
  from a bad audio Barbie film.
 
  
  Overall: 2/10
  
  If you want to be frustrated, then play this game. Otherwise you should steer clear of this game 
 and play something else, like Halo of COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myt1m3isnow
Rating: 4.1
Date: Mar 3, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  Worst game in the series. Today i want to play Army Men: RTS. I searched in my dvd-s and cd-s and 
 i found this... Altmost make me fall sick. Then i found RTS. Things gone back to normal. Of course, 
 Sarge's War was made like a game. But it wasn't game. They changed the type of the game from RPG 
 to FPS. That was a BIG mistake. Where are the robots? Title sounds interesting but the game it's 
 awful. If you don't wanna die as young , don't play this game. Understand? Sir, yes, sir!. Altmost 
 the worst game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mercenary138
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought Sarge's War, I wasn't sure what to make of it. I had already played the N64 
 Army Men games alot, since I personally think the overall concept was fundamentally decent. Before 
 I got to my PC, I took the time to look at the manual, and was quite excited to play it. When I 
 saw the screen shots, especially with other Green Army Men other then Sarge, I thought this would 
 be one kick ass game. I was partially correct, since the game slightly, but not enough touched 
 apon a concept that 3DO has not spent to much time thinking; Army Men fight each other in numbers, 
 not alone if they aren't special for some reason. I was delighted that the first two missions gave 
 the player some support from fellow Green soldiers, so you weren't fighting alone all the time. 
 The game also features several other missions later that have a mission objective of rescuing POWs, 
 one of the levels, that is when you reach the near end feels like an all out fire fight. No other 
 level does this better then the second level (although some could argue the first) , A Beach To 
 Far , where it really feels like you and some other Green Soldiers are fighting your way through 
 a Tan fortification to rescue a Green recon squad. However, aside from these occasions, this game 
 plunges the player as taking apon the role of Sarge alone, and for the most part the player fights 
 alone for a majority of the missions; a thing I did not like too much. On a high note, the thematics, 
 are excellent, as this game truly does a fine job on the story line. The cut scenes I think are 
 some of the best in the Army Men Series, since they show us a little about Sarge's life before 
 he commanded a squad. Although during a peace treaty, which occurs in a cutscene at the end of 
 the second level, the main Tan enemy, Colonel Malice, destroys the treaty, including Colonel Grimm 
 and Sarge's squad along with the Tan General Plastro. Personally, the only thing that would keep 
 me going would be the thought of revenge on Colonel Malice and nothing else. The only thing negative 
 that I can really agree with GameSpot on is the controls, which are some what very bad, although 
 this does not make the game impossible to play. More or less, the gameplay seems to been have been 
 ported from the console version. To sum the game all up, it's a game well done, but could have 
 been improved more. It really depends in my oppinion, you may like this game or you may hate it. 
 If you like the Army Men series, go out and buy it now. If not, just don't bother buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flappyjackjoe
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 27, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  The first army men game I played was for Nintendo 64 and was a very fun game so when my friend 
 said that he owned Army Men: Sarges War I traded for it right away, but when I played it I was 
 very disappointed. The good thing about Sarges War is that its multiplayer is pretty fun sometimes. 
 It would be more fun if there were more weapons on the map, but the map design is pretty good. 
 There are lots of places to get cover and very few ways to be cheap. I also wish that they wouldn't 
 of added auto-target on multiplayer because it makes multiplayer a lot more boring because it requires 
 alot less skill so if you are not that good at shooters this would be a good game to rent and beat 
 that friend of yours that is always kicking your ass at these types of games. So overall, this 
 is a game you might just wanna coinvence your friend to buy and then go over to their house and 
 play it with them on multiplayer or just rent it once and then see if you like it. I think this 
 game is mostly for younger kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_judge
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 26, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This may be the worst Army Men game have ever created!
  The first thing is the stupid camera. Can you shoot an enemy which you cant see them? Or can you 
 shoot a patrolling Tan by a Sniper Rifle which the gun's aim is move very slowly? I only play this 
 game for 3 hour, with totally stressed, and just want to throw away my mouse! Even so, the game 
 won't let you set the control button, and all are default! This is the worst Army Men game I ever 
 played!
  But beside, there is still some thing to say, that the graphic is satisfiable, and the sound is 
 ok. But is not worth to buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: razor_bblade
Rating: 1.7
Date: Apr 15, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  Now when i seen Army Men 2 i thought i would never see a game like it ok this one is a bit better 
 but it still is totally crap. The voices sound like my nan on a good day the graphics are stupid 
 and your some gay plastic green guy fighting yellow plastic guys WTF. This game is a total waste 
 of time and you shouldnt waste anythin on it at all never mind money it is totally full of crap. 
 The only good thing about this game is the end credits and i actually took this game back it is 
 so stupid not reccomended for anyone over 5 years of age. Actually not reccomended for anyone. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
