-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Army Men: RTS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/armymenrts/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 15, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.6, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 226 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Developer: Pandemic Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 24, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Army Men: RTS does a good job of creating a real-time strategy game based on the classic line of 
 plastic toys. 

 The Army Men franchise has been very successful for 3DO over the years, yet few Army Men games since 
 the original have made it to the PC. It was probably only a matter of time before an Army Men installment 
 let you control an entire brigade of those little green plastic men in a real-time strategy game, 
 which is exactly what Army Men: RTS does. The game originally debuted on the PlayStation 2, but 
 Army Men: RTS feels right at home on the PC. That's no doubt partly because it was created by Pandemic 
 Studios, an experienced developer of real-time strategy games. Army Men: RTS maintains the broad 
 appeal of the series, as its basic design makes it very easy for players to pick up and enjoy, 
 though die-hard fans of the genre will find it frustrating at times.           You'll control a 
 variety of green plastic troops, such as this flamethrower.    

  Army Men: RTS places the Green army under your direct control in a series of campaign missions 
 and single-scenario battles called the "great battles." The campaign has you chasing after a rogue 
 Green general who joined your archenemy, the Tan army. Your pursuit will place you on battlefields 
 ranging from a backyard to kitchen countertops. The owner of the house that's the stage for the 
 battles in Army Men: RTS must be quite messy -- there are toys and garbage spilled all over the place. 
 The mess is a benefit to you, though. Some of the things lying around can be used to harvest resources. 
 There are two resources you'll need to construct an army: plastic and electricity. Plastic can 
 be found in items like dog bowls and action figures, and you can even harvest some from dead units. 
 Electricity can be acquired by finding things like watches or flashlights. Some missions also have 
 power-ups that will boost troops' speed or firepower.   

  The campaign has varying objectives for each mission. The Green army will face challenges like 
 having to destroy a Tan base, capture an infinite source of power, or escape from a basement infested 
 with ants. Each mission also includes two secondary objectives called medal goals. Completing one 
 goal will grant you a silver medal, while finishing both will give you a shiny gold medal. Accumulating 
 medals will unlock new great battle scenarios. Completing one medal goal in a mission is easy, 
 but getting both goals can be quite difficult at times. That's because the goals can conflict with 
 each other. For example, one goal may be to finish the mission in a certain amount of time, while 
 the other requires you to find every power-up on the map. You most likely wouldn't find all the 
 power-ups in time on a mission you're not familiar with.           There's plenty of detail in 
 the game's supersized environments.    

  Army Men: RTS plays like a standard real-time strategy game. While there are some missions where 
 you have only a small squad of soldiers, most of them allow you to build a base and produce troops. 
 In these cases, you'll start out with a bulldozer that is used to build structures like the HQ 
 and the resource depot. The barracks produce infantry and the garage produces vehicles. All these 
 buildings can be upgraded to produce advanced units. You can also build defensive structures like 
 a sentry tower and an AA gun.   

  The units themselves are well prepared for the war against the Tan army. There are several types 
 of infantry -- the basic grunt, the grenadier, and the sniper are only a few of the little green 
 men you'll command. There are also several types of vehicles like the tank and helicopter that 
 support your infantry, and a medic vehicle can be deployed to repair units and buildings. You need 
 to field a balanced army in order to survive encounters with the enemy. Grunts form the backbone 
 of the Green army, but they get chewed up by just about anything if they don't have any backup. 
 Part of putting together a balanced military force is knowing the strengths and weaknesses of the 
 different unit types -- for example, tanks can't fire at air units, mortar men can only attack buildings, 
 and bazooka men are effective against vehicles. There's quite a bit to keep track of, but not so 
 much that it gets confusing.    

 Despite the variety of units, Army Men: RTS does have several limitations that will turn off hard-core 
 RTS players. First of all, you can only create up to four unit groups. Considering that there are 
 so many different types of units, this is a severe constraint. What makes it worse is the fact 
 that you can't easily select units. You can't double-click on a unit to call up everyone of its 
 type, so you'll have to rely on selecting them by clicking and dragging a bandbox around them. 
 Fortunately, the bandbox won't select non-combat units when you're trying to select a group. In 
 addition, the unit pathfinding in Army Men: RTS has some problems -- units will normally find their 
 way around obstacles with ease, but once your units get into large groups, they will have trouble 
 trying to get around each other. This can make attacks really frustrating because your front-line 
 units may get stuck behind other units, leaving weaker support troops unprotected. Another limitation 
 that will disappoint some RTS fans is the lack of a random skirmish mode. The great battles aren't 
 enough to bring added replay value to the game, especially since the environments seen in them 
 are straight from the campaign.           Resources can be extracted from mundane items, such as 
 this toy robot.    

  The computer's artificial intelligence in Army Men: RTS is decent, but it also has a few weaknesses. 
 Non-combat units will flee if they are attacked, and the medic will constantly move to heal injured 
 units. Dump trucks will automatically find resources to harvest, and it will even set its own priorities 
 according to your current stores of plastic and electricity. The major problem in the AI is the 
 lack of a behavior setting. Your units will automatically move to attack enemies when they get 
 within sight. It really becomes an issue when trying to destroy enemy defensive structures. Your 
 mortar men need another unit to have the towers in their sight, but that unit will move to attack 
 the tower unless you have it selected and constantly hit the S key to force it to stop.   

  The Green army will often employ hero units to get the job done. Cutscenes between every mission 
 help add to the heroes' personalities. Sarge, the tough leader, is found in every mission. The 
 other heroes are unique versions of other basic troops. Their presence adds character to the basic 
 elements in the game, and as such it can be depressing to see them die in a mission.           
 Army Men: RTS can be fun, especially for more-casual RTS players.    

  The game's 3D graphics aren't incredibly impressive, but the game has enough style to make up for 
 it. Each of the house's rooms is detailed thoroughly. The kitchen counter has stovetops and cutting 
 boards with chopped onions, while the living room has video games and toys lying around everywhere. 
 You would definitely get caught up in the game's whimsical nature if it weren't for Sarge's deadly 
 serious tone. The rest of the game's audio is utilitarian -- it gets the job done, but it isn't anything 
 to write home about. The music is militaristic and well suited to the game, but it eventually becomes 
 repetitive. The sounds themselves are bland, and most of the troop types have a small number of 
 speech clips.   

  Overall, Army Men: RTS does a good job of creating a real-time strategy game based on the classic 
 line of plastic toys. Although not particularly challenging, the campaign mode will keep you busy 
 for a while. The lack of a skirmish mode is a drag, but at least there is a multiplayer mode in 
 which you can challenge your friends to a plastic duel. The bottom line is that the game is very 
 easy to play and quite fun despite its limitations. Gamers who have had no RTS experience will 
 be able to dive right in. Meanwhile, though hard-core RTS players won't find Army Men: RTS to be 
 one of the more sophisticated games in the genre, they'll at least be able to enjoy its originality. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tonyhawksP8
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 1:27 am PT
Review:  Those green army men are now promoting you to Commander of their army in hope that you lead them 
 in the battle against the Tan Army. This game was great because I always loved the plastic men 
 and the constant struggle against the Tan Army. This game even includes the melted leftovers of 
 destroyed units so that your harvesters can gather plastic to make your men.
  
  The game isn't really deep but what I love is that all the familiar units of previous Army Men 
 appear, the game itself has units from the Vietnam era. The units are however not really unique 
 and with ants and cockroaches as the only danger you might find that a second side would have helped.
 
  
  The areas are great ranging from countertops to the backyard, the campaign itself is great and 
 the added bonus missions do make it fun. The campaign is very varied and will see you fighting 
 over a PS2, evacuating Sarge and his band of merry men etc.
  
  I can't say much for the multiplayer as I haven't play it or got it to work but if you are stuck 
 on the game go to boot camp. The game itself is reminiscent on the RTS genre with Plastic and Electricity 
 being your income and the standard Main HQ, helipad (upgrade) , barracks and garage. There are upgrades 
 to improve buildings so as to unlock new building options. There are really cool superpowers like 
 paratroopers, a giant magnifying glass and more. The minelayer has standard mines, glue bombs and 
 some others. Be warned though any units left alone will go about doing their things, the ore trucks 
 will go right next to the enemy defences in order to get resources and units will bumble around.
 
  
  This game really defines larger scale battles of which is new to the Army Men world, if you're 
 an army men nut or RTS fan you'd get the most out of it.
  
  The game is great for the casual RTS player, I like the fact that Army Men are in an RTS but the 
 game can feel like a simple Rock, Paper, Scissor type. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacob72993
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Good game but NO one plays on multiplayer, but then again army men: RTS isn't one of the new games. 
 Easy to beat once u get the hang of it. I think i beat it in about 3-7 days getting all gold medals. 
 With no cheats.. haha. Thats one thing i like about multiplayer, you can't cheat. But negative 
 thing is that no one plays on multiplayer. Army men RTS is mainly for the younger kids. I had army 
 men RTS for about 4-5 years, long time... the cd is waring out and has about 1million marks. My 
 computer no longer can even read lol. But overall army men RTS is a pretty good game, but its no 
 where near my top 5 favorites!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rainbowsix6666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  The Army Men franchise has been very successful for 3DO over the years, yet few Army Men games 
 since the original have made it to the PC. It was probably only a matter of time before an Army 
 Men installment let you control an entire brigade of those little green plastic men in a real-time 
 strategy game, which is exactly what Army Men: RTS does. The game originally debuted on the PlayStation 
 2, but Army Men: RTS feels right at home on the PC. That's no doubt partly because it was created 
 by Pandemic Studios, an experienced developer of real-time strategy games. Army Men: RTS maintains 
 the broad appeal of the series, as its basic design makes it very easy for players to pick up and 
 enjoy, though die-hard fans of the genre will find it frustrating at times. You'll control a variety 
 of green plastic troops, such as this flamethrower. Army Men: RTS places the Green army under your 
 direct control in a series of campaign missions and single-scenario battles called the great battles. 
 The campaign has you chasing after a rogue Green general who joined your archenemy, the Tan army. 
 Your pursuit will place you on battlefields ranging from a backyard to kitchen countertops. The 
 owner of the house that's the stage for the battles in Army Men: RTS must be quite messy -- there 
 are toys and garbage spilled all over the place. The mess is a benefit to you, though. Some of 
 the things lying around can be used to harvest resources. There are two resources you'll need to 
 construct an army: plastic and electricity. Plastic can be found in items like dog bowls and action 
 figures, and you can even harvest some from dead units. Electricity can be acquired by finding 
 things like watches or flashlights. Some missions also have power-ups that will boost troops' speed 
 or firepower. The campaign has varying objectives for each mission. The Green army will face challenges 
 like having to destroy a Tan base, capture an infinite source of power, or escape from a basement 
 infested with ants. Each mission also includes two secondary objectives called medal goals. Completing 
 one goal will grant you a silver medal, while finishing both will give you a shiny gold medal. 
 Accumulating medals will unlock new great battle scenarios. Completing one medal goal in a mission 
 is easy, but getting both goals can be quite difficult at times. That's because the goals can conflict 
 with each other. For example, one goal may be to finish the mission in a certain amount of time, 
 while the other requires you to find every power-up on the map. You most likely wouldn't find all 
 the power-ups in time on a mission you're not familiar with. There's plenty of detail in the game's 
 supersized environments. Army Men: RTS plays like a standard real-time strategy game. While there 
 are some missions where you have only a small squad of soldiers, most of them allow you to build 
 a base and produce troops. In these cases, you'll start out with a bulldozer that is used to build 
 structures like the HQ and the resource depot. The barracks produce infantry and the garage produces 
 vehicles. All these buildings can be upgraded to produce advanced units. You can also build defensive 
 structures like a sentry tower and an AA gun. The units themselves are well prepared for the war 
 against the Tan army. There are several types of infantry -- the basic grunt, the grenadier, and 
 the sniper are only a few of the little green men you'll command. There are also several types 
 of vehicles like the tank and helicopter that support your infantry, and a medic vehicle can be 
 deployed to repair units and buildings. You need to field a balanced army in order to survive encounters 
 with the enemy. Grunts form the backbone of the Green army, but they get chewed up by just about 
 anything if they don't have any backup. Part of putting together a balanced military force is knowing 
 the strengths and weaknesses of the different unit types -- for example, tanks can't fire at air 
 units, mortar men can only attack buildings, and bazooka men are effective against vehicles. There's 
 quite a bit to keep track of, but not so much that it gets confusing.
  &laquo; Prev Next &raquo; 1 | 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I never had Little Army Men when I was small, my cousins did. I never understood the fascination 
 with them. I was always a GI Joe or Transformers collector. Still I bought this gaming since it 
 was a RTS.
  The campaign mode was actually fun to play. I love the battlefield is actually the backyard. The 
 concept of having other toys and garbage lying around to be the terrain is innovative.
  Aside from the superficial differences, this is a basic RTS game. The one who can build the fastest 
 wins most of the time. For me this is not a fun strategy.
  If youre an RTS fan or fanatic give this a try, if your new to RTS there are plenty of options 
 out there and this is not one of them.
  Overall average game with average graphics, sound and game play. Check out electronic stores bargain 
 bins for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a funny RTS game because you control plastic figures and vechicules and fight other "tan" 
 ones of the same type which are your enemy. The graphics are OK, the sound is ok, the gameplay 
 is ok. The bad thing is that both armies have mostly the same unit types so there is nothing unique 
 to differ the armies and make the battles interesting. Otherwise this is an OK game. You should 
 but this game if you are a casual RTS gamer and if you are more serious about RTS games you should 
 buy other more serious RTS games like the C&C games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsmyth
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  This is a top notch little game. It has definatly improved from the later games. One of the cool 
 things is you can have your soldiers in groups, instead of seperated into individuals. So this 
 makes it easier to do missions if you have one group defending and another attacking. 
  
  The gameplay is very smooth and easy to get the hang of. Building your own base is really cool, 
 deciding when to tactly build things can be tricky, because you have to possition things that are 
 most needed further back where the enemy wont attack first.. well... hopefully that is!
  
  Overall a great wee game for kids and adults. My favourite in the series of Army Men games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franklinzhang
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 7, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is great alright, its got good taste, OK interactivity, a nice army-style soundtrack, 
 and excellent graphics. Its also really funny, think about it, tiny plastic toys waging war with 
 real weapons. Now that just cracks me up. Its also funny when the source of plastic is in things 
 that people drop or things that we use every day. For example, you can mine plastic from a water 
 gun, you also get electricity from a watch that a boy probably dropped. The graphics are great, 
 the game draws the landscape like a helicopter flying above ground. The soundtrack is truly like 
 a typical war song, so that's great. However, there's also a couple of bad things that need improvement. 
 One thing is the interactivity, the controls are a little too hard to get used to. You also can't 
 change the controls so you can have a desired control. The mouse configuration should have an option 
 to either left click selects, and right click executes, or just plain left key interface. Another 
 downside is that the levels are too slow, like you've gotta do a lotta stuff in order to complete 
 it. Finally, the units could've had a talking interface like "Sarge here" or "Ready to attack". 
 That is very important for all strategy games like Army Men: Rts. Overall, a great slim-angled 
 army rts that just needs to improve its interface. Its better than the Army Men action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainryan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 7:27 am PT
Review:  Why the heck did I sell RTS! In Army Men RTS you get to play as the green army controlling the 
 green army that is! You get to make a base set up factories and set up defenses! You could play 
 this game for an infinity and it would be different every time! Like how about I launch an air 
 attack on the tan base! Then send in the tanks! Followed by infantry. Or I could send in a sniper 
 team to infiltrate the tan base! The possibilities are endless! There are special missions to unlock 
 and a campain mode! Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gla001b
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 16, 2005 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Army men RTS delivers what most people see in a strategy game. Gather resources, build army, expand, 
 build bigger army. Yeah yeah, but this one is different... They acctually made it... well... militaristic, 
 instead of medieval. Hey I don't hate medieval games... I just like more modern military ones. 
 This game always has some kind of secret weapon, This time its a robot ( i think ) . With a large 
 array of infantry and vehicles, lets not even mention the special missions and a somewhat funny/good 
 campaign. This RTS will satisfy your urge to watch little plastic men with real guns kill each 
 other... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phili4life
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  I played army men rts on my computer and it was plretty good until i got and reall played the game. 
 this games graphics arent that bad and the sound arent bad either but the one thing is the music 
 in the game is so annoying everytime you start the game the same song comes on I would like to 
 hear another one once in a while. This game has some good modes in it like boot camp so you can 
 learn how to play the game. Campaign which is the story to army men rts and Great battles where 
 you build up an army and destroy the tan. Playing this game for a long time really gets boring 
 especially multiplayer. Its usually the same on multiplayer and gets boring quick. I give this 
 game a 7.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 1.4
Date: Aug 23, 2005 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is so bad, you have no idea. Talk about taking the already really good series and 
 ruining it. After this game, it seems like all other Army Men games will be terrible. Turns out 
 they were too. Omega Strike or whatever it's called was even worse then this. Do yourself a favor 
 and stick to the Sarge's heros games and the original Army Men games. They are the only games in 
 the series that are even any good anymore. If they had just stuck to Sarge's heros and hadn't messed 
 with it, the franchise would be fine. I miss the days of shhot outs between tans and greens over 
 sinks and toilets. I miss the giant magnifying glass coming out of the sky to burn victims into 
 puddles of RAW PLASTIC. I miss the good ol' days of real Army Men. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KRAZY_JACK
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 28, 2005 3:57 am PT
Review:  This was a game that I happened to come across while shopping for a B-Day present for my little 
 brother. Here is the breakdown (based on what my little brother had to say, he is 9 by the way) :
 
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 It was pretty good. The framerate was good, and the game never froze.
  
  Graphics: 8/10 Everything looked great but it could have been better.
  
  Sound: 10/10 the 
 sound was awesome. It really made the game seem better. It made up for the bad graphics.
  
  Value: Well my little brother liked it so I guess it was worth my money. Heck I even play it every 
 once in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cabacon
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2004 4:31 am PT
Review:  When people here the name Army Men, some may listen, but most will more or less shiver with disgust 
 and distaste. I'll admit it that most of the games in the long standing franchise haven't been 
 the best to play, own or rent, but Army Men: RTS really brings life back to the genre.
  
  Like any strategic games, you are the commander and can build platoons of men or cavalries of tanks 
 and halftracks. The game starts outside a normal looking house where you must use wits to get inside 
 and defeat your enemy. At first it seems rather boring until mission 4, where everything hits the 
 fan. You can make as many tanks and men as you want (assuming you know the cheat codes) and get 
 higher medals by collecting certain items found in the missions.
  
  The only downside I can really think of to this game would probably, have to be, it's graphics. 
 For example, when a man of your or of an enemie's dies, his buddy will either turn red, fall and 
 then dissapear, or blow up. Nothing special. The massive explosions of say vehicle factories are 
 huge and take the shape of a mushroom cloud but then quickly vanish with only a puddle of plastic 
 to gain energy from.
  
  When all is said and done, it's worth buying. Army Men: RTS gives the Army Men name a good reputation. 
 Although it can't make up for all of it's mistakes (Sarge's Heroes 2, Green Rogue) it does make 
 something that can be replayable and fun. 3D0 finally did something we can enjoy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
