-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Army Men
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/armymen/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  8, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.1, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 385 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Genre: Action
Date:     Apr 30, 1998 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While the plastic soldier theme might have been better served if it had played up the Toy Story 
 angle a bit more, the end result is fun nonetheless. 

 When 3DO stopped billing Army Men as a strategy game and began labeling it an action game, many 
 gamers were frustrated that they wouldn't be able to relive their plastic childhood battles in 
 a real-time strategy setting. But the final result is a compelling game, and its only major fault 
 is that it doesn't play up the toy soldier bit as much as it should.  

 In Army Men, you are cast in the role of Sarge, an onscreen hero who is responsible for fulfilling 
 a variety of mission objectives set down by Green Army headquarters. You move your character around 
 huge maps, picking up, using, and discarding different types of weapons; scooping up medkits, air 
 support markers, and other items; hopping into and out of vehicles; and coaxing any accompanying 
 troops into battle. At varying intervals along the way, enemy troops, combat vehicles, and various 
 types of fortifications are dispersed across the map, deployed to stop Sarge from accomplishing 
 his mission. When battle is joined, Sarge can fire his weaponry from either a standing, kneeling, 
 or prone position and can evade enemy fire by diving or rolling to either side. Since Sarge can 
 carry only three types of weapons and gear at a time, the trick is knowing when to drop certain 
 articles in favor of more suitable items.  

 Interestingly, there are no independent scenarios included in the game. Instead, Army Men features 
 a grand campaign game, which is segmented into three sequentially playable mini-campaigns. You 
 begin the game in a desertlike region, eventually move on to an alpine setting, then finish your 
 tour of duty in bayou country. Each mini-campaign is further subdivided into four scenarios, which, 
 in turn, are composed of two to three interrelated missions played out across huge battle maps. 
 In the process, you are slowly brought up to speed regarding the progress of the war with the evil 
 Tan Army, which at times may be further augmented by units from the supposedly neutral Blue and 
 Grey Armies.  

 Army Men also comes equipped with an informal boot camp, whereby you receive rudimentary training 
 on the game interface, on how to use each type of weapon, and on how to issue orders to different 
 combat units. You meander through a stylized shooting range, learning how to control your character, 
 identify weapons caches, shoot rifles and bazookas, toss grenades, fire mortars, and handle flamethrowers. 
 You are also taught how to lay mines, detect and unearth enemy minefields, plant explosives, call 
 in air strikes and photo reconnaissance missions, drop paratroopers, and lead squads of loyal plastic 
 soldiers into battle. In addition, you learn how to operate several different types of WWII-era 
 combat vehicles, spanning everything from a jeep and a 2 1/2-ton truck to a half-track and a tank. 
 Apart from the truck, each vehicle is outfitted with a rotating turret, which can train and fire 
 its weapon across a 360-degree arc regardless of which direction the vehicle is moving.  

 Missions run the gamut, from simple reconnaissance operations to full-blown search-and-destroy operations 
 involving multiple squads, several combat vehicles, and even air support. The typical mission brief 
 usually entails moving Sarge from one map sector to another, sometimes requiring him to conduct 
 special tasks along the way. Fortunately, it's always up to you to determine Sarge's route, what 
 types of weapons he'll carry, discard, or use, when and where he'll confront the enemy, how he'll 
 disperse any accompanying units, and how he'll employ any and all supporting arms. More importantly, 
 gameplay is far from linear. Objectives can usually be reached using multiple avenues of approach, 
 a variety of weaponry, and a wide array of battle tactics. For instance, instead of going toe-to-toe 
 with an enemy tank and perhaps risking Sarge in an all-or-nothing engagement, you can try to lure 
 the onrushing tank into a hastily sewn minefield. Alternatively, Sarge could be ordered to blow 
 up a crucial bridge thereby preventing the tank from interfering with the mission at hand. Similarly, 
 Sarge could order in air support, hop in another combat vehicle, or send in troops to destroy the 
 tank while he watches from a safe vantage point. As a result, you are not bound by any predetermined 
 set of rules and instead may fulfill the mission objectives any way you deem necessary.   

 Army Men's combat animations are first-rate. Destroyed combat vehicles are flipped over or smashed 
 into little pieces, a broken axle flimsily lying alongside the smoldering wreck as if to say these 
 are still nothing more than glorified war toys. Explosions too are well handled with vibrant spouts 
 of flame and choking debris showering the battlefield. The sound effects are equally superb, typically 
 depicting men screaming in agony as they're continually burned, bombed, run over, or blown to smithereens. 
 About the only thing missing is the flat stand-up bases, which have come to epitomize the weak-kneed 
 plastic soldiers. Despite its charm, Army Men nevertheless manages to shoot itself in the foot 
 on several counts. For starters, you are unable to save a mission in progress and must either complete 
 the mission or repeat it from the very beginning. Now, considering the time and effort it takes 
 to move your forces from one end of the map to the other and the number of pitched battles you 
 must fight along the way, I can't for the life of me understand why a save-game option wasn't made 
 available. Secondly, combat vehicles can easily be put out of action long before they engage the 
 enemy, oftentimes becoming immobilized if they inadvertently ram a tree or get hung up on a few 
 rocks. Even if they're meant to portray plastic combat vehicles, the system could have been better 
 tweaked to allow for an occasional mishap. Lastly, Army Men's replay value is extremely limited. 
 For all intents and purposes, once you've conquered the immense campaign game, your military career 
 has come to a screeching halt. While the inclusion of a multiplayer option is indeed commendable, 
 no provision was made to let you create your own scenarios much less swap them with your friends. 

 While the plastic soldier theme might have been better served if it had played up the Toy Story 
 angle a bit more, the end result is fun nonetheless. Army Men successfully melds the old with the 
 new, taking an ageless pastime and literally, as well as figuratively, giving it new hi-tech legs. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Boosj
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 16, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Army Men is in fact an very old game, for the moment, only gamers that dint play the game are buying 
 (or downloading because i dont think they are still selling it) or downloading the game.
  You should see Army Men as a Age of Empires II game but then with guns and a few more events than 
 just building your city and build an army and so on.
  Army Men is also a game of an adventuring type, not much action (of what im used to) is involved, 
 for instand you are a soldier and you must contact at coordinates. Coordinates are specific points 
 located on map to let it be easier for you to situate where you are.
  Then, (for instant again) you must take the weapons, and run to a area, and that should one of 
 your first missions.
  So i would say, mostly for old-school gamers, download ( or rent it, if it is still possible) and 
 what you see is what you get!
  A 6/10 from me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwing1983
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 25, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  This game was great fun. I used to play it all the time on my old laptop. It had everything I liked 
 about playing with Army men as a child except that they were real. My grandfather thought they 
 captured the warfare aspect of it perfectly too. Plus it was funny. You had this little plastic 
 man blowing up, melting and flating one another. It was great fun. I am happy to say this title 
 went on to puck out almost 12 other games. Each one becoming funnier then the last. My favorite 
 in the series is the Sarges Heros for N64 and Toys in space for the Pc. I really do miss this series. 
 This was also great fun to play aganist people on the lan systems too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chettyharish
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  My First Game So Always With the game.
  The Game has some superb missions.
  The Real stratergic view is good enough.
  All the military moves are present.
  Some Missions 
 Are pretty difficult while some are just too easy.
  
  
  Good Points
  :arrow: The Game has good multiplayer option
  :arrow: One of the best when released
  :arrow: The 
 game is totally based on the army toys of Disney's Toy Story
  :arrow: The missions are good especially the fourthone having the helipad
  :arrow: The spygear 
 are good enough
  :arrow: There are 5 weapons only visibly.
  :arrow: Consists of jeeps, tanks ,trucks , motorboatand at last aeroplane
  
  
  Bad points
 
  :arrow: All the different types of guns look and shoot same.
  :arrow: The graphics are not as good as they were supposed to be
  :arrow: The screeching sound 
 of the cockroach causes headache
  :arrow: The missions are annoying
  :arrow: the last mission is troublesome
  :arrow: there are some real big bugs in the game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruekilla69
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Army men was a very.... diffrent game if you want to get this game to play it multi player because 
 you think it mite be fun i got something to tell you.... come closer.... closer...... closer...... 
 NO! the multiplayer of this game is HORABLE build an army die respawn no bace to it! you can get 
 get ur whole army killed and then a minit later there all back... and all you have to do is sit 
 there. whats the fun in that?! a 2 year old could beat a pro its horable but single player is ok 
 thare is a little fun in it but not that mutch i wouldent recomend this game to anyone.... maybe 
 someone i hate but anyone becides that i wouldent. Thanx -Shane- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 28, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  There really are not that many original games out there today. In fact, I have not been finding 
 any game that I think is really original. By original, I mean innovative design with at least half 
 way decent graphics, acceptable sound, and a somewhat enjoyable experience when it comes to gameplay. 
 I was shuffling through my old games yesterday, until I found a game that said Army Men on it. 
 I installed it (which took less than thirty seconds) and started to play. After around ten minutes 
 of playing, I felt obligated to write a review for this game. Sure, Army Men does not have the 
 latest graphics, or the purest sound, but it has a very original gameplay design, and thats what 
 makes it so great and fun to play. Sure it may have 2D graphics and somewhat annoying sound, but 
 I am able to look past those problems and get some fun out of this game.
  
  The storyline is very original. Set in a plastic world where little toy army men come to life and 
 do battle, you play a character who hoes by the name Sarge. As a green soldier, you are woefully 
 outmatched as you try to stop the tan army from taking over the world, and survival is not guaranteed. 
 However, you have HQ, plenty of green soldiers, a variety of weapons, four vehicles, plus a full 
 set and selection of air support to help you accomplish it. That is probably the most original 
 story I have ever heard in my life. Believe it or not, but this storys originality may even surpass 
 the level of originality of Halos story! That is no easy task!
  
  Graphics- 7/10
  The reason why these graphics may look so horrendous to most other people is the fact that they 
 are not even 3D! Thats right, its a 2D perspective. The characters and levels may have some level 
 of 3D properties in them, but trust me, they arent. These graphics may not be the best, but they 
 get the job the done. However, I thought that some of the concepts of the graphics were downright 
 awesome. Ill name a few of them
  When you shoot a soldier and kill him, he
  -explodes into pieces and they go flying everywhere
  -losses both his arms
  -looses half of 
 one of his legs and his head or
  -melts (flamethrower only)
  
  and thats just some of the features. Even when you soot them, you see plastic bits go flying 
 everywhere. The vehicles when destroyed, turn over on their backs, or fall to the side. If you 
 apply even more damage to them, they explode into a million pieces. Other than that, the graphics 
 Im sad to say are just average and nothing more.
  
  Sound- 7/10
  Theres nothing too spectacular or interesting here. The weapons do sound real enough (except the 
 flamethrower) but the vehicles dont. The voice acting is okay, but when in communication with 
 HQ, it can get really defining at times, and sounds somewhat terrible. Finally, the music is okay 
 enough and overall, the game is decent enough to listen to.
  
  Gameplay- 8/10
  Its not the most fluid controls, or the best targeting system that give the gameplay this high 
 a rating, its the originality. When is it that you come across a game like this? To start off, 
 you are put in control of every weapon from a rifle all the way to flamethrower. The rifle can 
 also be upgraded to an auto rifle. In addition to that, you get control of four vehicles, the jeep, 
 cargo truck, halftrack and my favorite of all, the tank. You also get full air support which contains 
 air strikes, paratroopers, and air reconnaissance. Theres also a fully developed squad system 
 that lets you order your troops to attack a position, defend an area, or simply follow you. The 
 soldiers however, are kind of weak and get killed off like flies. Fortunately, the same goes for 
 your enemies. Plus, some of the environments are destructible like the trees, crates, and barbed 
 wire. Even some of the buildings can be trashed, and wrecked.
  
  I do have a few minor complaints however. For one, this game is very hard and the controls take 
 some getting used to. The soldiers you get for backup are very weak, and if you are trying to protect 
 them which you have to do on one of the missions, its going to be almost impossible to win the 
 level unless you order your boys to stay put, and clear the area first hand. Even you can be killed 
 very easily and there are times where there are no med packs in sight.
  
  In the end, while most people could have obtained the best experience out of this game of there 
 had been some minor tweaks to it, its still a fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bidybag
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 23, 2004 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Well this must be the worst game i have ever played. It might have been good when the first PC 
 come out but why do they even still sell this game. They should be giving it out for free. This 
 game is just really bad, i dont even want to say the name. Well since this review has to be at 
 least 100 words i dont know what else to say expect this game is really bad. The graphics are bad 
 and the gameplay is bad, even tho its an old game and was good for its time that isnt what annoys 
 me, what annoys me is that shops still sell it trying to rip people off on this 100 year old game. 
 Nobody get this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
