-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Army Men II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/armymen2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 17, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 5.8, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 186 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Genre: Action
Date:     Feb 28, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Overall, Army Men II is fun, but it's just not all that it could be. 

 The original Army Men was a decent game, though it didn't quite live up to many gamers' expectations. 
 Awkward controls, dated graphics, and (on some missions) surprisingly difficult objectives detracted 
 from the unquestionable allure of pitting those little plastic guys against one another. With Army 
 Men II, 3DO seems to have corrected a number of the original game's issues. The problem is, Army 
 Men II fails to cash in on its solid premise and ends up feeling more like a version 1.1 release 
 than a full-fledged sequel.  

 As the game begins, a beautifully rendered scene sets the stage for the action: Green troops stumble 
 across a pan-dimensional teleporter that transports them to a strange world (ours) . Tan troops 
 follow them through the portal, and a firefight breaks out on a kitchen countertop far, far away. 
 If only the game continued on like this...  

 After an all-too-brief opening mission in which you must guide your troops past roaches and electric 
 stovetops, you all get teleported back to the world of Army Men - where you will find yourself 
 for most of the game. Every once in a while, you'll get another mission back in our world, but 
 these pop up far too infrequently. Worse yet, not a single one of the maps from the "real world" 
 missions is available during multiplayer games. What 3DO was thinking here, I honestly cannot fathom. 

 Gameplay is essentially the same as in the original game. Again, you command Sarge, a hard-nosed 
 soldier who can not only handle every weapon known to man but also drive any manner of military 
 vehicle (including PT Boats) . You view the action from a top-down perspective and guide Sarge using 
 the keyboard and/or the mouse. The default keys take some getting used to, but you can remap them. 
 Mouse control is sufficient most of the time, but it's not as intuitive as what you'd find in a 
 good real-time strategy game. In case you're wondering, your troops follow your lead around the 
 map unless you select and assign them specific orders.  

 You can also order specific units or groups of units to attack, defend, hold position, or rally 
 around you. Additionally, you can now save your game at any point during a mission, which is nice 
 because some of the missions have several stages. Perhaps the best new feature, however, is the 
 addition of experience ratings for your troops. Each solider under your command gets a little more 
 proficient with each mission he survives. In other words, it is in your best interests to keep 
 these boys alive for as long as possible.  

 Other new things to look out for: The game now offers a few new weapons, including the super-cool 
 magnifying glass, an M80 (woo hoo!) , and an aerosol can that can be used with lighters to do lots 
 of wonderful damage. Sarge also gets to tote around a sniper rifle, which is perhaps the best weapon 
 in the game.  

 Army Men II seems quite a bit more forgiving than the original, with well-stepped difficulty levels 
 that let players of any skill level move through the game. Most missions are well designed, with 
 interesting (and often familiar) objectives and settings. There are a handful of missions that 
 seem to have just one too many objectives - you know, the type that just never seem to end - but 
 the rest are well thought-out and fairly challenging.  

 Of course, the horrendous pathfinding adds considerably to the challenge. Your units simply can't 
 find their way out of a foxhole, which means that you must guide them around the maps using baby-step 
 destination points (click a little ahead, click just a little farther ahead, and so on) . This proves 
 to be extremely aggravating, especially on missions where time is a factor. Also, the pathfinding 
 is at its absolute worst when controlling the PT Boat. Not only can the AI not find a simple path 
 through the water (the wide-open water, mind you) but the game keeps jerking the camera angle back 
 to center on the boat, even when I wanted to scan around for hostiles.  

 The soundtrack deserves mention. The music is a collection of classical pieces that at times fits 
 the situation and at others seems terribly out of place. The cutscenes, on the other hand, are 
 fantastic and for the most part funny (especially the scene that plays when you fail a mission) . 

 Multiplayer support is strong, letting up to four players compete over IPX or TCP/IP connections. 
 Head-to-head play over serial and modem links is also supported. Army Men II provides a good skirmish 
 mode - one in which you can actually beat the computer - and also lets you fill in empty slots 
 in a multiplayer game with AI opponents. The setup screen for multiplayer games is slick, but the 
 selection of maps for these games is pretty weak. Where's that cool kitchen countertop map?  

 
 Overall, Army Men II is fun, but it's just not all that it could be (apologies for the weak Army 
 joke...) . Let's hope 3DO will patch the AI and the pathfinding and make some of those real-world 
 maps available for multiplayer games. Until then, you'll probably only really like this one if 
 you're already a big fan of the original.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Kwing1983
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 25, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Well at the end of Army Men one, Sarge ends up in our real world. This is were the fun begins and 
 it gets humorous too. You fight your way through the kicthen, living room, back yard, sand box 
 , bedroom and then the bathroom. I had so much fun playing the 2nd one and actually have it on 
 my current laptop. I also liked how the air strike was more detailed and you could call in more 
 troops. Unfortunate for this game is its much shorter and it seems much easier then the last one 
 too. The great thing about the series is that it gets funnier from here on out. This game like 
 the first using a top down veiw, and later on the series will go to third person veiw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aclark24
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 25, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Army Men II is one of the first games that I played on the computer. The thing I remember most 
 is the music when your attempting to go through the level, it sticks with you even when your not 
 playing the game. The music goes along with the landscape and makes you feel like you were in the 
 game, it can make it more intense or relax you until the other army men pop out of nowhere and 
 attack.
  
  To today's standards this game would not compare. Not with games such as Oblivion and F. E. A. R out 
 on the market, but for someone just getting into the PC gaming aspect I would hand them this game. 
 This isn't a game with blood and guts, just plastic pieces flying.
  
  I also remember the skirmish mode in which you could build your army and play capture the flag 
 against the AI, though it was not hard I used to play for hours and hours and only get off when 
 I was told to by my mother.
  
  The game has an immense detail of cockroaches attacking you while your in a kitchen attempting 
 to do a mission, to the dangers of the outside. There are objects all around littered from some 
 messy humans that are huge to your standards, your walking/running over rulers to get from place 
 to place, it was both fun and exiting.
  
  Though I wouldn't recommend this game for anyone older or who has been playing games for awhile, 
 definitely pick this game up for the young ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_judge
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 26, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Army men II is a good game, but some of the game's element has lower it down.
  The good sides:
  -Good isometric graphic
  -Good interactive with enviroment around, like throwing 
 a grenade to a cup, it will be broken and kill some enemies near there, burn the trees, desroying 
 houses, etc. This is the good side of Army Men II that I love very much.
  -Interesting multiplay game
  -Good action scenes.
  -Various weapons
  And even the game give 
 you many soldier, but it's better to control Sarge to do all of the mission himself because:
  -AI is VERY IDIOT, especially the bazooka guy, they'll shoot when they see some enemies, even in 
 front of them is a wall (just like commited suicide)
  The Astupid AI has lowed the game's score. But if you just control Sarge to do everything himself 
 (or yourself) without your stupid allies, you still can fell the game is interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 15, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Having played the first Army Men on the PC, I really liked it. With its innovative design plus 
 the original storyline, it proved to be a success. And since it sold well, 3DO must have decided 
 to make a sequel. Army Men 2 is good, but its not a good as the original and leaves much room 
 for improvement. However, that doesnt mean that its a bad game, but that also doesnt mean its 
 perfect either. 
  
  Graphics- 6/10
  There are definitely better graphics out there, even for other shooters with a top overhead view. 
 The graphics Im sad to say, are just average and nothing more. There are some decent explosion 
 and fire effects, along with the way the soldiers die, which include melting and being blown to 
 bits, but the visuals dont look as dark, desolate and gruesome as they did in the first despite 
 the clean up of most of the visuals. So, in the end, the graphics are really nothing special. 
 
  
  Sound- 7/10
  The sound is alright. Its sure as hell not going to win any awards, but it gets the job done. 
 The voice acting is pretty good, and most of the in-game sound effects are decent enough, but the 
 sound isnt really anything spectacular. Theres really nothing more to say, other than the fact 
 that its decent enough.
  
  Gameplay- 7/10
  After playing Army Men years after my original score of an 8.0, I realized that by todays standards 
 that it wasnt really all that superb, but it was fun nonetheless. Army Men 2 gave some new addition 
 to the weapons and features of the game, such as boats, the ability to heal troops with your own 
 medkits, and the ability to fix your vehicles with a wrench. This fixed many of the problems of 
 the first, as you had to get your troops to a medical tent in order to heal them. This time, you 
 can heal right when youre out in the field. There was also no way to patch up the vehicles in 
 the first, but there is now. Also, you get to carry as much ammo as you want now, and get to carry 
 twice the amount of weapons and gear, and theres no slot specified for a certain weapon. There 
 are now many more weapons to choose from (some being other worldly) and any troops that you accumulate, 
 you keep, no joke. 
  
  The problem is this: Army Men 2 simply lacks the gruesome style that defined the first. For example, 
 Army Men 1 had this dark gritty war feeling to it, and made it feel like real war. Army Men 2 seems 
 real childish at times, and really gets somewhat corny as you go along. Remember how you could 
 blow up the remains of any vehicle you trashed in the first game? You cant do that anymore! Some 
 of the weapons are just useless and theres really no significant moment in the game. It just dosent 
 feel like an Army Men game should. Believe it or not, but the slouchy visuals and underwhelming 
 sound is actually what gave Army Men its dark, gritty feeling. 
  
  In the end, Army Men is a fun game nonetheless, but its not all that it could have been. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
