-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Arthur's Quest: Battle for the Kingdom
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/arthursquestbattleftk/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 17, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 1.9
Critic Score: 4.1, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 4.5, 89 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: ValuSoft
Genre: Fantasy Shooter
Date:     Aug 26, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Arthur's Quest is either an action game with an exceedingly poor design, or a fast-paced, arcade-style 
 coward simulator. 

 After playing the budget-priced 3D action game Arthur's Quest: Battle for the Kingdom, you can't 
 help but get the impression that the game's developer just wasn't thinking. For instance, someone 
 should've thought to make sure that players would try to  play through  most of the game's levels, 
 or give players some kind of incentive to actually keep playing. Maybe someone should've thought 
 to add voice-over to the game's brief and completely superfluous cutscenes or to include more character 
 models and weapons to make the game less monotonous. And most importantly, someone should've realized 
 that Arthur's Quest was a bad idea and decided to make a better game instead.           You could 
 fight these monsters, but why?    

 The game itself is a 3D first-person action game -- it's not a first-person shooter, since you spend 
 most of your time in Arthur's Quest fighting with close-range melee weapons. Like the melee combat 
 found in most first-person games, fighting in Arthur's Quest is problematic because of the age-old 
 problem of depth perception. You don't have a clear idea of exactly how close your enemies have 
 to be in order to hit them with your sword or your mace, so you'll miss them more often than you 
 should. This doesn't end up being that much of a problem because most enemies you fight in Arthur's 
 Quest are rather stupid, and unlike the colorful menagerie of monsters in Serious Sam (another 
 budget-priced action game that's actually  good ) , they don't really exhibit different behavior 
 patterns -- they'll either try to shoot at you from a distance or, more commonly, run straight toward 
 you. If you want, you can just move back and forth, swinging your sword repeatedly until you hit 
 your enemies, though they'll sometimes try to surround you and hedge you in.   

  Fortunately, Arthur can run faster than his enemies. In fact, with the exception of a few parts 
 in the game's 11 brief levels in which Arthur gets backed into a corner, he can simply run right 
 past them, get to the exit, and move on to the next level. You can pass through most of the game 
 in this way without ever having to fight, which means that Arthur's Quest is either an action game 
 with an exceedingly poor design or a fast-paced, arcade-style coward simulator. It's possible that 
 the developer intended Arthur's Quest to be a tribute to Midway's classic arcade game Gauntlet, 
 in which you played as a fantasy hero trapped in a dungeon, surrounded by monsters. But in Gauntlet, 
 when you killed monsters, you racked up points, and in that game's dungeons, you could also pick 
 up food, treasure items, potions, and keys to unlock exits to advanced levels. Arthur's Quest has 
 none of those things. When you kill a monster, you don't get points, you don't get experience, 
 and you don't even get ammo. You can pick up ammo for your bow lying around the level and rescue 
 fairies that can replenish your health or "increase your attack, defense, and damage," but apparently, 
 no one realized that it's much easier to simply run straight for the exit. There are no experience 
 levels for Arthur, no end-level score screen, and no running tally of how many fairies you've captured, 
 so there's no real reason for you to do anything but run.   

  It doesn't help matters that Arthur's Quest looks terrible. A few of the game's monsters, like 
 the extremely ugly and obnoxiously abundant dark dwarves and the cutlass-wielding werewolves, actually 
 look fairly detailed, and the game runs at a brisk frame rate on a midrange machine, but most of 
 the game's other monsters look pretty terrible, and the developer recycles monster and character 
 models liberally. The game has both spiders and "slightly larger" spiders, and fairies and "evil" 
 fairies (which look like regular fairies, but with green skin) . The game's other character models 
 look passable, but there are too few of them -- at the beginning of the game, you'll rescue a village 
 populated by multiple clones of the same exact man and the same exact woman. The game's environments 
 also look ugly -- without exception, they're all blocky and lack detail, the worst being the forest 
 level, in which the "trees" consist of walls covered flatly with a crude and repetitious tree texture. 
           Were the developers eating these when they decided to make this game?    

 Arthur's Quest also sounds really bad. Most monsters have only one or two different sound samples, 
 and they're usually repetitive and annoying, especially the dark dwarves, which attack you in droves 
 while uttering the same noises over and over again. Yet for some reason, the other characters you'll 
 speak with in the game's brief between-mission cutscenes are completely silent -- they'll gesture 
 at you mutely and helplessly while their dialogue appears at the bottom of the screen in text so 
 small it's nearly illegible. Unfortunately for Arthur's Quest, the game's repetitive music is loud 
 and clear in comparison, even embarrassing, since much of it features grandiose fanfares that loop 
 endlessly while you're moving back and forth and stabbing at a dozen same-looking dark dwarves 
 or, more realistically, while you're fleeing from your enemies like a lily-livered sissy.   

  It almost doesn't bear mentioning that Arthur's Quest doesn't have multiplayer, because considering 
 all the incredible multiplayer action games that are currently available, including the comparably 
 priced Serious Sam, playing a multiplayer game of Arthur's Quest just doesn't seem like it would 
 be fun for anyone. Neither would trying to go through the game's relatively short 11 levels more 
 than once -- in fact, most people who enjoy playing games that are fun will probably abandon the 
 game in disgust without even finishing it. You could take the same amount of money you'd spend 
 on Arthur's Quest and use it to get a copy of Serious Sam: The Second Encounter, or three copies 
 of Serious Sam: The First Encounter, and in either case, you'd be making much better use of your 
 money.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Corlist
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Arthur's Quest: Battle for the Kingdom is supposedly a first-person action game in which you, as 
 Arthur, defeat your enemies so that you could claim your rightful place to the throne. However, 
 a bevy of issues plaguing the game will make you feel like doing something less boring, like work.
 
  
  First up, the story that's in the game is apparently missing. Apparently, the creators believed 
 that player will already know all about the story of King Arthur and how he had managed to become 
 king. That's a bad thing to do, as a developed story that is well integrated into the game would 
 have made the experience much better. Leaving everything unexplained means that the creators/developers 
 couldn't care less about the game.
  
  Right at the start of the game, you'll be suddenly instanced into a town which is under siege by 
 dark dwarves. There's no explanation why the enemies are attacking the town or how is it that you 
 are there when that happened. You are simply thrown into series of bland and confusing maps.
  
  As the games goes on, you'll meet more characters, like Merlin. The back of the box reads. 
 "With a powerful wizard by your side, you must defeat the legendary evil" With that, you might 
 think that you would have Merlin to accompany you on your journey and provide some real-time assistance. 
 Let me ascertain that this is a horrible lie, as Merlin only shows up once in the course of the 
 game during a particular cut-scene. That's right, you don't even get to see Merlin do anything 
 besides standing still. Worse still, the voices for the cut-scenes in the game do not work as well, 
 and you will be looking at a ugly-looking character model move their mouths slightly during each 
 brief and very rare cut-scenes in the game. Adding insult to injury, the subtitles for the dialogues 
 are very small and almost indecipherable.
  
  Suffice it to say, playing Arthur's Quest will make you go "Why am I going around killing all these 
 things?" every now and then.
  
  Despite its utter failure to deliver even a simple story, Arthur's Quest might yet redeem itself 
 by providing the player with a decent gameplay experience. Unfortunately, that fails miserably 
 as well.
  
  As previously mentioned, you will start the game in a town under attack by dark dwarves. A woman 
 then runs up with you and hands you a sword, even though you don't really see her giving it to 
 you.
  
  One of the main things that will get players going with the game are objectives. This game either 
 does have any, or puts them in a way too subtle for players to notice. You will know that you have 
 to kill the dwarven invaders in town, but there really isn't anything else besides that.
  
  In actuality, the objective of the game is just to reach the exit of the level so that you can 
 reach the next level. With the exception of the first and the fourth level, you do not actually 
 need to kill any enemy at all. Killing enemies are also rather unproductive, as you will get nothing 
 at all  no money, no experience, no weapons and not even the satisfaction of slaying them. This 
 pretty much kills the game.
  
  It doesn't take long for you to realize that the artificial intelligence in this game is as simple 
 as it gets. The dark dwarves will charge at you aimlessly like zombies, attempting to kill you. 
 They do not really exhibit any intelligent behaviour besides that fact that to do try to not clip 
 into each other when trying to chase you down. 
  
  The AI is so atrocious that you can make them kill each other by jumping over a large group of 
 dwarves. They will try to strike at you while you jump over their ranks but unfortunately, more 
 often then not, they will hit their comrades by mistake.
  
  They can be taken down in the same way as you would with a crowbar with Half-Life zombies - just 
 run forward, hit and run back. This wouldn't be that much of a pain if your sword was good  it 
 takes a good 3-4 slashes to kill a single dark dwarf, and more than ten of them will appear in 
 the first level of the game. Later on in the game, the enemies will be so tough and so numerous 
 that this "combat" becomes a slow and grinding affair. Faeries can be found sprinkled in the levels 
 to boost your combat abilities, but you will still feel as though the enemies have way too much 
 health.
  
  Apparently, there isn't any AI made for the various clones of the exact same man and the exact 
 same woman who populate that town. A woman runs right up to you at the start of the game to hand 
 you a sword, but everybody stands motionless when the dark dwarf do appear. They do not move, show 
 facial expressions or even make sounds. All they do is stand around and turn to face you when you 
 get near them.
  
  A bow will be given to you for the later levels, but it is even less useful than your sword. You 
 might feel like being a wily archer, sneaking around and taking enemies down silently with your 
 bow, or climb up a tree and take potshots at unsuspecting enemies. Unfortunately, the game doesn't 
 let you do any of those.
  
  First, the mechanics of the bow are broken. Picture this scenario  you have a dark dwarf running 
 straight at you at about half a feet away, you pull out your bow and take an almost point-blank 
 shot at its stomach. Magically, the arrow has a chance of missing the dwarf. Apparently they have 
 tried to implement Diablo II style of a chance to hit. But for a first-person action game, it is 
 just ridiculous. The ammunition of the bow is astoundingly rare for the ridiculous amount of shots 
 you need to take down even the simplest of enemies. Magic arrows, which are more powerful version 
 of arrows, are also plagued by the same hit-detection problem that normal arrows have. Your best 
 bet invariably lies in hand-to-hand weapons.
  
  Second, despite the fact that you could press a button to toggle between walking and running, there 
 is pretty much no point to be walking. You could also press a button to crouch, but there's no 
 point in that either as there is no stealth element in the game at all. You could try moving slowly 
 while crouched and enemies will spot you instantly when they appear in your viewing distance. There's 
 also no low areas or caves in which you have to crouch to proceed through, defeating the purpose 
 of walking or crouching altogether.
  
  The level design of the game is also pretty bad in general. There are no maps provided in the area 
 in which you are going through, so you will get lost rather frequently. The maps are filled with 
 many dead ends, especially in the forest levels, and you will often find yourself going in circles, 
 adding much frustration. There aren't many landmarks in the game to help you keep track of your 
 location as well.
  
  Water is a pretty nice addition to any FPS in general, as it could unlock various gameplay options. 
 Unfortunately, Arthur has severe aquaphobia. A cut-scene will explain about a bridge that's destroyed 
 so that you have to take a detour. The funny thing is that the small gap in the bridge looks so 
 small that you can easily jump over it, but the game places an invisible wall and prevents that 
 from happening. You could, however, jump into the narrow stream that the bridge stretches across. 
 Upon crouching, with your head clearly above the water level, Arthur will magically lose health 
 at an alarming rate.
  
  Perhaps the only redeeming factor of this mess of a game would be that most of the basic clipping 
 and fighting mechanics work when they should. You don't go through walls, enemies or the various 
 in-game scenery. Your melee weapons also strike the enemies when they should. The game is also 
 surprisingly stable and I only crashed the game once during the final battle.
  
  It doesn't help that the game looks pretty bad for something released in 2002. I mean, look at 
 No One Lives Forever 2 or Serious Sam: The Second Encounter and you'll know what I mean. The trees 
 in the forest level are flat and ugly walls of pixels, even on the highest quality settings. The 
 first few levels are filled with the annoying dark dwarves and the stronger dwarves look exactly 
 the same, albeit larger. They didn't even bother to do a palette swap. The variety of enemies in 
 the game can be counted with one hand, and that's not good.
  
  The sounds for the game are also bad, and that's being generous. Most cut-scene dialogues are devoid 
 of sounds. Enemies generally only make three sounds, one when hurt, one while attacking and one 
 when dead. Weapon sounds are also bland and fairly generic and slashing on stones sounds like hitting 
 a cardboard box with a rattan stick. The three tracks for the game are also nothing really special, 
 featuring peaceful melodies to overly dramatic operatic odes that seem to go "ha-ha-ha-ha"  possibly 
 hinting a subconscious attempt at mocking the player for playing such a boring game. They loop 
 frequently and when moving to new areas, come to an awkward silence before starting the track all 
 over again.
  
  Some games have some kind of special magic in them that makes players want to come back and play 
 all over again, Arthur's Quest isn't such a game. The difficulty levels do nothing but make enemies 
 tougher and do more damage. There's no highscore chart, no end-of-round statistics and basically 
 nothing at all. There's really no point in playing the game again when you've beaten it and beating 
 it even once is a very frustrating experience.
  
  All in all, Arthur's quest is a very shallow game with bland graphics and constantly dysfunctional 
 sounds. Do not play this game unless someone pays you to do it. But even if someone actually does, 
 you are putting your sanity at risk.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfTaco
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 4, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  After only a few minutes of playing Arthur's Quest, I noticed this sense of atmosphere. It wasn't 
 a good atmosphere, by any stretch of the means, actually it was a huge atmosphere of apathy. Like 
 nobody who worked on this project actually cared about it. In that respect, it's a lot like Big 
 Rigs and Thundra.
  
  Unfortunately keeping away the really disastrous aspects of those two games must have taken a lot 
 of CPU power, as I could get a faster framerate from simply drawing each frame on the monitor with 
 a pen. I can run some high-tech games with harsh system requirements just fine, so why does such 
 an ugly game run so badly? Probably because the copy/paste function was more dominant than, you 
 know, actual effort. The smartest guess is that each line of code was copied 15 to 20 times.
  
  And there are no great graphics to take your mind off of the framerate, in fact, Arthur's Quest 
 is probably without a doubt the ugliest game of 2002. The graphics are an insult to all humans 
 and some animals. Textures are absolutely terrible, and character models are constantly reused. 
 Sometimes if you shoot an arrow it just disappears. Imagine this. An enemy is straight in front 
 of you. You line your arrow at the enemy's stomach. At the moment the enemy is still. Does this 
 sound like a shot you could possibly miss? If you answered 'no' you aren't familiar with how crappy 
 the game engine is. Enemies will also clip through green walls (which are supposed to be trees, 
 I think) . Sometimes crouching in the right place will make you fall through the map, where you 
 can explore anything, such as the house in the distance that's identical to all the other houses.
 
  
  And the story is entirely forgettable. In fact, if a play were made out of the story, tickets being 
 available through anything but a cereal box would be a complete ripoff. You start out in some random 
 town overran by clones. The people are standing there doing nothing, until some gnomes run in. 
 This causes the people to flee for about two seconds, until they stand there motionless after running 
 about 20 feet. Then someone runs up to you and hands you a plastic sword to fight the gnomes with.
 
  
  You'd think stabbing a gnome in the face would kill it, right? Well it turns out that these gnomes 
 require four or five stabs to kill. And since they swarm in large groups making obnoxious sound 
 effects over and over, you'll play for about ten seconds before you heavily intoxicate yourself 
 in the hopes that you'll forget everything. Once you fight them off, you get a crappy bow and force 
 you to find somebody. After an extremely long and aggravating trip through a forest maze you find 
 Merlin, who tells you in extremely crappy English to go and kill someone. He also gives you magic 
 arrows that you find on the ground ten seconds after being dumped out of the forest.
  
  Your weapons are the Plastic Sword, which has the power of a roll of toilet paper, a Bow which 
 inflicts less damage, has limited ammo, and misses 104% of the time. Sometimes the arrow will even 
 arc upward into the sky, meaning the developer literally did not apply gravity (aka Hey! Things 
 fall down! Not up! ) . Then there's the Phantom Mace, which you can't equip under any circumstance 
 for whatever reason. And finally the Excalibur, whose power is like getting an enemy to swallow 
 an A-Bomb while two nuclear missiles strike it from opposite sides and somebody snaps its neck. 
 Instead of hitting an enemy with Toilet Paper Sword 10,000 times to kill, you can hit them once 
 with this weapon and it'll be like you dropped a house on them.
  
  This game is not merely unfun, this game radiates a strong sense of anti-fun from any computer 
 unfortunate enough to have this game. The kind of anti-fun that kills people and withers flowers. 
 This is probably the absolute worst game I own, at least to the point where I got sick of this 
 game and made it my own personal duty to make sure every file related to this game was destroyed 
 in any cruel or inhumane manner.
  
  And it was a hell of a lot more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexlexia2000
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 25, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  wow this game is absolutely amazing definatelyt beats any game ive ever played it is so unbelievably 
 and diabolically crap that i almost threw it out the window in disgust, what a waste of time. this 
 game is crap crap crap plop plop plop and doesnt deserve a review. i cant say much more about the 
 game without violating the terms of service of gamespot again, they deleted my first review cos 
 i couldnt think of anything else to say other than receit the alphabet. oh dear oh dear oh dear. 
 i hope this game company is out of business and i recommend everyone gives this game a 1.0.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandy4
Rating: 1.2
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  WAT AN AWESONE GAME SUPER GRAPHICS AND GAMEPLAY OMG ITS GOOD. nah im chatting crap pile of plop. 
 craptacualr. u can have more fun with a badger named edward who can do absolutely nufin cos he 
 is a badger and can not tlk well not tht i know of. ne way jst to recap wat a i sed plop plop plop 
 plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop 
 plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop 
 plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop 
 plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop 
 plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop 
 plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop 
 plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop 
 plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop 
 plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop plop. Ill b generous i give it the highest 
 rank its got of 1.2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dedmanhand
Rating: 1.1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 8:39 am PT
Review:  Well, i spent 2.00 on this game. I would have had more fun with the socks i was going ot buy instead.
 
  
  You've really go to think. That were the developers thinking when they made this game? I know, 
 lets make a totally and utterly rubbish game! We could have two different types of monsters, AND 
 we can have it possible to run away from them and complete the game without losing any health!
 
  
  You start off by being dropped of into a Hamlet filled with clones that look the same. There are 
 about five 1" gnomes running about snarling. A clone walks up to you and text appears at the bottom, 
 with no voice to accompany it. Her mouth doesn't even move! She wants you to kill all the gnomes. 
 Why? with your super legs, you can just run away from them! Leaving the town to have them running 
 around, not killing anybody. And then for some reason you have to go find Merlin, so off into the 
 green walled bathroom you go!
  Its not long before you give up. This game is rubbish. 
  In fact-
  THIS IS THE WORST GAME IN HUMAN EXISTENCE 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
