-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Arthur and the Invisibles
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/arthurandtheminimoys/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Looks great and sounds just as good.
 lots of bonus material for fans of the movie.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay is extremely derivative.
 simple puzzles quickly become tedious.
 combat sequences are repetitive and boring.
 dialogue can get wearisome for older audiences.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 24, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.8, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 60 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Etranges Libellule
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Jan 12, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Because of its high production values, fans of the movie may enjoy this movie tie-in, but the epic 
 scope of the adventure is hampered by the unoriginal gameplay. 

  Luc Besson's pastiche  Arthur and the Invisibles  purees Arthurian legend, Tolkien fantasy, pop 
 culture, and other iconic staples of our society to deliver a sickly sweet cocktail that easily 
 lends itself wonderfully to the video game format. And in much the same way that the film's story 
 borrows liberally from canonical fantasy and pop-culture fads, the gameplay mechanics heavily sample 
 notable franchises, such as Prince of Persia and Tomb Raider, as well as other action adventure 
 games. You also might notice a few Panzer Dragoon similarities, and maybe even Micro Machines a 
 bit. This is all to say that the sampling is broad, and the list is long. With a story that parallels 
 the film and game mechanics that mimic elements of many other games, there isn't anything that's 
 particularly original here. But the gameplay is functional (if thoroughly uninspired) , and the 
 top-notch presentation makes it worth checking out if you enjoyed the film.  

          Troll dolls were all the rage in the '90s... might as well poach character designs too. 
     

  The story follows that of the film, so you'll guide Arthur, a British child from Connecticut, and 
 his band of royal siblings, Selenia and Betameche, from the Minimoy village to Necropolis as they 
 attempt to save his grandma's house from foreclosure and to save the microscopic civilization residing 
 in his backyard from the evil henchmen living in his basement. From the outset, you'll have control 
 of all three characters, and each has a special talent that will be necessary for the game's adventuring 
 elements. Arthur, the wide-eyed and bushy-haired protagonist, is the acrobat of the group; he'll 
 be the one shimmying along wall outcroppings and swinging on paperclip rings. Selenia, the disturbingly 
 alluring warrior maiden, wields a blade and is the only one capable of hacking through the pervasive 
 brambles blocking the team's path. Betameche, the irritating troll doll look-alike, uses his diminutive 
 size to squeeze through tight crevices and his "multifunction" knife to charm snails. The emphasis 
 is placed on adventuring, though there is still a fair amount of action. Combat consists of a basic 
 melee attack, a charge attack, and a primitive combo, though the basic attack is nearly always 
 sufficient. You'll also pick up a few (arguably) beneficial skills along the way to improve upon 
 each character's abilities.  

  The action adventure elements that are common in both Arthur and the Invisibles and Prince of Persia 
 make it difficult not to draw comparisons between the two. In the adventuring spectrum, Arthur 
 and the Prince are in many ways quite similar. For example, both sport mostly awesome hairdos. 
 However, equivalence in quality ends there. The Prince, being the aerial wunderkind that he is, 
 relies on precise timing to navigate traps and a slew of abilities to traverse complex routes. 
 Arthur, on the other hand, will be doing some pretty straightforward shimmying to get from point 
 A to point B. Other environmental puzzles require a lot of backtracking, as well as mindless block 
 pushing and bramble slashing, which all offer a similarly low level of complexity. So whereas negotiating 
 the Prince's environments requires a respectable level of thought, the puzzles and obstacles Arthur 
 and his crew must overcome are extremely simple and quickly become more tedious than anything else. 
 The one wrinkle in this game is the necessity for all three characters to participate in a puzzle, 
 but even then, it is quite obvious which character is needed for what purpose.  

  As for combat, the Prince and Arthur both bounce around nimbly. But the Prince is far flashier, 
 and his moves pack a more visceral punch than the child-hero's, which is to say nothing of Selenia 
 and Betameche, who have very standard button-mashing attacks. You'll probably end up favoring Selenia 
 when it comes time to fight because she's capable of inflicting the most damage. Combat is especially 
 disappointing in the later stages of the game because many of the combat sequences are quite difficult -- but 
 mostly for the wrong reason. Combat doesn't involve devising complex or out-of-the-box strategies 
 to overcome the henchmen hoards; instead, it remains a button-mashing ordeal. An overabundance 
 of bottomless chasms that enemies love to loiter near and knock you into also means you'll be plummeting 
 to your doom far more often than would normally be considered entertaining. This situation is aggravated 
 by occasionally wonky physics that cause you to lose forward momentum while jumping -- typically 
 over a very large pit.  

  The silver lining behind the blas gameplay in Arthur and the Invisibles is a really great presentation. 
 Most likely benefiting from the prebuilt set models from the movie, the environments you'll run 
 through are extremely well detailed, pleasing to look at, and quite imaginative in some cases. 
 The character models of your primary troupe also show a lot of detail. On the technical side, some 
 of the smoke and other particle effects are at a higher level you don't expect to see in a PlayStation 
 2 game. Likewise, the PC version offers equally solid graphics, adding perhaps a bit more definition 
 to the character models and giving the game as a whole a slightly cleaner, crisper look. However, 
 an occasional hitching of the graphics in particularly particle-dense areas, the aforementioned 
 stuttering physics, and a relatively short draw distance on fauna and other similar ground objects 
 slightly mar this achievement. One neat outcome of matching up the game's storyline exactly to 
 the movie is that cutscenes have been directly ported into the game. Most of the time, this is 
 seamless and works really well. But it is a bit odd when Selenia flips from Madonna's very distinctive 
 voice to the actor they hired for the game.  

  Speaking of Madonna, the movie production landed an impressive cast of actors and singers to provide 
 the voice work. Sadly, none of them signed on for the game, which isn't much of a shocker in Madonna 
 or David Bowie's case. But Snoop, where you at? Despite that, the voice acting is quite good, and 
 the entire game is fully voiced, though the actors do suffer from the same speedy delivery that 
 characterized the film's voice work. Because this was originally a French film, some of the dialogue 
 might also sound unusual to native English speakers; for instance, the X button (to continue) is 
 referred to as the "validation" button. However, this is more of a quirk than a knock.  

          Prepare to stack blocks with not one but  three  characters  at the same time !     

 
  Arthur and the Invisibles is reasonably long, which is kind of nice because it doesn't skimp much 
 on the storyline of the movie. However, because the gameplay is so shallow, you'll probably wish 
 you could just skip ahead through a couple of stretches... and, oddly enough, you can. For whatever 
 reason, the designers decided to let you jump to any of the game's 12 chapters right from the get-go. 
 So, do you think the Minimoy village is lame? Well, why not just skip to Necropolis, the notorious 
 den of evil residing in your basement? The drawback here is that jumping ahead means you'll miss 
 out on unlocking much of the bonus content. If you're a fan of the movie, there is a significant 
 amount of bonus content that you might actually care to work for, which mostly involves collecting 
 rune cards and freeing mul-muls. A few of the extras include concept sketches and a behind-the-scenes 
 look at set creation hosted by Luc Besson.  

  Arthur and the Invisibles seems perfectly content to offer an entirely derivative gameplay experience, 
 but the game dishes out a heavy helping of content that includes the ample storyline and the DVD-quality 
 bonus features. The mostly stellar presentation also means you'll probably be more willing to put 
 up with the game's shortcomings if you enjoyed the film.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
