-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Arx Fatalis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/arxfatalis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 22, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.0, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 807 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: JoWood Productions
Developer: Arkane Studios
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 11, 2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With Arx Fatalis, Arkane Studios intended to pay homage to the classic early-'90s first-person role-playing 
 game Ultima Underworld, but it has done much more than just imitate that game. 

 Unfortunately for Arx Fatalis, it's arrived on the tail end of what's certainly been an amazing 
 year for computer role-playing, thanks to impressive games like The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind 
 and Neverwinter Nights. Players still enthralled by those games are liable to overlook this highly 
 atmospheric first-person dungeon crawl, which boasts some surprisingly impressive production values. 
 But you'll be pleased that you took the time out of your busy role-playing schedule to read up 
 on another great 2002 RPG. With Arx Fatalis, French developer Arkane Studios intended to pay homage 
 to the classic early-'90s first-person role-playing game Ultima Underworld, but it has done much 
 more than just imitate that game. Arx Fatalis is entertaining and great looking, and it should 
 especially appeal to fans of other atmospheric first-person games, including Thief: The Dark Project, 
 System Shock 2, and Deus Ex, let alone this year's Morrowind. Though marred by some technical issues 
 (many of which have already been addressed by patches) and at times confusing to navigate in, Arx 
 Fatalis nevertheless delivers a memorable, original role-playing experience.           Arx Fatalis 
 is a subterranean dungeon crawl styled after the classic Ultima Underworld.    

  In Arx Fatalis, you play as a character who's lost his memory and awakens in a small cell. That's 
 got to be the number-one most popular way for a computer role-playing game to start out, but the 
 actual setting of the game is quite a bit more interesting. Arx Fatalis takes place in a world 
 where the sun has fizzled out and civilization has picked up and moved beneath the surface of the 
 earth, since it's warmer down there. This means you won't be seeing much in the way of blue skies 
 or colorful songbirds during your stay in Arx Fatalis, but will instead be seeing plenty of caverns, 
 dungeons, tunnels, and such. That might sound pretty bland, but it isn't. The world of Arx may 
 be lacking in traditional beauty or standard tourist attractions, but it's filled with detail and 
 highly interactive. You're able to pick up just about anything that isn't nailed down, you can 
 use the local flora to brew various potions and such, you can move or throw things around, and 
 if you look down, you can even see your feet. Arx Fatalis does its best to make you feel like you're 
 actually in the world of the game, and for the most part it does an excellent job of it.   

  You create your character by applying ability points to four core attributes and skill points 
 to a number of different abilities, from close combat and magic to stealth, intuition, and object 
 knowledge. Gaining experience levels lets you further improve these attributes and abilities. You're 
 free to specialize as you see fit, though you'll likely want to play as a character with balanced 
 fighting and magic abilities, since combat is inevitable and magic is useful. At any rate, the 
 manual explicitly tells you what you'll gain by spending skill points in different ways, and it 
 is perhaps a bit too explicit in providing specific information on many of Arx Fatalis' creatures, 
 items, spells, and recipes. Your thrill of discovery will be greater if you use the manual only 
 as a reference.   

  Arx Fatalis is played entirely from a first-person perspective, though the game switches to an 
 external view for its occasional in-engine cinematic cutscenes. Though you might have to refer 
 to the manual a few times and remember a few hotkeys, for the most part, Arx Fatalis is easy to 
 control and won't be difficult to get into for anyone who's played a first-person game lately. 
 The early portions of Arx also serve effectively as a tutorial, letting you get your feet wet with 
 the game's combat, magic, and puzzle-solving elements. The core gameplay and interface do have 
 a few shortcomings. The game's inventory management, which is based on limited storage space rather 
 than encumbrance, can be clunky. Though you can toggle an automap feature, it covers most of the 
 screen, preventing you from moving around effectively while you're plotting your course. The diary 
 feature also isn't all that great, as it only vaguely serves as a quest log for what you're supposed 
 to be doing -- you'll have to pay careful attention during dialogue with the game's non-player characters 
 to make sure you don't miss any vital clues, since they're not always likely to be noted in the 
 diary. Also, Arx Fatalis imported one of the more notorious features from the game that inspired 
 it: You have to eat. While it's nice when role-playing games let you do such things as build fishing 
 rods, catch fish, and then cook them over an open fire, your character in Arx Fatalis has to nourish 
 himself seemingly a bit too often. You'll wish you could just dump all those rat ribs and cheeses 
 and breads, since that's room you could have used for a nice two-handed sword or other loot. But 
 this is a minor problem. The more important elements, like the game's combat and magic systems, 
 work very well.           Sure enough, the main character of the game begins with no recollection 
 of his identity.    

  Dealing with enemies in Arx Fatalis is handled much like in other real-time first-person RPGs, 
 including Morrowind and Ultima Underworld. You'll be able to find and use some ranged weapons, 
 but much of the combat takes place at close range, where you'll use things like swords, clubs, 
 and axes to execute thrusting, slashing, and chopping moves against your assailants. Depressing 
 the left mouse button causes you to rear back to strike, and charging up your attack for a few 
 moments causes it to deal more damage. Critical hits are possible, and it's possible to sneak up 
 behind unsuspecting foes and launch a surprise attack. In any event, the combat in Arx Fatalis 
 looks great, since the game's enemies animate fluidly and will respond noticeably to your attacks 
 with shrieks of pain or various taunts. Injured enemies may turn tail and flee, and various types 
 of deathblows yield various grisly results, depending on where and how hard the killing strike 
 connected. In short, the combat in Arx Fatalis, while not terribly complicated, is still satisfying. 
    

 The magic system is less conventional, but it can be likened to the spellcasting from last year's 
 Black &amp; White. As in that game, in Arx Fatalis you cast spells using the proper hand gestures. 
 You first need to find the proper runes, and you then trace the symbols on the runes in the air 
 using your mouse. A successful combination of rune symbols will cast the spell. It's a good system, 
 though it obviously takes some getting used to. The game features 50 different spells spread across 
 10 increasingly powerful spell levels, and these spells do everything from damaging enemies to 
 healing your wounds to summoning creatures to turning you invisible to letting you teleport, so 
 foregoing the path of magic in Arx Fatalis -- while perhaps a viable option -- isn't recommendable. 
 You might think that drawing arcane symbols might be a bit difficult in the middle of a battle, 
 and you'd be right. Fortunately, you can queue up several spells at a time and launch them instantly 
 using hotkeys, which ensures that magic is viable in combat.           Combat in Arx Fatalis is 
 simple but satisfying. The magic system is very good, too.    

  Arx Fatalis isn't exactly a linear, straightforward game. There's very little going from point 
 A to point B, as instead, you'll find yourself in sprawling labyrinths and free to go any which 
 way, though many of these paths will lead to dead ends at first. The game's quests aren't strictly 
 linear, either. Sometimes combat is a viable alternative to discourse, and other times, more than 
 one nonviolent solution is available. Still, you should still plan on getting stuck in Arx Fatalis, 
 a game in which keeping a sharp eye out for little details in the environment will constantly pay 
 off, and failure to do so may have you running around in circles for a while. The game encourages 
 observation, exploration, and experimentation, but at the same time it will punish you if you stray 
 too far from the beaten path, as you'll all of a sudden come up against a foe you're not prepared 
 to face. Still, all this is definitely in keeping with the style of classical role-playing systems 
 such as Dungeons &amp; Dragons, and it affords you with a stronger sense of freedom than you'll 
 get from most other games.   

  Considering the game is one big dungeon crawl, it's fortunate that Arx Fatalis looks so great. 
 Its visuals are nearly as good (and in some ways better) than those of Morrowind, and while the 
 game's character models can look a little awkward, the level of detail found in its surprisingly 
 diverse-looking environments is quite striking. Some of the various creatures look quite good, 
 and the game presents distinctive visions of conventional fantasy archetypes like goblins, trolls, 
 and dwarves. These are detailed enough to move their mouths when they speak, but not detailed enough 
 to sync their lips with their words. Above all, the whole game has a natural look to it. Arx Fatalis 
 doesn't overuse any one particular texture set, and each room or hallway tends to look different 
 from the next. Fog and other visual effects heighten the sense that you're underground in a cold, 
 dark place. Realistic-looking wear and tear in the environments also really helps convey the sense 
 that, indeed, this world has been lived in. You'll clearly see that you're not the first adventurer 
 to set foot in Arx Fatalis.   

  The game sounds even better than it looks. In fact, a lot of it sounds amazing. There isn't much 
 in the way of music, and what's there isn't great. But the game uses a huge variety of incredibly 
 clear and diverse ambient sound effects to try to convince you that you're really in an underground 
 labyrinth. Your own footsteps will resonate loudly throughout the game, and they'll sound different 
 depending on what sort of leggings you're wearing, what sort of surface you're walking on, how 
 quickly you're moving, and how stealthy you are. Other ambient effects and almost all the game's 
 creatures sound equally convincing, and the clamor of battle -- including such effects as the sickening 
 sound of blood splattering onto the pavement -- is especially terrific. The dialogue in Arx Fatalis 
 is all in full speech, and this too is surprisingly good for the most part. Some of the dialogue 
 and some of the deliveries are actually quite subtle and rather humorous, and they stand in stark 
 contrast to the game's seemingly dismal setting.           The atmosphere of Arx Fatalis is largely 
 unrivaled.    

  Arx Fatalis did ship with a number of bugs -- the kind that may make you cringe when you read the 
 list of fixes made by its downloadable patch. In short, the retail release of the game is crash-prone 
 and has compatibility issues with certain hardware, though Arkane Studios has been actively working 
 with the game's growing community of players to resolve every issue that comes up. Two small patches 
 are already available that do much to resolve the game's technical shortcomings. Beyond that, the 
 game's 3D graphics engine certainly is resource-intensive, and those running anything around the 
 minimum requirement of a Pentium III 500MHz equivalent should expect slow frame rates and relatively 
 poor performance. Faster machines armed with good video cards make Arx Fatalis look beautiful, 
 yet the game's loading times between sections of the dungeon can still seem rather long.   

  If your system can handle it and you don't have any hang-ups with wandering around in dark places, 
 you'll likely find a lot to like in Arx Fatalis. Fans of Ultima Underworld or similar games will 
 be especially pleased with how faithfully Arkane Studios managed to capture the same sort of feel -- how 
 you'll sometimes feel that it's not just some game character but rather you yourself who's trapped 
 in this fantastic world, filled with interesting, dangerous places visit and characters to meet. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (22 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  After hearing that Arx Fatalis is an underrated RPG, I decided I'd track a copy of it down and 
 try the game out. The easiest version to get a hold of is the Steam download so that solved that. 
 Arx Fatalis is indeed an underappreciated title that does have its share of flaws and bugs.
  
  Arx takes place in a world where the sun has died out causing an ice age on the surface of 
 the planet. The denizens of this planet saw the signs of the pending doom so they were able to 
 band together to make underground kingdoms. Dwarves, Ogres, Goblins, Snake Women and Humans all 
 worked together for survival but once they settled in the ties were kind of broken. There is also 
 a race of rat people but they didn't play well with the others.
  
  So the game has an interesting setting. Despite the environment being all cavernous, there are 
 some unique areas such as underground lakes, Ogre run mines, secret temples, a vast crypt, kingdoms 
 of the various races and a few other surprises. Arx is really just a classic dungeon crawler with 
 all the right stuff put in it. 
  
  Too bad about the bugs though. The game often crashes because of a memory leak but fortunately 
 frequent quick saves almost gets rid of this problem. After that there are just some AI and collision 
 detection issues. Objects that impede the hero are simply stepped on and over by hostile enemies, 
 I've seen people sleep a foot or two over a bed in Ghostbusters-like fashion and AI can easily 
 be easily tricked or get stuck on certain things. There was also a weird situation where I would 
 precast a spell too high for my character to actually cast so when I tried to use it, it would 
 fail but still work as a "Remove Field" spell when I wasn't able to cast that spell either. It's 
 just a bunch of minor and a major annoyance that definitely detracted from the game.
  
  Character creation seems a little imbalanced also. I tried to make a character that was decent 
 at fighting and had pretty good stealth but found out that if you don't devout a lot of points 
 into a skill, that it is pretty much useless. I was able to almost achieve the character I wanted 
 but by the end my character was still a little too weak in fighting. It seems the best way to make 
 a character would just go all the way for a mage type or a fighter and then spend some points in 
 skills like Object Identification or Trap Finding.
  
  The graphics were good for the day and after a few years they're still not eyesores. I didn't experience 
 any slowdown but like I mentioned before, there were a few clipping issues and the physics were 
 a little wonky at times. I really enjoyed the environment and setting of this game for some reason. 
 I think it had something to do with all the little nooks and crannies and the secret passages, 
 things that really fleshed out the world of Arx.
  
  Music was suitable while the voice acting was hammy and campy. The worst performances had to be 
 the lead character and the snake women while the highlights would be the idiotic things goblins 
 would say to one another. For a first in a game, a sound effect really got on my nerves and that 
 is the walking sound effect. It just had this weird pattern to it that didn't sound realistic and 
 just replayed over and over every 2-3 seconds the character moves. I know it sounds like nitpicking 
 but in a game where there's a lot of backtracking and walking going on. Hearing the same strange 
 sound over and over again is just bothersome.
  
  I briefly mentioned Magic and that is one of the more original things this game does. Every character, 
 more or less, has the ability to use magic, it all depends if you have the right runes and your 
 skill level is high enough to use that spell. There are more than a dozen or so runes and finding 
 a spell combination automatically gets the spell logged into your spell book. To cast a spell you 
 actually have to make the movement of the runes with the mouse while in spell mode and if you hold 
 down the sneak button in spell mode you get to store a spell in the precast section. 
  
  So while this set-up is original, it just doesn't work out too well. You can only precast 3 spells 
 and after that, the system is too cumbersome to successfully cast spells on the fly in the middle 
 of combat. If maybe the majority of foes didn't outright charge into battle, this would work but 
 it's simply not the case in Arx.
  There are some cool things you can do with items such as grind reagents to make potions, cook food 
 and enchant items and these actions just complement a good inventory system based on puzzles and 
 riddles. One obstacle was putting an ingredient that the goblin king is allergic to into his favorite 
 food which causes the reclusive monarch to run get a bad case of the runs. In Arx, if you find 
 something there's a good chance you're going to need it sooner or later. So keeping items in places 
 you can remember is key in a game that has some brain busting puzzles. On the other hand, this 
 game also has puzzles that are simply trial and error which will cause you to reload game saves 
 and one puzzle I can say for 98% certainty I was doing it correctly but it never worked.
  
  Maybe what's even better than these puzzles is that, in the occasion where I couldn't figure one 
 of them out, I always had an alternate way to get what I want. That route was killing and stealing. 
 In fact any character in the game can be killed and the only negative side effect is that the game 
 brings them back to life for cut scenes. I remember being set on a quest to find a shield for this 
 one group of people but when I couldn't figure out how to get into the room with the shield itself, 
 I went back to the group, killed some guards and made off with the reward. Another time I just 
 went into the snake women's kingdom and when they started to attack me, I slaughtered them all 
 and made off with all of their goodies. I found out later that they could have helped me but I 
 did fine without them. I enjoyed this freedom and it was nice how the plot or progress changed 
 when key characters weren't around. If it wasn't for this one guy that I killed who mysteriously 
 helped me out later in the game the game would have pulled off this aspect perfectly.
  
  The story involves a cult that is assisting an evil God's trip into Arx's dimension which turns 
 out to be a big no-no in the rulebook of the Gods. Along the way you'll run into who's behind the 
 conspiracy, why and exactly how far it goes. You also get plenty of time to explore 8 levels of 
 the underground, kill or help out most of the other kingdoms and also do a bit of tomb raiding 
 and side quests.
  
  All in all I was pleasantly surprised with this game. At times, Arx Fatalis is a pretty good game 
 while at other times it shows how rough it is around the edges. I'd safely file it away in my underappreciated 
 category also after playing through this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: owl_of_minerva
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  A quirky and under-rated RPG which is considered a 'spiritual successor' to the Ultima series. 
 Essentially it's a typical first-person RPG with adventure elements. However, where Arx Fatalis 
 differs from the rest is its immersive world and dark atmosphere. The world-creation to me is the 
 strong point; I was sucked in by the atmospheric sound, visuals, and Lovecraftian storyline. 
 
  
  It's very rare in games to have a sense of a genuine 'novum'; more often than not they can be functional 
 rather than truly gripping. When I first started playing Arx Fatalis I could tell immediately it 
 was the kind of game I would enjoy. For an indie game developer Arkane Studios have done an admirable 
 job in the sound and graphics department to convey a brooding atmosphere and slightly skewed storyline. 
 A la 12 Monkeys, albeit in a medieval setting, humanity is forced to migrate underground to escape 
 the dying sun (somewhat reminiscent of the apocalyptic "Dark Earth") . An eerie whoosh of air emanates 
 throughout the cavernous corridors which is effective in creating a sense of isolation - the the 
 first thing I noticed when I started playing the game. Your footsteps echo eerily in the near-silence 
 surrounding you, an estrangement effect worthy of say Silent Hill. I felt a genuine sense of dread, 
 never knowing to expect. This is the central facet of the game; you are always alone, and the lack 
 of music and lighting (except ambient music/lights tied to certain locations) creates a hollow, 
 foreboding atmosphere. Although I wouldn't classify Arx Fatalis as a scary game, it has a creeping 
 sense of unease which kept me compelled. 
  
  Unfortunately the game has a few problems that might deter some from playing on. For one, the interface 
 is quite clunky; using items and the inventory can be a chore. And while there is a lot you can 
 do with the game world, it's not always readily clear what you have to do. The puzzles in the game 
 can be quite challenging. Nevertheless, I feel for inventiveness that this game deserves credit. 
 After playing a slew of action RPGs it is nice to play something a little bit more measured and 
 cerebral. A PC RPG gem which captures for me what the core of the RPG experience is: genuine adventure 
 in a novel setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rizlaq
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Being an RPG fan for more than ten years, I'm already pretty much tired of silly storylines, mindless 
 hack-n-slashes and tedious dialogues which only pretend to be controlled by you. From this perspective, 
 Arx Fatalis is kind of a blessing for me. It doesn't feature a revolutionary engine, yet its graphics 
 are very detailed and realistic; it doesn't show off an epic sound score, yet the sounds are certainly 
 one of the best you've ever heard in a game; the script wasn't conceived by a famous writer nor 
 based on a blockbuster movie, yet it's unusually original and clever; there is no hyped-up fuss 
 about it in the news and forums, yet every solid reviewer found this game to be great fun for combining 
 all its aspects into a very immersing experience.
  
  Take the introduction movie and cut scenes for example. It is presented as a combination of in-game 
 engine scenes with surreal hand painted pictures that are scrolled, sometimes warped across the 
 screen. Although it may sound as a cheap solution, it works. As a spectator, you're left with enough 
 space for your own imagination but still you receive the overall atmosphere from the unusual imagery 
 and sounds. It's not like when watching a 3D animation, where - unless it's ultimately fine-tuned 
 (think Blizzard) - your heroes just never seem right, their faces appear stony, their movement 
 phony and all you can do not to let this show spoil the moment, is to close your eyes.
  
  During the first cut scene you realize that Arkane studios have prepared for you a peculiar adaptation 
 of the typical hero-lost-his-memory plot. You see more than you can explain with your current knowledge, 
 thus even at the very beginning, you start thrilled and curious about what will happen next.
  
  The storyline takes full advantage from its background settings, so that the game world is 
 rendered full of fresh ideas: Not long ago, the sun had mysteriously disappeared from the sky and 
 an eternal freezing darkness began. Suddenly, all the inhabitants of the planet found themselves 
 knee deep in the same sh*t, so they ceased all feuds and wars and started to cooperate to save 
 their lives. Together they managed to move their civilizations deep underground to protect themselves 
 from the never ending winter (night anybody? ;) - dwarves, humans, goblins, ratmen, you name it. 
 But once all were safe and sound, little by little quarreling started anew...
  From this setting, many interesting plots arise - political, economical and personal. The game 
 serves you these in small pieces, so you're often left with just enough clues to gain a mere insight 
 but nothing more. A very witty and absorbing trick is the way the game handles the reality on the 
 surface of the frozen planet. You get to know a few fragments about it, for instance how some of 
 the boldest daredevils actually roam the frozen plains, establishing a trading guild to deliver 
 crucial goods from one underground diaspora to another. Once you even get to peep at the surface 
 (or rather, just the stars above it) . This specific "universe" and your awareness of it create 
 a very immersive atmosphere which makes you want to go and explore, talk to people, discover your 
 purpose. It should be noted that I've deliberately omitted some twists and plot spoilers (though 
 you'll find a few hints throughout this text) . 
  
  As if this wouldn't feel realistic (i mean, mature) enough, the authors put you into the shoes 
 of a hero who is anything but a your typical swashbuckler, almighty sorcerer or noble paladin. 
 Well, actually, there's much more to him than it originally seems, but at the beginning you start 
 in a loincloth with a thigh bone as your ultimate weapon and it takes quite some time to at least 
 resemble a fearsome warrior.
  The voice casting is excellent. You'll hear your hero drop cynical remarks, pessimistic comments 
 and also let out very believable cries and groans, but always within good measure, rarely sounding 
 off topic or inappropriate. When talking to NPCs, he's reserved but witty, his voice strangely 
 subdued and calm. In the gloomy underground atmosphere, you'll find this a great add-on to the 
 overall experience.
  
  Deliberately, the game does not offer any control over the dialogues. The game is built along a 
 strict line and there is only few sidelines to choose. This drawback is fully justified though 
 by the quality of these staged dialogues and the overall story as such. This said, it should be 
 noted, that many of the quests can be carried out in more than one way, but these options are not 
 handed out freely, it's up to the player to think and act clever.
  
  The game mechanics are relatively simple - character evolvement, weapons system and spell casting 
 are not overly complex. Yet you are bound to be surprised by some very original concepts. Casting 
 spells is carried out through runes similar to those in Dungeon Master - there are several types 
 of runes (shapes, elements, various modifiers) which can be combined into a surprising number of 
 spells. As you gain new runes, you experiment with their combinations and literally learn (you 
 - the player) new spells. Thus your usual magic arrow goes with the runes of Aam (create) and Taar 
 (projectile) , while to activate a teleport you will use Mega (increase) + Spacium (space) . Now 
 not only that this is fun just by itself, it gets even more interesting in action. The thing is, 
 you don't click the runes in your magic book or in a menu, the runes are literally painted using 
 mouse gestures - when you press the Control key, your character raises his hand (with an impressive 
 drone sound ;) and follows your mouse movements, sketching luminous runes in the air and vocalizing 
 successful runes in a creepy voice. The tricky part is, that the shape tolerance is quite low and 
 you have to be pretty accurate to cast a rune successfully. This is especially true for certain 
 complicated runes or spells consisting of three or more runes. In effect, this system means that 
 not only your character needs to gain sufficient amount of experience to cast a new spell, but 
 also you as a player will need to gain certain skills to become a proficient spell caster.
  So as not to lose a certain action go, the game offers three slots for instant spells, which can 
 prepared in advance and used instantly when needed. Even so though, you will find yourself running 
 from a beast, frantically sketching a fireball spell (create / projectile / fire) in the air ;)
 
  
  The inventory visuals pay homage to the Ultima Series with some nicely pixelled objects and a number 
 of interactive options (although the possibility to place objects anywhere in your bag without 
 being forced to use the inventory grid wasn't implemented here) . Generally, objects are pretty 
 interactive - items you find can be of various quality, things you use a lot will wear and tear, 
 items can be repaired, combined, enchanted or even used with special objects found during your 
 journey (such as a forge or an alchemist lab) . Seems like an insignificant thing, but hey, using 
 water and flour to create dough and then use the dough on fire (of course you can conjure it up 
 with the runes of Create + Fire ;) to create bread, now that is some feat (considering your character 
 is constantly asking for a grub :) . In this manner you can also prepare potions and tools.
  
  
  
  What about the negatives, huh? Now a little bit of blasphemy - even though the concept, 
 interaction and story are by far one of the best in the RPG genre, it still feels _somewhat_ raw. 
 There's much more to the world of Arx than was employed in this game - the snowy surface, the dimensions 
 hinted at later in the game; the weapons/combat system could use some refinement and there could 
 be greater freedom when accepting quests or during dialogues. I believe all these flaws are partly 
 for a good purpose too - the implied-but-rarely-elaborated references help maintain the player's 
 curiosity, the monotonous environments create the right gloomy, depressive atmosphere of an underground 
 kingdom, and the scripted dialogues keep the storyline cohesive. In the end though, it feels more 
 like a virtue out of necessity. There are also numerous technical problems - graphical glitches, 
 freezing, sound issues...
  All in all Arx Fatalis asks for a grand sequel backed up by some serious budget. Then, I believe, 
 we could get a truly epic marvel next to which any Oblivion would seem like a randomly generated 
 maze for 5 year olds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moodflow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Arx Fatalis is a first person RPG, definitively worth a try. 
  Notes: I have not played Ultima Underworld, which is said to be the inspiration for this game. 
 I have only completed about 7 of the 8 levels (guess that's it) .
  
  To start of with the story; you begin in a goblin prison in the world of Arx, an ensemble of tunnels, 
 dungeons, crypts and cities underground that where built as the sun disappeared, and left the upper 
 world a vast land of ice. You can't remember anything; and you'll have to escape. Not a very original 
 start, but the story becomes a lot more interesting after a few hours. It really gets a hold on 
 you and includes some good twists; and subsequently drags the game rating upwards.
  
  Like most RPGs, you start selecting skills: 4 main (strength, constitution, dexterity and intelligence) 
 which all will affect your other subskills such as stealth, close-combat, ranged combat, 6th sense 
 for finding secrets, lockpicking and so on. When gaining a level you'll get 1 main skill point 
 and several subskill points. This would normally lead to the choice of whether becoming a mage, 
 thief, bowman or fighter. However, this game urges you to end up to be a more all-around character 
 to survive, which I didn't like. I prefer, for example, to become a perfect thief, expert in stealth 
 which hopefully would get me through everything. That didn't work well. In addition, the difficulty 
 level is pretty high, and I didn't feel that much of a boost in strength when gaining levels. 
 
  
  The gameplay is satisfying. You'll enter battle mode, magic mode, stealth mode or interactive/inventory 
 mode with four different buttons. 
  Battle mode is exactly like Morrowind, quite dynamic as you will try to evade the enemy's strike 
 while you are loading up strength for your sword-blow or bow-shot.
  The stealth mode works ok, but doesn't turn out to be a skill to prioritize for combat, in opposition 
 to Oblivion where you could kill of most enemies in constant hiding. You get a first or second 
 backstab strike however, which causes more damage. On the other side, you can steal with high enough 
 stealth level, and in comparison to Oblivion, the NPCs say "put that back" or "stop" if they see 
 you, allowing you make it up by not taking anything. 
  With interactive/inventory mode (RM click) the inventory opens and you can pick up drag, or whatever; 
 very simple and easy. 
  Last, but definitely not least, the magic mode is very original and interesting. You'll collect 
 runes along your journey with drawings on them; not more complicated than some lines or circles, 
 which you'll have to draw with your hand to cast spells. This becomes hectic in the midst of a 
 fight ( too much for me) , so the "precast spell"-function is great here: precast three spells to 
 just activate them buy pushing "1", "2" or "3" on the keyboard. That said, it could have been smart 
 to always be able to preset a spell to one button, not having to recast them every time.
  
  The setting is medieval, and the whole atmosphere is quite dark and a little dull, and fits the 
 game perfectly. The graphics are good, but remember it is an older game. The characters, especially 
 humans, are a bit too square to me. The sound effects are good and quite scary in the crypts for 
 example. The sounds while performing spells are really great, some old magician's voice. I love 
 it. 
  
  The dialogues and cut-scenes aren't good enough, and the main character (you) seems completely 
 uninterested: -"I seem to get dragged into a lot of thingsalright, King, I will see what I can 
 do.." and his voice is boring. The other NPCs (only a limited number) usually have only three lines, 
 which add to the dullness of discussions. In addition, you are not offered choices in dialogues.
 
  
  The game is a little linear, I found myself following the main quest. However you'll find a lot 
 just searching around, despite the fact that the levels are quite small. It seems bigger because 
 you'll have to go through many of the same areas over and over again, and the big number of secrets 
 and hidden paths (thank god for the portals that can be activated later on) . Despite of the impossibility 
 to make your own choices in dialogue, you'll have the chance to act in different ways during a 
 few selected quests; leaving you with a little feeling of having an impact on the story. Many riddles 
 are difficult and rewarding to solve. However when the riddle involves the main plot, it becomes 
 irritating, and I had to resort to a walkthrough several times. That was also the case when, although 
 the game is quite linear, it is difficult on occasions to know where to go to find clues about 
 your ongoing quest. You'll just have to wander around hoping to find something. In mention, there 
 is only a limited number of subquests. I would also like to add that the game has a high difficulty, 
 both riddles and combat.
  
  Some other aspects of the game I didn't like include the fact the inventory always fills up. There 
 is little space, even with bag, and at one point I found myself carrying over 20 keys I didn't 
 know what to do with. So in the end, I just dropped them all, relying on the lockpicking skill. 
 Turns out, some doors and chests only open with a key. -Edit: I recently found out that you can 
 buy a keyring and an extra bag to upgrade your inventory space.- In the course of the game, I also 
 ended up missing out on some runes which prevented me for learning some basic spells, which made 
 some levels difficult for me. Also mentionable is the fact that I only relied on a few spells: 
 armor, vision in darkness and fireballs. I also found myself playing with the vision spell most 
 of time, which gives a purple, pink and blue color to everything and adds a heavy breathing sound. 
 That was very annoying, but it was easier to play that way (maybe I should have lit a torch?) . 
 There are a satisfying number of potions to make and items to cook; the variety in armor and weapons 
 was very low. 
  
  Conclusion: There is a lot to put your finger on in Arx Fatalis. Despite of that, I really enjoyed 
 the experience. I loved the atmosphere and story. The graphics are satisfying and sound effects 
 even greater. The major letdowns were the dialogues, the low number of NPCs, the sometimes too 
 difficult riddles (for me) and the lack of choice. I truthfully encourage any RPG fan to complete 
 this game. However if you haven't played The Elders Scrolls, you better play them
  .. first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Arx Fatalis is a fantasy RPG game from Arkane Studios released in 2002 paying homage to Ultima 
 Underworld, the game is set on a planet where the systems sun has gotten so weak there is no sun 
 light on the planet, and so the people and various races temporarily banded together forgetting 
 their past histories to construct cities and dungeons deep underground taking their plants, livestock 
 and knowledge with them.
  However soon afterwards the temporarily alliance proves just that, temporary and relations return 
 to what they once were.
  
  The games story begins with the character you design in classic RPG fashion (albeit a little more 
 basic) choosing amongst a few stats such as strength intelligence constitution and dexterity and 
 several other abilities both passive and active such as lock picking (technical) , casting and 
 defence.
  You're character appears in a Goblin dungeon wearing only a loin cloth and is dragged into a cell, 
 what's worse is you've got amnesia (or have you?) and your character is likely to be killed by 
 the Goblins sooner or later, as you play the game escaping from the dungeon and exploring you will 
 be given quests and eventually uncover your past and your true reason for existing.
  
  Throughout the game the cut scenes usually take place within the game engine so you'll see a third 
 person view of your character and the other people chatting away but occasionally during important 
 parts in the stories progression you'll be presented with some nice 2d art stills which pan across 
 as a narration continues and some of the art is really good like the old medieval manuscripts its 
 inspired by.
  
  You play the game via a first person viewpoint, keyboard to move your character and to access inventory 
 and click to interact with objects on the screen, it should be noted that there is alot of items 
 to interact with, for example much like in Morrowind you can pick up most items in the gaming world 
 such as flowers which you can use if you have enough alchemy skill to make potions, but unlike 
 Morrowind even the non-resource items can actually have purposes - for example there are some puzzles 
 which actually involve moving around blocks to weigh down panels and traps, and there are several 
 story puzzles which require certain objects to placed in order.
  
  But this also leads to a mix bag for the games quality, the puzzles, some are not entirely taxing 
 and pointless, others are fairly challenging and quite rewarding to beat and the ugly puzzles are 
 just downright awful such as the almost cryptic ... crypt puzzle involving various rune stones and 
 a diagram on the floor with almost gibberish for instructions which are only explained once!
  
  Graphically everything still looks ok, the game didn't look great back on release and yes its 
 aged but still respectable, character models are mixed all of them look a little too angular and 
 the animations are pretty poor on non humans as is evident with somersaulting rats and giant spiders 
 and on most human characters bar the Ysilde Warriors.
  
  Terrain looks pretty boring on the uneventful dungeons such as level 3 and level 5 but for the 
 most part its varied and helps make the game more visually appealing with some interesting locations 
 such as the arx castle, dragons caves, the human fort, goblin dungeon and so on.
  
  Combat is also handled with the mouse, you can charge up attacks and unleash them if timed just 
 right to hit the enemy and bypass their armour, occasionally being rewarded with a critical strike, 
 maybe you snuck up on someone and delivered a backstab for more damage, also as you play the game 
 you can stealth in shadows depending on armour that's being worn and your stealth skill which is 
 represented in a 'man sneaking' icon.
  
  The combat can be fun, its not strategic at all or as tactical as combat in traditional turn based 
 games such as Fallout or even other real time combat in RPG's such as Baldurs Gate, but you need 
 to time attacks just right , use potions , use pre casted spells too good effect and some combat 
 in the game can be quite challenging particularly the early encounters with the Ysildes which leads 
 to some tense battles.
  
  An interesting element of Arx Fatalis game play is also the unique casting system, you have a mana 
 bar but instead of activating spells via an icon you have to hold down a button and use the mouse 
 to drag out each individual rune sign on the screen and a combination of 2 or 3 activates the spell 
 , I thought this was a good addition to the game which at least helps make Arx Fatalis stand out 
 from the RPG crowd, magic doesn't end here though, you can use scrolls and pre cast spells and 
 hold down a key to que up 3 spells pre casted and activate them with the number keys , so you could 
 store up three fireballs and unleash them in quick succession to obliterate enemies.
  
  Also you talk to other characters in the world just by double clicking and listen to their conversations, 
 however there's never ever any dialog options only a set piece of dialog exchange from your character 
 (who's given the name Am Shegar) and the other person, this can make the game at times feel like 
 a glorified adventure game with stats, BUT there is also real choice and consequence in this game 
 which Ill move on to....
  
  right now! Your actions in the game have consequences later on, for whilst you cannot alter the 
 game via non-existent dialog options which is a real shame, you can undertake actions which have 
 marked effects. For example there are several quests in the game were you can usually choose one 
 faction or another such as with the Goblins on level 5 maybe even kill both or do nothing?, or 
 you can just refuse to help the girl Shany from being sacrificed, maybe not help the ghostly spirit 
 in the kings tomb - huge consequences in the games ending and my favourite, you can kill any character 
 you want.
  
  The music in the game is pretty good, its not exciting but its no overbearing either (unlike oblivion 
 or any Jeremy Soule piece) its ambient music - hardly as good as Fallout series (or anything by 
 Mark Morgan) but its decent enough and there's a separate piece for each dungeon level in the game 
 and the credits music is ok too.
  
  Sound wise, well the game is also a mix bag, some voice overs are good noticeably the king Lunshire, 
 the undead and the stupid Goblins , some cant really fault they are ok these being the snake women 
 of edernium but others are just downright bad for example the kid characters sound like a badly 
 put on voice and the main characters voice himself, am shegar sounds so bored and uninterested.
 
  The sounds of the dungeons are solid - same goes for fighting and casting spells but the voice 
 overs are mixed quality wise.
  
  The game takes a good 15-20 hours to complete Id say, with a few dungeons to explore but the game 
 world is pretty small you're backtracking around the same dungeons for most of the game , there 
 are only a handful of NPC's and fewer still that actually do anything other than mumble the odd 
 line of dialog, furthermore each dungeon level is small and you can easily explore each one fully 
 in less than 20 minutes.
  There are however some secret areas and some side quests to undertake - with even some secret side 
 quests.
  Furthermore while you can interact with lots of items in the world the most important items, the 
 resources don't seem to respawn so once you've picked all the flowers or lilies in a place they 
 wont grow back which means only a limited number of items can be player crafted, also the economy 
 in the game is very basic, as in there are also no respawning items for shop keeps (not that there 
 are many at all) which again means that items that might not be valuable gold wise should be used 
 with great care such as health potions. (especially when you come up against Ysildes)
  
  As a player you'll probably feel driven to continue playing the game by the storyline itself, the 
 setting is great and sets up for a good story with the amnesia angle , finding out true identity 
 and purpose to save the world but the story at times seems abit muddled, story elements at times 
 seem suddenly tacked on with little back story before they are even mentioned but these moments 
 can be forgiven because overall Id say its a good enough story to give some impetus to keep on 
 playing.
  
  So Arx Fatalis is a decent real time first person RPG light on dialog but with some choice and 
 consequence, it looks average and has some good ambient music with an interesting setting and story 
 and I would recommend fans of RPG's picking it up , especially given how cheap it is nowadays (if 
 you can find it)
  
  Pros:
  
  .Art direction is very good overall
  .Ambient music is fitting
  .Some choice and consequence game play
  .Most puzzles are fairly 
 rewarding to work out
  .Setting is great
  .The story is quite interesting overall but not great
  .Quite abit of interaction in the world 
  lots to cook, potions to make etc
  .Combat can be quite fun and intense
  .Challenging difficulty .Game lasts a good 15  20 hours which is a decent enough length.
  .Terrain 
 looks good still even after all these years and each level is varied.
  .Character creation and development is quite good although a little basic .Unique casting system 
 much more involving than normal RPG's.
  
  Neutral
  .Some story elements are introduced too suddenly "you have to destroy this meteor" ok where is 
 the preceding back story why am I hearing about this now?
  .Voices overall are average, some are good such as the king and goblins but others are pretty poor 
 such as Am Shegars.
  
  Cons:
  .Character models look pretty poor due to them being quite angular .Some animations are likewise 
 pretty poor
  .Very few NPC's to interact with
  .While there is some choice and consequence to the game play there's no dialog options which makes 
 this RPG at times feel more like an adventure game with stats. .The game world seems too small
 
  .And there does not appear to be many side quests
  .Some puzzle are ridiculously difficult  the crypt one for example and are not fun
  .Limited 
 economy and resources don't respawn, once they're collected that's it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracogen
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  As a huge fan of the Ultima Underworld games, I came to this game hoping for a modern homage / 
 remake. Indeed, the game manual makes it clear that the developers were striving to do just this. 
 Did they succeed? Yes and no. Mainly no.
  
  In the best tradition of UUW, Arx Fatalis does manage to create a believable and immersive world. 
 Voice acting is weak but the the story is solid, and playing it out was the main motivation I found 
 to finish the game. The pan-and-scan static-image cutscences were a great touch, and clearly inspired 
 games to follow like Fable. A significant drawback is that a true sense of character progression 
 is absent. Skills and abilities -- particularly those related to combat -- didn't seem to do much 
 over the course of the game. What was the difference between a weapon skill of 60 and a weapon 
 skill of 80? Nothing obvious. My character really didn't seem that different to me after leveling 
 up than he did at the beginning. Stats certainly seemed nowhere near as important, say, as having 
 the best armor or weapon -- which makes the game a simple scavenger hunt. The magic system is simply 
 awesome, perhaps unparalleled -- but the spells themselves seem very underpowered except one or 
 two juggernauts (such as Vitae Movis) that are a essentially guaranteed kill.
  
  The world felt... well, small. The number of characters was trivial, to say nothing of the character 
 interactions. There were no dialog trees at all -- rather, a single reaction from each character 
 at any given time. Regarding the game world, I always loved the thrill of exploring in UUW, but 
 here it was more of a chore. There were less than a dozen monster types, and I found it pretty 
 silly to be fighting the same rats and spiders in the last hour of the game that I was fighting 
 in the first hour. Ditto for weapons and armor -- there just weren't that many different types, 
 and it got boring fast.
  
  In the end, this was my primary complaint: there just didn't seem to be that much to discover, 
 or just to do. Another cavern, another tunnel -- but the same weapons, the same armor, the same 
 monsters, the same canned responses from the same characters.
  
  I did enjoy the game, perhaps more than I should have given my comments above. But it could have 
 been so much more. It is perhaps a twentieth the game that UUW2 was. As an homage, it is an interesting 
 standalone piece, worth a play for old times if you liked the Ultima Underworlds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Arx Fatalis was certainly released at a bad time, for it came out at essentially the exact same 
 time The Elder Scrolls: Morrowind was released and dominated the RPG market. So there's no surprise 
 if you've never heard of Arx Fatalis, for it was quickly overshadowed by Morrowind, which is kind 
 of a pity. Because Arx Fatalis is really an old-fashioned, but decent RPG that reaches back into 
 the times of Ultima Underworld.
  
  The game takes place in the world of Arx, which is a planet that has lost its sun. Your character 
 (Named Am Shaegar, which in the game means He who has no name ) arrives in Arx under mysterious 
 circumstances and is afflicted with amnesia (Ah, once again used for storytelling purposes!) . After 
 escaping from the Goblin prison you start the game in, you set about the entirely underground civilization 
 on Arx in an attempt to find out who you are. No no, you don't find any long lost or evil relatives 
 here, so don't worry about that... The story ultimately turns out to be rather simple, though there 
 are a few well executed story-twists starting mid-way through the game.
  
  Unlike Morrowind and Oblivion, both of which gave you massive tracks of land to explore, Arx Fatalis 
 is set entirely underground and sets you mostly on rails. You can still explore of course and find 
 secondary quests or more loot to gather, but Arx Fatalis keeps you heavily walled in so you are 
 still working along the main storyline. If you were expecting to do a lot of exploring, your better 
 off looking elsewhere, for Arx Fatalis isn't a true free-roaming RPG. Fortunately, there's still 
 alot to do in Arx Fatalis, as the main storyline along with all of the secondary quests make for 
 a fairly lengthy game.
  
  Arx Fatalis does start to suffer when it comes to your inventory however. The inventory system 
 is simple, but cumbersome. The way you put items in gets pretty annoying quickly, though fortunately 
 there is an option to automatically re-arrange your inventory when its getting messy and doesn't 
 have room for certain items, even though you've still got plenty of empty slots. This helps alot 
 since inventory space is actually very limited in general until you find or buy some new bags for 
 your inventory. The inventory is also way too slow to use when any kind of action is going on, 
 so if you need a life potion while your busy fighting- yeah your outta luck- they're probably gonna 
 finish you off first... It should be noted that unfortunately, if you ever are killed in Arx Fatalis, 
 your sent straight back to the main menu. So unless you save often, this'll undoubtedly frusterate 
 many players. It doesn't help that the game itself is already extremely difficult.
  
  Graphically, Arx Fatalis is hurt by its own setting. The environments are bland, though they do 
 fit in with Arx Fatalis' generally bland setting. At least the textures are well made however. 
 Character models are also lackluster due to some mediocre animations. Sound wise however, Arx Fatalis 
 excells. The sounds you hear from the environment, combat, and npcs are all well done. Even the 
 voice acting is decent and very characterful (And can be funny at times) .
  
  Ultimately, Arx Fatalis shouldn't disappoint those who are just looking for an old-fashioned RPG. 
 But if you've been exposed to anything like Oblivion or Morrowind, or want more freedom in your 
 RPG, then you should probably pass on Arx Fatalis.
  
  Pros: Lengthy storyline plus many secondary quests to undertake. Effective exploration and combat. 
 Decent AI.
  
  Cons: Bland setting and presentation. Unforgiving difficulty. Inventory is cumbersome and limited.
 
  
  Recommendable for: If you like old-fashioned RPGs, Arx Fatalis shouldn't disappoint. But if you 
 prefer RPGs like Oblivion, then you should definitely pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 11, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  First off gameplay.. For a port it plays very well. Although the difficulty towards the end is 
 pretty unbalanced when facing off against the two handled speedy knights.. You have to go through 
 a good four of them to make the ultimate weapon.. personally, I found the ice dragon to be far 
 easier to kill than ONE of these knights . Grinding to be sure. I focused on a warrior class.. 
 placing all my stats into strength and combat/armor. Be warned.. THIS is NOT a good idea.. focus 
 on spells as well.. they play a crucial part in the later half of the game. Also the use of priceless 
 points into object knowledge, just to identify potions/rings/etc is just as necessary. So you looking 
 at a pretty all skilled based character.. Not my idea of a RPG that you can be anything.. which 
 is just bogus since you have to focus on combat AND magic. Second Dialogue.. pretty weak.. though 
 the story is kinda interesting, I found the game to be more interesting just dungeon crawling and 
 solving the game's puzzles. Level Design: Interesting but not awesome . I found myself backtracking 
 a ton and going through the same areas over and over again. This makes it more a tedium than a 
 flowing RPG experience. 8 maps make up the entire world . Sure the maps are large.. but we are 
 talking 8.
  
  The uniqueness comes from roasting food, spell casting by drawing runes , and enchanting items/making 
 potions etc. Hence being a quasi-alchemist besides your magic and combat skills.
  
  Other than these things Arx is an enjoyable experience if not a bit tedious and ridiculously hard 
 near the end.. Graphics: Decent.. though I found Morrowind to be much MUCH better, and more enjoyable 
 . Sound: Good, though not the best I have heard in a game. The spell chanting etc is nicely done.. 
 but BG2 had a better spell sound to it.. and it was released 2yrs before.
  
  Value: 3 alternate endings makes for good replayablilty, and many ways to screw up your character 
 if your don't know the game the first time through.
  
  Tilt: I give it a fair rating.. because it was decent, but I have played better in the same time 
 frame (2002) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Its got a reasonable plot, I personally found the graphics quite impressive when I first got the 
 game but I expect they're rather pass&eacute; e now.
  
  The game features a unique spell casting mechanism, where by you draw rune symbols in the air in 
 front of you in a sequence to cast the spell (using the mouse pointer) . This is great in some ways 
 because it looks good for one, and lets you feel that you're involved in the spell casting rather 
 than just pressing a button - you actually need a little skill to pull off spells. The flip side 
 is that with hordes of monsters running at you you really don't want to be messing around drawing 
 pretty lines in the air and if you get one of the runes wrong, or the computer doesn't recognise 
 the rune you're trying to draw the spell fails.. can be a bit frustrating.
  
  This game used to have some appeal based purely around the style, i. e. first person action/RPG 
 but Oblivion will have eroded any of the novelty there for many people.
  
  Major bad point for the game is the scripting in places is pretty disfunctional and obtuse, I strongly 
 recommend referring to a walkthrough when you get to the dwarven section.
  
  That said the game is charming and is a gem that many people missed, the atmosphere is superb and 
 on the whole Arx Fatalis is definitely worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurendo_kun
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 12, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  It's been quite a while since I've actually played Arx Fatalis, but it will forever hold a place 
 in my heart as one of the most immersive, atmospheric, and intriguing games ever created. It was 
 supposedly developed as a direct successor to the Ultima Underworld series, and when Arkane couldn't 
 license the title, they slapped Arx Fatalis on the box and sold it anyway.
  
  The first thing you'll notice about Arx is that the interface takes a little getting used to. In 
 the first review I ever read (before I'd actually played the game) , throughout the entire game, 
 this particular reviewer somehow failed to discover that you can close the inventory bar by right-clicking 
 anywhere on the screen, and he gave the game a poor review on accounts of its purportedly terrible 
 control. If you're not retarded, you should have very few problems with it.
  
  The magic system in particular is what sets the interface apart from other games, and although 
 that isn't what drew me into Arx, it is worth an honorable mention. While holding down the spell 
 key, you draw spell runes using the mouse cursor. Spells have a minimum of two runes. When you've 
 drawn enough runes to complete a spell, it is immediately cast, or you can store it for later use 
 (through one of three hotkeys) . This system feels rather ingenious at first, but you'll quickly 
 become frustrated with it when you try to cast spells during combat. The ability to hotkey more 
 spells (say, up to ten? there are ten number keys after all) would have been not only welcome but 
 sensible. Nevertheless, Arx's rune system speaks for the game's interactivity.
  
  And that is probably my only real complaint about Arx Fatalis.
  
  The second thing you'll notice 
 is how unbelievably immersive the game world is, from the gorgeous textures and creepy lighting 
 to the amazing environmental audio. There are parts of Arx Fatalis that absolutely astounded me 
 on my first run through the game  I don't want to spoil anything, but wait until you see the Temple 
 of Akbaa. Atmosphere is probably Arx's number-one selling point, putting it in the same sensual 
 vein as Clive Barker's Undying.
  
  The story is also quite fascinating. Again, I don't want to spoil it for you, but you'll be amazed 
 when you play the game two or three times and discover that you can finish it pretty much however 
 you want. Whether you play the hero and save the people of Arx, or become the villain and kill 
 everything in sight, you'll never be stuck without a key. What's even more remarkable, despite 
 that there's only one ending, it actually makes sense whether you're the good guy or the bad guy. 
 My advice: play the good guy first so you can see the whole story and meet all the characters. 
 Next time, go ahead and give your sword arm some exercise.
  
  (Very minor spoiler in the next paragraph.)
  
  I approach Arx's level of Interactivity with 
 some equanimity. On the one hand, you can do more in Arx than you can in most games of its kind. 
 One of my favorite past-times is baking apple pies in the goblin kitchen, where you have a stove 
 and plenty of ingredients. Unfortunately, apple pies are the only thing you can bake, wherein comes 
 the other hand: there's not nearly enough interactivity as this game honestly deserves. Some more 
 recipes would have been wonderful, as well as some new weapon models to forge in the dwarven mines. 
 I feel like Arx just doesn't have quite enough. Enough of what? Everything really, but it was a 
 very admirable attempt, and far beyond what most developers have accomplished.
  
  If you're an RPG or adventure fan, you must give Arx a shot. The engine is dated, but the graphics 
 and sound still hold up. When you go to the bargain bin looking for your next time sink, and you 
 see Outcast and Arx Fatalis sitting side by side, pick up Outcast . . . but if you've already finished 
 Outcast, then it's time to give Arx a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  Highs: Immersive game play with tons of things to do, and lots of side quests, and tons of little 
 details.
  
  Lows: A crash bug, long, old graphics engine and longer than average load times.
  
  RPG Fans: 
 If you find this game in a bargain bin for 20$ or less, GRAB IT!
  
  FPS Fans: It's not all fast paced action, but its solid and enjoyable, if you find it for 20$ it's 
 a great deal, but don; t turn your nose at 40$.
  
  Everyone Else: It's good for a solid quality break from whatever you're into, but no rush, avoid 
 it until you find it for 20$.
  
  
  Arx Fatalis is an absolute gem that has been popped at me from the middle of nowhere. Especially 
 since it is tomming in the middle of a small drought of PC RPGs and that makes it all the more 
 worth giving your attention to. Of course, this is a labor of love, and has all of the issues of 
 one. It is rife with lots of little bugs, some that will bother you, and some you may never notice 
 at all, but everyone who plays is guaranteed to experience a few. Arx Fatalis is the throwback 
 role playing game that I would bet money won't get anywhere near the attention it deserves, an 
 absolute diamond in the rough.
  
  Arx falls into a game play category, first person RPG, that is comparable to the bald eagle. It 
 is rare with a capital r. The mixture of both the immersion of the point of view and visual details 
 allowed by an FPS and the deep game play and vast options of an RPG. And vast options is right 
 on the nose, Arx Fatalis is full of tons of things to do, from baking pies to stealing from the 
 dead. The inventory feels like more than just potion storage as you can forge your own weapons, 
 cook, enchant items and yes, mix potions. The interactivity is the selling point of this game, 
 its just fun to do these things. The spell system for Arx Fatalis is a breath of fresh air, although 
 it could also be far from easy. During the course of the game you collect magical runes, each one 
 having its own magical effect and casting design. When prepared to cast a spell for immediate use 
 or for memorization for quick casting you draw the runes in sequence with your mouse, Black and 
 White style, in combinations mixing their individual effects into a single spell. A fun system 
 but requiring time and meticulous care that takes time that is often all too precious in a fight, 
 providing some great difficulty for spell casters during some fights.
  
  Sporting a story that's well above par, but still not good enough to totally surpass an average 
 cheap fantasy novel, Arx Fatalis moves along at a pace that sometimes feels lagged. There were 
 sadly a few questions that were not fully answered and the possibility of a sequel left wide open. 
 The game was rewarding to play, but finishing it was less than satisfying, especially after the 
 difficulty of the final boss. The cut scenes are sparse and more often than not were provided as 
 merely panned cameras over static backgrounds with voice over. While great for atmosphere they 
 just didn't convey enough story to feel worth the interruption in the game and, in the final sequence, 
 barely better than totally unsatisfying. There is a lot of good story, but sadly the bad will be 
 mostly what you remember as they become more prominent at the endgame.
  
  The rougher parts of this gem can be serious annoyances at times. There is a bug that crashes out 
 to windows occasionally during saving that has yet to be fixed. That was the most prominent and 
 annoying bug, in fact the only serious bug that i found, mostly because of the fairly long load 
 times in the game between levels. Which is of course another rough spot, the load times, as there 
 are many missions that will require traveling from level to level. It gets to be less of a problem 
 after mid game when you are taught to open portals that will allow traveling to the specific level 
 you need to be in.
  
  Hands down Arx Fatalis is good enough to be more than a niche game and easily enjoyable by fans 
 of all genres of game play. On the other hand its not quite good enough to be a timeless classic. 
 Role players will enjoy it the most, but if you're open minded, and if you feel like your games 
 are missing depth, then Arx Fatalis is a great place to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 5.4
Date: Dec 12, 2006 3:50 am PT
Review:  The demo got me hooked. It didn't appear to be the greatest RPG ever, but still, it was tons of 
 fun. So, I try the game, and it is still fun.
  
  It is also unbelievably buggy.
  
  I'm so disappointed. Before even going into the diamond mines I had crashes and two different plot/scripting 
 bugs. I restarted three times. I really tried. But if it is this bad during the first few hours 
 of play (Because of the restarts) , I don't want to risk getting really hooked and getting some 
 really damning bug later on.
  
  Sorry, clean your software up a little better before shipping it out.
  
  I installed the patch. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  This game is waaaaay too good! I'm very serious about that. The graphics surely won't attract you 
 but if you play it you will absolutely like it and a will to reach it's end will surpass you.
 
  
  When you begin this game you start in a cell. This will certainly intrigue you. I mean what the 
 hell am I doing it this stinking rotting cell? And I don't tell you more because if you discover 
 it on your own only then you will like it. The thing is that you can choose how to base you charcater 
 primary status. I mean you can be a fighter, a rogue or a mage. You will find runes wich will be 
 used at casting and procasting spells. And to finish this game I tell you that you need a LOTS 
 of logic and vigilence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 10, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  Movies and games that feature amnesiac protagonists have gotten so overdone that I find myself 
 trying to avoid them. Once in a while there is some decent entertainment to be had, but I find 
 the amnesia plot formula to be terribly tired. When I loaded up Arx Fatalis I found out that, lo 
 and behold, the game stars an amnesiac hero! Oh no! Nowhere on the box was there any evidence of 
 this fellow with memory loss. For some reason I kept on playing Arx Fatalis, and I am definitely 
 glad I gave it a chance. This is one unexpectedly decent game. The world of Arx was once rife with 
 conflict between the goblins, humans, ogres and the other races that inhabited the land. Then one 
 day the sun burned out, so all the races banded together to survive as they migrated to an ancient 
 dwarven mine to survive the harsh cold and successfully live in the mines together. All was going 
 well, but tension between the races started to flare up and peace was becoming a very fragile thing. 
 Fanning the flames of hatred and war was the possible coming of a Dark God who seeks to bring back 
 the sun, but destroy countless lives in the process.
  
  Your character wakes up in a goblin prison and is unable to remember anything. A kindly cellmate 
 dubs him Am Shaggar- he who has no name. Obviously, Am Shaggar breaks out of the prison and inevitably 
 becomes involved in events that will decide the fate of Arx. The plot isn't the most original, 
 but the rich fantasy setting is intriguing and there are a few excellent twists. There's practically 
 never a boring moment when it comes to the story because the pacing is handled so well.
  
  There's also hardly a dull moment when it comes to the gameplay. Arx Fatalis is a first-person 
 RPG very much in the vein of Ultima Underworld, or to a lesser extent, Morrowind. You explore the 
 eight large levels of the mine while fighting enemies, interacting with dozens of NPCs and solving 
 puzzles. All the while you are customizing your character's skills and shaping him into whatever 
 you want him to be. Want Am Shaggar to be a spellcaster, a thief, or a warrior? You can mix elements 
 of all these classes, or even come up with your own. The amount of possibilities is not nearly 
 as plentiful as they are in some other PC RPGs, but there is more than a satisfactory amount of 
 options.
  
  No matter what kind of character you set out to create, you're going to end up getting in some 
 fights. The longer you hold the attack button the more powerful your melee attack becomes, so combat 
 isn't the most fast-paced. That isn't a bad thing because the combat is still exciting. Some of 
 the tougher battles require lots of moving and weaving to survive. When you become powerful enough 
 you can lob off limbs and heads in an eruption of blood with one mighty swing. There are only a 
 couple dozen weapons, including axes, swords and even a bow. This may seem like a small amount, 
 but you can enchant, or even poison your weapons to diversify their properties.
  
  If you want to take out an enemy without getting your hands dirty, you can always use magic. The 
 magic system is certainly one of the most unique aspects of Arx Fatalis. Scattered around the mines 
 are various runes. Two or more runes may end up creating a new spell that you can cast. You can't 
 simply click a button to cast the spell; you have to draw out the symbol on each of the runes to 
 cast it. It takes at least a few seconds to cast it, so unleashing a fireball in the midst of being 
 pummeled may not be the wisest decision. Fortunately, you can pre-cast up to three spells for later 
 usage. It may sound like a tedious process, but many of the spells are so powerful that this proves 
 to be a genius handicap.
  
  The second largest portion of the gameplay, right behind combat, is solving puzzles. Almost all 
 of them are challenging, and I found myself checking a walkthrough more than a few times. A few 
 of the puzzles were delightfully entertaining and thought out, but many of the puzzles seemed a 
 bit unfair. Sometimes you have to find someone in order to make progress, but no one tells you 
 where this person is! You just have to wander around and hope for the best. Maybe I'm a little 
 slow, but when I eventually solved some of the puzzles I felt sucker-punched in the stomach. Some 
 were that tough.
  
  One of the most satisfying elements of Arx Fatalis is the interaction you have with items. If you're 
 in a Martha Stewart mood, you can make some delicious apple pie. First, you combine water and flour 
 to make the dough. Then you roll the dough, add an apple, and finally bake over a fire. Are you 
 in the mood for some hearty ribs? Kill a pig, and then cook the ribs until they're well done. There 
 are numerous other recipes and item combinations, and I couldn't help but experiment to find them 
 all.
  
  One of the things that Arx Fatalis undoubtedly gets right is its creepy, claustrophobic mood. In 
 the goblin prison, bodies are hanging from ropes, food is scattered around, and the whole place 
 reeks of decay. The human town also looks like people were trying to make the most out of a world 
 without sunlight, with churches and other buildings temporarily hiding the eeriness of being trapped 
 underground. The crypt had me scared out of mind. The creepy ambient sounds when I first entered 
 the crypt were already unsettling enough, but then a foreboding fog filled the hallways as zombies 
 lumbered towards me. This was scarier than most survival horror games, and the main purpose of 
 this game isn't even to scare.
  
  However, there are a few things that diminish the mood. First of all, the human character models 
 looked woefully outdated. While Arx Fatalis in general won't push your PC to the limit, every other 
 race looked far better than the humans. Also, a good portion of the voice acting falls flat. The 
 guy who did Am Shaggar sounds like he hasn't had any sleep and he's phoning in from a cell phone. 
 This put a hamper one some of the important cutscenes. When all the sidequests are completed (there 
 are quite a few) and you've finished the game, you'll have around 25 hours clocked into Arx Fatalis. 
 Though not as long as other games, Arx Fatalis never outwears its welcome. If you're hankering 
 for some great, yet slightly flawed, RPG action then do yourself a favor and check out this underrated 
 gem. Don't let the idea of another amnesiac hero scare you off because this one is worth the time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  On the world of Arx, the sun has burned out and civilization has moved underground where the entire 
 game takes place. It's a bit if a cliche, but you begin the game as a prisoner of goblins who has 
 lost his memory. You have to make your escape and return to those more civilized where you begin 
 to unravel a threat to the world.
  
  Like any RPG, Arx Fatalis has a pretty reasonable and developed skill system. Your character has 
 four primary attributes and sixteen different skills to which you can assign points as you level 
 up throughout the game.
  
  The spell system is one of the most unique systems you'll find in any RPG. 
  As you progress 
 through the game, you will acquire up to 20 different runes. There are 40 different spells you 
 can cast, each which is cast by drawing the appropriate runes that make up the spell. Instead of 
 clicking a picture in a book or just casting a spell with the touch of your mouse, to cast a spell, 
 you have to draw out a series of runes on the screen. Because this can be rather difficult to do 
 in the heat of battle, you can pre-cast up to three spells that can be cast in an instant when 
 necessary. For the most part, this works just fine, but if you find yourself up against an enemy 
 or two that requires more than three spells, you're going to have a very tough time getting those 
 extra spells cast while under attack.
  
  Arx Fatalis also has a fairly detailed object system where you can combine many different objects 
 you find in fairly interesting ways. For example, you can add water to flour to make dough. Dough 
 can be cooked in a fire to make bread or rolled into a pie with a rolling pin. Add some apple and 
 you can bake an apple pie. Apply some rope to a pole and you've got a fishing pole. Crush up some 
 flowers and you can make potions.
  
  In spite of the decent number of spells and very interesting combinations of things, the overall 
 sense I got from Arx Fatalis is that the complexity of these things exceed the rest of the game. 
 Most of the spells you can cast are never necessary and you can get through the game using just 
 a couple of them. There are a great deal of alchemical ingredients, potions and foods throughout 
 the game but I almost never needed any of them throughout the game. It's cool you can bake an apple 
 pie but if you've never got a need for an apple pie, it becomes merely a novel thing to do.
  
  The game also has a bit of a sparse feeling to it. There are very few monsters to kill in the 
 game, not many NPCs to interact with and not many settlements to hang around. There are not that 
 many steps to the main quests and there are only a small number of side quests. The only thing 
 that prevents this game from going by very quickly is that it takes time to figure out what to 
 do next or to find the solution to a problem facing you.
  
  Completing quests in the game can sometimes be a frustrating experience. You are often asked to 
 go find something and given absolutely no information on where to look. You will find yourself 
 wandering the levels from top to bottom until you come across that passage that was previously 
 blocked, find that right person to talk to, or meet that person who wasn't there before. I don't 
 like RPGs that do too much hand-holding but I think Arx Fatalis could be a little more helpful.
 
  
  You will also encounter a number of puzzles throughout the game that will require the subtle observation 
 and keen thought that you often have to put to use in a good adventure game. If you've got the 
 mind and patience for these challenges, you will enjoy them. Otherwise, you'll be frustrated in 
 playing an RPG that routinely gets you stuck on how to proceed.
  
  While your skills do improve over the course of the game, I must say that I didn't really feel 
 much of proper character development. I played as a magic user and each time I leveled up, I can't 
 say I felt any different. Early in the game, I picked up the usage of my fireball spell and stuck 
 with it to the end of the game. Almost all of the monsters in the game could be taken out with 
 one or two fireballs so there wasn't much of a need to use other spells and increasing levels never 
 had a noticeable impact on the game play although I'm sure I would have noticed a change in difficulty 
 if I didn't level up.
  
  There's also no sense of progression in learning spells. As soon as you find the proper runes, 
 you can immediately cast any spells for which you've got all the proper runes. This means that 
 very early in the game, you'll be able to cast very high level spells. As you gain more runes (and 
 you can get a good number of them fairly quickly) , you learn more spells but not necessarily more 
 powerful spells.
  
  One element you find in almost every RPG that's completely missing here is that you never have 
 any options in dialog. When you interact with another character, your character speaks a pre-defined 
 script without giving you any decisions in the matter.
  
  A final element I just have to note is that the voice acting for the main character is just wrong. 
 The actor decided to go with an arrogant and constantly condescending tone that is completely out 
 of place.
  
  This game is definitely worth a play by someone looking for an RPG to play but it's far from a 
 grand and outstanding experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leeveeu
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  I just picked up this game from a magazine (the magazine came with the game's DVD) .
  I hadn't heard much of it but I started playing anyway.
  It is a good game, with a decent story, 
 very nice animations and nice graphics. You'll have to get used to the interface, which is a little 
 bit strange and complicated to use, but in the long run it will prove to be a more than satisfactory 
 experience.
  I was really impressed by the fact that sometimes, in this game, when you think of doing something 
 more special, it can be done.
  To give you an example, I tried to emprison a nasty Goblin Lord, but instead, the door of the cell, 
 when it was coming down, killed him. I was really impressed.
  The gameplay is very good and you can even cook your food and mix different stuff (I wonder what 
 game took that idea also :) .
  My advice: buy it and play, as it must be really cheap now. You will not regret it if you are a 
 true blue RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vissuluth
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 29, 2005 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Vaig sentir daquest joc fora abans de poder jugar-hi, i em va fer molt bona impresi ja que deien 
 que volia reprendre lessncia de la srie Ultima Underworld.
  Quan vaig jugar-hi, no em va decrixer la meva il. lusi, la veritat s que no, em va fer el pes, 
 no tcnicament, per si en essncia. Mexplico, no t els millors grfics, ni el millor sistema 
 de joc, ni els millors sons, per t essncia, s diferent a tot lo que es fa en aquests moments, 
 i sobretot s molt diferent als jocs de rol que hi ha al mercat, la veritat s que sasembla a 
 grans jocs dabans, com els Ultima Underworld o els Eye of the Beholder.
  Com ms hi he jugat ms mha agradat, lnica pega que he tingut s que em vaig equivocar a lhora 
 de jugar y vaig avanar molt en eljoc, abans de que abancs la histria, i aix va fer que desprs 
 no pogus reemprendre-la, per poder-ho fer, hagus hagut de tornar a comenar el joc, i no en tenia 
 ganes. Pot ser dintre duns anys ho faci, ja que tinc la sensaci dhaver-me quedat pendent.
  Per tant no me lhe acabat, per s que lhe experimentat quasi tot. Espero que els creadors del 
 joc, sanimin i continuin en aquesta lnia.
  Grficament est b, correcte diria jo, sobretot hi ha alguns nivells fora lograts, on lambientaci 
 s realista.
  Lambient sonor, en alguns moments s molt bo, i lambientaci fa por en alguns nivells profuns.
 
  La part ms dolenta s el control del joc, linterface s catica, i em va costar molt de acostumar-mhi, 
 encara que al final ja ho dominava.
  Magrada molt que en general sigui de pensar i hi hagi poques lluites, en t menys que el Wizard 
 and Warriors, i s ms profund i ntim.
  Els puzzles sn correctes, i noms em van quedar un parell pendents, encara que potser no els podia 
 resoldre per no poder seguir la histria, no ho s.
  B resumint, la sensaci que mha quedat ha estat bona, tot i el nivell tcnic, hi ha jocs amb 
 un gran nivell tcnic que no et deixen tant bon regust de boca. Molt recomanable per amants dels 
 jocs de rol pur. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mauro_Rosati
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  Let's talk about Arx Fatalis, another FPSRPG this time developed by Arkane Studios and published 
 by JoWood.
  If you know Morrowind you'll be familiar with Arx Fatalis because it shares the same visual, infact 
 as Morrowind Arx Fatalis it's an RPG with first person shooter visual, so you can move your hero 
 and see with his own eyes.
  The game starts with a prologue, a cut scene released with same game engine, so no pre-rendered 
 FMV.
  At the start of the game you have to allocate your stats point as in all the RPGs, also about this 
 game I will not reveal any plot or story, since I don't like to spoil things to people who don't 
 played this game yet, even if it's quite old.
  it doesn't have the freedom and vastity of Morrowind, but it is a very good game, with a good plot 
 plot, good graphics, good voice acting and with many things to do, so think that it's worth a try, 
 even if it's more than 2 years old.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1alboogie
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2004 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Arx Fatalis is the kind of game that just grows on you. When I picked it up, it was really unheard 
 of, the only reason I knew about it was because I ran into a demo for it. The demo sold me, the 
 graphics were great. It looked like it was going to be at least a nice looking game anyway, but 
 I found that it was really a great game to play. It had a good story to it and it was a nice little 
 break from "run and gun" to "club and stab". If you're into casting spells, you get to do that 
 too. Just remember "don't feed the animals". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeyondZork
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 9, 2004 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Simply, one of the best RPGs ever created. From the first hour of gameplay, the player cannot help 
 but realize this game was created by people who play and love RPGs. When that happens, usually 
 you'll end up with a product that sets itself apart from other productions. Arx does this.
  The graphics are absolutely superb, with high detail models, beautiful lighting, and stunningly 
 sharp environments, that literally take my breath away. 
  While the graphics are superb, the audio in Arx is definative, unparalleled, and simply MARVELOUS. 
 From sound of footsteps on cobblestones, to the faded "howl" of wind blowing through a tunnel, 
 to the crackling and popping of wall mounted torches, the audio in this game simply helps to set 
 the standard in PC gaming. Now, there have been issues with audio, specifically with Creative Sound 
 cards, and the EAX setting. There have been several patches made but none that have cured these 
 problems, at least for my system. Also, support for this game has all but disappeared, so stability 
 is the only real drawback here.
  The game's most stunning feature is its AMBIANCE and ENVIRONMENTS. They are so rich and immersive, 
 you'll never forget walking the halls of an underground prison, or searching the remnants of a 
 dillapidated guard tower. If only more RPGs could be this detailed and be shown this much love 
 and attention. Now, I haven't finished this game, and am assuming that the game length is significant. 
 If it turns out to be short, I'd still be impressed, but if the game is long AND contains this 
 much detail, well then I'll be officially spoiled when comes to PC RPGs. 
  I've played 25-30 hours and am still in the middle of the storyline, and simply put I'm loving 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigitalOZ
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 10, 2003 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Arx Fatalis is one to own if you can still find it. One of the best atmosphere? s of any RPG I? ve 
 played in the last few years. The story is immersive, the graphics are very sharp and the sound 
 is good. It reminds me of the Ultima Underworld series. The game is heavier on puzzles than character 
 development, but has a good bit of that too. The spell interface is novel, but frustrating when 
 in combat. Though for some these may be viewed as minor faults, they are trivial compared to the 
 many benefits of the game, including the atmosphere, interesting story with depth, and the way 
 that NPCs react to you (such as when some cringe and cower and try to run away when you? ve almost 
 beaten them in a fight) . You will not regret purchasing this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 24, 2003 9:03 am PT
Review:  Arx Fatalis is JoWoods dark-themed 1st-person RPG: The game is set in a dark world where the sun 
 has burnt out, and the inhabitants of Arx have moved underground to survive. The different races 
 -- humans, goblins, dwarves, etc, live in an uneasy peace. The game comes across as a cross between 
 Thief and Morrowind, and there are some similarities to those great games. However, there are 
 some major differences as well. Arx Fatalis is attempts to do many things, and it does many of 
 them well. It has a few issues though, mostly stemming from how complicated the game is. That said, 
 it is a very good game overall.
  
  The world in this game is one gigantic underground dungeon, populated with some of the best sound 
 to ever grace a video game. Your footsteps echo in the dreary hallways, doors creak, and moans 
 of misery can be heard throughout the dungeons. The voice acting for the game is terrific, especially 
 for the various monsters in the game. The result is an overall sense of dread in the game. In some 
 places, it is downright scary. In one or two areas, the game makes you jump out of your chair with 
 a loud moan or when a stiff breeze blows out your torch.
  
  The graphics for the game are also excellent. Faces look detailed and realistic, and various areas 
 are full of bright and colorful detail. Even though the entire game is underground, the different 
 areas are sculpted with a lot of variety. Spell effects are spectacular and body movements for 
 the various characters are smooth. The game has a lot of cut scenes which are also very well done. 
 
  
  Arx Fatalis makes a great adventure game. The inventory interaction system allows you to combine 
 and use items in all sorts of ways. There are a lot of great puzzles in the game. They are VERY 
 hard, but never illogical. There are a few 3D pixel hunts, but for the most part, the quality of 
 the puzzles is very high. 
  
  As an RPG, however, Arx Fatalis is somewhat average. It has a cool character development system, 
 cool spells, and fun quests. However, The RPG aspects of this game have some problems. The first 
 of which is the plot  it is full of clichs, and is basically a disappointment. Since the game 
 is almost totally linear, it has little replay value.
  
  Spells are cast by tracing out runes in the air instead of with the stroke of a hot key. It sounds 
 great on paper, but it is cumbersome and almost impossible in practice. In the heat of battle, 
 you simply dont have time to cast spells. A tough opponent will kill you in four seconds. You 
 can only store three spells with shortcut keys, and only a handful of spells are really useful 
 in the tough battles. I found that to win all the big battles, I would just store Fireball three 
 times and release them real fast. Out of the 60 or so spells in the game, I only used about 5 on 
 a regular basis. In general, this game has a common RPG flaw  lots of variety, but only a little 
 bit is useful. 
  
  The game has a complicated inventory interaction system, and that makes the interface extremely 
 clumsy and confusing. It takes a long time to learn, and longer to get used to. To say the least, 
 it needs a lot of work. Some of the features that are supposed to help you in the game, like the 
 map and the journal, are poorly done. The map in the game is very poor. 
  
  I still would recommend Arx Fatalis to RPG and Adventure fans alike. The interface requires a 
 learning curve, but it is worth it, and you will probably enjoy it. It is poorly balanced as an 
 RPG, but it is still good. This is a high quality game and although it has gotten almost no attention 
 or hype, it is worth a play. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
