-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Asheron's Call
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/asheronscall/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 15, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.1, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 313 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Turbine Inc.
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Oct 31, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Asheron's Call is a solid, well-rounded online role-playing experience that's at least as good as 
 any other out there. 

 At a glance, Turbine's massively multiplayer online RPG Asheron's Call may not seem very attractive; 
 its uninspired presentation, esoteric setting, clumsy combat system, and cluttered interface do 
 little to recommend it over its competitors. Yet despite these weaknesses, Asheron's Call has a 
 number of even greater strengths, and it's these strengths that let it stand both on even footing 
 with and apart from any of its contemporaries.  

 As mentioned, Asheron's Call probably won't make a very good first impression on you, particularly 
 if you're familiar with its competition, Origin's Ultima Online and Verant's EverQuest. Though 
 Asheron's Call's characters' clean lines and motion-captured animation beat Ultima Online's diminutive, 
 washed-out sprites handily, their uniformly simple, blocky models and equally simple textures can't 
 compare with EverQuest's diverse pool of expertly textured high-fantasy inhabitants. As in Ultima 
 Online, every single playable character in Asheron's Call is human, so you'll never be able to 
 play as a hulking ogre or a lithe elf. You'll also never do battle with standard high-fantasy monsters; 
 instead of fighting against dragons and ogres, you'll fight against giant insect Olthoi and catlike 
 Drudges. Then again, you can customize your character's facial features, ethnic background, and 
 the cut and color of his starting set of clothes. In addition, every single piece of armor or clothing 
 your character wears actually appears on your character, and given Asheron's Call's great variety 
 of different types of armor and clothing, it's very possible to have a character that looks different 
 from everyone else's, even if all the characters are human.  

 And though many of Asheron's Call's special effects, such as flaming swords and magic spells, look 
 quite good, others, like trails of caustic acid and gouts of blood, look like nothing more than 
 clumps of colored soap bubbles. Then again, Asheron's Call's simpler special effects and character/monster 
 models let more characters and monsters appear onscreen simultaneously without inducing undue slowdown 
 or lag. And Asheron's Call has something that neither Ultima Online nor EverQuest has, if you can 
 look past the blocky character models - specifically, up. Asheron's Call has some beautiful dynamic 
 sky effects; you can literally watch the moon cross the sky at night. And moon or no moon, even 
 though Asheron's Call's darkest nights and the dankest dungeons are quite dark, you'll still be 
 able to see, unlike in the oppressive darkness of EverQuest, which would cause many players to 
 curse their night-blind Erudite, Human, or Barbarian eyes.   

 Asheron's Call sounds about as unassuming as it looks. For the most part, sound is sparse in Asheron's 
 Call; other than the odd ambient sound of a wandering creature, the gust of wind produced by a 
 magic spell, or the shouts and grunts of combat, Asheron's Call is more or less completely silent. 
 All of these sounds are effective if nothing else, though some monsters, like the mewling drudges, 
 sound silly; others, like the chittering mites, sound downright annoying. This isn't to say that 
 Asheron's Call actually sounds especially bad. What little sound there is, is usually loud, crisp, 
 and clearly indicative of the event, creature, character, or combat exchange that caused it.  

 
 And combat is one of the most important parts of Asheron's Call's gameplay. Unfortunately, it's 
 nearly always marked by awkward pauses. Drawing your weapon, sheathing your weapon, or doing nearly 
 anything else causes you to stop dead in your tracks - which can make pursuing fleeing monsters, 
 doing battle with multiple enemies, or beating a hasty retreat of your own needlessly difficult. 
 Fortunately, the monsters' artificial intelligence is lax enough to allow this; many monsters can 
 be led to walls or other obstacles onto which they'll get stuck and can then easily be dispatched. 

 But there's more to combat in Asheron's Call than just jarring pauses and gullible monsters. Melee 
 combat is actually a fairly sophisticated affair: You can choose both the speed with which and 
 the height at which you swing your weapon. As a result, combat is much more strategic than in other 
 games of this sort, as it factors in an enemy's weak points and the amount of stamina your character 
 expends while fighting. And the monsters themselves can be surprisingly persistent, in spite of 
 their sometimes-flawed behavior routines. Monsters wielding ranged weapons will draw an unerring 
 bead on you and fire away, while those not so equipped will pursue you across some distance before 
 they give up. Yes, unlike the unrelenting monsters of EverQuest, Asheron's Call's monsters will 
 eventually stop chasing you if you run far enough. Though it can be said that this eliminates some 
 of the challenge of combat, it also makes solo play in Asheron's Call much more feasible than in 
 other games, like EverQuest, whose insanely powerful and relentlessly vindictive high-level monsters 
 more or less require you to group with other players after a certain point. Asheron's Call offers 
 a more complete gaming experience in this regard, since it's actually possible to play productively 
 with companions or alone, especially if you can't seem to find a group.  

 This isn't to say that solo play is the best way to go; a good group is much more effective in slaying 
 monsters, recovering treasure, and gaining experience points than a solo player is. To this end, 
 Asheron's Call has two grouping systems: the fellowship and the allegiance. The fellowship is a 
 standard adventuring party that lasts only as long as its members decide to stay together. However, 
 the allegiance system is an innovative and completely unique means of character association. In 
 it, characters swear fealty to other characters; these vassals provide an experience-point bonus 
 to their lords, in whose best interests it is to help their vassals in turn, as lords receive the 
 most bonuses from active and successful subjects. In addition, as a lord's vassal conscripts recruits 
 of his own, that lord advances in rank and receives an even larger bonus from his subjects' activities. 
 At worst, the allegiance system is a multilevel marketing scheme, whereby greedy, uncaring patrons 
 enlist as many vassals as possible in order to gain large amounts of bonus experience. But at best, 
 the allegiance system can provide a tightly knit companionship for players genuinely interested 
 in helping others and developing an organized assembly. And should either of these social systems 
 become confusing, unrewarding, or tiresome, you can leave them by toggling a simple on/off option 
 buried deep within Asheron's Call's interface. You will have to do some digging to find certain 
 game options. Asheron's Call's interface is cluttered, to say the least. It will initially seem 
 difficult to lose yourself in the fantasy world of Dereth, since even in full-screen mode, your 
 view is framed at the top by your character's opaque health, stamina, and mana displays and at 
 the bottom by the equally obtrusive chat bar. Opening any sort of menu screen switches the view 
 to minimized mode and pulls up a number of little icons and tabs, which when clicked on, open up 
 other submenus. The only alternative to hunting around for the correct option with your mouse is 
 to memorize Asheron's Call's many keyboard shortcuts. Then again, once you do, you'll find you 
 have access to all the information about your character that you could ever need. Unlike other 
 games of this sort, clicking the correct tab or using the correct keyboard shortcut will let you 
 view just about any and every statistic and ability your character and his equipment possess. And 
 it's these character abilities and statistics that collectively compose what is easily the most 
 intricate, deep, and best part of Asheron's Call - the creation and development of a unique character. 
 Characters are generated more or less entirely upon physical attributes and skill sets, each of 
 which can be custom-tailored to suit your tastes. Though Asheron's Call does offer preexisting 
 character classes, these are nothing more than suggested templates of statistic and skill combinations; 
 you can edit these templates or create your own character from scratch. Being able to create your 
 own character allows for a staggering number of variations, yet each variation is balanced, since 
 a character's skills and attributes are determined by a set number of bonus points - and every 
 character begins with the same number of points. As such, you are given the option to diversify 
 your character's abilities, but you end up sacrificing depth for breadth, as should be the case. 

 Once you've generated a character, you can set out to see the world, fight monsters, and gain experience 
 points. You can use these experience points to further develop your character by spending the points 
 on attribute and skill increases. In contrast to other games, where character advancement is mostly 
 vertical - that is, a character's abilities are governed almost entirely by his experience level 
 - Asheron's Call lets characters advance both vertically and laterally. In other words, gaining 
 experience points not only increases your character's inherent power in the form of experience 
 levels, it also lets you strengthen and develop your character's statistics and skills in exactly 
 the way you wish. This emphasis on creating and developing a unique and powerful character is enormously 
 different from both EverQuest and Ultima Online, where in many cases the largely fixed path of 
 character advancement tended to result in a single best way to create, develop, and equip a particular 
 character class, and as such, obtaining the best weapons, armor, and loot was usually more important 
 than actually developing a character.  

 Of course, all this development and advancement require that your character do the two things that 
 every online RPG character must do: explore and die. Fortunately, Asheron's Call handles both of 
 these beautifully. Though traveling long distances overland and entering dungeons both require 
 you to enter a portal (which whisks you away to your destination at the expense of load time) , 
 exploring the enormous isle of Dereth can theoretically be done in a single, continuous run, without 
 any long and unavoidable transitional load times. If you do decide to strike out and head for a 
 new part of the island, hit the road, or hop into a portal, then visit the nearest lifestone to 
 set where you'll reappear after you die.  

 Unfortunately, even though it's much more possible to avoid death in Asheron's Call than in other 
 such games, your character will still die a good number of deaths. However, death isn't nearly 
 as painful as in other games. When your character dies, he takes a minor penalty to his statistics 
 and skills and loses half of his cash and a precious item or two - but nothing more. As a result, 
 dying in Asheron's Call is far less painful and unpleasant than in other games; you don't lose 
 all of your possessions, and you don't lose a whit of your total experience points, much less an 
 entire experience level. Though the penalty itself is meaningful - losing five percent or more 
 of all of your important skills and statistics can reduce your character's effectiveness - it won't 
 cripple him. And since the penalty can be negated entirely by earning more experience points, dying 
 certainly isn't the catastrophe it is in other games. And because both dying and exploring are 
 so relatively painless, exploration in Asheron's Call is simply more feasible than in other games 
 of the sort. You'll never have to worry about a ridiculously powerful monster spawning on top of 
 your head, or a gang of player-killers ambushing you unless you decide to play on the PK server. 
 Then again, joining a strong alliance will go a long way toward extending your life span on the 
 PK server.  

 It should be noted that latency, the bane of every online RPG character's existence, is a minor 
 problem in Asheron's Call. The game itself is mostly free of lag, though the game will occasionally 
 slow to a crawl because of a lag spike and will very, very rarely disconnect you from the game 
 entirely. For the most part, these lag spikes aren't a problem in Asheron's Call; they'll usually 
 be gone as quickly as they appear, though it is possible to die an occasional lag death from monsters 
 you thought you had evaded. While lag deaths should ideally never happen, their impact is at least 
 lessened somewhat by Asheron's Call's lenient death system.  

 Asheron's Call might not seem like much at first. It doesn't have the glitter and flash of other 
 comparable games, and at first, moving about and doing battle seem awkward and unintuitive. However, 
 it compensates for these problems with a great deal of hidden depth, especially in terms of the 
 enormous area to explore and the impressive number of combinations of character classes that can 
 be created and developed in almost unlimited ways. As such, Asheron's Call is a solid, well-rounded 
 online role-playing experience that's at least as good as any other out there.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: The__MCP
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  No, it didn't have the Blizzard universe behind it. It never had the gabillion subscribers that 
 Everquest enjoyed. Nor was it the first big MMORPG like Ultima Online. But there was something 
 about Asheron's Call that made it unique.
  
  Maybe it was the fantastic skill system that allowed you to level ANYTHING! Want to jump like Kobe 
 Bryant? Just spend all your experience from killing monsters on your jump skill! You may not be 
 able to do anything else, but hey, at least you can jump on houses in the center of town. AC (Asheron's 
 Call) still holds the best skill system of any MMORPG I've played to date. No one started out with 
 any particular class. You chose every trait the way you liked and hybrid classes were everywhere 
 as opposed to most MMORPGs that want everyone to be a super-specialized subset. Neither did it 
 have an easy-to-use system with few skills like some of the newer MMORPGs, because it divided everything 
 into specific skills, and unlike Ultima Online which allowed anyone to macro a skill to death (i. e. 
 continually doing the same action to increase it) , it did reward repetition but mostly the killing 
 of nasty things was what increased your expeience points. AC was the first MMORPG to establish 
 a monthly content update system. I remember the popular websites at the time would be overrun by 
 AC players as everyone waited the 12 hours or so as the servers were shut down and the newest monthly 
 content was installed. Turbine would release a small poem or tale and we as gamers had to decipher 
 it and figure out the clues that pointed to new hidden items and quests that would be installed 
 after the monthly content. I remember the collectable action figures installed in one monthly patch. 
 Every popular creature had its own action figure and the game felt like Ebay as people tried to 
 complete their collections. At Christmas, holiday themed items were added. I remember when the 
 Lugian Citadel was installed. It was a HUGE castle that contained the biggest, baddest giants in 
 the realm who spawned like crazy. The floors of the citadel were littered with dead bodies as gamers 
 tried to risk the fortress because it was a power leveler's dream. I could go on forever about 
 the creative and memorable additions in each monthly content add-on that always made the game feel 
 like a living and changing environment.
  
  AC was the only MMORG that made people care about the lore and stories behind the game. You could 
 find websites dedicated to ancient text found in the game. Quests always had some significant tie-in 
 to the story. And speaking of the story, it was fantastic! We once logged in after a monthly update 
 only to find one of the most popular towns in the game completely destroyed and a large crater 
 in its place. When one of the most feared menaces in the game returned, a developer controlled 
 a 100' tall creature who would roam from city to city destroying gamers who stood in his way. Turbine 
 (the developers) even had a sense of humor and placed the infamous killer bunny rabbit from Monty 
 Python &amp; the Holy Grail in one of the highest level lands. Someone once aggroed the bunny to 
 town and you've never seen anything more hilarious in your life! The highest level characters on 
 my server were jumping on rocks, running for their lives, and doing anything to try and stay out 
 of the way of this killer rabbit that would strike for 1000 damage and appeared virtually unstoppable. 
 ROFL!
  
  AC's biggest knock were its graphics, but I always found the engine beautiful. While I didn't have 
 teh l00t pixels, nothing beat climbing up a large hill and watching a virtual sunset. Because of 
 dyes and completely random items, AC characters all looked different. It was certainly one of the 
 most colorful games I've played, as some MMORPGS seem to be full of a drab world of character creations. 
 Even the monsters were unique. The odd sounding extremely fast sprites. The annoying drudges. The 
 ground-stomping golems. The bug-like extremely powerful olthoi. And who could forget the ghost-like 
 black shadows? It was always fun being a level 15 character and running into one of the random 
 level 60 shadows as they tried to take over the online world of Dereth. (Which leads me to another 
 monthly content story that I just don't have time to tell.) In the world of AC, The Subway is still 
 one of the most unique locations in MMORPG history. Let me draw a picture of this place. You entered 
 a cavern only to find a huge arena where hundreds of characters gathered and your text screen flowed 
 at a million lines per hour as people tried to publicly pawn their items. Want to find ANY rare 
 item in the game? Simply enter the subway with your best loot, and see if you could work a deal. 
 Then..... continue down the cavern until you stop at a 200 feet drop. This is what separates the 
 mice from the men. If you were a high level, you could take your chances and endure the fall. If 
 you didn't think you were high enough, you could buff your stats hoping to surivive the fall. If 
 you did make it to the bottom of the pit in one piece, you would find another meeting place in 
 the subway, only this one was full of the game's highest level characters, and had 20 portals that 
 went to all the best places in the game. Consider it an exclusive society for those that put the 
 time into the game. Mixed in-between the chat of some of the most powerul monarchies (what served 
 as guilds in AC) in the game were dead bodies of aspiring characters who had hoped to finally view 
 the bottom of the Subway but couldn't quite survive the fall.
  
  It's no wonder this game outlived its sequel. It was such a unique world, there was no way to ever 
 match the beauty of the original. I think what impresses me the most about this game is it had 
 no one to copy. It was one of the earliest big MMORPGs, and unlike some of the more recent popular 
 franchises, it had no history of success or failure to base its strategy on. It was all new ground 
 when Turbine developed this MMORPG. I wish some of today's MMORPG newbies who are having fun with 
 World of Warcraft or Final Fantasy XI could have experienced Asheron's Call in its prime. It was 
 truly a novel experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XEROK
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Asherons Call and AC Dark Majesty is a GOD among games. For the year 1999 Asherons Call beat every 
 other game in every category. There is no limit to what you can do. You have the ability to play 
 with others or if you wish you can go solo. Not many Online games will let you go solo through 
 a massive world (Such as Guild Wars) . No character is made the same. The game can take a while 
 to play but once you start you can't stop. I played AC for two years untill my internet was removed 
 and could no longer play. In my 2 years I never even came close to knowing everything about the 
 game. The game is endless, there is no win or lose. Just the strive to be the best!!!
  Asherons Call has everything an amazing MMPOG should be. FUN GAMEPLAY
  EASY TO USE CONTROLS
 
  GREAT GRAPHICS (for 1999 graphics have been updated since)
  ENDLESS GAMEPLAY
  Look Its to hard to explain everything about this game or I would be writing a book. The game is 
 worth the buy!!!
  
  PS the only downside is the monthly charge whether you play or not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcryonicx
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying that I haven't played Asheron's Call in at least a year, but I was a part 
 of it back in 2001-2004 on and off. For it's time, AC was a fantastic game with an unmatched experience 
 of character building. During the time AC saw it's peak population numbers, it was an undeniable 
 success of a game. Completely stat-based character development, HUGE, seamless world and a unique 
 bestiary made AC so much fun. The numerous dungeons are also something not to be forgotten, as 
 they are creatively designed with cool traps and puzzles involving skill and practice. Like many 
 others, since my time in AC I haven't been able to really get into any other MMORPG quite the same. 
 In my opinion, no other game matches the skill-based character development and freedom of gameplay 
 that Asheron's Call provides, although in an outdated and sometimes quirky manner. The bottom line 
 is, AC was the most memorable online game experience I've ever had.
  
  I can't say the same positive things about the current state of AC, however. The game is now catered 
 more or less to macro bots and min/maxers who really don't dig deeper to see what else the game 
 offers. Or perhaps they have quite some time ago and now all they see that is available to them 
 is mindless experience grinding. It's not ruined, per se, but it's nowhere what it used to be - 
 as almost any other MMO changes.
  
  If you're new to MMORPG's I would suggest you at least try Asheron's Call for your free month. 
 It will be a hit or miss, but the hit will definitely hook you like no other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonnybiz
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  wow, this is the greatest game on the face of this earth, as it incorporates fps-like PVP into 
 an MMORPG offering the GREATEST PVP AMONG ALL MMORPGS!!
  
  you will like this, once you hit level 80 in this game as a mage you can fight and defeat any other 
 level, from 1-275 (assuming you have the skills!) this game blows all other mmorpgs away
  
  i have played htis for 7 years since beta!!! although the graphics are not top-notch it is quite 
 the perfect game in gameplay, WoW is no competitor, as wow has poor pvp and poorly constructed 
 quests
  
  asherons call is perfect in quests as well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ogdenous
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Came from the old days with Ultima and Doom gradually working my way into online gaming over a 
 modem with of course 2 players max. Finally the internet came and game started coming with internet 
 multiplayer support. It was ok, except broadband was not that fast yet unless you played at work. 
 Then came the dawn of DSL and Cable modems and rose Mass Multiplayer leading to Asherons Call, 
 one of the 1st MMO's ever created by a company called Turbine Entertainment and published by Microsoft.
 
  
  Asherons Call broke all the boundaries. Yu can play with thousands of players online at the same 
 time, many of which were in the close vicinity. Was amazing, just like a community with massive 
 land. The best thing I remember about this was the open area. You did not have to load to go to 
 a new area unless it was a type of dungeon of sort. I could run from one area to another and it 
 could take hours and hours. It made the game feel like a real world. The crafting was not as huge 
 and this was one of the 1st games I recall with a hybrid auction house. This house was more like 
 a store, you could add names to your weapons or armor and sell them at the store to make extra 
 cash. The quest were excellent as well, we would do mass hunts, however they were all open as well 
 which lead to the guy with the fastest PC and mouse to get the loot which was not a fair system. 
 Gaining skill and levels was a bit complex for it's time, but once playing for a few days you would 
 get the hang of it. They did not allow you to change skills later so what you chose is what you 
 were stuck with for the most part. This was a game that I feel was designed for th 3Dfx Voodoo 
 series cards which is now taken up by nvidia.
  
  On the down side, the Loot was bad as I mentioned, fastest clicker, also it was open without control 
 so if you were in an area that was jammed pack, chances are you could and mostly would get booted. 
 Once you go into less open areas it would be back to normal.
  
  All in All, this game did it for me, I love it to this day, while I am off playing Guild Wars and 
 World of Warcraft, this one will always hold a place in my mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joefriedrich
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Being that in a month it will be 2006 and i have xbox 360 already i must so without a doubt in 
 my mind asherons call puts every single game to shambles. The game is juts too perfect, although 
 the graphic are outdated it really makes you realize that graphics arent everything in a game. 
 i remember i was in 7th grade when i really started playing this gameas a sword character named 
 gangsta killa from solclaim and now when i think back to i remember all the things they added monthly 
 and when i look back to it this game was just a masterpiece. if somehow they could beef up the 
 graphics and advertise it *RIGHT* i garantee you so many people would play this game *and stay 
 playing it* which rarely happens with mmporgs anymore .also The asherons call community are deffinatly 
 the greatest people in the world. 
  
  The land the pvp the monsters the weapons thetowns the dungeons the armor the subway! the marketpalce 
 the golems that used to be in qualibar AHH this game is just to great and honestly if this game 
 does ever get shut down i think i may cry.... Play asherons call www. turbine. com although turbine 
 dosent seem to pay much attention to ac anymore they still update it with new content every month 
 and hey come meet me in the game reedeemed of solclaim see yah in there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outbreak201
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 12:01 am PT
Review:  I was first introduced to AC when my cousins first bought the game. I didnt really know what was 
 a mmorpg at that time i was a young age of 12. This game made me love mmorpgs and fantasy games 
 also. There is a pvp world which is everyone vs everyone so it is very difficult at first, but 
 when you get higher level then you can start pwning alot of people. Theres game like WOW pvp where 
 you can only fight in contrasted area and not loot there bodies. In AC however you can kill anyone 
 and anywhere you want and not to mention you can loot their stuff making it a perfect game to pwn 
 in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lifes_not_real
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 2, 2004 1:39 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: From the beginning, you will beable to create a diverse looking character like no other 
 in the game. Skills and Attributes may be adjusted to your liking and even the color of your clothing 
 can be changed. Although all three playable races are human, you will feel no need for a different.
 
  
  When in-game will can gain experience from fighting monsters and by crafting, cooking and even 
 fishing.
  
  Graphics: To be honest, the graphics are outdated. but come 2005, graphics pixels will be doubled 
 in AC: Throne of Destiny.
  
  Sound: there are no music tracks to the game, but the sound effects are superb
  
  Value: This 
 is not only a great buy but a good investment... you will not feel the need to buy another game. 
 (with the exception of maybe San Andreas :P) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
