-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Asheron's Call Dark Majesty
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/asheronscalldarkmajesty/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 15, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.8, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 117 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Turbine Inc.
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Nov 4, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're looking for classic online RPG hack-and-slash gameplay, Dark Majesty has more than enough 
 to keep you busy for quite some time -- and at a price that's more than reasonable. 

  Asheron's Call: Dark Majesty is the first official expansion to Turbine Entertainment's online 
 role-playing game, Asheron's Call. And the most obvious and appealing feature of Dark Majesty is 
 that it's cheap. Or rather, that it's a remarkably good value for your money. Though it's been 
 called an "expansion," Dark Majesty actually features as much new content as you'd expect from 
 a retail expansion, plus the full version of the original game and a month's subscription fee (a 
 $10 value) , all at a retail price of $20. So buying Dark Majesty basically lets you jump right 
 into the game's huge online world of Dereth for a month at a price of about $10. And if nothing 
 else, Dark Majesty's extremely attractive pricing goes a long way toward keeping it competitive 
 with newer, more expensive online role-playing games.           Asheron's Call may not look like 
 much two years after its release...     

  Asheron's Call is an online role-playing game that was released shortly after Sony's EverQuest 
 back in 1999. Both Dark Majesty and the original game let you create a human character from one 
 of three ethnicities, choose its ability scores and skills, and then set off into the world of 
 Dereth to explore, fight monsters, and increase your character's power by gaining experience levels. 
 If you take a quick glance at the world of Dereth, you may not think that Asheron's Call has changed 
 much since it was released in 1999. For starters, the game is almost as quiet as the original Asheron's 
 Call. Dark Majesty doesn't have any in-game music, and other than the occasional sounds of monsters' 
 and characters' war cries and magic spells, as well as some ambient noise, there's little sound 
 to speak of. And as far as graphics go, time hasn't been kind to Asheron's Call. Though the expansion 
 is optimized to run at higher graphic resolutions, most of Dereth's character models, buildings, 
 and scenery still look blocky and simplistic. Two other online role-playing games that were released 
 earlier this year, Dark Age of Camelot and Anarchy Online, both look much better; and Asheron's 
 Call's old archrival, EverQuest, is scheduled to receive a graphical update later this year. Even 
 with the expansion's new structures, monsters, and scenery, Asheron's Call has become a lot harder 
 to look at in comparison.   

  Fortunately, the game hasn't gotten much harder to play. That's definitely a good thing, since 
 Asheron's Call has always had one of the most cluttered interfaces you'll ever see in any online 
 role-playing game; and this hasn't changed in Dark Majesty. As before, you'll need to use several 
 of the game's less-than-intuitive keyboard shortcuts to really get the most out of the interface. 
 However, as with the original game, you'll also find that Dark Majesty's interface will tell you 
 all the information you need to know: your character's life points, stamina, spell power, current 
 experience points, and more. And over the course of the past two years, the actual core game of 
 Asheron's Call has received a considerable number of additions. For instance, the game's secure-trade 
 system, which lets players trade items without fear of being cheated, was implemented some months 
 ago and is fully functional and included in Dark Majesty. So were the Vesayen Isles, an area that 
 was added at around the same time as the trading system. So were dyes that let you color your characters' 
 clothes to help distinguish them from other characters, which are all represented by otherwise 
 generic-looking humanoid 3D models. And so was the composite longbow weapon. And Turbine continues 
 to support the evolution of Dereth with regular monthly events, which routinely add new monsters, 
 quests, dungeons, and items to the game.           ... but it's still a solid, interesting online 
 RPG.    

  Buying Dark Majesty will get you two specific new additions to Asheron's Call. The first is the 
 enormous new island of Marae Lassel, which is populated with all-new enemies, such as colorful 
 peacocklike siraluun birds, crafty human pirates, and a dangerous new breed of olthoi, the race 
 of giant insects that had invaded Dereth previously. Marae Lassel is suitably huge, and, if you're 
 careful enough in scouting out your surroundings, it's a safe new hunting ground for characters 
 of all levels, not just high-level veterans. Dark Majesty's other significant new feature is player-owned 
 housing. This actually lets your character purchase an in-game house -- after you complete a lengthy 
 series of quests to collect a set of certain key items. The expansion actually offered about a 
 thousand houses per game server at launch on a "rolling" basis so that they wouldn't all sell out 
 immediately to the highest bidders. A house not only lets you meet with friends in complete safety 
 and privacy, but also lets you store items safely. The biggest houses are impressive-looking multilevel 
 mansions that are intended for organized player guilds and are easily big enough to accommodate 
 guild events of all kinds.   

  Are these additions enough to keep Dark Majesty up to speed with other, more recent online RPGs? 
 That depends on what you're looking for. One of the most interesting and intriguing new trends 
 in such games is team-based player-vs.-player combat -- that is, players who all belong to a certain 
 faction, player race, or geographical area act as a "team" and do battle with opposing teams that'll 
 often be equipped differently, have different abilities, and use different strategies. Dark Majesty 
 doesn't have anything like that at all; currently, the only player-vs.-player option available 
 still takes place on the Darktide player-vs.-player server and tends to take place either between 
 individual players or organized guilds. However, Dark Majesty's non-player-vs.-player gameplay, 
 much of which is focused on building up and equipping a powerful character by fighting monsters 
 and gathering powerful weapons and armor, is about as engaging as Asheron's Call's ever was. As 
 in the original game, Dark Majesty's characters are based on individual skills, not professions, 
 so you can either choose a predefined template or create a character completely from scratch with 
 whatever combat, sorcery, and trade skills you want. And since Dark Majesty includes both the island 
 of Marae Lassel and all its new quests and dungeons, as well as all of the previously added weapons, 
 quests, and monsters from prior monthly events, you'll find that if you're looking for classic 
 online RPG hack-and-slash gameplay, Dark Majesty has more than enough to keep you busy for quite 
 some time -- and at a price that's more than reasonable.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jonnybiz
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  FANTASTIC PVP!! cannot be beaten by any MMORPG or even FPS thats out on the market today!!!
  I played this game for 7 years and it holds the best PVP on the market, no mmorpg or fps can beat 
 it, its got an almost FPS pvp style yet still incorporates the MMORPG levels and everything in 
 there, by far the best mmorpg that has ever existed
  
  if you have the talent and the skills, you can take on any amount of people in the game, the mage 
 spells can be dodged easily from afar but at close range if you have good enough skills you can 
 dodge and deliver it right back at them!!!
  
  best mage gaming ever!
  
  true gamers play this mmorpg, the pvp cant be defeated by any other game, if you are good enough 
 battles can last for hours, spell casting is spectacular!!!!!!!!!!
  
  quests are awesome!
  
  blows ALL OTHER MMORPGS AWAYYY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystic_Flames
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 21, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  The sun fades beyond the Mountain of Lethe as the darkness of night sweeps over the land. The ethereal 
 wisps can be seen fluttering throughout the night sky and the twin moons gleam a powerful glow 
 on the cities around the world. A group of travelers leave the pub and grab their swords, shields, 
 wands, and bows, and prepare to venture into the wilderness. As the fellowship continues on, their 
 power can be sensed by nearly every being in the area, and one by one, enemies fall before their 
 might. As the regions get increasingly tougher, more and more from the group begin to falter, and 
 before long only two remain. A merciless group of dark beings, called the Virindi, hover terrifyingly 
 toward them. You can still do battle, but your friend is their target and he is low on health. 
 Will you risk yourself to try to help him recover or take them all on yourself?
  
  It is innovative, exciting online role-playing at its finest and above is just a taste of what 
 you will experience in the midst of a real time battle. I had the pleasure of learning about this 
 game's existence around the spring of 2001. Now most are well aware of the existence of the MMORPG 
 community and some of the games that represent the genre. The repetitive game-play and shoddy graphical 
 value of Everquest had previously turned me off to the whole online scene for a while. There were 
 plenty other titles that came out after that, but none really could grip me any better than the 
 previous mentioned game could. Later when I came upon this hidden gem, I had somewhat similar expectations, 
 and boy did this one surprise me. An amazing sense of fantasy envelops the world of Dereth, and 
 it took me in, proceeding to not let go, for several years.
  
  The name of the game is Asherons Call and what makes this game so successful is the dedication 
 developer Turbine has for this game. This dedication exists primarily in the form of expansive 
 monthly updates. Every month the game is updated with new quests, enemies, items, and a storyline 
 that should draw even the smallest lore freak in. Updates are a feature that most online games 
 definitely lack, and it is because of this feature, that makes this game topple every other competitor 
 around. Now even if a game had updates, it would not be great without a stable game-play system 
 right? Encompassing the whole player system is a great character creation setting and experience 
 table. Want to make a swordsman, archer, sorcerer, or life mage? Go ahead, and while youre at 
 it, adjust your attributes the way you want to fit your character type. Continue by adding skills 
 to your repertoire, from war magic and healing, to crossbow and sword. You can even make hybrid 
 characters that could eventually be both mage and melee fighters. With freedom like this it is 
 easy to see why the game can be so enjoyable.
  
  Though it takes a lot of dedication on the players part, the character improvement system is really 
 what makes the game so great. As you play along throughout the game and defeat monsters with your 
 variety of cool weapons and magic powers, you will get experience. You can take that experience 
 and add it to improve the stats of any of the skills you trained and specialized. There is only 
 one problem with the whole system of things and that is whatever you want to be, you have to train 
 magic. Now there are several magic abilities that improve stats, weaken monsters, etc; and unless 
 you take the time to buff yourself up every time you go into battle, you will most likely die. 
 However, learning how to master the magic of the game is not boring, but actually quite interesting. 
 There are also various ways to cast and use magic, and learning to apply it to an archer or melee, 
 can make you really tough to beat. The challenge of the game flows quite well too. Turbine has 
 positioned it so that no matter what level you are there is a place for you and your friends to 
 fight comfortably. However, being mischievous is always fun and you can always break the rules 
 and take on some tougher baddies.
  
  You burn Panumbris Shadow for 159 points with Ilservians Flame.
  Panumbris Shadow grazes 
 your chest for 5 points of bludgeoning damage.
  Panumbris Shadow is incinerated by your assault!
  
  Just an example of what you will see 
 when you and your team are demolishing your enemies. For all three classes there is a slightly 
 different system you will use. For melees you have a bar that indicates a slow and stronger attack 
 or quick and fast. People who use a sword would most likely want a stronger attack, while dagger 
 users will prefer to flurry. Archers have a bar indicating speed or accuracy, similar to the system 
 that the melees use. The mage system, however, is the most unique and interesting of them all. 
 To get those powers going you will basically assign certain spells to your tool-bar. Now you can 
 either shortcut them or double click them depending on what you find most suitable. Your primary 
 offense will be colorful projectiles and the like which go by the name of War Magic. The lock on 
 system in the real world environment really adds to the excitement and having all three classes 
 do battle at once is spectacular. However, you will not just be fending for yourself, within the 
 group you will need to make sure your teammates are in good shape too. Just as the intro suggested, 
 you will need to keep a good eye on your fellowship members, or you will not only lose assistance 
 but overall experience flow, as well.
  
  Just as the story of the game revolves around Asheron bringing warriors to this land to combat 
 the forces of Olthoi and others; you will spend a large portion of the time training and fighting. 
 However, the land has much to offer, so drop your gear and enjoy many of the games other things 
 to do. Go to the Glenden Wood casinos and try to win prizes, go on one of the hundreds of interesting 
 quests, fight a player-killer battle against one of your friends, or just hang out at the pub 
 and drink some ale. Your virtual character tired after a long day or kicking ass? Purchase a settlement 
 home ranging anywhere from an apartment to a mansion. The great thing about these is that you can 
 decorate them for other players to visit or warp here when in danger. However, the most fun thing 
 to do in the entire game is just to explore the virtually endless world. With two main lands, several 
 large islands, and hundreds of dungeons, Asherons Call has everything that you could want for 
 content.
  
  Taking into account that the game was made in 1999, the graphical value is a bit below todays 
 standards. Though the character models and some landmark structures are a bit ordinary looking, 
 the lighting effects, fluid motions, and great frame-rate all make up for it. Get on the top of 
 a large mountain and it is amazing how far into the distance you can see. The battle motions in 
 the game are a little repetitive at times, but the free-form movement and lack of any jerky moments, 
 all help battle sequences flow a lot better. There are also so many landmarks and sights to see 
 in the world, that the games below average graphics are easily overlooked, as you see the sheer 
 size of the land of Dereth. Towering mountains, murky swamps, snowy wastelands, and unique cities 
 all envelop you and help draw you in even further. However, the lack of one thing is what always 
 had irked me over time, and that is music. Unfortunately, besides the repetitive enemy and battle 
 sounds, there is no over-world music to speak of. Which generally means you will have to break 
 out your stereo, if you want any music to battle to.
  
  Hi, my name is Calidreth
  
  There is one word that encompasses all that is an online game and that is community. A tremendous 
 deal of the game will have you being associated with a lot of people. There are the newbies, the 
 arrogant high levels with no lives, and the item beggars, but hey, every online game has that, 
 right? I will say though, in the three years I played the game I met friends I could not replace. 
 Joining up in hunting parties, doing quests together, or just sitting down on a bench and chatting, 
 can be a great deal of fun. Now sometimes running into each other in an online game can get frustrating 
 because you will be fighting over the same monster or item. However, because of the great fellowship 
 system you can setup with one another, it makes group hunting a lot of fun. Primarily, because 
 when you are in a fellowship you share the experience with one another. Though you will get less 
 experience per enemy at first, it will make up for itself in the end because of the quicker efficiency 
 of your group. As you become good friends with the people you meet, you can join up with their 
 allegiance, which each has their own monarch, events, and way of doing certain things. Some will 
 even have web sites, each planned with quest dates and information about members and services. 
 So, do not be shy, come on in and introduce yourself to the group.
  
  With a huge world, large player-base, quick-to-learn battle system, and fun atmosphere, Asherons 
 Call is all that represents online gaming. It is a shame that it is a bit less recognized than 
 other major titles out there, but that is because of less promotional advertising. With the release 
 of Dark Majesty, the expansion pack, the game got some additional world content and a large welcoming 
 for new members. Even today, after five years of release, the game still has over eight thousand 
 members, within all eight servers. Though the games graphics are a bit outdated and there is no 
 music to speak of, the charm of the community and atmosphere all but make up for it. Hey, I would 
 not have played it for over three years, if the game was terrible, right? Anyway, if you are looking 
 for a great online experience, go ahead and give the series a try, it is $13.95 a month, but to 
 me the game is worth a lot more than that. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
