-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Asheron's Call 2: Fallen Kings
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/asheronscall2fallenkings/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.3, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 279 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Turbine Inc.
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Nov 20, 2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Asheron's Call 2 is a highly streamlined, highly accessible online RPG. Yet the world of Dereth 
 seems bare for a number of reasons. 

 So-called massively multiplayer online role-playing games have roots in text-based multiuser dungeon 
 (or "MUD") games, but they've since evolved into one of the most prominent and most fiercely competitive 
 PC game markets around. These games let players create characters to adventure in a huge online 
 world with other players, and they get thousands of subscribers hooked on their addictive hack-and-slash 
 combat and lengthy quests. And though these players always keep coming back for more, it seems 
 like some of them are never happy -- they constantly complain about how certain aspects of their 
 favorite games are tiresome or even infuriating. Play Asheron's Call 2: Fallen Kings for a while, 
 and you'll realize that developer Turbine Entertainment clearly wanted to avoid as many of these 
 problems as possible. Such nettlesome issues -- like losing items after your character dies, or being 
 forced to run back to the nearest town to sell off burdensome loot and replenish supplies -- simply 
 aren't in the game. As a result, Asheron's Call 2 is a highly streamlined, highly accessible online 
 RPG. Yet although the developer plans to add plenty of new content to the game in the coming months, 
 the game's world of Dereth also seems bare for a number of reasons.           Asheron's Call 2 
 offers plenty of gorgeous vistas, like this.    

 Then again, when you first step into the world of Asheron's Call 2, you'll immediately find something 
 that the game can't be faulted for: its superb graphics. Asheron's Call 2 makes excellent use of 
 new DirectX graphical features to create spectacular effects like animated water, colorful magic 
 spell effects, and gorgeous sunrises and sunsets. Asheron's Call 2's impressive graphics engine 
 also allows for massive architecture in both indoor and outdoor areas, including gigantic statues, 
 huge towers, and truly bizarre structures in the game's various dungeons. And the game has highly 
 detailed, colorful character models and monsters that look considerably better than those of practically 
 any other online RPG on the market today. Unlike most online RPGs, Asheron's Call 2 uses an offbeat, 
 completely original fantasy setting (rather than a traditional medieval fantasy backdrop, the way 
 games like Dark Age of Camelot and EverQuest do) , and the game's powerful graphics engine has really 
 let Turbine's team of artists articulate this unusual setting. These excellent graphics do come 
 at a price: In order to fully appreciate the way Asheron's Call 2 looks, you'll need a good computer, 
 preferably one equipped with at least 512MB of RAM and at least a decent midrange graphics card, 
 like a GeForce3 Ti200 or higher.           Weary adventurers cool their heels at the forge with 
 a little music.    

 Most online role-playing games tend to have rather sparse sound to help players really feel as though 
 they're exploring a vast, open world, but Asheron's Call 2 has a subdued, ambient soundtrack that 
 plays constantly in the background. It's not the least bit offensive, but it's indistinct enough 
 that it can be easily ignored. Though the game has a dynamic music system that changes the music 
 depending on various factors, it's really not noticeable except for when player characters get 
 together and use instruments to play music. Players can use Asheron's Call 2's emote system to 
 make their characters quietly laugh, wave at each other, or play up to 10 variations on the game's 
 musical instrument melodies, which sound different depending what sort of instrument (such as a 
 lute or a drum) each player is using. It's not uncommon to see players standing about a crafting 
 forge -- a special area that can enhance players' item-crafting skills -- playing musical instruments 
 in a group when they're not out hunting monsters.   

  Unfortunately, as things are right now, there isn't much to do other than fighting, crafting, and 
 occasionally playing music. Though Asheron's Call 2 has a seemingly complex story that involves 
 the destruction of Dereth (and the impending reconstruction of the world in the months to come) , 
 you'll uncover it only by clearing out the game's vaults -- huge underground dungeons full of monsters 
 presided over by an especially strong monster. For the most part, you can complete a vault by killing 
 the vault's boss monster. Once you do so, you're rewarded with a brief cinematic sequence and quest 
 points that will count toward something eventually, but currently have no in-game value. You can 
 also try to complete a normal, non-vault dungeon, or an aboveground quest, which will usually require 
 you to kill certain monsters to collect specific items off their bodies. Or, you can try to find 
 a spot where monsters spawn aboveground and hunt them for experience and items. Either way, you'll 
 be fighting monsters quite a bit -- especially since fighting is the main way to gain experience 
 points and pick up monster loot.    

 Loot is more important in Asheron's Call 2 than in other games, since it's the direct source of 
 all your character's money and will likely be the direct source of all your character's weapons 
 and armor. All loot items are composed of one of five basic raw materials (wood, stone, iron, crystal, 
 or acid) and can be instantly changed into gold by dragging each item into a prompt in your character's 
 inventory screen, much like in Gas Powered Games' action RPG Dungeon Siege. However, you're better 
 off attempting to craft your loot into better items yourself, especially since crafted weapons 
 are far more powerful than most any you'll find on the body of a slain monster. One one hand, this 
 streamlined crafting system eliminates the "mule" problem of the original Asheron's Call. In that 
 game, trade skills were best improved by spending experience points on them, so many players had 
 a regular combat character, whose experience they spent normally on combat skills, and a "mule" 
 character, whose experience they'd spend only on crafting skills. Then again, since monster loot 
 is really the only source of crafting materials, you can't really lead the life of a peaceful artisan 
 either -- you've got to keep fighting and looting in order to improve your crafting skills.      
      Conquering vaults unlocks brief cinematic sequences.    

 At any rate, Asheron's Call 2's crafting system is highly streamlined and very easy to get into. 
 Rather than developing a generic metal-smithing or wood-carving skill, you simply improve your 
 skill making an individual item repeatedly, and with each success, you become better at crafting 
 that item and can unlock more-advanced versions of that same item. While it's certainly a lot less 
 complex than the crafting systems used in other games, it also seems more shallow. Rather than 
 being renowned as an expert smith, your characters are "the guys who make good gloves" -- or they 
 would be, if so many other players weren't also crafting the exact same things you are. The ease 
 of crafting shifts dramatically once you unlock your fourth-level recipe for just about any item, 
 since crafting high-level magic bows, swords, and armor not only requires high-quality materials 
 from high-level loot, but also insanely rare monster trophy items, such as wings from wasps and 
 spikes from Dereth's spiny reedsharks, which are so difficult to obtain that their market value 
 is overblown. At this point in time, the fourth tier of crafted items will generally bring the 
 careers of all but the most dedicated artisans to a screeching halt.           Asheron's Call 2's 
 vaults feature impressive architecture.    

 But since crafting is so easy to get into and produces relatively good items, it's a highly common 
 practice for low-level characters, especially since Asheron's Call 2 has no non-player character 
 merchants. In fact, with the exception of its many monsters, Asheron's Call 2 has no non-player 
 characters at all -- ostensibly, this is part of the game's story, which rests on the premise that 
 the world of Dereth has been overrun by mysterious assailants who have destroyed its towns and 
 slaughtered its inhabitants. The fact that players can quickly and easily get rid of unwanted loot 
 without having to run back to town is an obvious benefit for hard-core online RPG veterans, who 
 in previous games would have to immediately quit whatever hunt or quest they were on and abandon 
 their fellows whenever they were encumbered with loot to sell, or if they ran out of arrows or 
 spell reagents. But there are no spell reagents in Asheron's Call 2, bows are equipped with an 
 endless supply of arrows, and your characters don't get encumbered, even when their inventory is 
 full. And if they need to get rid of their items, they can convert them immediately into gold, 
 or craft them into weapons and armor on the spot without having to leave the area. It's remarkably 
 convenient, but when you set foot into a town that doesn't have a popular forge (there are currently 
 very few of these) , you won't find any non-player characters hustling and bustling about the area, 
 and you probably won't find any other players, either.   

  In fact, if you don't play on one of the more popular servers, you may go for hours without seeing 
 anyone else at all. Asheron's Call 2's player community is currently rather small compared with 
 that of other games, which can actually be a good thing for EverQuest and Dark Age of Camelot fans 
 who are burnt out from crowding into the same dungeon or into the same area with tens or even hundreds 
 of other players. To these players, and to groups of friends who are looking to start playing a 
 new online role-playing game together, Asheron's Call 2 may very well be an unspoiled paradise -- a 
 huge virtual world with hardly anyone else around to bother you. However, if you're looking for 
 a vast community of like-minded players to meet and socialize with, you'll have a hard time finding 
 it in Asheron's Call 2. Though you may be impressed at the sight of a dazzling sunset across the 
 ocean, or pleased by the fact that you can quickly craft a better sword than the one you're carrying, 
 running through the wilderness without seeing another soul for hours on end can make the otherwise 
 beautiful world of Dereth seem empty, even lonesome.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I brought this game because i heard it was an astonishing game ever played on PC.
  
  I first downloaded a free sample on the interent before i brought this game.
  I then relised 
 that you have to sign up and pay a monthly fee, as this game could not be played unless you signed 
 up, because this is a game that is only played on-line.
  You get to challege and meet up with other people that are also on-line playing this game.
  
 
  You can join up and play side by side and help each other out completeing missions for your self 
 or even completing tasks for your friend.
  
  Take on large battles against massive large enemies, bigger then you.
  
  Enrich graphics
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neccophiliac
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2004 8:09 pm PT
Review:  
  If you like MMORPGs, than AC2 is the game for you! With a great open combat system, tons of levels, 
 great update system, amazingly complex (yet still easy to use) crafting system, awesome pvp system, 
 and a huge amount of quests, this game brings to life the world of Dereth. Quests are all different 
 lenghts and difficulties... and the portal and mount systems make it easy to move from one area 
 to the next. The only problem I found with this game is there can be some lag issues, but it's 
 an MMORPG so what do you expect?! 
  
  Monthly updates mean there's always new content available, plus they moved the level cap to 150! 
 The highest character I saw on there was level 69 so I know that the game has a long life-span. 
 
  
  Really, buy this game and try it out. It's damn good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duane_woods
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 18, 2004 6:32 am PT
Review:  I feel bad that it took me so long to try this game out. I finally decided to try the free trial 
 and I have to say this is one of the best MMORPG's out to date, they removed all of the mundane 
 tasks and the monthly stories and vignettes are very unique. the gameplay is very easy to get into 
 IMO. graphics are superb. The music is ok, not great but not bad either. the the fun value and 
 the ease of play really boosts the score up for me. I strongly suggest those who have not played 
 this game to at least try the free trial out and make a decision after the trial whether to keep 
 playing the game or not. I think that most people will be pleasantly suprised that they may actually 
 enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opruitt
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 23, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big MMORPG fan so it's hard to slam AC2. Having played (and still do) AC1 since launch though 
 I do have issues with the lack of depth and high XP grind in AC2. I know you can power level/grind 
 in AC1 but only with help (buff bots etc.) In AC2 there are numerous quests which, by design, level 
 you fast. Not a problem if that's your thing but it gets old doing the MA, IF, Boots routine. The 
 hero system is a big help but it too has high XP quests which are too hard to resist. All in all 
 a nice game and with future patches maybe a great one. As for eye and ear candy; it's AC2 hands 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakule
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jan 13, 2004 12:16 am PT
Review:  Shortly after downloading and installing the trial version, I came to the inescapable conclusion 
 that the only attractive quality of this game are it's graphics. 
  
  What were nine servers six months ago have since been condensed down to four, but even on the most 
 populated server (Thistledown) I have not yet seen more than 800 players logged on at once nor 
 did I even come across another PC face to face (but there was plenty of stereo-typical MMORPG digi-speak 
 in the general chat channel ..... typical) .
  
  Face the facts, people. Asheron's Call 2 is panty-waste. 
  
  I played DAoC in two different 
 spurts, the most recent one lasting ten months (ending shortly after the release of "Trial of Atlantis") , 
 and that game has more to offer in every single area than Asheron's Call 2 with the exception of 
 graphics.
  
  If there was an organization dedicated to the proliferation of the  
 philosophy, Asheron's Call 2 could champion its cause. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcd19290
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 19, 2003 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Short summary: It is the egg of Columbus. And like the egg of Columbus, many people cannot see 
 it before it is demonstrated to them.
  Not as sophisticated as other MMORPG's it let's you really relax, and it gives much opportunity 
 for struggle and figths if you want. Fool around with your buddies or quest a long storyline. You 
 can find buddies, if you want, and you won't like it being alone for long there. As the world invites 
 you to be relaxed, no overwhelming aggro-beasts, no impossible quests. 
  If you like stress and frustration, this is the wrong place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kr0e
Rating: 3.1
Date: May 12, 2003 10:23 am PT
Review:  If you would like to keep your hair, don't play this game. It's all but worthless. They're constantly 
 having server issues, and worse than that chat issues. IF you are able to log on, you'll have to 
 deal with that fact that (no joke) 70% of the time you cannot chat with your allegiance, fellowships, 
 or through private messages. If that wasn't enough, they're continuely nerfing the classes, the 
 ones that aren't already broken. Some skills are completely broke, and just don't work (admitted 
 by the developers) , yet they keep "balancing" the skills players do have. Increasing cool down 
 times (the time you have to wait until you can use a skill again) , decreasing the power, ignoring 
 already broke skills, are just a few of the things going on. In June they're going to nerf just 
 about every class in the game it seems like, on the fan sites and official forums alike people, 
 myself included, are already planning to cancel their accounts. All and all do yourself a favor 
 and wait for Star Wars Galaxies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonnyanderson
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 26, 2003 5:43 am PT
Review:  This game is certainly a mixed bag. It has lots of issues to hate, yet love at the same time. I 
 agree with most people on that you either hate it or can't get enough of it. I for one love it. 
 Though this will have to be a half review, due to lack of sleep from work.
  
  NPCs- If you follow the story, it tells how mortals were slaughtered and they are still hiding 
 in shadows. Why would there be a lot of NPCs in town?
  
  Quests- What definitely makes this game fun for me. If you want it to, it's how you gain most of 
 your experience. No more hours upon hours of just straight dungeon crawling (though you can choose 
 to if you prefer) . They are pretty interesting -- not entirely moving, but not dull either. 
  
  The game is definitely made to suit your play style. You can choose to dungeon crawl or do 
 a ton of quests. You can choose to group or not group.
  
  The skill system is fairly well done, a bit weak for humans though. Check out a few fan sites like 
 www. ac2hq. com for detailed skill system information.
  
  I gave the 15 day free trial a whirl, it's definitely worth trying for free for 15 days (no, I'm 
 not a microsoft employee) . =P
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
