-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Assassin's Creed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/assassinscreed/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge, gorgeous world that feels wholly alive.
 It's fun to run across city rooftops.
 Joyous mix of stealth, action, and platforming.
 Stunning sound design features fantastic voice acting and a beautiful musical score.
 Tons of small details will constantly amaze you.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Confusing ending.
 Remarkably high system requirements and some small glitches.
 New mission types aren't as good as the others.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.0, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 5,631 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date:     Apr 8, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Assassin's Creed is a beautiful, exciting experience that will stay with you long after you finish 
 it. 

  Assassin's Creed features one of the most unique gameworlds ever created: beautiful, memorable, 
 and alive. Every crack and crevasse is filled with gorgeous, subtle details, from astounding visual 
 flourishes to overheard cries for help. But it's more than just a world -- it's a fun and exciting 
 action game with a ton of stuff to do and places to explore, rounded out with a complex story that 
 will slowly grab you the more you play. The PC version has a few more issues than its console counterparts, 
 and the keyboard-and-mouse controls strip away some of the smooth magic of exploration. Nevertheless, 
 if you don't mind plugging in a gamepad and have a system that exceeds the system requirements, 
 you'll find the same free-form travels and atmospheric game world that console owners enjoyed last 
 year.  

           Cities are alive with activity.      

  Not enough can be said about the living, breathing universe that you'll inhabit in Assassin's Creed. 
 As assassin extraordinaire Altair, you'll explore three major cities of the Holy Land in the 12th 
 century: Jerusalem, Damascus, and Acre. Each city is beautifully rendered from top to bottom and 
 features meticulously crafted towers that reach for the sky, bustling market squares, and quiet 
 corners where citizens converse and drunks lie in wait to accost you. As you wander the streets 
 (and rooftops) , you'll push your way through crowds of women carrying jars on their heads, hear 
 orators shout political and religious wisdom, and watch town guards harass innocent victims. Altair 
 has a profound effect on this world, but the cities are entities all their own, with their own 
 flows and personalities.  

  The visual design has a lot to do with how believably organic everything feels. The cities are 
 absolutely huge, and though you don't get full exploration privileges in the first few chapters, 
 they eventually open up to let you travel seamlessly from one side to another. Everything is beautifully 
 lit with just the right amount of bloom effect, and almost everything casts a shadow, from tall 
 pillars to Altair's cloak. In fact, sometimes the shadows get to be a bit much and may make you 
 think for a moment that there is artifacting on your screen, when in fact it's a character's head 
 casting a shadow on his or her own neck. Every object, from scaffolds to pottery, is textured so 
 finely that you'll feel as if you could reach out and touch it. Animations are almost as equally 
 well done. Altair scales walls, leaps majestically from towers, and engages in swashbuckling swordfights 
 that would make Errol Flynn proud. And he does it all with fluid ease, generally moving from one 
 pose to another without a hitch. Minor characters move with less aplomb, but that's easy to forgive, 
 considering that the cities are populated with thousands and thousands of individuals.  

  On a high-powered PC, these elements look even more stunning than they did on the Xbox 360 and 
 PlayStation 3, but the splendor comes with a price: The minimum requirements to play Assassin's 
 Creed are surprisingly high, particularly where the CPU is concerned (a dual-core processor is 
 mandatory) . On one test PC that runs Crysis at a respectable frame rate on medium settings, Assassin's 
 Creed slowed to a crawl at lower settings. A high-end test machine ran the game with much better 
 results, though with some occasional slowdown.  

  What you hear is even more impressive than what you see. At the top of a temple, you hear little 
 but the rush of wind, the twittering of birds, and the barking of a far-off dog. In the most populated 
 areas, your ears will fill with the din of street vendors, the pleas of beggars, and the occasional 
 humming. It's never too much, though, and the game does a good job of making sure you hear what 
 you need to hear (for example, the cries of citizens who need your help) without filling your ears 
 with pointless noise. The voice acting of the supporting cast is similarly remarkable. Conversations 
 are completely believable and delivered with the perfect amount of solemn dignity. Oddly, the weakest 
 link is Altair himself. Actor Philip Shahbaz does an all right job, but he isn't up to par with 
 the first-rate acting of his fellow troupe. Rounding it all out is a beautiful orchestral score 
 that is most notable for its subtlety. Many of the game's most impressive moments are accompanied 
 by lovely musical themes that add even more threads to the game's rich living tapestry. We did 
 run into some audio glitches on two of our three test systems, however, in which sound effects 
 would occasionally stutter and hitch. The game's readme file included a potential workaround for 
 this issue, though in our case, it didn't solve it.  

           The combat is simple but surprisingly engaging.      

  The story that binds it all 
 together rises to the occasion. Actually, there are two related stories in play. The unfolding 
 drama of Crusades-era Palestine is a mere memory, forcibly pulled from a modern-day bartender named 
 Desmond by a resolute researcher using a machine called an animus. The memories aren't Desmond's 
 own -- they are Altair's, stored safely in the hapless subject's genetic code. We follow Altair as 
 he assassinates nine public figures at the command of his master, and as the common thread that 
 ties these men comes into focus, so does the true identity of Desmond's captors. There are no cutscenes 
 in the traditional sense; every bit of story exposition and dialogue flows smoothly from the gameplay 
 and takes place entirely within the game engine. The ending is confusing and blatantly leaves open 
 the possibility of a sequel, but this is a small blemish on an otherwise stirring tale. Altair's 
 world is not one of absolutes. His assassination targets aren't always evil, and Altair isn't always 
 likable. As he is fond of reminding us, "Nothing is true. Everything is permitted."  

  Of course, such an authentic world would be meaningless without a lot of fun things to do in it. 
 Thankfully, Assassin's Creed is endlessly entertaining in that it features a fine mix of stealthy 
 exploration, tight platforming, and exciting combat. To discover the whereabouts of your assassination 
 targets, you must first follow up on possible leads. There are several different mission types 
 in this regard. In some cases, you sit on a bench and listen in on secret conversations. At other 
 times, you will closely follow someone carrying an important letter that you'll pickpocket. Alternately, 
 you can beat the information out of your target. There are also some tasks specific to this version 
 of the game. Oddly, some of these new missions feel more contrived than the others, such as timed 
 sprints and escort tasks in which guards execute scripted attacks as you move to your destination. 
 Since the game's greatest strengths lie in its unscripted events, these additional tasks feel less 
 organic than the others. On the other hand, missions that let you silently assassinate rooftop 
 archers and fling guards into market stands are more interesting and fit better into the game's 
 sandbox world.     

  There are also some optional missions, such as rescuing innocent townspeople from the clutches 
 of guards. The reward for doing so is a group of vigilantes who will hang out in the area afterward 
 and hinder any foes chasing you. It's also a good way to try out Assassin's Creed's combat, which 
 is surprisingly satisfying, considering the game's focus on sneaking around. You can pounce on 
 enemies using your hidden blade (an incredibly rewarding one-stab kill) , or use throwing daggers 
 to take enemies down from a distance. However, your sword is your melee mainstay, and though the 
 hack-and-slash combat may seem simple at first, it gets more challenging once you unlock the various 
 countermoves. Often, you'll have a dozen or more attackers to fend off at once, but though these 
 fights can be a little tricky, you'll never feel as if you're in over your head. In fact, the few 
 circumstances in which you are forced into combat -- such as a late-game boss fight against a seemingly 
 endless crowd of attackers and their leering leader -- are challenging and require some pitch-perfect 
 timing to counter every strike and lunge.  

           It isn't what it looks like...      

  Nevertheless, brute force is rarely the best 
 way to handle a situation. You want to slink unnoticed through the crowds, but you can draw attention 
 to yourself in a number of ways -- whether it's galloping past a guard station on a horse, knocking 
 pottery off of someone's head, or getting so frustrated by the various beggars that you fling them 
 away from you. (And trust us -- these are the most aggressive panhandlers you'll ever meet.) If you 
 antagonize the guards, they'll give chase. Yes, you can stick around and fight, and though it's 
 never the easiest option, breaking stealth does not damn you to death like it does in other sneaking 
 games. But why not lure them to a rooftop? Once up there, you can grab them and fling them to the 
 street below. Or if there are too many of them, you can jump across the rooftops gracefully until 
 you find a hiding place, such as a nice bale of hay or a curtained garden. Once you're hidden, 
 they'll give up the chase and you'll be free to roam about again.  

  You can also seek refuge in small groups of scholars who serve as mobile hiding places. It's a 
 bit contrived to walk into a stationary cluster of scholars and have them suddenly start moving 
 simply because you're there, but it gets the job done. Actually, if there's any drawback to the 
 usually excellent gameplay, it's how synthetic certain elements feel. Vigilantes are always in 
 the same spot, missions reset if you don't get them right the first time, and those same guards 
 will harass that citizen an hour after you pass by. It's easy to forgive these quirks, though, 
 given the easygoing flow of the world surrounding these pockets of gameplay.  

  Climbing up buildings and jumping around the rooftops is fun and breezy, though keyboard jockeys 
 should be warned that the mouse and keyboard don't deliver the best way to experience the game's 
 fluidity. With a controller, the face buttons are mapped to correspond with Altair's head, hands, 
 and legs; with a keyboard and mouse, the wonder of that arrangement is lost. It's also a bit tougher 
 to time counterattacks using the mouse buttons, though players without controllers needn't worry 
 too much: It's still a relatively comfortable setup. Of course, you can attach a controller, and 
 we were able to use two different gamepads, including an Xbox 360 controller, with success.  

 
  Regardless of your preferred scheme, you can leap across alleys and scale walls with ease, and 
 though it's possible to launch yourself from a wall or hurtle through a vendor's booth by accident, 
 these moments aren't very common. You'd think that a city specifically designed to let you climb 
 structures and caper about the roofs would look overly artificial, yet there's never a moment when 
 you will think to yourself, "Wow, that looks like a place where I'm supposed to jump." The architecture 
 looks completely natural, which makes Altair's abilities all the more exciting to pull off. The 
 environments don't look as if they were created for him to climb around on; he just uses the hand 
 he's been dealt, as any good assassin should.  

           Sometimes, you'll literally pray you don't get caught by vigilant guards.      

  In 
 Assassin's Creed, the greatest joy comes from the smallest details, and for every nerve-racking 
 battle, there's a quiet moment that cuts to the game's heart and soul. Climbing towers to uncover 
 portions of the map is a simple mechanic but forever satisfying, thanks to the beautiful vistas 
 and soft musical themes that accompany the view. Even the beggars that pester you are amusing and 
 fun, though their constant shoving can be annoying when you're trying to pickpocket a pedestrian 
 or eliminate a target without a fuss. It all makes your missions that much more compelling, and 
 you'll be inclined to explore every nook and cranny and take on every optional task just for the 
 fun of it. There's a ton of stuff to do, and even when you've exhausted your official tasks, you 
 can search for the collectible flags and crosses strewn around the cities and countryside. You 
 could probably plow through the main quest in 20 hours or less, but completists might spend many 
 more finishing every quest and gathering every flag.  

  The PC version of Assassin's Creed isn't the superior one, but this is a case where translation 
 to the PC resulted in some minor hiccups rather than obvious gaffes. If you don't have the opportunity 
 to play it on the Xbox 360 or PlayStation 3, you should pick up a copy and immerse yourself in 
 its memorable world. It's the kind of game you want to show your friends even if they're not into 
 games, and if you have a high-powered computer, it's one that should be in your collection.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (331 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jerryatricrejec
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 7:14 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft might have done very well with this game in terms of sales, and while the game isn't bad 
 it isn't great either. Ubisoft can count themselves lucky they managed to sell as many copies as 
 they did.
  
  Fortunatley for them the story was good and the large cliff hanger ending should bring players 
 back with the release of the second one.
  
  The game looks stunning and plays well but I found the controls on a keyboard and mouse a little 
 irritating sometimes. I'd recommend a Xbox controller for the PC. The game plays well and is very 
 interesting in the first half an hour but grows old very quickly. A classic example are the beautiful 
 cities created for the game and the magnificent environments created are just for show. You get 
 the feeling the buildings created are just massive props and 'jungle-jim' blocks you can use. You 
 never get the sense theres actually anybody in the building.
  
  The crowds move very realistically but where the hell is everyone going? They're just walking in 
 circles? 
  
  Call me old fashioned but I like it when a game lets me load and save when I want. I hate the menu 
 system in the game and it takes 5 minutes to actually get to the menu where I can click 'Exit' 
 so Alt+F4 is a definite favourite for this game.
  
  Graphics: Very impressive. Stunning visuals
  Sound: Very good. Great environment sounds. Pity 
 the sounds seem a little too 'looped'
  Gameplay: Great combat system which is very fun. Repetitive and frustrating at times especially 
 when you spend too much time hunting down things and using your map rather than experiencing the 
 world which should have played as well as it looked.
  
  A hit and miss for me. It's worth playing but I'm not so sure I'll buy the second game without 
 trying it first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2009 6:51 pm PT
Review:  When I think of assassins, I generally think of men and women who use stealth and other subtle 
 means to take out their targets. The Dark Brotherhood quest line in The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion 
 is a good example of this. I didn't go into Assassin's Creed expecting a stealth game, but it definitely 
 could have used some sort of subtle aspect; not that AC is a bad game, but it's not exactly a great 
 game either.
  
  In Assassin's Creed you assume the role of Desmond Miles and his Muslim assassin ancestor, Altair 
 through a machine that allows a person to relive passed down genetic memories. The storyline is 
 pretty far fetched despite its claims of being based on historical events (it is, but loosely) , 
 but fairly enjoyable if you accept it for what it is.
  
  In Assassin's Creed you essentially travel from city to city trying to avoid Crusaders and other 
 folks who don't like you or your order very much. You then meet up with that city's head assassin, 
 and he sends you off to perform one to three completely random and often seemingly irrelevant missions 
 strewn about the city. These missions go from simple eavesdropping to racing across rooftops while 
 on the clock (what the heck?) . This aspect of the gameplay seems enjoyable at first, but after 
 the fifteenth pickpocket mission it starts to get tiresome. After you finally get all of the information 
 you need through these missions, you get to "plan out" the assassination you are to perform with 
 your superior. There's no real strategy to it even though Altair spends the time coming up with 
 a plan. Usually assassinating a target consists of running up to them and knifing them and then 
 running from their comrades and the city guard.
  
  The lack of variety in missions isn't what bothered me most in AC, though. Did anyone else start 
 killing the beggars and wandering idiots who push you around after their stupidity caused you to 
 become "detected"? That's the only part of the game that was even remotely challenging, and that's 
 not exactly a positive contribution to game challenge. The loss of a few "health points" is a small 
 price to pay for killing an annoying beggar who keeps running in front of you even when you're 
 clearly not interested.
  
  My biggest gripe with Assassin's Creed is how it pretends to have stealth and subtlety, while realistically 
 none of the "stealth" tactics used in the game would work. In order to get into cities you have 
 to hide among scholars dressed in white. Okay, you're dressed in white, but you also have a few 
 dozen weapons strapped to you and a suspicious looking hood. You mean to tell me that this wouldn't 
 raise any eyebrows? Then of course there's guard pursuits; as long as you're able to hide guards 
 won't recognize you or seem to notice all of your armaments when you emerge a minute later. My 
 personal favorite is the market stall destroying mission where you just run up to citizens and 
 chuck them into market stands. Blowing your cover before you even start the assassination assignment 
 itself, that's a great strategy.
  
  Visually AC is pretty good. It contains all of the effects you'd expect from a modern game complete 
 with eye burning bloom and HDR. I don't have any real complaints in this regard. Audio wise the 
 game features okay voice acting, I don't get why Altair has an American accent but whatever. The 
 music is fairly forgettable, though I did like the assassination music as it really seemed to fit 
 the inevitable guard chase that happened after the kill.
  
  Assassin's Creed, yeah it's alright. It's hardly deserving of all of the hype it has received in 
 my opinion; it's a tedious, repetitive assassination game where twitch action is more important 
 than stealth. This doesn't really make any sense, but thankfully I wasn't expecting another Thief: 
 The Dark Project. In fact, you know what would be the ideal assassin game? Thief, where your goal 
 is to kill rather than steal. Oh well, at least I only spent twenty dollars on this title.
  
  + The storyline is alright.
  + Leaping from rooftop to rooftop is entertaining for a while.
 
  + Good visuals and audio.
  
  - Repetitive gameplay.
  - An ASSASSIN game that lacks any form of believable STEALTH or SUBTLETY. What were you thinking, 
 UbiSoft?
  - Beggars and wandering lunatics are the bane of my existence.
  - Guards either have ADHD, or are mentally deficient. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberAltair5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 9:20 pm PT
Review:  They just don't make games like this anymore. Nowadays games either have a good gameplay but ruin 
 the singleplayer but focusing on the multiplayer. This game may not have a mutliplayer but it does 
 compensate it with everything else it has and makes you realize multiplayer is overrated at times.
 
  
  The story is amazing, not gonna go in to details in fear of spoilers but the game has a story that's 
 well built, introduced in a great manner and in the end leaves you wanting more and more. The ending 
 is a real cliffhanger but the fact that we have a sequel coming out this year compensates it.
 
  
  Combat has been critized a lot. Now sure the controls are limited and the animations although a 
 lot will get boring after you go through with the game but the combat system is so unique and fun 
 that the only time you'll get bored is when you aren't in the mood to play the game or to fight. 
 Running from the fight is possible and is a lot of fun as well.
  
  Now one of the coolest thing in the game and perhaps the reason the game is most famous is Altair's 
 abilities. He can climb almost any wall thrown at him and their nothing cooler than doing a Leap 
 of Faith (aka. jumping from a high building at a cart filled with haystack) and even though it 
 isn't physically possible, hey, that's gaming for you. Also theres the jumping from rooftop to 
 rooftop, escaping guards or just to get from one point to the other.
  
  One thing that truly makes this game enjoyable is because it's beautiful to look at, sure now the 
 game is two years old but the architecture, people moving here and there and the animations and 
 graphics are fantastic. Some of the landscapes out there are real eye candies.
  
  All in all if you still haven't tried this game out then I suggest you do, it supplies what it 
 offers and even though there are aspects out there that feel repetitive by the time your over you'll 
 realized you finished a unique and exciting game with a story that'll leave you waiting eagerly 
 for the second installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lamb_Jalfrezi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 2:13 pm PT
Review:  All you have heard about the graphics and design of this game is true. It is stunning with incredibly 
 rich cityscapes, excellent characters and brilliant animation. The sounds are deep and immersive 
 and add alot to the organic feel of the environments. 
  The story is interesting and innovative and a lot of fun to play. 
  So why the so-so score?
 
  Bluntly, the PC version is a direct port from the 360 version including a dubious mapping of a 
 four button controller to the keyboard, this leads to some frustration when controlling what should 
 be a wonderfully fluid experience. Also, the menus don't offer the same sort of options as a PC 
 gamer would expect, it is not clear when the game is being saved for example. If only the developers 
 had had the time to modify these factors for the PC version, then this would have scored 9+.
  
  Oh, and I have knocked a 1/10th off for the silly multicultural, politically correct message 
 on the splash screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of those games that can impress anyone simply by a picture or a video, 
 the amazing visuals come with an excellent and intriguing story, there are two stories happening 
 at the same time, one takes place in the year 2012 when a bartender named Desmond Miles is kidnapped 
 and forced to be the subject of tests for a company, basically one of his ancestors was an assassin 
 and they are doing tests with his DNA to search for remains of memory from this ancestor. The other 
 story is with this very ancestor, named Altair, who is an assassin, and his quest to eliminate 
 targets commanded by his master, Al Mualim.
  
  Some might say the game mechanics are overwhelmingly repetitive, I say it fits right at the purpose 
 of the game, you in the role of an Assassin who needs to investigate and eliminate targets, you're 
 given a name and a location, it's up to you to find the victim. To make the investigation you firstly 
 need to recognize the place, so you climb at some of the various high points in each city and examine 
 the surroundings, by doing that you spot numerous places for information gathering. Then it's time 
 to go on and actually get the information, it can come from hearing other people's conversations, 
 pickpocketing items from people around the city, forced interrogations or from another of your 
 fellow assassins scattered around the cities, they will surely ask you some favor in return that 
 revolves around killing stalkers or collecting some flags around.
  
  You're gonna be summoned by your master, who will give you the orders and targets, you need to 
 kill nine targets, you then need to head to one of the three big cities, Jerusalem, Acre and Damascus; 
 then you need to find the city's assassins bureau and speak to the representative assassin in that 
 location, he will help you a little bit and show you the better places and directions to start 
 searching but the actual target's location will be up to you to find by what you discover in the 
 streets.
  
  The real fun about this game is the stealth and assassination, you are forced to stay unnoticed 
 due to obvious reasons, and will be given a Synchronization Bar which tells you how much health 
 you have but also gives you another important information, how noticed you are at the moment. If 
 the center of the triangle in the bar is white you are completely unnoticed, no one knows you're 
 there, people don't even know you exist. If it gets yellow things are still good for Altair, but 
 citizens and guards around you know you're there, at this moment they don't necessarily already 
 know you're a cold-blooded assassin with uncontrolled thirst for blood but they know you're there, 
 depending on your actions the center of the triangle will start blinking and if the actions are 
 extreme or too much out of the socially accepted a guard may start watching Altair's actions, which 
 will give you a red alert. Note that only the center of the triangle changes at first, for the 
 entire triangle to become yellow or red certain requirements must be reached. An entire red alert 
 is when the guards are chasing you with you in sight, and an entire yellow triangle is when you're 
 in a chase but out of the guards sight. If you're only a suspect yet, only the center will blink 
 and change color.
  
  When you're being chased you can fight or you can run away, if you fight, other guards may come 
 in and confront you too, but eventually they will stop coming and you'll be free to go, but you 
 should exit the battle location quickly because other guards will reach the spot and start asking 
 question about what happened there and who was the responsible for that, and since you're the responsible 
 for that and the streets are full of citizens with enough willing to talk, it's better to disappear.
 
  
  The last color you have is blue, the blue color appears when you were being chased, broke their 
 line of sight, and successfully hid yourself in one of the locations available to you, which are 
 benches, rooftop gardens, haystacks, haystacks carts and blending within scholars. After a few 
 seconds hiding you should be fine to continue your quest normally.
  
  There's not much variety in the tasks you are asked to do, that's true, but they are always pretty 
 fun and seems very real. You have an immense freedom on how you can achieve your objectives, and 
 that adds to the non-linearity of the game, allowing you to choose which sources of information 
 you should go for or which place to visit first.
  
  All that come alongside with one of the most amazing aspects about this game, the graphics. They're 
 beautiful, absolutely gorgeous, it's certainly one of the best technical graphics as for today. 
 They're not only technically impressive, and that's what makes them so amazing, they're artistically 
 coherent. The cities are flooded with people, average people of all kinds, merchants, scholars, 
 beggars, guards. Every city has three types of districts; the poor, the middle and the rich district. 
 Each show differences in architecture, number of beggars, quantity of guards, etc, and each will 
 be available at some distinct point of the game. You can climb upon basically every single building 
 in any of the cities, and it's easy to do so, just by pressing one or two buttons and running against 
 a wall and you're done, the system is easy and satisfying, you really feel freedom about what you 
 can do with the wall climbing.
  
  Spoken dialogs are practically mandatory for today's games, and Assassin's Creed is no exception, 
 every dialog has voice-over and it was nicely done. The story develops in a very interesting way, 
 with the character evolving and learning to question his own acts, and the acts of the ones in 
 his group.
  
  Each assassination you're asked to perform demands a different kind of approach, sometimes will 
 be easy to just go there and kill with just some guards following you, but sometimes will be harder 
 and will even demand different kinds of strategies and some serious stealth from your part. The 
 fights are actually pretty fun, there are some techniques that helps them to not fall into a systematic 
 action.
  
  There's no multiplayer, but there's a lasting single player experience that will probably make 
 you come back for more after you finish it for the first time, just to do everything you've done, 
 but now after you mastered the controls, using different approaches, and really getting into the 
 intriguing and complex story. It's not a surprise to see they added lots of collectibles to keep 
 you playing long after you finished, and there really are various things to be found, hundreds 
 and hundreds of flags scattered all around, various Templars for you to kill, and of course all 
 that in a world full of little details, alleys and hidden places.
  
  In the end what you get is a game that succeeds truthfully in putting you in the skin of an assassin, 
 the job might get tedious but it should be done, and you probably will do it since it's really 
 fun, but the very nature of this game puts it in the love or hate field, if you like the adrenaline 
 of stealth action in an amazing 12th century atmosphere this game should be a must play. And ends 
 up being a prime example of a game that has a soul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelgargan
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2009 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is a very fun game. Hindering its value on the PC is its high system requirements. 
 I admit i don't have a gaming monster, but i had fairly low frame-rates fairly consistently. I 
 still had loads of fun with this though.
  
  Good Points
  - Very smooth climbing and running controls and gameplay.
  - Good graphics
  - Huge cities and 
 areas
  - Great combat
  - Fun "bosses" (or targets)
  - very immersive
  - (mostly) good crowd reactions
  
  Bad Points
  - Attacks are repeated far too much
  - the 
 Counter Attack makes you virtually invincible
  - High system requirements
  - Fairly low replay value.
  - Lack Of indoor environments (i think the only indoor environment 
 was in the intro)
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Sound - 8/10
  Graphics - 9/10
  Story - 6/10
  FUN - 10/10
  
  AC was very fun, though if you don't own a fairly good gaming pc, you might 
 want to give it a miss. Very fun while it lasts though. If you are into medieval fighters or stealth 
 games, you will have a good deal of fun with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XIntoTheBlue
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Wanted to play this game for a while, but with its system requirements, I hadn't been able to until 
 recent. Overall, I was impressed with the game. I have a couple favorite points on this game.
 
  
  First, I thought the story was innovative. The genetic memories Desmond had of his ancestors was 
 a nice touch I never seen used elsewhere. Intertwining that with Altair, an assassin of an order, 
 performing assassination missions to stop the Teutonic order was fascinating. The link between 
 the present (or the future, if you think 2012 is that far ahead :) ) , and the past was great.
  
  Second, the game world was amazingly beautiful and well done. I am not talking just about fawning 
 over amazing graphics, but it definitely made me feel like I was a part of the setting, and I always 
 like to see settings I have not seen much of in video games (like the Middle East from centuries 
 ago) . 
  
  The sound effects, music, and voice acting were well done, I thought. It made characters and the 
 environment more believable.
  
  Now, with all this praise, why the -1.5 points from my score? Well, the gameplay is where the issues 
 lie. There are a lot of repetitive actions you have to perform through the whole story. This is 
 not bad in and of itself, but when it constant, it gets a little tedious. For example, one type 
 of side quest is always present and the same. It's where you have to save a citizen from several 
 crooked guards. If you do each one of these side missions, you'd have done them a hundred times 
 or so (didn't count, but there's a lot) . I'd prefer if there were more varied side missions to 
 do.
  
  On the upside though, the combat system is fun to do. There are scavenger hunt kind of activities 
 you can do. There are tons of flags (several types of flags) hidden about the cities and landscape 
 you can try to find. It's quite a task to do. Besides that, I liked how each of the assassinations 
 were presented, giving Altair the ability to plan out exactly how he was going to execute it.
 
  
  Minor point, but the controls could have been reworked to suit a computer player better. They designed 
 the controls for a console, and probably did not do much with it when they ported to the PC.
  
  Overall, this game is fun. I enjoyed the storyline, the combat, and bouncing from roof top 
 to roof top, throwing guards off of roof tops and see them fall do their death, and it was satisfying 
 grabbing beggars/drunkards and shoving them away when they got annoying (and they sure did at times...) . 
 I'd recommend this game to anyone who hasn't purchased it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doncallucci
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 7:39 am PT
Review:  I can't say that about many games. This game includes the huge open-space that everybody loves, 
 it has great graphics, amazing sound voices and sound effects it has a little bit of the "gta" 
 felling a lot of "prince of persia" some "thief" all adding up to a perfect amount of each. I just 
 love the fights in this game with the little cut-scenes that could transform you in a genuine psycho, 
 the way you jump and fly over those cities... great story with future potential. I just hope the 
 series could turn somehow in a multiplayer both online and lan. Or maybe there could be a future 
 add-on with several memory-blocks before the first memory-block with missions in the same cities. 
 The system requirements are a bit exaggerated but thankfully I played this game on a I7 with gtx280 
 so GREAT WORK UBISOFT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miroku32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is the first game of the new Assassins Creed that Ubisoft created, many would think 
 that this game would share many gameplay stuff with the Prince of Persia but this game feels different.
 
  
  The story is set in the future, when a corporation kidnap a guy for enter his ancestors memory 
 using a machine called the Animus and find an important object. After the guy talk to a scientist 
 then they agree that the protagonist will work for them, you will be in the time of the third crusade 
 using one of the best assassins Altair and with him you must kill powerful and important people 
 for the master.
  
  In the gameplay area Ubisoft did a great job with the controls, being an assassin you must try 
 to kill the soldiers and target in the most quiet way possible, you can use throwing knifes, a 
 dagger, a sword and your fist. Also like the Prince of Persia you will have to climb walls and 
 do alot of acrobatic jumps for evade the guards. One important thing is that if you are spotted 
 by the guards you can kill them or start running and try to find a safe place when they lose the 
 sight of you. Also another important thing is that you cant kill civilians or you will lose life.
 
  
  The game is a little linear, you must kill the objective but for get the memory for that you must 
 do submissions and for unlock them you must climb towers and save civilians, these submissions 
 may be kill archers in the roofs, steal something from a civilian and other more.
  
  There are four cities that you will visit in your quest and also an open field for horse traveling 
 but after you visit the cities then when you are required to go there you can forget the field 
 and do an instant travel to those cities.
  
  The graphics for these game are good but I think it could have been a little better, it is too 
 bad that the game require alot of things for run on the computer.
  
  The game itself is good and you will have hours of fun, at the end it may get a little boring but 
 the story will be more than enough for keep you hooked in the game till you finish it, also at 
 the end more mysteries will appear making the next game a must have if you loved this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kro_429
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of the first games to step into a much more non-linear mode, and for that 
 it must be complimented.
  
  Graphically, Assassin's Creed is impressive. Ubisoft milks everything they can out of the crusadesque 
 environment and creates a profound artistic atmosphere. The way at which they approached the HUD 
 was brand new to me and very innovative. The sound matched the graphical tone perfectly.
  
  While the gameplay did tend to be good, there were many times when I wished for more assassination 
 missions beyond only the 9 (I think) that you got to perform. While the minigames were okay, they 
 got old fast. However, I still find myself many months later running around in Jerusalem picking 
 fights just for fun. It does not easily become repetitive (at least for me) .
  
  Assassin's Creed is a great taste of what games could turn into, and I liked the taste. Obviously, 
 it has many flaws, but if developers like Ubisoft keep going in this direction many great things 
 may lie ahead for gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmoredBreaker
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2009 1:13 pm PT
Review:  First thing, where da shadows man? You don't feel like you playing with an assassin, the stealth 
 part is missing! You don't feel nervous about getting caught by the guards, if you get caught just 
 kill them all, and isn't hard to do this! when you got the counter move you can just repeat the 
 move again and again to win a combat. The templars are actually really pretty fun to fight. Now 
 about running over the roofs, climbing walls, jumping across the streets while escaping the guards, 
 that's awesome , this will speed up the game. The graphics are quite good, watching the beautiful 
 landscape while riding a horse is pretty cool! The really problem in this game it is quite repetitive 
 sometimes ,and don't expect mythological beasts and powers in this game. It's a great game but 
 it could be darker in all meanings! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 4:07 am PT
Review:  It really depends on how you look at this game. If you expected Hitman in the medieval era (like 
 me) , you will be disappointed. However, this game actually resembles Grand Theft Auto starting 
 from the whole open-world setting, non-linear missions and so on, up to collecting hundreds of 
 hidden flags and killing hidden Templars who have nothing to do with the story. Perceived like 
 this, Assassin's Creed leaves the taste of a delicious dish that somehow misses like 1/3 of its 
 ingredients but still tastes great.
  
  Now let's see what's missing in this game!
  
  There are four different cities in the game that are the best settlement representations I have 
 seen in a virtual world. They look even more alive than Liberty City or San Andreas. However, you 
 can do exactly the same things in all four of them, you enter each one of them exactly the same 
 way and citizens in them speak the same four lines all the time.
  
  The goal of the game is to perform 9 assassinations and each one of them is specific, intense and 
 interesting. However, in order to get started with the assassination, you have to reach the city, 
 free a citizen that is harassed by thugs at the gate, scholars appear from nowhere, you blend with 
 them and walk past the guards. Once in the city, you jump on the nearest roof, look for a higher 
 tower, climb it and observe the area, revealing part of the map. After that, all the points of 
 interest in your vicinity pop-up on the mini map. You air-dive from the top of the tower in a conveniently 
 placed cart full of hay underneath then proceed to the nearest mission. You do all this in exactly 
 the same order every time you set on an assassination.
  
  Each assassination has six investigation missions affiliated with it. Depending on how far in the 
 game you are and what difficulty you are playing at, you have to complete a certain number of these 
 investigation missions in order to be allowed to do the assassination. The drama here is that there 
 are few types of investigation missions and they repeat far too often. You either have to:
  1) Run from one point to another within given time limit;
  2) Escort a fellow assassin to somewhere;
 
  3) Break merchant stands;
  4) Collect flags;
  5) Assassinate archers on the roofs;
  6) Assassinate thugs on the streets;
  7) Eavesdrop on a conversation;
  8) Rob someone;
  9) 
 Interrogate someone by beating him senseless.
  I might be missing a type of mission or two, but as you can see, diversity is limited, especially 
 if you decide to do all missions to unlock all memories. (If you actually decide on that, mind 
 that many of the thug killing missions are pretty much impossible, because you have to kill the 
 targets silently without alarming anyone, but they tend to circle densely populated city squares 
 with lots of guards nearby. Throw in a time limit to that and you risk lots of nerves in completing 
 that.)
  
  Another problem with investigation missions is that they are often given by the same indistinguishable 
 NPC and don't make any sense to the main story. While this is OK with side missions, it is unacceptable 
 with what drives the story forward.
  
  Speaking of side missions, there are interesting, yet again few other things that you can do apart 
 from working towards the assassinations. You can collect the abovementioned hidden flags though 
 they are so numerous, I don't believe many people will have the nerve for that. You can also kill 
 special Templars who, again, are placed on hidden spots. Each area that you enter has view points 
 that you can climb and they count and in cities, there are people to be saved from thugs. And that's 
 it!
  
  All of the above is interesting, yet it makes the game more appealing to gamers who would spend 
 20+ hours looking for the 98th hidden package in GTA rather than those who like to unravel mysteries.
 
  
  Now for the award-winning parts that everyone should like. Graphics are spectacular. A lot of modern 
 games look great but this one deserves special attention. As I said, cities look alive. They are 
 dusty and noisy, too and there is a nice colour filter used that makes everything look even more 
 authentic. Camera work is well done like in a movie, especially in key moments. Altair is agile, 
 but he looks entirely human unlike some of his comrades-by-genre.
  
  Combat deserves merit as well. It is smooth and spectacular and counts on correct timing rather 
 than memorizing insane combinations of buttons. Weapons are heavy and sword swings and clushesh 
 feel heavy on the hands. Motion capture is done perfect. The only problem that undermines the impression 
 a bit is minor clipping issues like parts of clothing getting through limbs, etc. AI is also a 
 bit dumb and guards often do not pay attention to your aggressive behaviour. Furthermore, you can 
 often hide in a lonely hiding spot and guards will start circling it but will never find you and 
 then the moment your indicator says that it is safe to walk in the open again, you can pop right 
 out, bumping into still wandering guards who apparently have suffered an instant memory loss and 
 will disregard you altogether.
  
  Another likable feature of the game is its story and the whole setting. The Promised Land keeps 
 many secrets and it is one of the places on Earth where history and mythology blend the most. It 
 holds huge potential for telling exotic stories and Assassin's Creed is one of them though, as 
 it became obvious from announcing the game as a trilogy and the flat ending, we will have to wait 
 for two more games to reveal the whole of it.
  
  The Hashshashin faction to which Altair belongs and which is the origin of the word "assassin" 
 is one of the more interesting bits of the history of mankind which inspires the imagination a 
 lot. Check the internet for more info on this order. It is well worth it!
  
  There is just one thing of the story that I didn't like. It is a bit of a spoiler, but everyone 
 has been discussing it since the game came out and it is in half the major reviews on the net so 
 I am not ruining anything here - the action in Assassin's Creed takes place not in the past but 
 rather in the future and what you play are actually the memories of a far descendant of Altair 
 caught in some funky machinery. When you are in the middle ages, everything is fine, but there 
 are also some small bits of gameplay in a room with the memory device which are badly stitched 
 to the other features of the game and would have been far better if left like non-interactive cut-scenes.
 
  
  All in all, Assassin's Creed is a very good game that falls short to what was promised in the beginning, 
 but I don't remember it anymore, so I enjoyed the game a lot :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinjo_jo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Review :- This was one of the games which defined the steep requirements for PC gaming followed 
 by Crysis and GTA IV. Talking about the game.
  
  Story :- Most unique and most awkward and you never know what you are about till the midst of the 
 game. Story follows that you as a bartender been kidnapped for scientific test purpose and test 
 are going on you to re-collect the memories from your ancestors as the system called animus would 
 retrieve your ancestors memory. And you follow the story as an assassins and all your powers are 
 gone at the start so you workout to gain all your powers again.
  
  Graphics & Sound:- I can say over here its the most stunning game in PC Games i have ever seen, 
 the environment is so lively that you can feel each and every bit of your surroundings. I played 
 the game with graphics settings at maxed out so i could see each and every shadow in the game. Must 
 see the game atleast for the graphics. Sound is just awesome one of the best. Graphics Stunner.
 
  
  Control:- I tried with keyboard and mouse and I failed , so i have to switch to my 360 controller 
 which works great and the gameplay improves alot and gives you the feeling of a console. Controller 
 is a must have for this game.
  
  GamePlay:- Gameplay can go a bit repetitive but you would really enjoy climbing on rooftops and 
 killing the guards. The gameplay is also a bit of stealth in it. The gameplay could have been a bit 
 unique which would add up the charm to the game an much more exciting. The gameplay is kind of GTA 
 IV where'in GTAIV you have wanted levels here you have the suspcious level and it also has GPS 
 as in GTA IV to help you follow your path through rooftop. The battles with the guard are very engaging 
 and it keeps you * in sad that being you only have a hidden blade, a sword and knives to kill longer 
 distance enemies, hope in Assassins Creed 2 they also add up bow and arrow to the armor. Also i 
 even ride a horse in the game .which is very unique which i haven't done yet in any of the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazerlapd
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 2:25 am PT
Review:  After reading all the review by Gamespot and other players, I decided to buy this game. The 1st 
 thing that makes me disappointed is the cut-scenes in the game. It do not have subtitles which 
 makes me hard to follow the game storyline. I need to focus a lot to know what the storyline is. 
 Games like this must have subtitle option. GTA IV is impressive with its subtitles, very easy for 
 everyone to understand it even though they use complicated languages sometimes. They really should 
 look into the problem. Besides the graphics which is pretty good, the game is not very much fun. 
 The gameplay is very linear and pretty boring at some point, when you have to do the same type 
 of mission again and again. For those thinking of buying this game, you better go for other games 
 which are much more fun and breath taking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mutantspicy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Why is this game only rated at 8.5? 
  
  This is the game I use to measure all other action games at this point.
  I'm somewhat surprised 
 at the comments that this game doesn't look as good on the PC. Maybe many were unable to turn all 
 the graphics options all the way. I was able to and at this point I have not seen a game that looks 
 any better. And many cases not even close.
  
  Also, this game came out of the box and worked. Well I installed a patch I believe because I always 
 check for patches when I get a new game.
  But there was none of this reinstalling all my drivers and trying to come up with a combination 
 of drivers to make the game play. It simply worked out of the box, and has the most intense graphics 
 I've seen in a game. Excellent sound too. 
  
  Gameplay. Well its in a league of its own. Totally unique. The chases are exhilarating. The stealth 
 is suspensful. The cities are huge. For a game that combat isn't the focal point the combat was 
 pretty darn good. Its not devil may cry. Don't let that fool you because if you allow yourself 
 to try and hack and slay through a battle it will look like devil may cry, but you'll be the one 
 crying/dying. This game is all about tactics, kill quick and get out. But for a game to give you 
 full out combat, stealth and (prince of persia type climbing and jumping) get away chases all at 
 the sametime, seemlessly in a completely 3 dimensional action sequence is simply revolutionary.
 
  
  The story was written as well. I can see why some didn't like the end. I didn't like the end because 
 I felt like it needed to keep going or at least I wanted it to keep going. 
  OTOH I liked the end because it seems to be setting us up for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samiup
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 12:42 pm PT
Review:  if i had to choose a best of 2008, assassin's creed will be my first choice, and no, im not exaggerating.
 
  
  Assassin's creed is no doubt the game i will remember from this period of time. there will be many 
 GTA's, Mario's and MGS's to come, there will be also better looking games than Crysis but Assassin's 
 creed is a unique game in every aspect, such games only appear once or twice in a decade or so...
 
  
  i never liked Ubi-Soft as a company, but here i have to admit, they just did a colossal and daring 
 job, by bringing history, philosophy, logic, and stealthy game play together under one title.
 
  
  i haven't been impressed by a storyline of a game for many years till now... the game length is 
 very acceptable, but it still feels very short relatively to the heavy story, the ending however 
 is at least weired, its clear that its hinting for a sequel, but still is weired and unexpected.
 
  
  the Good :
  -good looking world gfx 
  -huge thrilling story
  -Hollywood grade voice acting.
  - very stable, i don't know what that guy who reviewed the game 
 for GS is talking about?
  -great them music
  
  the bad :
  -low end character gfx by PC standards
  -the end sucks
  -bad inputs
  -the game really feels 
 like a port from a console (bad inputs + bad camera)
  
  Grades :
  
  -Gfx : 8.0/10 (good for consoles - bad for PC)
  -Sound: 9.5/10 
  -gameplay : 9.5/10
  -controls 
 : 8/10
  -story : 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassin297
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2009 10:52 am PT
Review:  Easily one of the best games i have come across. Amazing in  
 up everything, it just seems a ride you don't wont to get off. Either its doing your assassination 
 business or simply roamin about helping the people collecting the flags, the game just draws you 
 in to an experience of a gamer's lifetime.
  Relive the epic times of the Crusades Assassin's Creed as the game immerses you in the realistic 
 and historical Holy Land of the 12th century, featuring life-like graphics, ambience, and the subtle, 
 yet detailed nuances of a living world.
  Brilliant. The game is a must have. It carries on the Ubisoft's legacy build high after the POP series. Just 
 enjoy this great game and for the best part its a trilogy, can't wait for d rest versions. Just want 
 the open gameplay, intuitive control scheme, realistic interaction with environment, and a fluid, 
 yet sharp, combat mechanic to be carried on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soadforever1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 6:58 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a video game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. It was 
 released worldwide in November 2007 on the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 video game consoles. Alongside 
 the standard retail version, a limited collector's edition was released in North America for PlayStation 
 3 and Xbox 360. The European limited edition contains the game and a 2-inch (51 mm) Altar figure 
 in addition to an art book and a DVD containing several short films. The North American PC version 
 was released on April 8, 2008.
  
  A prequel for this game, titled Assassin's Creed: Altar's Chronicles, developed by Gameloft, was 
 released on February 5, 2008 for the Nintendo DS. It was also ported to the Symbian Mobile. A sequel 
 was confirmed by Ubisoft, tentatively to be released before March 2010.
  
  The main story of Assassin's Creed takes place in September 2012; Desmond Miles, a bartender, has 
 been kidnapped by the fictional company Abstergo Industries in order to be used as a test subject 
 in the "Animus," a device that can stimulate the recall of ancestral memories buried in the user's 
 DNA. Abstergo has Desmond use the device to recall the role of Altar Ibn La-Ahad  
    , Arabic: "The Flying One, Son of None" 
 or "The Bird, Son of None") , one of Desmond's ancestors, in the "Assassin Brotherhood" during 1191 
 as part of the Third Crusade in the Holy Land. The character and his clan are based on a true military 
 wing, called Hashshashin, the idea for it coming from "Blitzkrieg to Desert Storm: The Evolution 
 of Operational Warfare" by Robert M. Citino along with Bartol's novel Alamut. The order follows 
 a creed of certain rules, also following the famous rule of Hashshashin founder Hassan-i Sabbah 
 "Nothing is true, everything is permitted." Desmond at first has trouble adjusting to the device, 
 but eventually is able to relive Altar's exploits over the next several days. Much of the core 
 game is then presented from Altar's point-of-view as seen by Desmond, though at times interrupted 
 by glitches resulting from the Animus.
  
  At the start of the memories, Altar is shown attempting to retrieve a "Piece of Eden", a strange 
 artifact, from Solomon's Temple with the help of other assassins, but is stopped by Robert IV de 
 Sabl, a member of the Knights Templar and sworn enemies of the assassins. While retrieving the 
 treasure, Altar breaks all three tenets of the Assassin's Creed [them being: 1) "Stay your blade 
 from innocent flesh", 2) "Hide in plain sight", and 3) "Never compromise the brotherhood."] to 
 attempt to kill de Sabl, but fails; upon returning to the Maysaf, Al Mualim  
 "The teacher", leader of the Assassins, demotes Altar to an initiate, making him a novice again 
 and giving him another chance to rise through the ranks of the Brotherhood. To this end, Al Mualim 
 assigns Altar the task of assassinating nine key figures across the Holy Land in Jerusalem, Acre, 
 and Damascus, in order to attempt to bring peace between the Crusaders and Muslim forces. Malek, 
 one of the Assassins who went inside Solomon's Temple with Altar, however, succeeds in retrieving 
 the artifact, so it is in the hands of Al Mualim. Altar methodically completes each task, learning 
 that each target is connected to Robert and the Templars and share their mysterious goals. As he 
 completes each of the assassinations, he finds out that the Templars are trying to trick the Muslim 
 and Christian forces to work together and face a common enemy, the assassins. As he kills each 
 of his targets, each of them talk to him and tell him about their goal to bring peace and unity 
 in this world, the same thing that the assassins want. This is also supported by a conversation 
 by Lucy (Abstergo's assistant) . She tells him that what they do is bad, though their ultimate goal 
 is good. Altar's final target, de Sabl, reveals in his dying words that Al Mualim is himself 
 a member of the Knights Templar, and used Altar to kill the other members so he could keep the 
 treasure for himself. Altar quickly returns to Masyaf to accost his master. Al Mualim reveals 
 the truth; the Piece of Eden creates illusions, and he denounces religion and other seemingly supernatural 
 events as illusions caused by it. He then states his intention to use the artifact to compel mankind 
 into a brainwashed state and so bring an end to conflict. Altar attempts to kill his former master, 
 but Al Mualim uses the Piece of Eden to warp Altar's vision. Altar is eventually able to see 
 through the deception and kill Al Mualim, recovering the artifact. As he does, the Piece of Eden 
 activates, showing a holographic view of the world with numerous locations marked across the globe. With 
 Altar's memory complete, Desmond wakes up out of the Animus and learns that Abstergo Industries 
 is already sending out recovery teams to locations shown by the "Piece of Eden" in Altar's memory, 
 hoping to find additional artifacts. Desmond, no longer being of use to the Knights Templar, is 
 to be silenced; however, he is saved by a researcher named Lucy Stillman, who reveals herself to 
 be an Assassin by showing her hand with her ring finger closed as if it were missing. In the conclusion 
 of the game, Desmond, having become "synchronized" with Altar, is able to use the eagle vision 
 (a sort of empathic sight to see hidden messages and tell friend from foe) and by looking at Lucy, 
 he can see that she is an ally to him (shown by her glowing blue) , giving further proof that she 
 is a genuine Assassin. He also sees messages that only he can see, scrawled across the floors and 
 walls that refer to the end of the world described by several religions, among other writings; 
 such writings include references to the biblical passage Revelation 22:13 ("I am the Alpha and 
 the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end.") , a Lorenz attractor, the Eye of 
 Providence, as well as part of a Mandelbrot set and other writings in foreign languages. Additionally, 
 there is the Mayan date of 13.0.0.0.0-December 21, 2012-which is only three months away within 
 the game's timeline and represents the planned date of the launch of a mysterious satellite the 
 Templars have created, which they claim will "permanently end the war." It shows a picture of all 
 the planets aligned in a row which will supposedly happen on 12/21/12. The Arabic word "Az-Zalzala", 
 literally meaning "The Earthquake" can be seen, which is the title of a chapter in the Qur'an that 
 talks about Judgement Day. Some Nazca Line drawings are also found. There is also a reference to 
 Yonaguni, a Japanese island similar to Atlantis. Also written on the wall of his room are the Hebrew 
 words "Olam ha-Ba" ( ) , meaning "the next world" 
 or "after-life". Further investigation after the credits reveals an email sent to Vidic by Lucy, 
 stating that the drawings come from a mysterious "subject sixteen" who went insane due to what 
 they described as a "bleeding effect" (essentially, genetic memory assimilation comes to a point 
 where the subject can no longer distinguish between their life and their ancestors' memories. Lucy 
 speculates that, though subject sixteen's "bleeding" was brought on by too much time spent in the 
 Animus, natural forms may occur, such as Dissociative Identity Disorder and other forms of dementia) .
 
  
  On September 28, 2006, in an interview with IGN, producer Jade Raymond confirmed that Altar is 
 "a medieval hitman with a mysterious past" and that he is not a time traveler. In a later interview 
 on December 13, 2006, with IGN, Kristen Bell (who lent her voice and likeness to the game) talked 
 about the plot. According to the interview, the plot centers on genetic memory and a corporation 
 looking for descendants of an assassin.
  
  "It's actually really interesting to me. It's sort of based on the research that's sort of happening 
 now, about the fact that your genes might be able to hold memory. And you could argue semantics 
 and say it's instinct, but how does a baby bird know to eat a worm, as opposed to a cockroach, 
 if its parents don't show it? And it's about this science company trying to, Matrix-style, go into 
 people's brains and find out an ancestor who used to be an assassin, and sort of locate who that 
 person is."
  
  -Kristen Bell
  
  On October 22, 2007, in an IGN Australia interview with Patrice Desilets mentioned that the lead 
 character's climbing and running were done by "Alex and Richard  the same guys from Prince of 
 Persia".
  
  Altar is voiced by actor Philip Shahbaz, and his face is modeled after Spanish model Francisco 
 Randez.
  
  The Nintendo DS prequel, Assassin's Creed: Altar's Chronicles, was released on February 5, 2008. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qsceszawdxs
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 9:58 am PT
Review:  i played allot of games but this is simply the best i cant wait for the next assasin game if to 
 come i sure hope so but i played allot of games even fallout 3 aint as fun as this game you need 
 to have this game its totally worth it graphics are great gameplay rocks the story makes sens i 
 can say one thing that isnt great for poeple with old keyboards you can just press 2 buttons a 
 time if pres 3 it wont work and assasin's creed needs to do combinations of 2 to 3 buttons but 
 for the game i give it a 10 its worth playing it has a amazing quality and is the best game if 
 a assasins creed 2 comes i would buy it immediately also if this game is old like 10 years or 20 
 i would still recommend playing this game it is the most coolest yet and it is a great come back 
 from ubisoft a real great comeback they deserve the bane ubersoft lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocodog13
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 30, 2009 9:58 am PT
Review:  ok, to start with, this game is quite a looker, from the outset though this becomes a bad thing 
 with the pc version because its been ported so poorly, the resulting effect is a game that doesn't 
 look as good as crysis but requires almost twice the cpu, gpu and ram power to run on at a reasonable 
 detail level.
  
  the above optimization issues reek of laziness and so does the story, gameplay and voice acting. 
 npc's in the towns have only about 4 phrases to say throughout the whole game. oddly enough these 
 4 phrases seem to have multiple versions with differnt voice actors... wtf?! you will come to have 
 the towns people of this game because they will anoy you soooo much. i also experience a bug in 
 which i can still heer these annoying people just as clearly even when im many meters above them 
 atop a view point.
  
  all this makes you just want to murder all the stupid peasants who constantly ask you for money 
 and al the random mental patients running around who will push you to the ground as soon as see 
 you. unfortunatly whenever you attack/kill a civilian health is taken from you. WTF (again) a "sandbox" 
 game trying to force you NOT to kill its inhabitence.
  
  now onto the controlls, throwing knifes work ok, you press the target button an then the throw 
 button and have a 100% kill sucsess as long as you have line of sight between you and your target. 
 using the sword however... assasins creed has some of the worst sword fighting control systems 
 iv ever encountered.
  
  to initiate the fight you must first target an enemy, upon doing so the cammera will zoom and spin 
 around as you figh kinda like you see in the movies, its a nice idea but in most cases the cammera 
 just goes straight into the neerest tree or through the neerest wall, now that you dont see in 
 the movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamestabang
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Having thought it would be an overrated game at first, I was later truly impressed by this great 
 game.
  
  
  *GRAPHICS AND ENVIRONMENT:
  Very detailed sharp high resolution graphics in every portion of the game; be it in menu, cutscenes 
 or gameplay. 
  
  FACES of PEOPLE are chiseled elaborately to look like real persons, whatever the zoom level is. 
 Such detail is uncommonly seen in most other games.
  
  SHADOWS are cast in a realistic manner, at the right time and at a "believable" size. You will 
 the see the moving shadow of a woman walking in the city holding a jar.
  
  LIGHTING fluctuates whenever the camera angle is changed or when moving to another area. This is 
 usually evident when under the sunlight.
  
  COLOR RESOLUTION & SHADING is very high in that there are varied shades of color in an object. 
 Most evident in the clothing and in the peoples' faces. If you have doubts, try taking a close 
 look at a haystack and see for yourself the precise detail.
  
  The ENVIRONMENT features a realistic active world where there are civilians, allies, potential 
 enemies, and hostile enemies. Potential enemies in that guards will just be watching you, but will 
 attack you if they have seen your actions are not approved. Civilians will run away, scream and 
 alert guards when seeing a dead body.
  
  
  *BACKGROUND MUSIC:
  The BGM was rightfully designed to have a medieval impression, which significantly enhances the 
 ambiance of the atmosphere. The BGM shifts to a panicking music whenever you're cover is revealed 
 to the enemy and are being pursued.
  
  
  *GAMEPLAY:
  
  
  COMBAT:
  Gameplay involves stealth kills and direct combat. The stealth kills further includes a low profile 
 (for a quick and inconspicuous kill) and a high profile (for a violent and noticeable kill) . In 
 direct combat, there are grabs and throws, combos and counterattacks. Gameplay will be much easier 
 with stealth kills, but direct combat is not so hard with offensive slashes or, most especially, 
 counterattacks. You can even run if outnumbered to find a hiding 
  place, or "blend" with a group of people to escape your enemies.
  
  Some enemies will not return 
 to their original guarding place, so it might be a good strategy to lure or distract them to other 
 places for you to enter a certain area. Dead guards will not be replaced too.
  
  If boss fights are customarily direct combat, this game changes it completely. As an assassin, 
 Altair will be able to assassinate his target using a stealth kill or he may be engaged in direct 
 combat if his cover is blown. 
  
  Additionally, the enemy boss doesn't have to be just sitting in a throne or facing a single direction. 
 The boss is also a "human" so he may be busy doing his usual work, which gives you a chance to 
 plan when to strike. This part is where the aura is too heavy and the greatest pressure is on you.
 
  
  
  GAMEPLAY PHYSICS:
  Excellent physics throughout the game. Climbing a ladder is easy, a building is harder, a tower 
 is even more. 
  
  Characters, including Altair, will not continue their ascent unless a "believable" structure or 
 object (such as a ledge or a window) could be used for stepping or hanging. Also note that Altair's 
 cloak follows with each of his movements; it will move naturally and realistically. By using an 
 ability, Altair will be able to gently move in between women holding jars in their heads, and cause 
 them not to drop it. Altair can run and bump civilians and guards, who will pursue you and engage 
 in combat. Enemies can be restrained by a group of allies allowing you to attack them or escape.
 
  
  
  VOICE ACTING:
  LIP and BODY MOVEMENTS are impressively synchronized with the voice acting in all parts of the 
 game. VOICE ACTING can be described as realistic, convincing, strong enough to be heard and not 
 irritable. At a city you will commonly overhear a preacher's sermon to the crowd, though it is 
 repetitive, it is not irritable at all. You will also be encountering a woman beggar who keeps 
 on following you asking for some money.
  
  
  SOUND EFFECTS:
  Great collision sound and timing. Hear the realistic clashing of the sword, the body skewered through 
 a sword, the jar falling to the ground, the breaking of the bone legs, and the footsteps of the 
 running horse, still matched with the body movements.
  
  
  CONTROLS:
  Playing this game on PC is not so easy for the first time, but can be learned and modified anyway. 
 Players who are not adept at the PC, however, will find difficult in using the keyboard controls.
 
  
  
  *MISSIONS:
  Aside from primary objectives, there are optional objectives which can be undertaken. And these 
 are not just extras because they are rewarding by providing you with vital information about the 
 primary boss target in that area. For example, you accomplish an optional objective and receive 
 information that the boss will turn his occasionally back to the crowd before executing them.
 
  
  
  *STORY:
  I haven't finished the game yet, but the game has a very interesting and unusual scenario. There 
 are two stories which are vaguely related to each other. 
  So to avoid spoilers; basically, the story is about Altair, an assassin, whose job is to kill the 
 enemy leaders his master wishes him to. He travels from place to place acquiring information about 
 these leaders. 
  Also, "the other" vague story is about Mr. Miles, who is locked up in a research laboratory of 
 a company named Abstergo. The doctor in charge of him wishes to recover Mr. Miles memories as an 
 assassin via a machine called the "Animus". But Mr. Miles doesn't know the actual intentions of 
 the company. Day by day, he later discovers some clues and information about the company.
  
  
  *MINOR DISAPPOINTMENTS:
  No dialogue with any other people except those related with 
 the objective (s) . However, this is understandable since an assassin is also a spy and carefully 
 chooses whom to talk with.
  Few weapons. This is however not a hindrance to the enjoyment of the game as strategy and technique 
 will always prevail in the gameplay.
  
  
  OVERALL: Having stated my full review in the above text, I fully enjoy this game and would recommend 
 it to other players out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desmasic
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 26, 2009 11:20 am PT
Review:  Here's a thing about sites like Gamespot that rate console ports like these above 8... they are 
 full of it. Read this review to learn how consoles are killing good games..
  
  Compared to the recommended requirements and the amount of b. itching over performance from users 
 with 'next-gen' graphics cards/systems in UBI forums, I ran this game on High quality on a 6800GS 
 (with shadows off of course) . Since most shadows are baked, the game won't give you a washed out 
 look, but yes, turning on the shadows reveal even more breathtaking effects including clouds with 
 dynamic shadows bring the world to life (yes I played it like that before turning them off in city 
 areas) . Anyways, performance info aside, this game brings out some of the best third person animations 
 since Splinter Cell made its mark on the gaming scene. Altair moves, jumps, climbs, kills with 
 extraordinary fluidness not found in most games (except Splinter Cell) out there. Jumping from 
 one roof top to another while cruising the 'streets' (well, I cruise from top since it's more fun 
 :P) or just running like a mad man when you have guards after you simply never gets old.
  
  The world around Altair is even more beautiful. The vegetation looks like crap but everything else 
 just completely pulls you in. Even walking through the crowd is fun and immersive.. until you start 
 noticing low poly NPC's walking around aimlessly (really, their AI instructions are, "Walk from 
 A-B-A.. fall down when pushed") or falling down with comically bad animations (which is shocking 
 for obvious reasons) . It's obvious that the developers reached the limit of Xbox so they settled 
 for lifeless crowd with dumb AI that is the dumbest thing out there (OK, maybe some are worse) .
 
  
  Doing stealth kills and all is fine and looks great.. even though you start wondering after your 
 first kill how DUMB the AI around you is that they can't even figure out who stabbed the guy in 
 the open just cause you walked away slowly from the crime scene and your crime (of course) . Break 
 the immersion away people, break it away...
  
  Then comes the actual 'battle' with swords and awesome moves that you NEVER will have to use after 
 you master counter attacking move (you know, Block + Stab The Guy To Death) . You can be surrounded 
 by 3 Knights (the hardest enemies in this game.. mostly cause of high health and they actually 
 try charging at you) and 8 normal soldiers. But you will be killing them all one buy one with same 
 move while others wait for their turn to attack. It's incredibly funny first few hundred times 
 but then it just feels pathetic on a whole new level. Guess adding more instructions for the AI 
 with some new combat animations was not an options again, thanks to consolification..
  
  Other than that. I have left out the music because it works just fine. Sound effects are great 
 as well. Visuals are impressive and all but if you've seen one city, you've seen em all.. same 
 goes for NPC models (except for main characters) . Storyline isn't anything amazing and the game 
 actually ends in a cliffhanger for the sequel (which will take place in the future) . Of and the 
 'great twist' these reviewers seem to be finding so.. twisty has to be the most overused or obvious 
 plot-line ever. It's so lame that only a incredibly stupid person won't know what that twist is 
 even from watching all the promotion media. Hell, the developers show you the 'twist' as a first 
 scene of the game.. so how is it a twist exactly is just something only these 'pro reviewers can 
 explain to you (that they are full of s. hit) .
  
  Anyways. For all its flaws one thing I will NOT say or recommend is to give this game a miss. Such 
 games are what we can call 'revolutionary' when they add bits and pieces of advancement in quality 
 level for future games to comply with. You simply must see to believe, even though as a PC gamer 
 you will keep on wondering "What if it was PC only.. what could it have been?". It's money over 
 quality people, money over quality. Just play the game.
  
  UPDATE: Played this game again on my 9800GTX+. I am playing the DX10 version on all options set 
 to High (all shadow on 4x multisampling) at 1280x1024 (85Hz) res. Game runs smooth and MY GOD it's 
 beautiful. I mentioned crappy vegetation in the game. It's mostly cause the game was for consoles. 
 On Highest detail level I noticed brilliant effect of 'small grass' on the ground everywhere. It's 
 actually a pretty realistic effect and brings the barren ground to life on its own. Nicely done.
 
  
  Still, too bad about the gameplay.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinovino
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 20, 2009 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I have tried to play this game and like it. Like many, I guess, I was lured by the great graphics 
 and the promise of some proper stealth and dagger gaming. Alas... After you have concluded your 
 first proper assassination mission you have gotten everything there is in the game. Sure it looks 
 great. But every mission and city part has the same objectives to fulfill and that's just plain 
 boring. After a while I also got fed up with making my way to every city every time, avoiding the 
 same guards again and again. 
  The story just couldn't keep my attention. The cut-scenes in the research facility, nicely executed 
 though, were too long for my liking and I really missed the option of skipping them.
  
  I admit that I haven't finished the game but I got so frustrated, which has been a long time I 
 had that with a game, that I gave up and un-installed the game. And I don't plan on ever giving 
 it a second chance. Too bad.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seba_blacknight
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can i say? Diabolic graphics, smashing movements but... very repetitive. Every time 
 you get to a new city, you have to do the very same things to unlock the final mission! You have 
 to go to all the posts to get a panoramic view of the city so you can unlock certain missions on 
 the range of the post. Save some citizens from the abusive city guards, do some flags collect stuff 
 for some guild guy among some others. The guards... They all look the same! Besides the very awesome 
 cools graphics, they are all the same, that becomes monotonous as you spend some hours playing 
 the game. The cities are ok, they look fascinating. They are very wide but when you are in trouble, 
 the city guards are everywhere, and it turns really hard to avoid them. The hide spots are cool. 
 
  How the story switches from past to reality is really cool. I like that idea a lot.
  A very good game, a little repetitive, but is one of those you can't stop playing until you finish 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sazap10
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 9:09 am PT
Review:  No doubt this is one of the best games ever made, everthing about this game is amazing from start 
 to finish. The graphics were immense, the buildings and charater looked really good, the storyline 
 was very good and enjoyed playing it. the gameplay was good as well, i really liked the combat, 
 it was really good and wa easy to understand. the fact u could kill your enemy in two different 
 ways, high profile and low profile was really good.
  
  The plot revolves around a single person, Altair, he is an assassin, further in the game you find 
 out that all that is happening is through a person called Desmond Miles, who is a direct descendant 
 of Altair. who has been kidnapped by the fictional company Abstergo Industries in order to be used 
 as a test subject in the "Animus," a device that can stimulate the recall of ancestral memories 
 buried in the user's DNA. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: devan001
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Game Hours... Needs more
  Gameplay... Good, but the missions seemed to repeat themselves
  Combat... Awesome
  Story... Awesome
  Plot/Setting... Awesome
  Ending... Good
  Beginning... Good
 
  
  The major flaw in this game was that in-game when you go to a city and do mission and in the end 
 assassinate someone, the next mission (and rest of game) is exactally the same. Only settings and 
 characters would change.
  
  EXAMPLE:
  
  Go to city, have fun, get information on target, find target, watch cutscene, kill target, return 
 to your master... go to next mission. 
  
  Go to Second city, have fun, get information on target, find target, watch cutscene, kill target, 
 return to your master... go to next mission. 
  
  Go to Third city, have fun, get information on target, find target, watch cutscene, kill target, 
 return to your master... go to next mission. 
  
  Go to Fourth city, have fun, get information on target, find target, watch cutscene, kill target, 
 return to your master... go to next mission. And so on... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesman09
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2009 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game has some of the most fun gameplay I have ever experienced. I spent a lot of time running 
 around and seeing what kind of aerobatics I could pull off without killing myself. They somehow 
 made footholds and handholds easy enough to spot without appearing forced. Combat was actually 
 pretty fun and I never found myself thinking -- wish the combat was over.
  
  The visuals and audio were top-notch. They really captured the setting superbly well.
  
  However... you 
 do the same quests every single time. Go to a perch, survey the city, get info, kill somebody, 
 find another perch and repeat.
  
  So much wasted potential. If someone took the gameplay of this game and then actually decided to 
 fill in the rest, you could easily have a game of the year. Check out Fallout 3 if you want to 
 have a game that somehow is able to make every quest feel different.
  
  TK's Score: 3/5 Stars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 555SSOO
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:05 am PT
Review:  You start a game as an assassin which name is Altair. When you came to fight your greatest enemy 
 you irresponsably brake all three rules of your creed. Your master decides that he must kill you 
 but he dosen't want to lose his best man, so he just makes a show in front of the others and really 
 spares you. Now you have to start from the beginning without all of your blades, strenght and knowlege. Your 
 mission is to kill nine different men and every time you kill one of them you are awarded by getting 
 weapons and knowlege.
  Assassin's creed is definitely the game which can be leveled with the greatest games of all times. The 
 graphics are apsolutely breath-taking and stunning. Concerning the gameplay one of the examples 
 is the killing. You can kill an opponent in high profile or in low profile. You can wait for him 
 to go to a place with a few gards and kill every one of them quietly or you can take your blade 
 out and kill all of the guards including your target in a cool and legendary way.
  I have only three bigger remarks for this game. One is that it is darn too short, another one is 
 that it is waaaaaay too easy. The third and maybe the biggest one is that the ending is stupid and 
 dosen't have any seance, but it opens a window of opprortunity for Assassin's creed 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lelin07
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  It's an exciting game having very high quality of graphics.
  The is also very interesting n quiet innovative.
  After reading this story I think the also series 
 is going to be very adventurous and exciting.
  About his get up its also very cool like Prince of Persia.
  When I 1st time saw its video I thought 
 that it is any sequel of Prince of Persia.
  The most attractive thing in this game is all the creature are interactive and we can talk and 
 can interact with anyone in this game.
  And the best thing is he can go to anywhere we want.
  He can climb to any of the tower.
  So 
 it made easy to have some attractive snapshots.
  Like Prince of Persia it has become one of my best series.
  But you should give a shortcut key 
 for snapshot.
  Some combo should be add to so that it may be more n more exciting.
  Now just waiting for its next part.
  Hope its may be more exciting than this version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRS10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Truly amazing, and yet I cannot even max out this game. It would be nice to the full 
 graphical quality of this game, which leads me to my next point. Technically, AC is poorly optimized 
 for the PC. Random performance hits occur throughout the game, most noticeably when overlooking 
 the port of Acre. I went from smooth playing to bad stuttering just by simply looking at the harbor 
 but upon departure the game goes back to full speed. Even when playing Crysis this did not happen 
 to me, even though I was pushing my hardware to the limit. 
  
  The second point of criticism is anti-aliasing. Without Level 2 in anti-aliasing, the jagged edges 
 will annoy you to the point of trading higher levels of detail and resolution for the big performance 
 drop upon enabling anti-aliasing.
  
  Oh, and if you barely meet the system requirements, don't bother with this game. Assassin's Creed 
 looks like a nightmare on the lowest graphical settings.
  
  Those with ATI cards compatible with Directx 10.1 will see a substantial performance edge over 
 NVIDIA cards. Just don't download patch 1.02, it removes Directx 10.1 functionality from the game.
 
  
  Gameplay: Excellent for the most part, with a great implementation of combat and stealthy assassination. 
 Not surprisingly, the main quest assassinations are easily the most exciting events of the game 
 and can offer quite a challenge. 
  
  However, the game has a greater emphasis on combat rather than stealth. More times than not you'll 
 find yourself battling up to as many as twelve enemies at once. The main quest assassinations, 
 (some more like boss battles than anything) sneaking up on Templar knights or archers, and throwing 
 daggers are about as stealthy as it gets.
  
  Needless to say, you'll find yourself breaking the "Assassin's Creed" of discreetness constantly.
 
  
  As for quests, they lack variety and are very similar to one another. Despite the "free-roaming" 
 nature of the game, you're forced into a constant routine of climbing towers to use eagle vision, 
 interrogate this person, eavesdrop on this conversation, rescue countless citizens, pickpocket 
 this person, assassinate these targets, etc. 
  
  Mundane tasks such as flag collecting are more reminiscent of platformers rather than a action 
 adventure game.
  
  Sound/Music: Sound effects are well done, and I can't find anything to criticize about them. Voice 
 acting is sub-par however, and the constant repetitive cut scenes of them are annoying. (i. e. saving 
 citizens) Main characters however, do have good voice acting for the most part. Music is good at 
 some moments, but I don't quite agree with gamespot as far as it being an exceptional musical score. 
 (Yes, I have an X-FI sound card.) The music is not suitably epic for the impressive cities that 
 you explore, with the exception of the high moments in Acre's theme. Perhaps I'm spoiled by the 
 great soundtrack in the movie "Kingdom of Heaven", but the music just doesn't match up to the task 
 of complementing the turbulent time period in which the game is set.
  
  Overall: 8.5/10
  
  Great visuals, immersion, sound, gameplay, and value.
  
  Poor optimization, repetitiveness, 
 and subpar music/voice acting drop it down to an 8.5.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinniciusf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Once in the world of the assassin's ancestors, you are mesmerized by the vivid impressions of the 
 detailed environment - perhaps one of the most detailed environments I've seen on games. The historical 
 representation of the cities, clothes, armors, emblems, flags, etc. are exquisite.
  
  The movements and playability are great, making it easy to adapt. If you've played Tomb Raider 
 or Prince of Persia you'll have no trouble.
  
  The story is a good one - but the story behind the story is a little confused and the connection 
 between the two are blurry. But when you're Altair and rides the roofs of the historical cities, 
 running your missions, you just let it flow.
  
  Graphics and audio are great, well... if you have a great machine for games. The requirements of 
 video, audio, processing and memory are great. Passing this obstacle, you will want to climb the 
 highest points just to enjoy the view and take a leap of faith - if you don't know what it is, 
 please play the game and you'll understand.
  
  When you are getting to the end of the game the missions became a little repetitive - but also 
 more difficult, which kind of compensate. 
  
  All in all, Assassin's Creed is a fun and enjoyable game for the fans of the genre. We hope for 
 a next installment to clarify some story points, and maybe get some other new great adventure - 
 wherever and whenever it will happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suryaprakash95
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  When I first double clicked on the game i was so excited and when i started the game i was even 
 excited to see the cool graphics. i played it for 7 hours in a week. i finished half of the game. Man 
 it was boring, but because it was ubi soft i thought it would get better, but it was the most boring 
 game of my life.
  
  Graphics:
  Awesome graphics, i loved the graphics better than any game i played till then (EG) COD 4 ,Bio shock 
 etc. i liked the physics.
  
  Game play:
  The game play next. Boooooring Gameplay of my life. It is so much repetive. The worst of my life.
 
  
  Other:
  Others such as pickpocket eavesdropping etc. are really cool. And also freeroam like with the priest 
 blending is cool too. If someone chases you u can sit down on the bench hide in the hay etc are 
 also cool
  
  Story:
  Didnt understand a little but i understood the conccept. I hope it was good.
  
  SO
  GRAPHICS 
 9\10 (i didnt say it was the best)
  GAMEPLAY1\10 (the worst)
  STORY 7\10
  OTHER010\10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furnish
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a first class third-person stealth game in which the player's primary goal 
 of the game is to carry out a series of assassinations order by the leader of the assassins. To 
 achieve this goal, the player must travel from the brotherhood's headquarter in Masyaf, across 
 the terrain of the Holy Land known as the Kingdom to one of three cities, Jerusalem, Acre, or Damascus, 
 to find the Brotherhood agent in that city. There, the agent, in addition to providing a safe house, 
 gives the player minimal knowledge about the target, and requires them to perform additional intelligence 
 gathering missions prior to attempting the assassination. These missions include eavesdropping, 
 interrogation, pickpocketing, and completing tasks for informers and fellow assassins. Besides, 
 the player must take part in numbers if side objectives like climbing towers to map out the city, 
 and saving citizens who are being threatened or harassed by the city guards. There are also various 
 side quests that do not advance the plot such as hunting down and killing Templars and flag collecting. 
 After completing each set of assassinations, the player is returned back to the Brotherhood and 
 rewarded with a better weapon and then given another set of targets, with the player free to select 
 the order of their targets.
  The player is made aware of how noticeable Altar is to enemy guards as well as the current state 
 of alert in the local area via an alertness level meter. To perform many of the assassinations 
 and other tasks, the player must consider the use of commands distinguished by its type of profile. 
 Low profile commands allow Altar to blend into nearby crowds, gently pass by other citizens, or 
 other non-threatening tasks that can be used to hide and reduce the alertness level; the player 
 can also use Altar's retractable blade to attempt low profile assassinations. High profile commands 
 are more noticeable, and include running, scaling the sides of buildings to climb to higher vantage 
 points, and attacking foes; performing these actions at certain times may raise the local area's 
 awareness level. Once the area is at high alert, the crowds will run and scatter while guards will 
 attempt to chase and bring down Altar; in order to reduce the alert level, the player must control 
 Altar as to break the guards' line of sight and then find a hiding space such as a haystack or 
 rooftop garden, or blend in with the citizens or wandering scholars. Should the player be unable 
 to escape the guards, they may fight back using a number of swordplay maneuvers. The player's health 
 is described as the level of synchronization between Desmond and Altar's memories; should Altar 
 suffer injury, it is represented as deviation from the actual events of the memory, rather than 
 physical damage. If all synchronization is lost, the current memory that Desmond is experiencing 
 will be restarted at the last checkpoint. When the synchronization bar is full, the player has 
 the additional option to use "eagle vision" which allows the computer-rendered memory to highlight 
 all visible characters in colors corresponding to whether they are friend or foe or even the target 
 of their assassination. Due to Altar's memories being rendered by the computer of the Animus project, 
 the player may experience "glitches" in the rendering of the historical world, which may help the 
 player to identify targets, or can be used to alter the viewpoint during in-game scripted scenes 
 should the player react fast enough when they appear.
  
  One of the best game in the consoles for sure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathPhoenix37
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed has a stunning graphic and good sound effects. In this game you are put in the 
 body of an assassin who's ancestor was an assassin that fights for peace against the templars that 
 are fighting in the Holy Land. You become your ancestor trough a machine created by a group of 
 scientists and are part of a organization that wants something from you. In the game you mostly 
 are in your ancestor's body and you fight the templars your main objective is to kill 9 templars 
 plus your master and that is most of the game's story. The fighting moves are spectacular and numerous 
 but they are preformed almost the same: block and attack when your enemy does ,be caught and push 
 your enemy away or hit your enemy after a previous hit. The game is easy as well and I found myself 
 trying to make guards follow me and gather a lot of them just to have a good fight. The map is 
 reasonably large but the view doesn't change much. The game has quite a few fairly long dialogues 
 making it a little boring. It has 6 sidequests for every one of the 9 assassinations and you must 
 go on tall building to discover the map and there are a few civilians in need of help that, if 
 helped, make groups of monks that you can hide in and groups of thugs that help you get away from 
 guards (not that you need any) . The chases are very catchy but it's easy to get away from guards 
 by killing them and harder to run ,big battles are catchy as well. Finishing the story doesn't 
 take more then 5 hours max and the sidequests maybe another 5 hours max but if your very good and 
 not interested in anything but finishing the story 4-6 hours. I hope my review helped you in making 
 your decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigmaeno
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Replay ability: You'll finish this game being an expert on the controls and able to get out of 
 any situation. It's a nice feeling. However, if you come back to the game even months later you'll 
 start without having the abilities you are used to and you are much weaker, but not in a way that 
 seems appropriate. I mean, if someone grabs you, why shouldn't you be able to twist their arm away? 
 Must Altair do nothing simply because the control isn't worked in yet? It's frustrating losing 
 everything you're accustomed to from the first time around, though in the first play through it's 
 not a problem at all.
  
  Storyline: Great ideas; fairly strong characters except the weak voice actor for Altair. Ending 
 is ABYSMAL. If they had ended the game 5 minutes earlier than they did then the ending would be 
 excellent, but they just HAD to create a new issue and a ridiculous, frustrating cliffhanger that 
 makes no sense. 
  
  Also, every time you rescue an old woman claiming that she was about to be raped (yeah right lady, 
 stop flattering yourself) , she will go into a really long monologue about how she is SO grateful 
 and that her brothers/husband will know of this deed. Or the 50 monks you save who are SO grateful 
 that they will tell their sons about you. And that you have done them a service. And that you are 
 a kind person. And that they are now returning home and won't be leaving it anytime soon. JUST 
 SHUT UP!!!! This REALLY breaks up the game play.
  
  Graphics are generally good... the shadows are mostly amazing, though there are many pixelly edges 
 even on max settings and other anomalies. The trees and bushes look GTA-style crappy but they are 
 stylized so it's not a big deal. Buildings and character models are great.
  
  Fighting is generally quite fun albeit a bit frustrating at times. It's very fulfilling to be able 
 to take out 20 guys in a row in horrific ways without receiving a scratch. Oh right, the game is 
 extremely easy once you are used to it.
  
  The game is fun, just don't pay a lot for it because once you've played through you'll never enjoy 
 it again. Err, I didn't at least. It's pretty fun though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes there are games which are not perfect, but the pleasure and sucking-in they offer to 
 every sort of gamers is competely unique and totally reasonable. Assassin's creed is a characteristic 
 example of such games.
  
  It is September of 2012. Abstergo industries is working on a new device, which can recall memories 
 which are buried in the DNA. A man named Desmond Miles is kidnapped and used as a test subject 
 on this machine. One of Desmond's ancestors was Altair, a member of the assassin brotherhood. Then, 
 he will try to kill nine different people in the Holy Land in order to stop the war of the crusades.
 
  
  The gameplay of the game is something we have never seen before. The assassinations you must make 
 will have you travelling across Acre, Jerusalem and Damascus. Interesting it is that before murdering 
 your target you will have to gather intelligence about him, with many ways. In addition, there 
 are minor objectives, such as climbing towers to map the city or saving citizens by the rude city 
 guards. Especially these city guards will interrupt you many times, as you will have to kill them 
 very often.
  
  But there are some inaccuracies in the game. The more the game progresses, the more difficult it 
 is to catch up with the plot, while in the end no one can understand what is really happening. 
 But more inaccurate are some missions which do not progress the game, but in fact they do nothing.
 
  
  And there it comes an widely concerning issue of the game. It is the graphics of Assassin's Creed. 
 While they are amazing and stunning, detailing even the clouds in the sky or the grass, the system 
 requirements are extremely high, and will laugh at every graphics card you throw in, unless the 
 overall quality of your PC touches a hyper frame's performance. But anyway, the score of the game 
 and the voiced dialogues are also perfect.
  
  Assassin's Creed is a remarkable game, which you will play long after you finish it once. For the 
 Holy Land will always be a gamer's paradise, and Assassin's Creed the key of heaven. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avinash000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Despite the stylish combat moves, graphics and gameplay, the story is quite unsatisfying cuz its 
 too predictable and linear. Compared to ubisoft's previous game prince of persia for which the 
 story was too gud... assassin's creed disappoints in the story. esp. the climax which is not innovative 
 and is incoherent. 
  
  The gameplay is very easy and if u r playing for the first time u may like it till memory block 
 3 (at the most) . The assassination mission's are not so different and its repetitive. As you proceed 
 the missions get boring and and only from memory block 5 things'll get interesting. Till that itsba 
 child's play.
  
  Replayabilty of this game is zero cuz u dont wanna go thru all the damn lectures from Al mualim 
 again. 
  
  The conclusion-  Play it once and forget abt it...!!!
  
  Hope Assassin's Creed 2 brings abt some challenge.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deiviuxs
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  [Nothing is true. Everything is permitted.]
  
  
  Positive:
  The games has amazing graphic! The world in Assassin's Creed looks simply fantastic. The cities 
 look like they are actual cities with tons of people walking around in the streets. You will never 
 find more people on the screen than in this game. Moreover, most of the people look different and 
 unique. There regular people and the soldiers. There are beggars who will start following you and 
 asking for money. There are also crazy people who will start hitting you when you come close to 
 them. There are also merchants (or something like that) which you can pickpocket and get some extra 
 throwing knifes.
  Guns...4 different ones. Fists (rarely use these ones except sometimes on civilians) , throwing 
 knifes (very affective against distant enemies) , sword (used it every time in the fight) and of 
 course the awesome hidden blade (looks cool and grants instant kill) .
  Fighting in the game is also pretty fun. It's cool to fight with the sword and you learn new fighting 
 techniques as the game progresses. You can do counter attacks which will 'nicely' kill your opponent.
 
  Sound and music is also nicely relates to the time period in the game. Voice acting is pretty 
 good and the Altair has a good voice (I know that sounds kinda weird) . The dialogue is also very 
 appropriate to the time period. There are many lines I liked from this games that I thought are 
 really awesome.
  But probably the best thing about this game is the movements of Altair. Altair moves like a real 
 person and it looks so realistic and simply amazing! The animations are one of the best in the 
 video game. The way he runs, jumps, grabs onto something are all so well done that you forget that 
 you are controlling him. You can climb any building in the game (well almost any..) . There are 
 tall buildings that you can climb and do a leap of faith where Altair jumps down to a pile of hay. 
 I really really enjoyed watching Altair's movements (I know it sound weird again but just play 
 the game and you'll see it yourself!)
  
  Negative:
  Story is confusing and hard to follow. There are many names in the game that can get mixed up and 
 sometimes you are not sure why the hell you are assassinating this person.
  The game is freaking repetitive! There are decent amount of missions and they are mostly all the 
 same. You go to one town, do at least 3 investigations out of 6 total, then go assassinate the 
 main target. Then you go back to a different town and do everything the same as you did before. 
 It gets really tedious doing the same missions over and over again... and again.. and again..
  Also, it would be cool if the game had a multiplayer. The cities are huge and it would be awesome 
 to run around with other people and do leap of faiths together. Or at least the game should have 
 something special when you finish the game so there would be incentives to replay the game.
  Also, there is no point (at least for PC version) to collect all the flags, assassinate all the 
 Templars, etc.
  Oh.. and you die every time you fall in the water!!
  
  Other thoughts:
  I would have never guessed that this game is more than just being Altair. There is actually another 
 character that you control a bit and the whole story (not just Altair's story) is pretty interesting 
 and unique. None of the trailers revealed the 'other' side of the game and I only find out about 
 it after I started to play the game.
  Also, the game has many interesting ideas. Such as 'interactive cutscenes' (I don't know how to 
 name them) where you can actually move and click a button to change the camera angle. Also, the 
 graphics don't change and stay the same as the actual games (which is not that bad since the game 
 has good graphics) . There were many times I was thinking: 'wow this game has so many new things 
 that I have never seen before.. now if it wasn't so repetitive.'
  
  9.0/10
  
  
  [Safety and peace, friend.] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hylainsavior597
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great action adventure game. The graphics are amazing and on par with what 
 you expect with the most recent great games. The environment is terrific and immersive. The game 
 features a great movement system called free running which allows you to virtually scale anything 
 in your path. It is very satisfying just to be able to vault through a city and not be hindered 
 by such mundane trappings as walls and buildings. Another great feature is the assassination and 
 combat finishing animations. These are great additions and add a satisfying cap to many battles. 
 
  
  All of these features aside, Assassin's Creed is not without failings. The investigation missions 
 in each city are a letdown. They lack inspiration and imagination, and you will find yourself repeating 
 much of what you've already done, just in a different location. Also, there have been technical 
 issues with the game. When I first played it, I could not get the sound to work with voices. After 
 some online research, I found that the answer is to change your sound hardware acceleration to 
 "basic acceleration". This can be done in the dxdiag program. Also, there is a random problem with 
 the game running in hyper mode. After restarting my computer this problem went away, but it has 
 happened more than once. Other than these technically shortcomings, Assassin's Creed is very much 
 worth playing, and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys games featuring medieval combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed could have been an amazing assassin stealth game. It is unique for taking place 
 during the Third Crusade of the Holy Land. There is 3 large cities to free roam and the countryside.
 
  The graphics are beautiful, and each city has its distinct architecture.
  
  The game consists of ten assassination mission. The missions are fun, most of the game involves 
 free roaming and side quests, The side quests and audio seems to be on loop. The climbing view 
 points, saving citizens, and collecting flags are boring. Also there is no prize for collecting 
 all the flags or killing all the Templars. Which other games like Grand Theft Auto at least gave 
 the player an award for collecting all the packages and getting 100%. It would have been nice to 
 get a repeating crossbow or something along those lines.
  
  The last levels get ridiculous, since you have to slay at least 100 dudes with your sword.
  
 
  Despite its flaws I still enjoy the game. If you're not sure buy it when it is in the bargain 
 bin. Best Buy had it on sale this Black Friday for $10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  "Assassin's Creed" - is one of those games you have to try. It has many of the things gamers love; 
 stunning graphics, perfect controls, good voice-acting, action, storytelling and the need for adventure 
 you get when starting to play it. Also, as a bonus, this game has some nice twists to it, in the 
 beginning you simply think it is about a guy running around on rooftops, this of course is not 
 the case...
  
  I bought this game twice. The first time I played it I felt it was huge; I did not have the time 
 to finish it. The next time I played about 40 hours or more, just getting past the third of fourth 
 city. After doing some killing and jumping and jumping and killing I just started to feel something 
 was missing. I felt numb and the city bellow was rather still, "fake". Even though the gameproducers 
 have made a real effort, you still feel alone in the vast city, no real interaction, just simple 
 missions, do this, do that...
  
  There are many things that could have been improved, for instance, a tighter story. I am sorry 
 to say, I did not find out what the dual-story was about, but those of you who know could perhaps 
 enlighten me...
  
  + Graphics...
  + Controls...
  
  - Interaction...
  - Repetitive...
  
  Still, you should try it to make your own mind up... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  What is the purpose of the assassinations? This is the question that the game is going to answer. 
 The game has two time period: now and past. In the now period, some scientists kidnapped a pizza 
 delivery guy and use a sci-fi mind reading device to extract his ancestor's memory. They believe 
 that his ancestor was an assassin so they want to know the reason why they assassinate. 
  
  There are lots of flashbacks to past and now. Each flashback resolves a secret. There are nine 
 victims which should be killed to move to the next level. For each victim you should go to a specific 
 place and gather information then with a proper information you can assassinate your target. 
 
  
  There are lots of way to navigate around the cities. You should avoid running into aware guards 
 or not killing in public areas where you are exposed to guards line of sight. In combats the things 
 get complicated. You may be surrounded by dozen of guards which you should avoid hitting by them. 
 There are lots of combat skills which you or your opponent can use to defeat. These combat skills 
 are like paper-rock-scissor game. you can not stick to one skill because there is a way to break 
 that. This will help you to enjoy the combats and study the moves of your opponents carefully.
 
  
  The amazing graphics and a good computer AI helps you to enjoy the game even more. The items are 
 well structured. The cities are live, you can use every object, you can climb everything. However 
 the missions are slightly the same which makes it boring sometimes but when you think of what becomes 
 at the end you will ignore it for better good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arron_stew
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  Good Game, falls short of top notch. Maybe a sequel will get it right...
  
  I enjoyed this experience, but game play is limited in freedom and becomes repetitive. Combat is 
 also too easy once you have got all the moves/timing sorted. The use of a bow would help the gameplay, 
 although ammo would need to be limited. 
  
  Nice graphics/sound presentation Travel mechanics boring, no real incentive to explore open world 
 areas. Many aspects repetitive, too easy to just hack your way to victory [which is not what an 
 assassin would want] . I found myself powering straight from assassination to assassination as quickly 
 as possible, enjoying some elements, but wanting to do more/explore/make my own way.
  
  Also, who saves civilians ... really? and operates during the day?
  What self-respecting assassin 
 does such things? This game has a strange idea of what an assassin is like. A killer yes. 
  
  also could use a light role-playing element/skill tree/character customization system [even 
 just a little] this is standard in almost all games now. but not in this one. People want some 
 sense of control/input - even if it is minor.
  
  Look forward to a sequel [s] maybe getting it right.. I think this could be a 9 out of 10 type game 
 very easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanBasher
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing games for over 20 years (yikes) . I love games that swallow you up and are beautiful 
 to look at but also must have a solid story and characters you can care about. I'm selective and 
 unlike my sons, I don't like games where your mouse and keyboard combinations or speed are all 
 that keeps you alive in a game. Don't get me wrong, I appreciate interactivity... but it does get 
 old when you keep dying, or constantly run out of time. Not so with Assassin's Creed! The action 
 can get intense and seem crazy but it moves the story forward... not just a fight for the heck of 
 it. I love the fact that I can enjoy the sights and determine which and what quests to do. Also 
 the music is haunting and beautiful... love that mix of modern arabic/middle eastern music!
  
  I had to play around with some of the graphic settings but it did not diminish the game play 
 or beauty of the game itself.
  
  If you like eye-candy, atmospheric sounds, a bit of history and solid game play, try Assassin's 
 Creed. You will enjoy the trip!
  
  PRO: Beautiful, scenic, easy game play, good characters, fun and SOLID
  CON: Ending left you 
 hanging, some graphic twitches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CARWFMHITMAN
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, but it's very repetitive. This is becuase before you can do an assination, 
 it's always the same help the helpless, your friends ect.
  
  But this shouldn't push any players away from it, for it has a great storyline, gameplay, and shows 
 one's conciousness, which isn't shown a lot in games.
  
  The graphics are realistic and great in it's time of release. But to play it full details ect. 
 a strong PC is required as it is always with some games which are great.
  I didn't like the Prince of Persia games a lot, which the studio is the same one for this game, 
 but this one is more realistic so it's more interesting, but repetitive, if it wasn't made to be 
 repetitive and more combat moves it would have been nearly perfect. If there's a sequal, those 
 2 suggestions have to be taken in consideration and the graphics ect. are up to date like this 
 one, it would be an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supartha
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  i have never liked a game in which there were swords involved but this game has changed it all. 
 The story and jumping off rooftops is something never seen in a game before. Wandering in the city 
 and the atmosphere of game is an experience which one will never forget. The atmosphere seems so 
 real that it seems like u r really in the deserts. The background noises seems very real and funny., 
 especially the shouting merchants are really fun to hear. The Hidden Blade is just damn cool and 
 fun. One Will miss a great game if he has not played this game. The Assassination plots are really 
 great. The Only problem with game is its beast-like system requirements, otherwise everything is 
 perfect about this game. Some people have complained about its port to pc, i have felt none till 
 now. I hope somebody makes a movie of this game , it will just rock ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tntnavid
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  Do you like Historical games, Do you like games with special movement and enough freedom for a 
 game, then you should try this really nice, Active, and beautiful game .... Assassin's Creed is 
 a Historical, action adventure game, that suck you to the game and you'll play it till it finished...
 
  
  Game Play:
  Game play is one of the best parts of the game, you can see very realistic and smooth movement 
 in game, with really perfect game design. The first impressive part of game is your freedom of 
 movements, and your style during the levels. You can assassinate your target in different ways, 
 stealth, hit and run away and then kill, or kill every one in area and then kill your target. This 
 kind of freedom in style make a great reason to try this game more than once, also it makes game 
 more realistic.
  The other impressive thing is the crowd and busy streets, thats makes game more realistic and enjoyable, 
 there are many in streets and you must kill some one middle of this crowd, do you think it will 
 be easy to get away?? nope it won't. also it has great sward fighting that you can't experience 
 it anywhere else, realistic and very special. Also we have realistic reactions from both people 
 and guards, and you can easily find the difference between rookie soldier and experienced soldiers, 
 regardless how hard they are, you will find it when you kill some one in harsh way (cutting his 
 throat, or most of the combos) the newbie soldiers some times loose their guards and try to don't 
 look at the scene, in the other hands the experienced ones show little reaction to it, that makes 
 the fighting more realistic than ever.
  But also level designs have some problems, that makes game sometimes a boring game after a while, 
 thats because you have to do the same things for getting information and then go and kill your 
 target. Climbing buildings for good view (map) , pickpocketing, hit to death (some people) , or some 
 other stuffs, they will be boring in end of the game. Also, stealth killing isn't very realistic 
 (maybe they just wanted to make the game easier) , let me tell you an example, you and 2 guards 
 are alone in a room, but the guards don't see each other, you kill one of them, the other one come 
 to check him, and after that you just need to blend to get away from the room with out being caught.
 
  Graphics:
  The graphic of the game is great part of it, every thing is good, especially movements. I couldn't 
 find any graphical problem in the game, nice buildings, nice cities, nice environment and the best 
 of all, great realistic movements. The movements are the best part, you have really smooth and 
 realistic movements in game, when you run, when you hit some body, or even when you guard yourself 
 with your sward and enemy push you back to a wall, every thing nice and real. 
  Sound:
  The effects are great, and voice acting and music is good. The effects are the best part of game's 
 sound, you can find realistic sound effects in fights, runnings, and killing some one with your 
 sward... the sound tracks and voice acting are also good, but not as much as sound effects.
  Story:
  The game's story is in future and it's about some mysterious people hostage you and they 
 want your ancestor's memories throw your DNA, so because of that they make you to go to a system 
 and with help of that see your ancestor's memory, to find the famous Templar's Treasure....
  
  
  In the end, if you are a fan of historical games or just a gamer you should play this. 
 also if you hate historical games or games that you fight with sward, give it a try, you may like 
 it's new style of sword fighting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valeria_Vitrix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Although I was at first sceptical about Assassin's Creed I have to admit that the game has grown 
 on me. Due criticism can go towards certain elements of the game such as the controls and repetitive 
 feel, however, these are outweighed by the sheer scale and enjoyment of the game as a whole. Creed 
 has taken an oft used construct and has revitalised and reinvigorated it. The storyline draws you 
 in but compliments rather than inhibits the feel of the game. Additionally, the detail afforded 
 to the layout and design of the medieval cities in the game provide hours of fun within themselves; 
 providing a distraction during the game's more repetitive parts.
  
  The elements of the game combined, create a noteworthy game which is guaranteed to retain the interests 
 of most gamers. Though not flawless, the game is a brilliant step forward for this genre of game.
 
  
  Overall, I would definitely recommend Assassin's Creed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Demii
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  The most notable thing about Assassin's Creed is the environment. First of all, every single one 
 of the game's three cities looks amazing. And, if Altair puts his foot down, there is actually 
 something there, rather than air (for instance when standing on a hill) . This is an improvement 
 since most games just let their characters walk on air at times. The cities are very alive too. 
 Even when just walking across the streets (eventhough I prefer the rooftops) there will always 
 be something happening with the citizens. And the sound is amazing too, no matter where you go, 
 or what you do. But enough about the world, onto the game.
  
  Well, maybe not. In the cities, you can interact with almost everything. If your standing on a 
 rooftop, and pick a target, and imagine how you'll use everything on your path to get there, chances 
 are it'll actually happen that way. And still, it doesn't seem like every motion is planned, Altair 
 will just try to use the environment as a object to climb, rather than it being designed like one, 
 if you know what I mean (I realize this sentence is pretty vague) . Of course, the only thing you 
 have to do is press one button and steer Altair in the direction you want to go. NOW, I'll move 
 on to the game.
  
  The game has two stories, one in the present, which was kind of confusing when I started playing, 
 because I had only seen the one in the past, which is of course that of Altair. Gameplay then. 
 Of course, to be able to assassinate someone, you'll need a lead, which can be acquired in several 
 ways. So rather than just marking the target on your map, you'll have some work to do. 
  
  There's also a lot of sneaking to do in AC. However in this game, being discovered doesn't mean 
 game-over, and doesn't put you against impossible odds, though you won't be wanting to fight your 
 way through everything, as you're not a one-man army who can take on everything. But AC is just 
 a wonderfull game that sets the bar really high for a possible sequel, as the ending does leave 
 that option open.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Ljubo_
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  Well the Assassin's Creed, great game. The game puts you in the hands of Altair, an assassin form 
 the 12 century. Actually you are Desmond Miles who is great, great, great, great, great grand son of 
 Altair and he plays the assassin (but that's you, so don't get confused) .
  You can see that I rated this game 10/10 but my title is:"Good, good but not great..."
  I like 
 this game so I rated high but the game is not great.
  So this is a sandbox game. The game looks nice, every city looks different, every city has its buildings 
 and its great looking. The point of the game is to assassinate people. Your master gives you your 
 targets and you first have to investigate and then go to your safe place (in the game I think its 
 called the Biro or something like that) .
  There a guy gives you a lief and then you can go and assassinate yor target. You can choose what 
 way do you assassinate the target. The game gets boring after sometime. Every time you assassinate 
 your target you have to climb the view point and that gets boring very son. And the investigating 
 stuff, it gets old very fast: P. The story is good, in Altair story and in Desmond story. In Altair's 
 story you have to get your rank back by assassinating targets. Desmond story is not over, have to 
 wait for the Assassins Creed 2 when you will play as Desmond so nobody know what will be. Will you 
 be an assassin in this time or something else. Anyway the game is good and I had fun playing it.
 
  My score is 8/2 of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefox10210
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed takes place in the year 2012, in which you take on the role of a bartender named 
 Desmond. Desmond was taken by a company of modern day Templars to trace his memory back to his 
 ancestor, Altair, who was an assassin known for assassinating 9 powerful Templars in the year 1191 
 AD. Throughout the game you play as Altair, pulling off the various Assassinations with much style. 
 
  Assassin's Creed's game play consists of you, Altair, completing investigations in three lifelike 
 cities (Damascus, Jerusalem, and Acre) to give you clues about the Templars you are to assassinate 
 and their whereabouts. One of the major setbacks of this game is that the entire game, or ALL the 
 assassinations, consist of doing investigations, then assassinating. There's basically zero creativity 
 there. However, the cities are so amazingly real and stunningly beautiful, you will get over it 
 VERY fast. Each city consists of thousands of people walking through the streets, guards who will 
 interact when they see you committing a dastardly deed, and much more. 
  Aside from the visuals and game play, the game's soundtrack consists of orchestrated songs that 
 really fit the part of this game. I can't remember a time when I heard one of the fight songs and 
 thought "What????" because they all flow very nicely. Songs will change depending on the mood of 
 the game, for example, upbeat songs will play when you're fighting or being chased.
  The combat in Assassin's Creed is also a pretty strong feature of the game. It's not so easy that 
 you will never have to worry about dying, but easy enough that you can take on a couple of guards 
 without worrying. The game gets increasingly difficult as you progress however, and eventually 
 will become a very difficult game, especially when assassinations will begin to consist of jumping 
 on boats loaded with mercenaries.
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is a very strong achievement, and should be on every gamers shelf.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crookin_Insane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great game. It is a bit lacking in some areas. The story doesn't make much 
 sense, but it is interesting to say the least.
  The graphics are amazing. All of them fit into place just like there meant to. The rich look rich 
 and the poor look poor.
  The game play of the game is fun to play and fun to watch. Though your enemies don't get much stronger, 
 they do get bigger numbers in some parts which makes some parts hard. Altogether though the game 
 isn't very hard. The freedom to climb almost every building is a fun idea, but being forced to 
 climb up certain buildings to progress can get kind of annoying.
  The most annoying thing in the game is the AI can get annoying when they start to push you around 
 and if you react you get shunned.
  Assassin's Creed is an interesting game and is worth playing. Though you will have to be prepared 
 for it to be slightly repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamrob7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Great presentation, some nice ideas.
  
  Climbing the buildings and being able to flow around is fun for a while...
  
  Story starts 
 of with reasonable promise...
  
  Very quickly though the game becomes extremely repetative and quite boring.
  
  You need a beast 
 of a PC to run it well with any kind of settings...
  
  Not terribly involving... the more you play the more you notice things you would like to change 
 and the less you like the game...
  
  
  Not a disaster by any means but just not that much fun as a game...
  
  I uninstalled it and 
 didn't bother completing the game to be honest... it really isn't that bad but the gameplay is so 
 tedious that you find yourself sitting there abundantly aware you are playing a game with a very 
 obvious set of mechanics...
  
  Has some potential... just not even remotely fulfilled outside of its presentation
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightofflame
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm giving this game a big big thumbs up but nothing's perfect, I'm always into this kind 
 of game or story historic fantasy and this just suck me into my pc.
  At first i really had not idea what is it all about, but after the 1st block of memory, I'm getting 
 start to understand what it is all about, and this quest and gameplay just left me want to know 
 what's next ?? and i just love to find out what's going on, whenever i play, i will get all viewpoints 
 and save all citizens just for the fun of it, like killing bunch of guards and climbing insanely 
 tall towers and leap of faith lol, and if i were Atair i am already dead half way down when leap 
 of faith, and i just love it. Well the draw back is the camera movement when fighting, that really 
 get on my nerves, but eventually i get used to the camera lol, and one funny part of the game is, 
 our mighty Master Atair don't know how to swim lol... i died a lot of times in Arca not because 
 of fighting, i drowned, when i am running on roofs and jump, then only i notice that's a freaking 
 river below me then i am like WTF?! lol that's funny story with assassins creed
  
  and the ending is really a mystery but I already googled it haha i am not smart enough to figure 
 out all the writings and drawings.
  
  GET THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnack
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  PC games always have lower rate than consol games because playing on consol much exciting and have 
 better control and sometimes better graphics.
  
  this game is so nice, have nice graphics but the loading time is too long (for XBOX 360 game consol) 
 and less exciting than playing it on XBOX 360
  
  the game have a great story and force you to play to know what will happened next and this is a 
 so nice feature in this game, and now I wish if ubi soft make new ASSASSIN'S CREED (ASSASSIN'S 
 CREED 2) just to complete the story.
  
  the way of playing is too nice; somtimes you nead to stilthly and somtimes in action way. it have 
 new nice moves in both modes (stilth and action mode) even this one of the most beautiful sword 
 game I played.
  
  one of the nice hidden features of this game it have a nice toutchs by TOM CLANCY'S team 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  I just finished this game tonight. I did 98% of everything (aside from the flag collections) and 
 I can honestly say that it was a good game. I agree with some of the critics that after a certain 
 point, the game is just more of the same repeating itself. However, the story continues to unfold, 
 and I really didn't have too much trouble except in a couple of areas. All in all, the game was 
 interesting, and the fact that this guy can climb on just about anything is awesome. Doing a leap 
 of faith from the top of a 4 story cathedral is pretty cool as well. Check it out and see what 
 you think about the story. This guy has some nice take downs and nice kills. Some of the combat 
 took me a short time to master, however, by the end you are able to take on hordes of foes and 
 slice them up rather well. If you studied your combat skills that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xdra
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  If anything I would say this is a game for patient gamers. Its one of those games you will spend 
 hours on end trying to find these flags scattered everywhere in the kingdom.
  
  The game play is smooth and beautiful to watch. Pretty much anything within reason you are able 
 to scale. The AI is pretty great too, if not a bit picky at times.
  
  however there is quite a few annoying things, such as the repetitiveness of assassinating. You 
 are always required to get three pieces of information before you can kill the target and these 
 are usually the exact same methods as before. Pick pocketing, eves dropping, etc.
  
  The game is also quite short. Theres a lot of running around and not enough diverse games in each 
 city. The ending in particular was sudden and unexpected... I thought it would have carried on 
 and it screams sequel.. More questions and fury filled me more than contentedness.
  
  The fighting is classic of hack and slash when you choose to use your sword. however fighting can 
 be quite interesting when you use the combo move attacks and your smaller throwing knives. 
  
  Otherwise the game is pretty straight forward. there aren't many hidden aspects to the game, 
 what you see is pretty much what you get and what you get is an amazing movement system. I love 
 running over those rooftops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolnades
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed to me: is the end result of all the prince of persias. It has the bloodiness of 
 Warrior Within, the combat of Sands of Time, and the atmosphere of Two Thrones. 
  This game has a lot of high points: the graphics look great. Although, there is no anti-aliasing 
 on the pc version which kind of kills it, but not too much. The story really sucks you in and makes 
 you wonder what is going to happen next. The animations look natural and not robotic like in some 
 games. 
  Now the gameplay is where this game shines, but it also needs a bit tweaking. Now the combat is 
 realistic (in a way) , but it gets really easy when you get the hang of it. The enemies attack you 
 one at a time and some of them don't even notice when you assassinate someone right in front of 
 them. The missions you have to do to get to your main assassination target will get repetitive 
 since you have to do the same missions every single time for every single target. 
  This game is really a TECHNICAL achievement for ubisoft, but repetitive missions, average combat, 
 and stupid AI prevents it from being great. If your planning on playing this game, wait for it 
 to drop to $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DF2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  As indicated by other reviewers this game has some crisp, clean and detailed graphics. However 
 as a PC gamer there is one thing that I look for in a game and that is the signature style complex 
 but precise control scheme that most PC games offer. Plays more like a console game with its clumsy 
 control scheme that is more at home on a game pad. This is where this game falls terribly short 
 of my expectations. I still give it 8.5 as the developer put a lot of quality work into it even 
 though control is another matter. This game reminds me of Lost Planet with its signature console 
 type GUI; the difference is lost planet has more keyboard friendly controls once you actually start 
 playing. In this case they ported the game from console as is and never bothered to tweak the controls 
 for better keyboard play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mowmoocowcoo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed has some fun, beautiful moments, and the world is absolutely astounding! it's a 
 great history lesson, however, while the game itself is fun, the storyline is somewhat weak and 
 gets pretty repetitive. In general, they could have put a bit more variety in to keep you busy. 
 Also, it's not exactly a difficult game, and the combat gets quite repetitive, and most of the 
 enemies, save the Templar and upper level foes are... well... pretty terrible fighters and rather 
 boring to fight. even so, the combat does have its rewarding moments, with quick pan in-pan out 
 killing moves that come in a decent variety.
  I would say, the best way to enjoy this game is for a few hours, just sort of messing around, either 
 on a new game, or one that a friend has already completed. It's worth sitting down with, but the 
 value isn't there in full entirety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsunamidream
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game that grows on you. When I first played it for the Xbox 360 I had no 
 clue what I was doing but slowly grew into loving the game. It's a blast to just run around the 
 maps and be an assassin. The graphics were stunning and controls were nice. However, I sold the 
 xbox 360 and waiting for this game to be released for PC. It's been out now for a while and I just 
 picked up my copy. All I can say is the PC version is terrible. You still get all the fun with 
 the xbox controller (vista) and all the eye candy, But all the errors suck. After modding the .ini 
 file just so I could have multisampling on and to the fullest. At high resolutions the option is 
 disabled. Also, where the hell is exit to windows? I've looked all over and stuck with the old 
 fashion Alt+F4. In DX10, mine loads in Window mode even though it's set to run full screen. All 
 in all same fun game if you can live through the bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardabs
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  the vids or (some long animated scenes i should say) have major lag on the sound you here someones 
 death 2 min before you see it. i hate how it has no cinimatic feel to it since it has no camera 
 angle. the story isnt that awesome and the animation seems tight but the sound is off a bit and 
 it goes at 12 fps and it sucks how you can do a killer combo with just 3 button presses it puts 
 little effort. it is boring and its is true! you run around in a horse for 30 min and you somehow 
 get demoted so you loose the ability to dodge ubtil the end and im like wtf!! you dont need a rank 
 to know how to dodge! and the whole conspiracy that is in the story, about some orb that controls 
 people and how you go back in time with dna memory (! spoiler!) and how it is apprentance against 
 master and apprentance always wins, teaches you that this game is boring. you also have special 
 powers or somethin to fool a guard into thinkin your just a scholar with a big sword on your belt 
 just by putting your hands together and inclining your head. im like how cant they notice me are 
 they that stupid! and this "blend in the crowd" system is bs the only ways to hide is through scholars, 
 uhm, haystacks, and sitting down next to strangers and falling of a building making death look 
 easy. when i run from soilders i just run to a bench and accedenlty jump on the wall using the action 
 button tryin to sit in between two people down (which uses the same button w/o intensity pressed) so 
 the people run off causing major lag then i have to find a hay stack to jump in or a roof top garden 
 that almost every building has one. and i hate how there is no cinimatic feel to it.
  altair is suppose to be this son of biz assasin that mocks everyone cus he has skillz (which are 
 taken off of him somehow by getting demoted) and in the end learns to not be like that. he should 
 of been seen as a hero or somethin i dont like playing a biz who has no personality except to be 
 a serios biz with a low toned voice. yu cant even see his face man i mean com'n how ar we suppose 
 to like a faceless hero it just doesnt work out. the wall running should of been more complex like 
 in prince of persia but instead they thought it was neat to just by pressing the "intensity button" 
 you run over anything makin everythin to easy 
  
  get another game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikouh111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was one of the best games i have ever played mainly because i like assassin's... 
 but thats not the point. I liked the game because of the environment and how Altair acted to his 
 surroundings. It was amazing how Ubisoft put this game together. The only thing that disappointed 
 me was the ending and how you couldn't play the game with a keyboard, the keyboard controls were 
 awful, i must admit. There was also repetitive gameplay which got a bit boring after a while and 
 the storyline was a bit.. well.. thin i would call it... some of this was quite a let down. Over 
 all this game is one of the best games if you like stealthy sort of stuff, and i am one of those 
 people. If you are one of those people that say "I ain't playing this game, looks WAAY too hard!"... 
 i laugh at your face. This game isn't actually hard, if you get the combo's right and blocks right, 
 it is actually quite easy. I used the Xbx360 Pad to play it on PC, which was easier. There was 
 some let-downs... like it didn't run perfectly on my computer, and the ending but i already mentioned 
 that. The game is superb and i recommend it to anyone who likes Prince of Persia or Devil may Cry. 
 Now to put my review into one word...
  
  ... Almost... but not quite. Sorry, Ubisoft, this game was a fail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iknik
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has wonderful graphics and beautiful music. But the game play, although it isn't 
 bad, falls flat after a few hours. AC tries to be Hitman Codename 47, but in Hitman no two levels 
 are the same. It tries to be Thief - Deadly Shadows, yet in Thief you have a whole array of hand 
 weapons, arrows and bombs, and you use everyone of them at some point. And it tries to be GTA, 
 but AC only offers the illusion of freedom. Yes, you can roam the streets for hours if you wish. 
 But you'll only find damsels in distress (in which case you have to slay the soldiers that are 
 bugging them) and people that you can pickpocket.
  
  The fact that you can walk around during cut scenes is a nice touch, but since you can't really 
 do anything it doesn't really make a difference. Which is a pity, because there are MANY cut scenes.
 
  
  The controls aren't too great and neither is the story. Despite all this, AC is not a bad game. 
 It's just not all it's cracked up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kayos539
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I will never ever play this game again for a second time. Once is enough to turn me into an angry 
 freak and I never want to experience it again. 
  
  Let's cut to the chase. The Gamespot review made this game sound revolutionary, but trust me it 
 is not. Once people get over how amazingly detailed this game looks, they will start to realize 
 how shallow and abysmal the gameplay really is. 
  
  I played this for the PC version and you can tell that it's a poorly ported game considering how 
 awkward the console to keyboard-mouse translation really is. The character just moves strangely 
 and awkwardly and combat isn't as smooth and fluid as the advertising boasts. But that's ok, at 
 least there will be some interesting and exciting assassinations to make up for it right? Wrong!
 
  
  First off, this game orders you to do the same thing over and over until it becomes a mundane chore 
 rather than an interactive experience. Case in point: having to scale specific buildings to get 
 a "view point" of the area to fill in your map. The first time you do it, it feels breathtaking. 
 After the 20th time, though, you start to feel a little irritated. 
  
  Then there are those ANNOYING NPCs like the beggars or the mad/drunk guys who keep shoving you 
 instead of anyone else. They constantly pester you and blow your cover. 
  
  The cities felt organic and unique when you are first exposed to them. Then once you start exploring 
 and start noticing the same public speaker spouting the same thing, the same "Save the citizen" 
 scenario and the same identical building and alleyway that you swore you just saw in a different 
 city, the experience starts to become less immersing than you were led to believe. 
  
  Finally, on to the assassination missions: once again you are forced to carry out a series of "investigations" 
 before you can access the Assassination memory. Almost all of these unveil in the EXACT SAME MANNER. 
 You either have to pickpocket someone over and over for each mission or interrogate them (read: 
 beat the crap out of them) , eavesdrop on conversations and/or race across rooftops within a given 
 time frame. Imagine having to do this a dozen times over before you can pull off the big kill. 
 
  
  The final assassinations aren't even anything worth noting about! Despite what the developers falsely 
 say about having the freedom to perform the kills in any manner you'd like, there's only ever one 
 way to actually do it. You first go to the designated area on your map, watch a very long and drawn 
 out cutscene (which you cannot skip) and then have to fight and chase your way towards your target 
 at the end. What's so wrong about that, right? Well it becomes quite tedious when you have to perform 
 the same check-list a million times over. You get to do this several times for each city too! Yay!
 
  
  To add to all of this, there are absolutely NO SUBTITLES when you engage in conversations or eavesdrop 
 on others. Talk about being completely removed from the experience! Sometimes I could hardly catch 
 what is being said and most other times the conversations drag on for so long that I stop caring. 
 
  
  So really, if you think beautiful graphics is all that's needed for a good game then by all means 
 go buy Assassin's Creed! But if you're like me and expect gameplay to take precedence, then you 
 will truly, truly hate this game. Ubisoft got so lost in all the graphical details that they neglected 
 the most important aspect of all: variation and balance in the gameplay. All that this game has 
 going for it in the end is just a pretty face, and from experience that rarely ever has any lasting 
 power. DON'T BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danimita
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I practically changed my whole computer for this game (and Crysis) mainly because of the trailers 
 and videowalkthroughs I saw on this site. I knew I just had to play this game, and I had to do 
 quite a lot of things to manage to do this. But now that I have finished this game, I'll tell you 
 what I thought.
  
  Story:
  The story is a story in a story, or a game inside another game. Mainly (no spoilers, just the first 
 2 minutes of the game) because you're controling Desmond, a man who has been kidnapped by a secretive 
 company, who are trying a machine on Desmond. This machine is called the "Animus" and lets people 
 view the memories of their ancestors. In other words, the company makes him watch (or in your case 
 "play") his ancestor's life. This ancestor is called Altar and is an Assassin in the times of 
 the Third Crusade. This assassin is demoted to the lowest rank because of betrayal, and to get 
 back to where his was before, he must end the lives of 9 important people. The story has twists 
 and turns, some predictable, others a little less. The ending is just plain and has nothing to 
 do with the rest of the "oh-so-cinematic" experience.
  
  Graphics:
  Simply amazing. Shadows and lighting are the best AC manages to do, showing even the shadows of 
 clouds covering the sun. Animations, too, are fantastic, with Altar moving his arms, moving people 
 out of his way, aswell as the animations when he climbs buildings. Mostly flawless.
  
  Gameplay:
  Fantastic, the best part of the game and yet the one which I will criticize the most. 
 The fact that you can climb every single building in the game, jump from roof to roof, stab with 
 a knife that's hidden under your hand, throw little daggers, move Altar in the ingame cutscenes, 
 fight with the really well made combat system, etc. make this game unique and engaging. But all 
 these cool things aren't without problems, whether we like it or not. I say wether we like it or 
 not in a literal way, since you may like or not the flaws the game has. For example, the fact that 
 you cannot hide unless the enemies have lost site of you is really annoying, because even if there's 
 no enemy looking at you at the moment, if there's an enemy near, sometimes you can't hide. Also 
 the climbing system isn't perfect, since Altar can be so slow that if enemies are following you, 
 they can throw stones at you, making you fall, without being able to hang on to something on your 
 way down. Also, some things that you wouldn't like to be climbable, are. Many say it's repetitive. 
 I personally didn't find the sidequests repetetive, but I did find that you're always either moving 
 very slowly trying not to be seen, or the whole city guard is chasing you for half an hour, until 
 you manage to be out of their site and next to a hiding place. At first it's easy, but later on 
 it gets harder. That's another thing. At first, enemies will practically ignore you, but later 
 on (to make it harder) they will recognize you and even send the whole city's guard if you simply 
 run in front of a guard. This game isn't really stealthy, too.
  
  Sound:
  Wonderful voice acting, inmersive music, etc, etc...
  
  
  Conclusion:
  Great game, crappy 
 ending, expecting a sequel, worth playing, but not so much for stealth game fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 1:06 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game that has been bashed to bits. It was a victim of overhype madness. Gamers 
 were expecting something ingenious along the lines of GTA. What they got, was not that, so they 
 burned the game to ashes.
  
  The PC version is Ubisoft's attempt to turn Assassin's Creed into an 'above average game' instead 
 of a game that causes gamers to become frustrated. And for the most part, they succeeded brilliantly.
 
  
  And the reason why I say this is because I played this version of the game not knowing all the 
 horror stories of the console versions. The fact that they didn't allow you to fast travel. The 
 fact that there was less diversity in the side quests. I had no idea.
  
  And having no idea, I very much enjoyed Assassin's Creed. I liked the intelligent story direction 
 and the interesting ending and what it suggested. Which also meant I liked the storyline in general. 
 But most so, I liked shanking people, and walking away like nothing happened. And this is the game's 
 strongest point.
  
  The strongest point in the game is ironically not the assassinations. In fact I would argue those 
 were its weakest points. The ACTUAL best parts in the game were jumping rooftop to roof top, shanking 
 guards from behind and then killing masses of soldiers/crusaders that pissed you off or rubbed 
 you the wrong way.
  
  In short, Assassin's Creed is fun b/c it is the ultimate "God game". The amount of power you feel 
 is tremendous and the battles are devilishly fun. Though the assassinations were lackluster and 
 our fellow console-brothers had to feel such massive tortures, all in all, I liked the game. It 
 was fun, and mistakes were addressed. Compounded with a decent story and great graphics, the game 
 plowed to a high level of enjoyment due to the fun of just plain messing around with your assassin-like 
 strength.
  
  Overall, well worth playing. But watch out for those console versions! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashmanalum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of those games that it's just one of a kind: different, beautiful, interesting 
 story and unique gameplay.
  
  The game tells the story of Altair, an brilliant assassin who has the mission to assassinate 9 
 specific targets in the ancient days of the 12th century... pretty plain right?
  Well NO!
  
  The story of Altair's mission is told through a machine called ANIMUS, which can read the genetic 
 information of a person and find not only who were the person's ancestor but actually "show" the 
 events that occurred with this long distance relative. Desmond Miles is the true protagonist of 
 Assassin's Creed, is through his genetic blueprint that the ANIMUS can tell the story of Altair...
 
  
  Who is Desmond really? Why Altair's deeds are so important? What the doctor who created the ANIMUS, 
 Dr. Warren Vidic, wants from him? And what's the part of Lucy Stillman, assistant of Warren, in 
 all this? Well my friend is up to you to find out =D
  
  During the duration of the game you'll explore three cities: Acre, Damascus and Jerusalem and, 
 with no doubt, they're the most beautiful 3D game cities I've ever seen. BTW the WHOLE game is 
 stunning! 3D models are well rendered, textures are just right, facial movement is perfect, lightning 
 and shadow are incredible. Long story short: if you want a great looking game there you have it. 
 =D
  
  The gameplay is quite unique but very useful and natural. You'll have control of three parts od 
 your body: legs, arms and head. Each of them with a number of actions like running, walking, jumping, 
 punching, attacking with your weapon, grabbing enemies, blending with the crowd or using a special 
 view, the "eagle vision", to see your objectives. But the most crucial AND amazing feature of the 
 ENTIRE game is the climbing system.
  
  ANY part of the city that you think you could climb in real life is more likely to be "climbable" 
 in the game. Any door arch, stair, fruit stand, pillar, etc. can be used to reach higher ground 
 or to lure a silly enemy and see him fall ALL the way down when you toss him from a high building 
 =D
  
  The battle system is really great because it has a few buttons to use but has a complexity that 
 allows the player to use combos, counter attacks, grabs, counter grabs, instant kills and others.
 
  
  My only real complain about this game is the lack of variety. To reach your targets, you'll have 
 to "investigate" them by doing missions like: eavesdropping, stealing, interrogating, killing specific 
 guards, amongst others but the problem is that there's no real difference between, for example, 
 one stealing mission from the other: once you do it one time, ALL five or six times will be EXACTLY 
 the same in each city.
  
  This really drags the game to a point were you might get bored but, at least for me, the upsides 
 surpassed this downside. 
  
  The complex but simple combat system, great looking graphics, amazing climbing system and the interesting 
 story, especially the end, made this game one of the most amazing game I've ever played... AND 
 is more likely to have a sequel hehehe =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gelugon_baat
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  One look at the opening cutscene and I am enthralled already.
  
  My first impression of this game is  Thankfully, 
 the gameplay and premise isn't as shallow as this.
  
  Al-Tair has the best animations and moves that I have ever seen, and they all look believable, 
 unlike some of the gravity-defying and highly stylized stunts that Lara Croft and the Prince can 
 do. His gear is also realistically acceptable, unlike said femme fatale who can stuff quite a lot 
 of spare ammo in her tight clothing.
  
  The combat, while not as stylish as Prince of Persia, is still intensely satisfying. I can still 
 remember well the moments after I have whittled down dozens of foolish guards with very painful 
 counters.
  
  The medieval storyline is very gripping, and any player would root for Al-Tair eventually, though 
 Al-Tair's image won't be used as thumbnails and avatar pics anytime soon - probably because he 
 doesn't look badass and much of the player's time is spent trying to keep a low-profile. In other 
 words, Al-Tair is a very appropriate character to play the role of silent assassin (unlike a certain 
 bald guy who keeps wearing the same suit despite knowing that the barcode on the back of his head 
 makes him conspicuous enough already) .
  
  While the game has some repetitive tasks that you have to do, doing each one is worth it as the 
 player gets to read and listen to more good voice acting and writing that makes the medieval setting 
 so rich.
  
  Unfortunately, one of the main plot elements of this game is also its most off-putting aspects. 
 The modern-day tie-in about a present-day struggle between the now corporate-like Templars and 
 Resistance-wannabe Assassins is just jarring. The only major justification for this premise is 
 the Animus, which plays an important role in strategically restricting the player's movements and 
 the health regeneration feature.
  
  Voice-acting qualities also contrast between the medieval and modern setting. It's quite disconcerting 
 to hear Desmond yell "This is so fu**ed up!" after listening to an awesome conversation between 
 Al-Tair and one of his targets. Generally, all the modern-day characters are presented poorly - 
 Desmond, in particular.
  
  The final gripe I have about this game is its graphics. Now don't get me wrong, the graphics are 
 awesome, as I have mentioned earlier, but the way the game presented itself on my above average 
 machine is just insulting. Pop-ups, tardy rendering, missing polygons, etc. - it's like the game 
 is scoffing at my comp for not being able to play a game as massive as this. Oblivion wasn't even 
 this bad!
  
  If there is to be a sequel, I believe that these are the areas the series needs to improve in. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayasdutta
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Another hit from Ubisoft Montreal, comes Assassin's Creed. A 3rd person action game that blends 
 game play elements from previous hits such as Prince of Persia and Splinter Cell into a medieval 
 slash fest.
  
  The game is very well put together, with all aspects blending in perfectly. Sound, visuals and 
 story all fit in harmony to create a cinematic experience. I was really taken away by the sound 
 track, done by Jesper Kyd (Hitman series) , it really blows you away because most games put music 
 at the bottom priority. The ambient tracks and fight tracks fit in seamlessly and get the blood 
 pumping.
  
  The game itself takes an interesting turn from the run and slash routine. You are re-living the 
 genetic memories of a medieval times assassin known as Altaiir, he is given 9 targets by his handler 
 through-out the game and questions each hit until the last one, until the plot twist is revealed. 
 The beauty is that you can roam around open towns and jump roof to roof to get to your targets, 
 however before you get your "mark" you must complete a number of side missions, the mandatory ones 
 include climbing high buildings to get a view of the area and unlocks parts of the map. Then there 
 are are variety of timed missions which include assassinating guards, running on roofs from point 
 A to B and collecting flags. Eavesdropping on conversations and pick-pocketing important targets 
 are also minor but essential missions. Those tasks need to be conducted with little suspicion as 
 guards are always on the lookout for trouble makers and yes they do pursue in groups through alleys 
 and rooftops. That is saying alot about the artificial intelligence system, it is truly one of 
 a kind, as even the newest games still don't have hostile NPCs who can climb ladders, let alone 
 jump roof to roof. Confrontations always leave you outnumbered about 5 to 1 so fighting is a big 
 deal to ensure survival, you can block, counter, dodge and execute a variety of moves to defeat 
 guards, but most of the time running away is the best idea because it's very satisfying to lose 
 guards by blending in a group of monks or sitting on a bench pretending nothing happed.
  
  Although everything came to be almost perfect, there are still some things that bothered me, mainly 
 the redundancy of side missions and the lack of challenge of main missions. The ending did leave 
 room for a sequel and it seems Assassin's Creed 2 will broaden the scope and we can expect much 
 more from the excellent people at Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p00pz
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Another hit from Ubisoft Montreal, comes Assassin's Creed. A 3rd person action game that blends 
 game play elements from previous hits such as Prince of Persia and Splinter Cell into a medieval 
 slash fest.
  
  The game is very well put together, with all aspects blending in perfectly. Sound, visuals and 
 story all fit in harmony to create a cinematic experience. I was really taken away by the sound 
 track, done by Jesper Kyd (Hitman series) , it really blows you away because most games put music 
 at the bottom priority. The ambient tracks and fight tracks fit in seamlessly and get the blood 
 pumping.
  
  The game itself takes an interesting turn from the run and slash routine. You are re-living the 
 genetic memories of a medieval times assassin known as Altaiir, he is given 9 targets by his handler 
 through-out the game and questions each hit until the last one, until the plot twist is revealed. 
 The beauty is that you can roam around open towns and jump roof to roof to get to your targets, 
 however before you get your "mark" you must complete a number of side missions, the mandatory ones 
 include climbing high buildings to get a view of the area and unlocks parts of the map. Then there 
 are are variety of timed missions which include assassinating guards, running on roofs from point 
 A to B and collecting flags. Eavesdropping on conversations and pick-pocketing important targets 
 are also minor but essential missions. Those tasks need to be conducted with little suspicion as 
 guards are always on the lookout for trouble makers and yes they do pursue in groups through alleys 
 and rooftops. That is saying alot about the artificial intelligence system, it is truly one of 
 a kind, as even the newest games still don't have hostile NPCs who can climb ladders, let alone 
 jump roof to roof. Confrontations always leave you outnumbered about 5 to 1 so fighting is a big 
 deal to ensure survival, you can block, counter, dodge and execute a variety of moves to defeat 
 guards, but most of the time running away is the best idea because it's very satisfying to lose 
 guards by blending in a group of monks or sitting on a bench pretending nothing happed.
  
  Although everything came to be almost perfect, there are still some things that bothered me, mainly 
 the redundancy of side missions and the lack of challenge of main missions. The ending did leave 
 room for a sequel and it seems Assassin's Creed 2 will broaden the scope and we can expect much 
 more from the excellent people at Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_prince123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  I don't know why a lot of people are saying that assassin's creed is a silly ported game from the 
 console version, it's a good game the graphics is extremely good and the gameplay is awesome climbing 
 from rooftop to another is fantastic, the cities are designed well, the story is confusing and 
 the ending of the game is like there are 52 other mission to complete like ( ( where is the assassin's 
 whose trying to help dismond) ) The Main cities in the game are few Jerusalem , acre and Damascus.
 
  First you like to explore the cities but when you go back to the same cities it will be no good 
 and repetitive.
  I didn't like that also ubisoft should've made a lot of cities not killing 9 people in 3 cities 
 There is few bugs in the gameso the game deserve 9.5 and it's good very good game although alot 
 of gamers didn't like it i did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belgariontietje
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  I found this game to be everything it was cracked up to be. It has a good story, with an extremly 
 irritating cliff hanger ending that guarantees I will be playing the next one in the series. The 
 visuals are gorgeous, throughout the whole game. Climbing freely over the "Thieve's Highway" of 
 rooftops and walls is never-ending fun, and the combat is visually satisfying without being so 
 complicated and difficult that you can never pull off that sweet move that you love so much.
  Overall, the only thing I wish for is that it was a bit longer with some different locales. The 
 ones that are presented are excellently done and that being said I can't wait for the sequel. 
 
  
  Don't miss this one, it's well worth the purchase price, and aside from Mass Effect, it's the game 
 I have enjoyed most this quarter. 
  
  Cheers! 
  
  [Flagon of Mead]
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRAEEee
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  There are three distinct parts to Assassin's Creed - planning execution and, well, hotfooting it.
 
  To prepare for the hit it's often a good idea to seek a vantage point in the free roaming environments 
 and stalk your prey from above , clambering perilously atop the city walls before sweeping into 
 the bustling crowds .
  And when we say free roaming, we really mean it - if it just out, chances are hero Altair can shimmy 
 up it.
  Once you're actually amongst the throng, it's vital to blend in. Any sudden movements or rash actions 
 will have a noticeable impact upon other's perception and reactions towards Altair, so you've got 
 to play it cool.
  Once you've finally located your victim, it's time to move in for the kill and finish the job...
 
  Here's the twist : your prey isn't always as defenceless as you might suspect . Sure, you'll encounter 
 the occasional coward, but others might be surrounded by posses of bodyguards or even turn out 
 to be as vicious and deadly as you! Some will need to be offed in full public gaze, while others 
 reside in densely guarded inner sanctums. Just like in Hitman, each mission requires a unique approach 
 if Altair is to succeed. 
  Despite his agility, Altair will occasionally find himself with his back very much against the 
 wall, cornered by foes from all sides. Our man relies more on counter attacking than aggression, 
 paving the way for some of the coolest scrapping since The Two Thrones' speedkills.
  Altair boasts a style that's best described as a rudimentary mix of judo and street fighting. It 
 emphasises speed, economy of movement and silence - much like ninja, or even a medieval Sam Fisher, 
 if you like.
  The time of this game in this turn and Altair just souvenir of DNA.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  Yes i got this back when it first came out on consoles and pc but i find it good to review the 
 definitive versions of games and usaly im right. I got this back in april and i came back to it 
 beacuse i never decided to review so here goes. Its basicly about an organization named that basicly 
 kidnaps u and has u go into a machine to recover lost memories which is dumb to me beacuse im not 
 the kind of person who likes these kind of stories but there are some so yeah u guys would probaly 
 enjoy this but anyway yea u go into it and it takes u to a virtual world to go through and regain 
 those memories and yea u go back to wheenever that is and u are the new charecter altair ur ancestor 
 who is a highley graded assasin and major douchebag beacuse he thought he was so good that he could 
 do anything and order people around he even got somebody killed so after he fails he has all his 
 skills taken away and he has to regain them from gojng trhough nine assasinnations and yea there 
 fun. Alright enough of the story the graphics as long as u have a high end rig will look much better 
 than the ps3 or 360 versions but if u have a medum one well it will most likely look identicle 
 to them but anyway thats good. Thje enviroments in this arwe huge wideopen and good for platforming 
 which is good beacuse thats what it prides itself in doing besides assasinating also while hes 
 not very good at figtingheadon he can hold his own also hes very good at jumping off i high places 
 in to things oh i klnow hes a eruopean ninja nice job altair. Alright the contorls on ps3 are a 
 little much to get used to and dont function very well so would recomend in investing in getting 
 a dualshoke3 or sixaxis or an xbox 360 controlreer to play they will work much better. Anyway it 
 plays well too and this pc version has extra missins to keep u going at it which helps and there 
 are some some insentives for multiple playthoroughs but not much replay value in a whole so anyway 
 it was still a fun adventure and if u dont have asssasnins credd u should think about getting it 
 an excellent buy most definetly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcherokee
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  I hate sitting through long cut scenes, immersive story lines are not why I play pc games, I tune 
 out fast and sometimes leave the room. Consequently I have no idea why I'm doing anything that 
 I'm doing in this game. I like completing tasks although I'm disappointed in their lack of diversity. 
 Running around and jumping over buildings is fun when I'm being chased of course but listening 
 to the same dialog over and over again as you walk through the streets is maddening. I'm not much 
 of a fighting game guy either but the lack of variety in fight moves is apparent even to me. I 
 just right click away until my foe drops. I spent some time collecting flags wherever I went, this 
 was quite fun until I learned from another review that it gets you nothing (at least in the pc 
 version of the game) . Oh well. I will say the graphics are stunning. It's the best looking game 
 I've ever played. The sound too is very well done. All in all though I'm not happy with it, especially 
 having looked forward to it for such a long time. I've almost uninstalled several times but I'm 
 such a casual gamer that I give it a few days or a week and then come back to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebebebebebe123
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  Well, you can't say Assassin Creed is a bad looking game nor it is a copycat. However, you can 
 say it's repetitive and frustrating with no doubt.
  
  First of all, the mini tasks are repetitive, such as saving citizen, and extremely boring + tedious 
 after the 4th trails. 
  
  Second, the way of killing your target are quite limited. For example, how can the guard can reveal 
 your id. immediately after you killed the target in a discreet area? (and you have cleared the 
 surrounding area beforehand?) I don't think so, but they just know it as if they saw what happened. 
 This narrows the playing style to the boring run-and-gun or cat-and-mouse tactics.
  
  Third, the guards vision field and AI are limited. For example, you can stand right next to him 
 without any warning. What on earth can this happen? In here. As for AI, you will know how dumb 
 they act in fighting, but how superb in exposing you.
  
  Forth, why I have to force to see the cut scene every time before and after I kill? I understand 
 the developers spent a long time crafting those scripts, but I think I have to right to skip it 
 as I please. So, be considerate and give the player the option to skip!
  
  Fifth, the running and jumping reaction are not that smart and smooth from time to time, which 
 kill your joy and slow you down.
  
  In sum, it's a good game, but it has so many here-and-there troubles to ruin your play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I would like to start out with the positive points first. Assassin's Creed takes place in one of 
 the most beautiful and memorable environments ever seen in a game. I visited every View Point just 
 to see what the developers had in store for me. The architecture for all the buildings is beautiful 
 and there doesn't seem to be a limit as to how far one can see. It would be great to see other 
 games using this engine.
  
  I have very mixed feelings about this game, especially when it comes to the gameplay. The first 
 assassination is fun since the player does not know what to expect. However, what were the developers 
 thinking by repeating the same sub-missions over and over again before the assassination? After 
 the 3rd time it was a little annoying, not to mention the 9th. I just found this game to be way 
 too easy. I can kill 50 guards and get away with it? Combat and climbing is great fun to watch, 
 but after playing a few hours, I was just getting bored. What was up with the ending fights as 
 well? Those were all a waste of time and still managed to be quite simple with all the moves the 
 player learns throughout the game. The only thing that kept me going was the story, which turned 
 out to be pretty pointless/predictable. The initial idea/concept is a great and original, but things 
 go way off track towards the last hour of the game. This game is probably more fun to watch than 
 it is to play.
  
  As mentioned earlier, the graphics in this game are pretty spectacular. I lost myself the first 
 time the game allowed me to explore a city to find my target. I wound up roaming the streets just 
 to see what people were up to and tried finding the highest building to climb. The feeling does 
 wear off after the visit the same city three times, but that's still pretty impressive. All the 
 character have great animations and it really is a fun game to watch. All the cities have a unique 
 lighting scheme which makes each of them memorable.
  
  This game also sounds fantastic. There is one problem though, and that is the voice actor playing 
 Altair. He is so unbelievably average that is sticks out. NPCs, targets, your boss, and the people 
 in the "present" are all very well done. The music fits perfectly with the game in that it is a 
 mix of old Middle Eastern-ish music mixed with some electronic elements. My favorite part of the 
 sound is just hearing the city noise disappear as you ascend a tower.
  
  I really don't see myself playing Assassin's Creed again, because I do not feel like getting frustrated 
 with the latter portions of the game. It got way too repetitive in a very short amount of time 
 and is quite honestly one of the most jarring gameplay transitions I have ever seen in a game. 
 The developers spent way too much time creating a gorgeous atmosphere and ended up losing a lot 
 of points on gameplay elements. Games are supposed to be a joy to play first, and then MAYBE something 
 that is just "pretty to look at."
  
  Ran the game smoothly with everything maxed out. AA on 1/3 with 1680x1050 res.
  Intel Core Duo 
 E6600
  9800GTX+
  2gig ram 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Lich-King
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10
  Sounds: 8
  Gameplay: 5
  Multyplayer: -
  Storyline: 5
  Impression: 5
  
  Score: 6.5 (6.6 real)
  
  I was so excited about this game that I couldn't wait to get my 
 hands on it. The first two hours it was almost fun to play but after two more hours I realised 
 that this game is just not what I expected. And I will tell you why. The game is sooooooo easy 
 and linear that I said:
  
  -"I want my money back".
  
  Just holding two buttons you can run from roof-top to roof-top, climb tall buildings and basically 
 everything. Isn't that laziness or what. The AI is so dumb. It can't be explained with words. You 
 just have to make some tests and you will see. An "army" couldn't kill me. I was killing them one 
 by one and the others were just waiting their turn and watched their buddies die. The city was 
 full of dead bodies so I decided to try something different and guess what Altair can't swim. LOL! 
 He can climb buildings almost like spider-man but he can't swim. That's just hilarious.
  
  The "quests" are so lame. After the first assassination target I completed the game by doing only 
 the minimum (3/6 ) "quests" required for killing each target. Killing these guys was fun I admit.
 
  
  Of course the game looks great and the towns are almost alive but with time you realise that the 
 drunkards, beggars and the crazy dudes interact only with you. I never saw a single drunkard push 
 other person but me. The same thing is with the beggars. At first it was cool to hear someone saying 
 that you have lost your mind when you are climbing a building. But after two hours you will know 
 all lines by heart and they get so annoying that there was a time when I turned off the sound. 
 
  
  The storyline at first is as lame as it can get but when I found out why I had to kill all those 
 people it is not that lame. It's actually great. I like the part that all religions are just a 
 pile of lies and "Nothing is true, everything is permitted". I love that catch phrase.
  
  I haven't played it on the 360 but on the PC is just to da*n easy, linear and with lazy-ass controls. 
 Assassin's Creed has almost perfect graphics and I will say without any doubt that watching someone 
 playing the game is more exciting than playing it yourself.
  
  I will never play it again. Shame on you Ubisoft. You dissapointed me.
  
  I really hope the 
 sequel will be more challenging, with better controls and not so linear.
  
  The Good:
  -the graphics
  -the sounds
  -kill people
  
  The Bad:
  -AI
  -Storyline
  -quests are 
 lame
  -too linear
  -extremely easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shorty_wTF
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a third-person stealth game in which the player primarily assumes the role 
 of Altar as experienced by Desmond. The primary goal of the game is to carry out a series of assassinations 
 ordered by Al Mualim. To achieve this goal, the player must travel from the Brotherhood's headquarters 
 in Masyaf, across the terrain of the Holy Land known as the Kingdom to one of three cities, Jerusalem, 
 Acre, or Damascus, to find the Brotherhood agent in that city. There, the agent, in addition to 
 providing a safe house, gives the player minimal knowledge about the target, and requires them 
 to perform additional intelligence gathering missions prior to attempting the assassination. These 
 missions include eavesdropping, interrogation, pickpocketing, and completing tasks for informers 
 and fellow assassins. Additionally, the player may take part in any number of side objectives, 
 including climbing tall towers to map out the city, and saving citizens who are being threatened 
 or harassed by the city guards. There are also various side quests that do not advance the plot 
 such as hunting down and killing Templars and flag collecting. After completing each set of assassinations, 
 the player is returned back to the Brotherhood and rewarded with a better weapon and then given 
 another set of targets, with the player free to select the order of their targets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnsch
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft's "Assassins Creed" had a lot to offer and the basic story of a current timeframe "subject-person" 
 being subjected to memory scans to find the ultimate prize for the less then scrupulous group so 
 that they can rule the world was just a slightly different version of other stories story, but 
 there are only so many stories to be told, so basically, most game developers have no choice but 
 to pick a previously told story and attempt to give it a different or better spin. Anyway, while 
 our subject (you) goes inside the Magic memory chair, you get transported back to a memory timeframe 
 of an ancestor who has the answers you evil doctor wants. You get to live (play) the memories as 
 if they were real at those times and the game play is incredibly fun. The scenery is amazing and 
 the cities worth the extra time to run around and climb every perch just to look at the amazing 
 job the developers did with there tools. While you find yourself getting into trouble fast and 
 not making many friends, you will learn how to fight, climb, hide, or be brutally vicious and deadly. 
 The mixture of fight moves was exceptional and allowed me to try many different ways to terminate 
 those I didn't wish to have around me anymore. Learning from my mistakes allowed me to learn how 
 to disembowel large groups of bad people, or people I just didn't like very much, quickly. Especially 
 ones that were in great need of a serious skull crushing or maybe a more gentle knife through the 
 back of there head, your choice. To advance the game of course :-) The attacking and defending 
 were truly fun and the combat moves learned through the beginning of the game were exceptionally 
 helpful and fun in the way they helped to attack larger groups and insure they were dispatched 
 in great, visually appealing fashion. It was a bit easy to terminate the threats at times and the 
 ability to dispatch a dozen at a time, heart pounding and not sure if I was going to live through 
 the fight of course, sometimes ended in an overconfidence that would cost me my life later when 
 I met someone a bit more challenging (higher level) . The best fights were rooftop brawls where 
 you can grab your opponent and then throw him off the roof and watch him bounce of a few things 
 on his way to the ground and ultimately his death. A hugely entertaining visual that keeps you 
 coming back for more, I guarantee you can't have just one. Using your fists will usually not incur 
 the wrath of a guard or cause anyone but local townsfolk to be alerted, so pounding the snot out 
 of someone, if you should feel the need, is also quite entertaining. UBI did a very good job with 
 its horse riding and only mildly stupefied the "Attack while on the horse" events. But it was still 
 great fun to run by a guard on your horse swinging your weapon and causing wounds that no band 
 aid could fix. On the down side, whilst outside of the "Way back machine" and in current time, 
 the game play was uneventful, slow and only there to give you some story line and set you up for 
 the next installment of the game. It is a great game and worth the ride. Just throwing people off 
 the cliffs and roofs was causing me "laugh out loud" fun. Go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunyerbiz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  For the first few sittings or so, Assassin's Creed is a wonderful experience. You have a large 
 and ever-expanding game world to explore. The character you play has a lot of cool abilities that 
 are fun to use... The story might be a bit convoluted, but it keeps you engaged for the most part. 
 Unfortunately, you'll come to find out that the gameplay constantly repeats itself as you advance 
 the plot. 
  
  I won't go into the details of the plot or the gameplay mechanics, as that is covered well enough 
 via the main Gamespot review. I'll just say that overall, the gameplay mechanics work very well 
 on the PC if you are using a controller. I used a 360 gamepad and had very little issues with the 
 controls. 
  
  The problems crop up when you realize that the designers had a lot more story to tell than gameplay 
 to wrap around it. After your first couple of primary "quests", you realize that everything becomes 
 a simple matter of rinse and repeat until the game is over. The combat is fun and well done at 
 first, but much like the quests themselves, it's just a matter of repeating the same standard counter 
 moves until your enemies are dead. Very few times does anything feel challenging and if things 
 do get a little hairy... It's about a 20 second sprint to reset your stealth meter and start again. 
 There is very little, if any, penalty for screwing up... So the game loses a big part of immersion 
 factor that the excellent environment builds up. The story also somewhat falls apart at the end... 
 with the typical "wait for Assassin's Creed 2" stamp as the conclusion. 
  
  Overall, I enjoyed Assassin's Creed. While the story sort of unravels at the end, it was interesting 
 enough to keep me going through the repetitive gameplay. Even with the gameplay not always being 
 the most interesting, the wonderful environments and exploration aspects go a long way to make 
 this an enjoyable experience. Overall, I would still recommend it even if it's perhaps a bit overrated 
 in the big picture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morph_sa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Overall my impression of the game is a good one. I thoroughly enjoyed playing the game, although 
 it wasn't without it's frustrations.
  
  The control scheme can be awkward to get used to at first, especially if you don't have a 5-button 
 (or more) gaming mouse. Movement is smooth and the graphics engine is top notch, not only to look 
 at but to move through as well. A small irritation at times with the camera angle being blocked 
 by buildings specifically when locked on to a target and during combat, but a minor problem and 
 not one that ocurred often during the game.
  
  The combat system works suprisingly very well. There are buttons to attack and defend, and they 
 can be used in combination to counter attack, break an opponents defense or throw them to the ground. 
 The options are few but varied enough to provide enough of a variety of strategies in combat.
 
  
  The missions did get to be a little repetitive, but still fun towards the middle of the game. The 
 cutscenes can be really irritating as there is no option to forward through them, and it was especially 
 irritating when becoming fully immersed in the game world, only to be dragged out into a sterile 
 lab environment and have to walk to your bed, wake up and then get plugged back into the world 
 and having to deal with all the load times all over again. Some of these scenes were necessary 
 to advance the story of the game, but I think with a little creativity could have been handled 
 better. This for me was the biggest frsutration as i found it just interrupted my game experience 
 and left me impatient to get back to the action.
  
  Overall a fantastic game and one I can highly recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sinthemaster
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  In fact there are a lot of repetitiveness to get to the main assassination. Every side quests are 
 practically the same at each level of the game. This is a bit annoying at the very first start 
 of the game. But the storyline and the solid gameplay bring this game to another level of appreciation. 
 Every time it becomes a pleasure to ride the Assassin's Creed world on your horse and provoke any 
 guards on your way to see how you'll be able to escape them or just kill any opponents. Music and 
 athmosphere give just the right tone to the game to immerse the player in it. A friend of mine 
 works at Ubisoft Montreal and participated in the creation of 3 assassinations and they were totally 
 insane. Buddy this is an hommage to your work! To continue with the game critic, expect to have 
 a couple of gliches and sound problems. But Overall the game is a masterpiece and totally worth 
 your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarvin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is an ambitious game which brings a whole new level of gameplay style. Although 
 its adoption can be similar to Prince of Persia, the graphics are superb and the way of plot and 
 storyline taken are different than the other games giving Ubisoft the edge as well as demonstrate 
 their creativity capacity. The only thing that could be improve is in terms of Altair's combat 
 style which should adopt the style of combat in Prince of Persia. The current style is rather boring 
 and the controls are rather weak. The cinematic view has pictured the medieval age in its purest 
 form with high quality visual effects and stunning graphic details giving this game as one of 'must 
 be played' game in 2008. Cheers to Ubisoft development team and hoping there will be a sequel to 
 continue on Assassin's creed. Hoping for a better improvement in future releases 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archbuck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  It has been a little while since a graphical leap has taken place on the PC despite the leaps and 
 bounds being made on console (mostly to catch up to PC) but this game breaks all the blocks. 
 
  
  Even using DirectX 9 this game rules the special affects and realistic video, put it into DirectX 
 10 (really stress your system... maxed mine out) and you will feel as if you are in the game. Although 
 over time the layout of the land and environment becomes tiresome, the fights and kill - cutscenes 
 never get old. Best of all, as you progress in the game, you learn more and better moves which, 
 once mastered, allow you to flow seamlessly from one cut-scene kill to the next leaving one massive 
 pile of corpses by the end.
  
  The Positives:
  Graphics are hands-down some of the best in the industry. Excellent cut-scene kills add diversity 
 and keep you wanting more. Long Detailed (if you ignore the bad ending) storyline ensure more then 
 a few hours of gameplay with the constant addition of new weapons/abilities keeping the game fresh. 
 Most missions allow you to accomplish things as you choose, be it fight your way through or sneak.
 
  
  The Bad: 
  Pretty heafty system requirements, especially if you want the Directx 10 (worth it) . Semi-bad ending 
 which leaves much up-in-the-air... perhaps for sequel? Controls take a little getting used to, ideal 
 for controller. By the end of the game, some of the sideline missions get old and repetitive... 
 and they offer little reward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game that you will want to play just once : (... and that's really bad, because 
 I waited for a game that will breaks the cliches, but I was very wrong. Yes the game has its story, graphics, sound 
 effects... but the gameplay feels weak. All kinds of climbing, freeruning, sneaking were very cool, but 
 the missions repeat ALL THE TIME. There some people that you have to kill (very important people) 
 and there are 3 cities-Damscuss, Acre and Jerusalem. There is only one guy per city... and every time 
 before assassinating the VIP you have to go through the same missions  
 first two-three times they were cool, but later it's just boring and you pray only to finish the 
 missions, so you can assassinate the VIP. The way of killing people is actually very, very cool and 
 original. You can kill with the sword, you can kill with knifes, with handknife and it's well done. But 
 the fighting is very weak, because only thing you do is block and wait for someone to attack you 
 so you can counter-attack him and kill him. But if gameplay is weak, the plot feels very solid and 
 interesting. You play as  young guy from the near future and his predecessor-Altair who's 
 actually a assassin from the Medieval times. The graphic is great and you can feel the wide world 
 and the surroundings. The sound effects are very cool and realistic. The only problem was the boring 
 missions. You will have a good time playing it, but at the end you will not feel so... great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jogeoluz
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  The protagonist in Assassin's Creed, Altair, is a 12th century professional assassin who is acrobatic 
 and athletic. He is hired to assassinate nine targets and his accomplishments go into the memory 
 of his descendant, Desmond Miles. Desmond is a subject in Abstergo Laboratory while the lab experts 
 are trying to figure what his DNA can remember about his distant ancestor.
  Altair can jump from one rooftop to another and can perform death-defying leaps from viewpoints. 
 The viewpoints are necessary to clear up the maps for each city. The cities are large and include 
 Acre, Jerusalem, and Damascus. All the cities have a Middle Eastern feel to them and are very alive 
 with plenty of inhabitants. There is also the Kingdom, huge environment populated by people and 
 horses. It is plenty of fun riding on a horse, not to mention that you can travel to the cities 
 much faster than walking. The Kingdom is rural whereas the cities are urban. Altair can interact 
 with so many people and can fight many people with his sword. The transition from regular mode 
 to combat mode is amazingly swift and smooth. The sword fights are particularly gory and Altair 
 will learn new moves as the main story progresses. One of the most important fight moves is the 
 counter attack it will become more critical to your survival as the opposition becomes more numerous 
 and skilled. The keyboard and mouse controls work very well during combat and when Altair is scaling 
 rooftops of very tall buildings.
  There are plenty of side missions in the cities, including errands for informers and pick pocketing 
 individuals to obtain crucial information. The side missions are significant for the purpose of 
 acquiring information about your next assassination target. There are occasions when female beggars 
 and drunken troublemakers get in your way while trying to complete a side mission, but that is 
 part of the realistic, immersive gameworld of Assassin's Creed.
  The one shortcoming of Assassin's Creed is the tendency to crash. I experienced crashes on my dual 
 core Pentium 4, 2.8 GHz and was forced to restart my computer each time. Ubisoft has a patch to 
 fix different technical issues, but aforementioned crashes persisted. I wish Ubisoft had a patch 
 to address these crashes. This game is quite demanding with a minimum requirement of dual core 
 processor of 2.6GHz Pentium 4 and 1GB of RAM. Other than the crashes, the game ran very well on 
 my rig.
  I would recommend Assassin's Creed to anyone with a monster rig with plenty of gigahertz and RAM. 
 They will enjoy the open-ended gameworld and will have lots to explore. They will also be fascinated 
 with the graphics since it is visually one of the best games in recent memory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Tigger
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  I'd failed twice before, executing multiple targets in the market area without being spotted. There 
 were guards everywhere and one of the marks just kept walking back and forth between two guard 
 posts. I had tried jumping from the rafters and even killing the guards first, but I kept getting 
 spotted. I decided then just to play it smooth. My hands folded in prayer, I waited at the furthest 
 point between both guard stations. My target walked right past me, and I turned and, quietly, jammed 
 my wrist-blade into this back. Not a word, not a sound, he was still standing as I slowly walked 
 away. I was past the guards before the first person screamed, and around the corner before they 
 realized what had happened.
  
  Welcome to the brutal yet artistically precise life of Altair, protagonist in Ubisoft's third-person 
 action game, Assassin's Creed. If you've been living under a rock the last year, you may not know 
 the full story involving this game, but to summarize quickly, it's a wonderful mix of Prince of 
 Persia and Hitman involving an assassination plot to control the chaos during the Crusades. I've 
 been dying for a full medieval action game for years, and Assassin's Creed delivers.
  
  The game play is very much Hitman-esque in that you are given targets to take out in whatever fashion 
 you see fit. Bear in mind you aren't given as many options as 47 in Blood Money (no dropping chandeliers 
 on people, no poisons, no dressing up as a clown or giant chicken) but you can choose the angle 
 of attack, a hard or soft approach, and what weapon to finish them. Slip past guards in a crowd 
 of scholars to skewer your target quietly, or body-tackle them and finish your assignment off as 
 the others are lost in the confusion. You run, jump, do everything but fly from rooftop to rooftop 
 and as you grow more comfortable with the controls, you feel Altair grow with you. Every new assignment 
 brings a chance to investigate and explore faster, and make the action that much more explosive. 
 Nine major targets make up the bulk of the story, with several smaller targets and objectives to 
 achieve to help you with the main quests. Every single assassination has its own reward, whether 
 it's a blade in the neck, or a sword through the spine. When open combat does break out, whether 
 by being spotted or botching your hit, things get much more difficult. It looks like a bad kung 
 fu movie at first, where eight assailants wait to attack one at a time, but each one hits like 
 a hammer, and if they didn't go slow on you the game would be no fun at all. Fluid movements and 
 plenty of combat options like grips and blocks as well as slices and stabs turn each confrontation 
 into a work of art.
  
  Acre, Jerusalem, and Damascus are the three bustling cities teeming with life that host your assignments, 
 followed by an open game world that connects the three as well as the town of Masyaf. After you 
 scout all twelve tower vantage points, you can "fast forward" from your starting point for each 
 mission in Masyaf to the town of your choice. This cuts down on a LOT of time, but the space between 
 is no less wasted. Every inch of the Assassin's Creed world is painstakingly crafted, with plenty 
 of buildings to climb and secondary targets and fights to pick along with way. The cities themselves 
 are nothing short of breathtaking. Architecture and debris as well as the general garb of thousands 
 of residents varies as you move from the poor side of town to the rich. Every door, archway, exposed 
 plank, and protruding brick can be clung to and leapt from, causing you to scan your surroundings 
 constantly for attack points and escape routes. Half the fun of the game is just "free running" 
 all over town, picking off archers, looking for crusaders, and investigating your next hit. Jump 
 from rooftop to window ledge, sprint across rafters and beams, and dive into haystacks from dizzying 
 heights. Other critics complain of the repetitive nature of missions that require you to explore, 
 investigate, report back, then repeat ad nauseum, but to me the world is so realistic and the feeling 
 of being there was so strong that it never turned stale.
  
  This game is rock solid. Playing on an AMD Athlon 64 x2 5800+ with GeForce 9800 GTX and the graphics 
 cranked up, I never saw a single frame rate stutter until the final Jerusalem mission when the 
 entire city was unlocked and visible. Even then, it was minor. Ragdoll physics will sometimes cause 
 a body to bounce off a flat surface, there are minor clipping issues, and twice I witnessed a confused 
 AI soldier just stop and stare at me in the middle of combat, but given the hours of gaming I've 
 logged into this, none of those issues can be considered "issues" at all. The dialogue is a bit 
 heavy but the voice acting is spot-on, and the sci-fi subplot to tie the main plot together is 
 well-written and does little to detract from the medieval setting. The biggest gripe I have is 
 the controls for keyboard and mouse. Fighting is very difficult and timing the combos with mouse 
 clicks seems to have some sort of lag in it. It could be that I don't have the right coordination, 
 but it's all to frequent that I can't block even the slowest of attacks sometimes.
  
  I had to run for my life in Damascus in a foot-chase that resulted in some twenty-plus guards chasing 
 me. The whole scene was out of some chaotic mix of Keystone Cops and Cirque du Soliel as I jumped 
 off walls, flew up ladders, tackled archers, and frantically searched for a place to hide. When 
 I finally hid in a haystack, I noticed that, sitting in the safety of my study, my pulse was pounding 
 as I watched the guards search for me, swearing as they walked past. THAT is entertainment in video 
 gaming. I was in the city, running for my life, and I couldn't wait to move on to the next target. 
 Assassin's Creed immerses you in the game as well as any RPG or adventure game. Repetitive? Perhaps, 
 but it's the kind of fun I don't mind doing again and again and again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irlumir
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  HAVE SPOILER!
  Well i will do these short. The gameplay of the game is cool, controls are real simple but with 
 excellent outcome. Graphics are fine great and sound fits perfect for the situations. The Ai of 
 the npc is a little dumb but nothing searious. There is a lot of reviews talking about this.
  
  What interest me is the history. Or i have get something wrong or i`m having problem with my 
 eyes. Why a lot of review says that the history is dumb or whatever... i think yu don`t understand 
 it, desmond is not the mini game, but altairs is. These game is the introduction of the plot for 
 the second one, most probably that in second one will be no altair at all. Altair purpose is to 
 show the context in where all begins, that will be continued in the others games. In fact if yu 
 dont pay atention to the emails yu miss the half of the history. I read a review it says that the 
 plot of the game insult his inteligence jajaja i thing yur lack of it don`t allow yu to understand 
 it xD. srry to make that comment but i have to say it. The game is a 18+ and isn`t just for the 
 blood but for the complex history that yu must order und construct, especially the ending that 
 you must have a lot of culture and have pay a lot of attention to the game and you will discover 
 a lot of interesting things. I found funny the mock the game make about the maya prophecy.
  
  
  well i recomend this game for the fun gameplay and the incredible history, 
  SRRY FOR 
 SPELL =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomailx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a beautiful game, with lots of great ideas, and innovations. It takes you out 
 from the usual GTA, or FPS games, and brings you a new perspective of what a games should be, and 
 how deep they should go.
  
  The present time lab, living the past in memories, all wonderfull ideas.
  
  Outstanding graphics, 
 great sounds, %100 true atmosphere... this game should be perfect.
  
  But it isn't. It is just a small step, towards what future games should be: stories we live in.
 
  
  Assassin's Creed is like a new born baby in this new trend it tries to create:
  
  everyone will like it by principle, but there will be no intellectual satisfaction.
  
  Assassin'c 
 creed is not about an exploration. It is a sight seeing, a demonstration of how games could be.
 
  
  actions are greatly rendered, everything runs smooth, but all that for the prize of lowering the 
 control over the character.
  
  The lack of RPG elements, and choices are tried to be hidden by long boring monologes, and "neo-matrix" 
 like questions: "why I do that? who are those people? where am I? who are you?" etc..
  
  the most simple way to try to insert a story line and crumbles of conspiracy, where the interaction 
 fails.
  
  It doesn't work. Assassin's Creed could have been a 10 min game, with only one mission, without 
 any dialog, and it would still be the same.
  
  the sword fights, are ok, but with time, lack creativity, and freedom. the assassinations, are 
 well presented, but still miss variations and again freedom.
  
  Buy the game, play it, look around, and box it. that's is in short what you should do with that 
 game, until the sequels arrives with more rpg elements, and a deeper game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverness
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  This game looked amazing in the magazines and the previews were making it out to be some radical 
 new game play experience. Unfortunately, Assassin's Creed does not live up to the hype, but it 
 is still a very enjoyable albeit short game with little replayability.
  
  You do need a pretty decent pc to run this game and it is certainly very beautiful and controlling 
 Altair, once you get the hang of the complex controls, is very satisfying. He is very nimble and 
 effortlessly leaps, dives, and climbs on virtually everything in the game world. Combat too is 
 very complex but once you get the controls down, it is a real pleasure to fight guards. 
  
  Unfortunately, there isn't that much substance to the game. You climb up tall buildings to acquire 
 map markers for the various encounters of which there are precious few: You save citizens who are 
 being accosted by guards, pickpocket letters from people, stealth kill a fixed number of enemies, 
 have a fist fight or run from point A to B within a time limit. That's about it.
  
  Once you complete a few of these tasks, you can move onto the assassination portion which is usually 
 pretty straightforward. Then it is basically wash, rinse, repeat.
  
  The story is clever though. A machine digs into people's ancestral memory that is encoded in their 
 DNA so the majority of the game in the 12th century is actually the memory of a 21st century man 
 who is reliving the actions of his ancestor. Things tie together in a compelling conspiracy theory 
 story but they are holding way too much in reserve for the sequel.
  
  I was hoping for so much more with this game. Unfortunately, Assassin's Creed is not revolutionary. 
 Combat is refreshingly new but the game just lacks depth. It is very fun to play but I probably 
 won't be picking it up again since there isn't much more to do once you finish it unless you want 
 to chase down flags. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmleary
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 23, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Its different from any other game i can recall playing and pulling off some of the cool stunts 
 is lots of fun in the beginning. Eventually you become accustomed to the action but the main storyline 
 fueled by the various investigation missions keeps things going pretty well. The major assassinations 
 themselves were fairly unique so it didnt get too repetitive. I wont spoil the ending, but suffice 
 it to say that its ridiculous. If your going to start making up random crap at the end dont even 
 bother writing a story to get there. Additionally if you havent realized beforehand, then the end 
 of the game will probably alert you to some critical flaws in the combat system, since they tend 
 to become more prevalent in tough fights. I have no intention of finishing the last part of the 
 game as it feels like an insult to my intelligence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miloandrew
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of this game. It is set in an extremely immersive world and honestly, simply running 
 around a very beautiful rendition of the medieval Holyland is extremely fun. The fact that you 
 can climb on nearly anything, hide from people and assassinate nearly any character in the game 
 simply adds to the enjoyment. There are many ways to complete the tasks set before you, and its 
 the openness of the game that really draws you in.
  
  The game itself follows a fairly straightforward plot with additional weapons and abilities being 
 bestowed upon you as you complete tasks for your master. There are no choices at each level up, 
 but completing side tasks can help you gain stamina to last longer in a fight.
  
  The basic plot is that you wake up to find yourself in a laboratory with some people who want to 
 put you in a machine that allows you to live out the memories of your ancestors - one of which 
 happens to be an assassin.
  
  In the memories, each of several cities (Acre, Jerusalem, Damascus) are broken up into 3 sections, 
 each with a plot to uncover and ultimately a target to assassinate. There is also Masyaf, the assassin 
 stronghold and the space in between the cities that is called "The Kingdom".
  
  You play the silent hand of power in the larger struggle of the third crusades - The English king, 
 Richard the Lionhearted war against Saladin the Saracen. You assassinate members of both factions, 
 doing the bidding of the Assassin's master. In each section, you can either quickly do some basic 
 research and get on with killing your target, or you can take the approach of doing everything 
 there is to do in that section. The more you do, the more you "synchronize" with your ancestor's 
 memory of what happened, and the more hitpoint you essentially receive. If you do decide to do 
 everything, you'll probably feel like it is a bit repetitive, as the tasks aren't really varied 
 at all from city to city - just the same 7 or 8 basic jobs to do. But, I still found it enjoyable.
 
  
  There is also plot to be uncovered outside of the memories, though a lot of it feels very stifled 
 compared to the openness of the memory portions. I suppose that could be intentional, as you are 
 supposed to be held against your will.
  
  Having been to the Holyland a few times, I was endlessly fascinated by the digital recreations 
 of cities that I have seen only in the context of a modern city sitting squarely atop their archeological 
 pasts. Regardless of how inaccurate the representation may be, to run around through that past 
 in somewhat of a first person perspective was extremely rewarding in and of itself.
  
  With such a good setting, the other excellent aspects of the game were greatly enhanced, and the 
 few flaws of the game were really minimized.
  
  Some may be offended by some of the games theological musings, but I took that all with a large 
 grain of salt - just as I did the ability of the character to suddenly "disappear" from 20 armed 
 guardsmen by jumping into a pile of hay for 2 minutes. Seems like they would look a little harder 
 for someone who just killed the ruler of the city...
  
  Overall, it was an excellent balance of "realistic" confrontation and action with a fairly palatable 
 dose of required "suspension of disbelief" to keep things going.
  
  The voice acting of the main character is fairly horrible early on - it either gets better, or 
 I got used to it. Donno which.
  
  I highly recommend this game for anyone that wants to run around and have their way with medieval 
 history in the context of an excellent thinking man's action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futs22
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Upon running the game for the first time, I was struck with awe at the graphical quality of the 
 game as well as the sounds of the environment. I instantly fell in love with this game and played 
 it several hours at a time. I was thinking and saying to myself, "This game deserves a 10 out of 
 10". However, as I progressed through the game, I suddenly realized that beyond all the wonderfully 
 crafted eye-candy, gameplay was lacking. Lacking in the sense that eventually you'll be doing the 
 same things over and over again until the very last mission. 
  
  The method in which you track and kill your target is essentially the same and for me, it did come 
 to a point wherein I just wanted to get the game over with and kill all the targets. The ending 
 twist is not at all surprising and after finishing the game, a certain amount of disappointment 
 surfaced from within me due to the fact that the game really leaves you hanging when it's all said 
 and done. 
  
  It is a trilogy after all, but the way the first game wrapped up was IMO not the best way to do 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysis-matter
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  assassins creed is a game with great story and some fun things to do but it has some issues that 
 are easy to find. you are an assassin who has to kill 9 leaders and find out what they have in 
 common. the fun thing of this game are the combat and the climbing. you have 4 weapons you'll require 
 through the game each one (except 1) has its own counter move which shows the assassins move when 
 he stabs someone or punches them. Also the climbing is fun you can climb most building and look 
 at each city (which by the way are awesome. the issues are that the system requirments are high. 
 the audio is sometimes off (well thats just me) and that you have todo the same mission type over 
 and over and over. the gameplay in this game is ok but once you play it once or twice you can feel 
 like you can take on 100 guards without dieing. the graphics are cool with textures and lighting 
 and shadowing. in the end assassisn creed is a game where if you wanted it for xbox 360 or ps3 
 but dont have one you should aleast read if there are issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  A few years ago, when it was first unveiled to the general public, Assassin's Creed turned quite 
 a few heads. And it's no surprise. How often do you get to play a master assassin in a huge, open-ended 
 gameworld? Not often. So lets take a closer look at what Assassin's Creed has to offer.
  
  First off, we've got the setting. Since the game is labeled as a 'historic action adventure', you 
 can expect some historically accurate elements. The action takes place during the Third Crusade 
 (1189-1192, the game itself takes place in 1191) . The main character, Altair, is a member of a 
 sect of assassins that are working behind the scenes to put an end to the conflict. The assassins 
 in the game are actually inspired by the order of the Hashashiyyin, which existed around the time 
 of the Third Crusade. There is however a sci-fi twist, which actually works nicely. So there are 
 two story threads, but both are related to events from the Third Crusade. The game shifts focus 
 between the two threads on a few occasions, making the whole thing feel a bit fractured, but it's 
 a good story overall.
  
  The main strength of Assassin's Creed however is the gameworld. I can honestly say that this is 
 the best looking game I've ever seen. And I'm not talking about how photorealistic it is or how 
 much bloom it has, but just how authentic it all looks and feels. The size, the architecture, the 
 streets teeming with people going about their business, the huge number of details... it's all 
 beautiful and it really helps you feel like you're there. You'll get to visit three major cities 
 (Acre, Damascus and Jerusalem) plus a few smaller locations so you can look forward to plenty of 
 exploration.
  
  For a game that looks this good it would have been a shame if the sound was not up to the challenge. 
 But it is. Everything from voice acting to sound effects and music fits perfectly. It would have 
 been nice to have a larger number of musical themes, to avoid repetition, but what the game has 
 is of good quality. Jesper Kyd (the man who did the chilling score for Hitman: Contracts) delivered 
 once more.
  
  Right, so Assassin's Creed looks and sounds great. But what of the gameplay? Well, here's where 
 things get ugly. If you do one assassination mission, you basically do all of them. What I mean 
 is they all take place in the same manner. It's like a ritual. First you travel to the city district 
 where the target is and report to the assassins bureau, then you climb atop a number of view-points 
 scattered about and you observe the city streets. Your map gets scribed with all sorts of info, 
 like good places to eavesdrop or the location of informers that will provide you with information 
 in exchange for performing small favors. There are a few optional goals too, like helping citizens 
 in distress, which turn into friendlies that will aid you escape if you're being chased. But for 
 the most part, the ritual is the same. After you gather sufficient information you report back 
 to the assassin's bureau leader, who gives you the green light to take down your target. Now take 
 this ritual, do it 9 times (there are 9 targets) and you've not only got a formulaic experience, 
 but also a repetitive one. Although, truth be told, each assassination plays out differently so 
 that adds a bit of variety.
  
  But repetitiveness is not the biggest issue. The game is also easy so you don't really get challenged 
 along the way. The worst part is the combat, which is made very easy by overpowered combos that 
 enable you to take on even 20 enemies at once. And once you see how easy it is to take them down 
 through straightforward combat you'll also stop being careful and just tank your way through. Which 
 also breaks the game's spell, exposing Assassin's Creed as just another one of those really accessible 
 'next-gen' games that don't require any brain power or skill.
  
  Thankfully, the gameworld is pretty open and you have the option to choose between different play 
 styles. You don't have to tank your way through - you can avoid combat in a lot of situations, 
 you don't have to climb those view-points and have your map automatically scribed - you can just 
 go explore the streets and find informers and good eavesdropping spots yourself. Basically, you 
 have the option to do it the proverbial hard way. And while this doesn't excuse the flawed gameplay, 
 it does provides a somewhat better experience. But again, when you're not being penalized for being 
 sloppy it's only normal to choose the easy way out.
  
  It's a shame. What a masterpiece this game could have been! It can be such an immersing experience 
 since it's one of the very few games that delivers on the 'living, breathing gameworld' part. But 
 thanks to the accessible, formulaic gameplay, the spell will inevitably be broken at some point. 
 It's a real shame. I don't regret getting this game however, it was decent fun to run around the 
 busy streets and rooftops of Acre, Damasc and Jerusalem. At least Assassin's Creed tried to do 
 something new and I must admit that it left its mark on me, both good and bad, which is better 
 than bland across the board. Get it if what you've read sounds appealing to you, just expect to 
 feel some measure of disappointment too, no matter how much you love the idea of being a master 
 assassin. It's one of those love-hate games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaoSXDemon
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  Intro:
  
  The story revolves around an organization known as the "Hashshashin", or Assassin Brotherhood, 
 and you play as the role of Altair. The game play is based on controlling Altair from a 3rd person 
 point of view, and move across platforms either on roof top or on ground or climbing and jumping 
 from walls to walls. Here is the big surprise as a part of game play: even though the story is 
 set in 1149, you are actually playing a role of Altair's descendant at the present time. Altair's 
 descendant uses a memory machine to locate his "ancestor's memory DNA" to basically "replay" (you 
 playing through) the memory of his ancestors. Through out the game, you are taking mini-game like 
 quests from your brothers (fellow assassins) , so that you can "remember" what you did BEFORE you 
 assassinate your final target in a city. (Remember you are in a memory machine trying to reallocate 
 your memory of your ancestors) After certain number of quests, you can finally assassinate your 
 final target. And this is pretty much the entire game.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  I personally give the graphics of AC (Assassin's Creed) , a rating of 8/10. It is not impressive, 
 yet not disappoint. 8/10 is a rating I'd give if the game fits my expectation.
  
  Sound:
  
  8/10
  
  Control: 8.5/10
  
  9/10 for PS3 and XBOX 360, but only 7/10 for PC. The PC 
 version didn't have the freedom of mapping your own set of keys for controls. The control came 
 with AC is awkward for PC users. What was awkward was when the user press a key, the responsible 
 icon on the screen lights up showing what acting the player is doing, does not match the physical 
 place of the key. The L. Shift makes an icon that's on the right side lights up. This introduced 
 some confusion but nevertheless, bearable; therefore 7/10. (in PS3 and XBOX 360 this problem does 
 not exist)
  The reason for 9/10 on the PS3 or XBOX 360, is because the use have to hold the R button for a 
 different set of commands on the SAME keys except one is light the other is heavy. Light meaning 
 you do not attract attention, things like push gently, blend in into the crowd, walk instead of 
 run; and heavy as in punch, push people away fast, and run while tackling others ect. Sometimes 
 it is hard to switch between the two when the player are surrounded by more than 6 enemies.
  
  Game Play: 7/10
  
  Extreme repetition has made this game with GREAT potential into something 
 that's unbearable. Through out the game, each city and target the player gets to explore and assassinate 
 will ALWAYS have the SAME mini-game like quests to do. Some examples are: Save citizens, find flags 
 on roof tops, silently kill archers on roof tops, pick pocket, ear drop, interrogate, help fellow 
 assassins to kill certain targets, and assassinate your final target.
  It would of been better if you have some sort of reward for completely all mini-games before your 
 final assassination. But you only need to do two mini games before your final target, and you get 
 nothing more or less from doing more mini games. 
  One of the best example for repetition in this game is the mini-game "Save Citizens". Basically 
 in all city, there always will be citizens who are getting harassed from guards. Your job is simple: 
 go up and kill all the guards and talk to the citizen you just saved. I swear, all they had is 
 about 5 or 6 voices for the citizen, after awhile, all they say is the SAME THING over and over 
 again. THIS is the BIGGEST weakness of the game.
  However, the climbing system in the game is absolutely AMAZING. Literally anything you see can 
 be climbed onto or jumped against. This really give player a sense of freedom especially the player 
 can climb onto the tallest structure and enjoy a beautiful view on top. 
  The combat system is rather interesting. The player can have attack, counter, dodge, and grab when 
 selected an enemy. It is not as intense as real time action games where all enemies tent to attack 
 all together. But it has a charm of simplicity where the player can master the few moves in just 
 an hour or so. Additionally, the player can also time their attacks so that combos can be applied; 
 but unfortunately there are only one kind of combo. Aside from fight on the ground, the player 
 can also fight while mounted on a horse. It is very simple but nevertheless, satisfying.
  
  Computer Intelligence: 5/10
  
  When I am bored of all the mini-game like quests, I started 
 to play around with the game's AI. I can see that the developers tries to be as logical as possible: 
 in order to run away from enemy, you have to break the line of sight and then hide. But here's 
 a problem: YOU NEVER CHANGE CLOTHS!!! You can just make a sharp turn, and sit right down on a bench 
 with other citizens, and the guards CAN'T TELL. BAD!
  Another thing is that when you kill someone, and stand near where the dead body is and press the 
 "blend" button, the cards CAN'T TELL you killed the person; more funny, the guard yells "WHO DID 
 THIS?" while you stand right beside the body. 
  Guards do not care if another guard fall of a roof top DEAD. I mean at least make someone go up 
 and check it out then yell "HE GOT AWAY!". That would make so much more sense.
  
  Re-plability: 0/10
  
  If I'm already struggling to FORCE myself to finish the game THE FIRST 
 TIME through, I am definitely NOT going to play it again. Generally for games that are worth playing 
 AGAIN are the ones that reward the player with special items or icons after the first run through. 
 Not to mention there are useless things in the game such as collecting flags from a HUGE map which 
 rewards you with NOTHING (For XBOX 360, you get a title with not use in game) . The final reason 
 that pushed the score to a zero is you CANNOT go back to any previous maps once you've completed 
 the game! I mean I understand if there are hardcore players out there who just want to collect 
 the flags for the sake of collect flags, but NO! You cannot go back. That's it, 0/10.
  
  Story line: 5/10
  
  For those who likes history, this game reflects considerable amount. But 
 history is NOT story! So even though technically speaking, there aren't any story line, but there 
 is some what a reflection of history, so 5/10.
  
  Originality: 7/10
  
  This game is inspired by historical events as it is clearly stated at the beginning of the game. 
 It is indeed a very refreshing idea and concept the developers have brought us. The free climb 
 is definitely the high light of the game but it is nothing we haven't seen. Recall "The Prince 
 of Persia: Sands of Time", "Warrior Within", and "The Two Thrones" series, doesn't the climbing 
 system looks some what like that? Other than that, the game does have an original idea and concept 
 based on historical event and has turned it into a unique genre.
  
  Final Average Score:
  
  6.0/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzpranav
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed on the PC is a beautiful game with a superb concept but somewhat unsatisfactory 
 execution. The game starts off in a way that leaves you glued to the seat even if you're offered 
 a million dollars but within two hours you'll the whole game does a nearly miraculous job of shifting 
 that around. Boring repetitive what to say? But even then overall the game is amazing. Confusing? 
 How can it be boring AND fun at the same time? Let me explain....
  
  Graphics: The bombshell: It has higher minimum requirements than Crysis!!! What the...? But if 
 your system meets the requirements it turns out to be one of the more beautiful games in recent 
 times. The people look realistic each building is well detailed and the shadows are amazing. 
 
  
  Score: 9/10
  
  Sound: Nice soundtrack, good voice acting. Very good overall but nothing spectacular.
  
  8/10
 
  
  Gameplay: The most unique part of Assassin's creed: The gameplay. You have three weapons other 
 than your fist, a sword, a short blade (which can also be used as a throwing knife if you're opponent 
 is far enough) and your hidden blade. How you approach missions is totally up to you. You can go 
 in all guns (erm.. swords really) blazing or you can choose the stealthy way of creeping up behind 
 your target and assassinating him. The fights are very simple yet fun. However it encourages counter-attacking 
 too much. However one amazing of aspect of the game is how alive it feels. The city is brimming 
 with people who react the way you'd expect normal people to react to your actions. They panic if 
 you kill someone in plain sight. They gather around and stare at you if you start climbing a building 
 spidey style and remark about you're strange behaviour. However all said sometimes the AI reacts 
 stupidly. The MOST fun part of the game is undoubtedly navigating through rooftops. Altair your 
 main character can grab on to almost anything that sticks out of a wall and find his way up. Unlike 
 the Prince of Persia games the environments aren't made for your character instead the character 
 is made for the environments. Thankfully this part of the game takes away some of the boredom.
 
  
  Score: 8/10 (10/10 at the starting)
  
  Story: aahhh the part that gets mixed reactions. Some people hated the Halo 2 cliffhanger ending.... but 
 I say at least that means there's gonna be a sequel (it's a trilogy) but even I agree that the 
 story is confusing. Basically you're Altair one of the best of a brotherhood of Assassin's whose 
 aim is to bring peace by assassinating bad guys and gaurding an important treasure from the hands 
 of the Templar leader Rpbert De Sable (which was almost lost at the starting of the gasme thanks 
 to Altair's arrogance) . The story is undoubtedly incomplete but is still good and attempts to view 
 history in a different way then in our school textbooks.
  
  Score 8/10
  
  So to sum up things satisfying and fun but a bit too repetitive. Really good but not a must buy 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmygee123
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  I can honestly see what they were trying to do with this game and they almost succeded.... almost.
 
  
  Levels are nicely designed, full 360 camera brilliant. but as with all games they fail on the key 
 issue. Gameplay. Now me being an assassin was nothing new having played games like Tenchu, but 
 why they felt they had to tell us that the game was made by people of various cultures and beleiefs 
 ?? Bad Idea in my opinion. But anyways on with the game.
  
  So Im doing my thing leaping from roof to roof taking out roof archers and the end bosses. Fighting 
 offground enemies. And then the deicde to put what has to be the worst levels. They did the same 
 with gears of war. They put you in a position of no hope. with a boss that seems to be impervious 
 to bullets and/or swords. I absolutley hate this in games. If I select easy as I was playing it 
 for the first time then it should be easy in my opinion. if i wanted a challenge I would up the 
 level difficulty. I wish games programmers would get it through there thick skulls to stop trying 
 to dictate how hard the level should be. We the gamers deicde not them.
  
  All in all a good idea but they should have held back till some of the bugs were fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtis342
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Asassin's Creed is an ambitious game, it took a few risks making this kind of game. There were 
 others like this in the past, like tomb raider and prince of persia, but this one is rehashed, 
 and generally better than thos other two franchises. The story is great, you'll get quite a few 
 history lessons here, all the characters play theire role very good, the surroundings are superb, 
 the crowds, everything is so good you actually feel you're in 1191 AD. One more thing about the 
 storyline: you'll notice from the start that you, yourself aren't in fact in the years of Altair, 
 you're not even Altair, he's your ancestor and you are in the Animus, a device that reads your 
 DNA and analyzes your ancestor's memory. Pretty good I'd say, and how you're introduced to this 
 device in the game is credible. The only annoying part about this is that you'll have to do little 
 pauses between sitting in the Animus and living Altair's memories and going to sleep. It's not 
 really a big deal, but sometimes you're so engaged in the story and then... "you'll have to take 
 a break, Desmond". It's soo annoying X ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kikumbob
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  Let it be said that there is almost too much repetition in this game. Each city contains almost 
 exactly the same types of missions. The game, however, actually escapes its own fate of true boredom 
 by setting the missions inside a concept and gameplay that is truly fun to utilise again and again 
 and again and... again.
  
  Just when you've had enough, the last stage of the game hits you. After all the repetition and 
 after returning to the same cities at least three times the last stage is a shocking change of 
 pace that has you on the edge of your seat playing like a mad man. Coupled with the plot and you 
 have an ending that ends up twisting your knickers off.
  
  The graphics are almost flawless, which definitely helps the feel of this extremely open ended 
 game where you are literally roaming anywhere inside and between cities, passing many different 
 people. Conversations are thrown around you and any action by you has a very large reaction by 
 the crowd. Granted, there are a limited number of reactions but its not limited enough to prevent 
 the sum enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronos_ss2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Assassin's Creed is without a doubt one of the best games of 2008. Ubisoft did a bang up job with 
 this one, well done. 
  
  -Graphics: Awesome! Can be adjusted if you which.
  
  -Game play: Effective, as you progress through the game you acquire new skills and weapons which 
 allows you to execute new combos when in combat, you can also use nearby objects as hiding spots 
 when running away from fights an such. You can also do side quest when you're in town which keeps 
 the game more interesting and entertaining.
  
  -Story: my favorite part of any game yay! It has an awesome story; it's intriguing it keeps you 
 wanting more and keep you playing.
  
  This game is just amazing, its an amazing experience, you get to play in three major cities from 
 the 12th century, amongst them Jerusalem, this game deals with the future and the past, this game 
 was very well put together. 
  
  Cons:
  None. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashultis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I must give credit where credit is due when it comes to Assassin's Creed. They created a game within 
 a memory. It means that I am playing a character whose memories are what I am playing (for the 
 majority of this game) . Then they integrated that aspect into the game by making the HP bar your 
 'sync bar' and when you hit the edge of a map it's because your memory is incomplete. You do this 
 through the Animus which is what brings these memories of his ancestors back to life. Each quest 
 is a memory link that gives you enough information to do the assassination. 
  
  One aspect of Assassin's Creed that'll draw you into this game is the graphics. They are stunning 
 from the details of each city to each character. Although there's not much in terms of diversity 
 in each character, there's plenty of them around to make it look like a busy city including general 
 markets.
  
  Combat is immersive as it zooms right into the action and blurs everything else in the background 
 out. Combat is smooth with every block and attack you do. The counter attack is probably the coolest 
 move in the game as you do a series of attacks to either impale them or knock them to the ground. 
 Soldiers attack in turn making it easier to take on 10-12 guards at a time without being beaten 
 to a pulp. You can also throw enemies into markets or throw them to the ground and assassinate 
 them.
  
  Travelling around the city is interesting as there is so much to climb. Lots of bonus flags to 
 collect around the city while you are doing your missions if you just wanted to explore. And I 
 loved jumping off the top of the building into a pile of hay. It may not be realistic but damn 
 if it isn't fun.
  
  Missions become increasing difficult as you expand into the game. There isn't a lot of variety 
 in the missions so some may see this as a bad aspect of the game. But the challenge does it make 
 interesting as a botched attempt could attract the attention of a lot soldiers which you either 
 have to kill or run away and hide. So you have to be very careful when you assassinate someone. 
 I really love the effect of locking onto someone you wish to attack as everything blurs out around 
 you so that you are focused on the enemy.
  
  There are a lot of extra abilities and weapons to unlock as you progress through the game so you 
 are always learning and adapting to new situations.
  
  Overall, this game is captivating and fun till the very end. Once you start playing, you know you'll 
 play it till the end. Overall I would recommend to anybody. You should should try this game if 
 you haven't already.
  
  Things I didn't enjoy though:
  - Anything outside of the Animus. Checking e-mail, talking to the one girl, and going in and out 
 of my room was very boring.
  - Lack of variety in the character models
  - Lack of unique missions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacopper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Whoo-hoo! What a game! A little sidestep from the usual FPS genre. Here, instead of hacking and 
 slashing your way through, you have to navigate your ways around your enemy. Although, later in 
 the game once you acquire enough weapon upgrades, you can actually do so, but it's less fun than 
 climbing up walls and jumping from one rooftop to another, trust me. In the beginning I had a bit 
 of adrenaline rush -- a-la roller-coaster effect -- a couple of times while performing free falls. 
 Enjoying beautiful cityscape from atop of towers adds to the charm of this game... And then it 
 gets old rather fast. After your second mission, you suddenly realize that all tasks you have to 
 complete in order to assassinate some guy are all the same: rescue a bunch of citizens, climb up 
 a few towers, eavesdrop on some conversation, rough up some guy and so on, only the assassination 
 itself is different. 
  
  Controls feel a bit awkward for a mouse-keyboard setup, perhaps a console-type controller would've 
 felt more natural but being a true PC gamer I simply despise them. However, after I mapped some 
 of the defensive-offensive moves (some are pretty complex and require several keyboard-mouse operations) 
 to alternative buttons on my keyboard, thing began to look much smoother.
  
  The plot of the game taking place in the near future and in the distant past at the same time is 
 so deep, I had to read a game's walkthrough manual in order to understand details. It's nice it 
 has a plot at all which most games simply lack, but c'mooooon, I don't have to major in history 
 and minor in cryptography in order to get it! 
  
  The ending also feels very unfinished. I only assume the story is "to be continued", but it would 
 be nice to get some closure on this chapter, eh?
  
  Despite all my whining and rambling about the game's shortcomings, I've played through it twice 
 already within 1.5 months since I got it so it tells ya the game is very well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c0keisbettr3
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed originally came out on the xbox/ps3 next gen consoles that i conveniently do not 
 own. I could only wait for the pc version. Once i installed it on my computer, i was ready to do 
 all the killing and wall climbing i could fit into my schedule. So thats exactly what i did, in 
 the first town, right away. i would kill a pedestrian, run, and marvel at how cool the animations 
 and climbing system was. Finally i decided to see if the story was any good. Oddly, i did no research 
 on whether to get the game or not, and if the story was going to keep me playing it, so i didn't 
 know what to expect. In the beginning, I started to feel what people told me about, which is killing 
 the target the same way. But this didnt last long. As i got into the game, i wondered what was 
 going to happen next, had to get that next target to see what would unfold. and what did happen 
 did anything but let me down. Not to spoil anything, the ending is excellent. ya its a cliff hanger 
 and ya people are mad about it, but it was perfect. the game had me all the way through and i would 
 recommend it to anyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgn420
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  Yes, the graphics is brilliant in AC. But other than that, I can not tell what AC really brings 
 to us. Yes, we know there's actually a story inside Assassin Creed, people may ssay the story is 
 broken, but it is still better than the poor story of Gears of War.
  
  All the actions/missions are extremely repeated. You know do all those boring things like leap 
 of faith, pickpocket again and again. The assassin is more like some kind of criminal but not a 
 hero of Arab.
  
  And the port from console to PC is not very good either. The game can't be played in 1920x1200 
 and 60fps on a rather high configuration desktop (say e8400 + HD4850 + 4GB RAM ) . Also the save 
 system is not designed for PC. And yes, nearly forgot the most annoying thing, the game does not 
 support x360 wireless controller's rumble feature, so the controller just simply cannot rumble. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killingspree303
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has a deep story, which just sucks you in. It is well written and has strong characters, 
 good conversations and a lot of action. The only bad thing is the ending, because it was a little 
 confusing.
  
  From story to graphics, in the game you'll play in a huge world that is beautiful and alive. The 
 level of detail is just astonishing, and it can be so gorgeous that you'll stand and look at it 
 for a long time. But to run Assassin's Creed, you'll have to pass the high system requirements. 
 But if you're planning on upgrading for Assassin's Creed, it's definitely worth it.
  
  The gameplay is just pure fun. Running around on rooftops while being chased by guards is a lot 
 of fun. Combat is just as good. You have four weapon to your disposal: Throwing knives, hidden 
 blade, sword and your fists. It is simple combat, but challenging. As you progress through the 
 game, you'll get more abilities to use in and out of combat. 
  
  The sound effects in Assassin's Creed is superb, and the music is beautiful. This makes the game 
 feel more alive and real.
  
  One thing that is outstanding in this game is the game camera. It is just perfect, because you 
 can steer it freely. Even in cinematic you can place it where you want it to be.
  
  Overall Assassin's Creed is one of the best looking games up-to-date. The only bad thing about 
 this is the high system requirements. The game camera is perfect, gameplay is fun and the music 
 an sound effects are great. The story in Assassin's Creed is great, and it tells a deep story that 
 just sucks you in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  OK !!!! I know this game rocked on XBOX & PS3 and the PC game rocks too but here is why i gave 
 it 8.0. The whole premise of the game is rock solid. It feels like like prince of persia but also 
 different. The beginning of the game is very good and I would give it a 9.0 but after you leave 
 Masyaf to other cities it feels repetitive A LOT. Everything from the gameplay to the street fights 
 all feel repetitive. I would give it a 7.0 untill it reaches the end where u actually start looking 
 for Robert. Here I would give it an 8.0. Someone tell me why i have to climb all the way up just 
 to find where I can find information
  Graphics are awesome i think i should have been better. I have an 7800 GT card. The cities feel 
 the same with colors added to it. Character animation is very good and the camera angle is OK. 
 I could not play this game on my native resolution of 14*9 becos its a console port.
  Sound is great with 5.1
  Overall the game felt easy but it was worth trying though.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lon3lysnake
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  I've played this game in both x360 and pc, the results are pretty much the same.
  
  The plot is quite amazing... a mix of modern and medieval, really creative and well planned. Graphics 
 are awesome, but to pc gamers, you will need a decent pc system in order to run the game on highest 
 graphics, with playable fps. However, the fighting part is rather boring... and doesn't require 
 much of your skills. Basically, all you need to do is keep tapping the combat key, and you can 
 pretty much fight all your way to the end of the game.
  
  For stealth game fans, this game is a huge disappointment. I wouldn't even call it stealth anymore, 
 the game has very little to do with stealth. So if you're looking for a game like splinter cell, 
 don't buy assassin creed. Other than that, it is still a worth investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeMonger
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  Engrossing storyline.
  Beautifully rendered cities.
  The bad:
  Mind numbing repetition.
  Complete and total lack of any real stealth game.
  The ugly:
  Might 
 be the WORST controls I've ever had to struggle with in any PC game I've ever played.
  
  The only thing that kept me in this game until the end was because I just wanted to see what happened. 
 Other than that, gameplay sucked. Climb a wall, push forward, then, for some inexplicable reason, 
 start climbing down the ladder to your left. Climb up a wall of a fortress with the notice meter 
 at red... no problem, but bump someone in the street with a notice meter at yellow and the entire 
 city tries to kill you. For an assassination game, stealth consists of running, walking, and walking 
 slower. Hiding consists of sitting on a bench, jumping into a pile of hay, or dodging into a shed 
 on a rooftop.
  
  Zero challenge. Screw up? Just back out and go back in again. No problem. And what's up with the 
 idiotically complicated game exit? Exit the memory, exit the animus, exit to main menu, select 
 a profile, exit the game.
  
  So much potential, but it failed to live up to it. I give it a 10 for the storyline and concept, 
 and a 1 for pretty much everything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertofilgueir
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I do love adventure games, and I do love the medieval games. But Assassin's Creed put all games 
 of these two categories aside, because of all its beautiful details: since the well-writted story 
 to the characters moves, everything seems almost perfect.
  When I say almost is because there are some little mistakes. The first of all is (curiously) the 
 ending. If you choose to end the game only on the main missions (without collect the itens) you 
 get an awful and confuse ending. You have to play everything and complete some very difficult missions 
 to watch the real deal ending. 
  Well, play those tons of missions with almost the same objective could be annoying. But if you 
 enjoy the game, you will like the challenge.
  The game-play is amazing, new and innovative. Although, you can break your mouse button in the 
 fighting sequences. 
  A very nice game and deserves a lot of credit to be one of a kind!
  Prepare your dagger and go kill some Templars! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  For some unknown reason, there are not many games featuring the Holy Land in the time of the crusades. Maybe 
 religious reasons, maybe not, but the certain thing is that Ubisoft announced back in 2006 that they 
 were working on a stealth action game placed in the Holy Land,& also showed us an awesome trailer. I 
 was happy too about it, but when I saw that the producer was Jade Raymond... a girl, I started being... you 
 know, sceptical about the game. The concept would mix elements from the Hitman ,Splinter Cell, Thief 
 & Tomb Raider series with a lot of unique elements added. Now, the 360 & PS3 versions of the game 
 were released in Q4 2007,& despite the public succes the title enjoyed, the proffessional reviewers 
 did't quite appreciate the game,& it got a couple of pretty poor reviews. I said hey, let's wait 
 for the PC version, so that I can analyze it accordingly. Well, let's see the result.
  
  Graphics:9/10 A good first impression, the graphics in Assassin's Creed are fantastic. Very good 
 high-res textures for almost everything (people could have been a bit richer in details) ,& what 
 really impressed me was the lack of special effects. Producers nowdays use them to mask graphical 
 glitches, but Ubisoft showed a sign of decency & didn't do that. Of course, the game has its share 
 of bugs, but nothing too serious. The most impressing aspect of the graphics are the cities. You'll 
 be able to walk everywhere you want in Acre, Jerusalem & Damascus. Ubisoft said that the cities were 
 built after real plans of them. Could be, but even if they aren't, they still look awesome. The respect 
 for architecture is certain: each city with its own building style, as it is with the three religious 
 beliefs. The animations are great & look really real, no complaint about that. So why not 10? The bugs 
 I mentioned earlier can be annoying (dead bodies bounce, have extreamly long hands/legs... The water 
 looks awful,& that's a pity. But the crowds are greatly done & it's a wonder that the game works 
 fine while thoulsands of people walk the city's streets. To draw a conclusion, the graphics are not 
 better than in Crysis, GRID, Lost or FarCry 2. But they're still awesome,& that's what really counts.
 
  
  Sound:7/10 Let's take the music first, composed by the famous Jesper Kyd (same who did it wonderfully 
 for the Hitman games) . Now, the music is really really good. Too bad it doesn't fit well in the game. I 
 mean, the music's purpose is to get you deeper into the game's atmosphere. This music doesn't. It 
 has no specific influences for that time. Try to listen it when not playing the game & you'll see 
 that it won't lead you to the Holy Land in the Crusades time. The voice acting is not bad, but it 
 ain't good either. Some people sound convincing, some don't (too bad that Altair, the main character, speaks 
 as at rehearsal, with almost no intonation) . Those who sound really convincing are the preachers... the 
 ones who speak to the crowd. But because Ubisoft had to screw it up, they repeat the same 2-3 sentances 
 continuosly, so you'll get really pissed off & you'll get the sudden desire to make them shut up... kill 
 them. Oh, well... The sound effects, like sword clashes.. things like that, are good enough, but here 
 I'll tell you another thing that whic was forgotten by miss Jade. To point out the religion of each 
 of the three sities, you can't do it only with arhitecture & croud speakers. Why not some prayers, some 
 calls to the mosques for the muslims? All she game us is a randomly generated bell toll in Acre, the 
 Christian city.. Or to point out by this mean that God, Allah or Yahveh are praised in the city would 
 have been great.
  
  Storyline:9/10 The story takes place in two different plans. One in the Crusade Period, in the Holy 
 Land, where assassin Altair needs to eliminate 8 targets, and the other plan in the present day, where 
 Miles needs to recreate the actions of his antcenstor Altair, with the use of the Animus, controlled 
 by two doctors. The story looks at first pretty straightforward, but it's very interesting if you 
 look deeply into it. After each & every assassination there is a scene in the middle of nowhere, 
 where Altair talks to the dying men he had just stricken. What bothers him is that everyone of these 
 men told him that it was no point in killing them, that they served a higher goal, peace & prosperity 
 trough every means necesarry, that they feared that after death there is nothing,& that he, Altair, didn't 
 know what he was doing. So Altair doesn't know what to think, his mind raises many questions without 
 answer. They all have an answer at the end of the game. The end is absolutely amazing. I mean both 
 of them, Altair's one & Miles' one. Quite strange, but nebertheless great.
  
  Gameplay:4/10 As I said before, you'll have to assassinate 8 (or 9, I don't know exactly) persons, so 
 3 for each city (actually, one of them is in the outskirts, but whatever) . Besides the cities, you'll 
 have the outskirts that lead to them & the Assassin's Fortress (geez, such uninspired) . Now I don't 
 think you can go all the way from Damascus to Jerusalem or from Damascus to ACre in 2 minutes, but 
 that's how it is in Assassin's Creed,& it's quite stupid. Duh, a motivation to use the horses, which, despite 
 the good control, are absolutely pointless. Oh, I almost forgot, there is also a speed limit there, in 
 the middle of nowhere,& if you exceed it the guard will be all over you. This is more that just 
 stupid... Well, oonce you get in the city, you'll have to visit the Assassin's Bureau (another "bright" 
 idea) , which directs you to several leads. You need to follow at least three of them in order to 
 receive the contract. Okay, now information-gathering is done by a number of different "minigame" 
 quests, so you can choose your favorite ones each time. These quests need to be found in the city, so 
 you'll have to scout by climbing up the tallest buildings, towers or observation posts scattered 
 troughout the city in order to get another part of the map. Now, some of these quests are given trough 
 informers,& if you are succesful, they'll give you what information you want to know. Now there are 
 stealth assassination quests, where you need to kill three targets without being seen (hard) , archer 
 assassination challenges, where you need to kill archers on the rooftops without being seen (not 
 too hard) , rooftop race challenges, escort challenges (easy) , etc. But the ones I recommand to do 
 are pickpocket (it's easy, you just have to walk behind the guy who has info & press Shift to get 
 the info out) , interrogation (you need to beat up a crowd-speaker to make him tell you what he knows-easy, guard 
 don't interfeer in fist fights) ,& the easiest of 'em all, eavesdrop (just sit on a bench, press F 
 & then E to overhear a convesation) . This one is absolutely supid. Instead of stealthy following 
 them to a secure place, where you would try to stay hiddent when they speak, you need to sit on 
 a bench in the middle of the damn city & hear their "secret" plans. It's as if two guys would be 
 talking out loud in the middle of New York on how to kill Bush. Oh well, when you're done with all 
 these, you'll get a contract & go to the place the target is. Now here's where the hardest part comes 
 in: trying not to fall asleep while an extreamly boring "interactive" cutscene takes place. After 
 that you just have to kill the target, escape the guards,& return to the bureau. Thing is, many times 
 in those cutscenes, the targets are very exposed, but you can't kill them now, no, you need to do it 
 when they're surrounded by guards! That being so, almost all the assassinations will end as bloodbaths,& 
 that sure isn't the definition of an assassin. An assassin should wait for the best moment to strike, not 
 for the worst one. So the game shouldn't be called Assassin's Creed, it should be called Mass Murderer's 
 Creed. Okay, so this is the way EVERY assassination contract works out, so you'll get extreamly bord 
 of the stupid & unspectacular repetivity. If you manage somehow to finish the game, you deserve a 
 medal for your patience. I sure do! Okay, now that you know how the game's scenery works, let's talk 
 about the control, fighting system,& the climbing system. The control is quite weird, but it is very 
 very precise,& after a while you'll like it. For example, to run, you need to keep the right mouse 
 button pressed while pressing space. To move in the crowd without bothering the people you'll genly 
 push them by pressing Shift,& pressing Shift while holding the right mouse button will make you 
 throw aside anyone in your way. Now, to climb a building you'll have to press RMB while near the 
 wall,& keep the directional key pressed. As Jade Raymond said, you'll be able to climb each & every 
 building you wish, but so could you do in Transformers or Hulk, so just this doesn't make it a great 
 game. In comparison with those two though, Assassin Creed's climbing system is more credible: you 
 don't just climb ascend the plain wall, you'll use pillars, windows, smaller rooftops, ladders... things 
 like that. I said that it has a very precise control scheme. The jumps are very precise, you'll never 
 fall off or miss a pillar & when jumping in the grain wagons from the rooftops you will just press 
 RMB+Space & that's it, you'll fall directly there, without controlling your jump. And I'm not saying 
 this as a bad thing, cause it reduces the frustration level a lot. I just remembered: you can't swim,& 
 the smallest contact with water means instant death. Sheesh... Now, let's talk about combat mode. You'll 
 have four weapons: fists, sword, throwing knifes & hidden blade. You imagine how fists work... the 
 hidden blade can be used when enamies are unaware that you want to attack them. Just run towards 
 one & hit LMB & there you go! The throwing knivfes are good as a ranged weapon. You target the enemy 
 with F (he has to be a bit far away) , press LMB & you throw a knife at him, killing him instantly. The 
 knife can also be used as a close comat weapon, as the sword. Now, sword combat. The most stupid combat 
 scheme with swords I've ever seen in my life. You can press LMB for a fast attack that misses everytime,& 
 hold it for a slof, powerful attack that migh hit from time to time. But let's say you're surrounded 
 by 10 enemies. You have to keep RMB pressed,& when one of them starts an attack, you press LMB for 
 a counter attack that kills or stuns. Don't worry about the other enemies, cause they'll just stay 
 & watch you kill their friends, one by one. Absolutely stupid. They're such idiots they won't strike 
 you when your back is vulnerable,& they attack in turns, like they're playing some TBS game or so. One 
 more strange thing: when I'm killing them, some talk & point at me while watching me swing the blade 
 to them. What more can I say? Thing is, that's the ONLY way I used when killing enemies,& I could 
 as well faced 100 guards gathered around me... the same result. Plus that it's boring & the moves 
 repeat themselves again & again & again. You can also grab the enemies & throe them is some structures 
 which collapse, wather, or off a rooftop. Speaking about rooftops, if you throw a soldier down from 
 there, people & other guards will imediatly notice, but won't look up, they look around. Why is that, I 
 cannot possibly understand. Okay, enough, let's talk about the final aspect, running away from guards. You 
 can run away in the crowds, which won't work. You can climb up rooftops & hide in some small chambers 
 with drapes around. The whole army can climb up there, but they won't try to look for you in there. Nope. Same 
 goes for grain wagons or grain piles. Also, while running, if you sit on a bench, the guards will lose 
 you. Why? I can't get it. Some people you save might sometimes slow down the guards in pursuit, or 
 at least that's what the tutorial said. I never tried to see what happens. The thing is that Miles 
 "syncs" to Altair's memory,& if he kills innocents he loses sync. Another very stupid thing. I once 
 jumped from the highest building in Jerusalem & guess what happened? I lost 3 sync bars from the 
 16 I had. Now, if that ain't extreamly stupid, I don't know what it is. Now the most stupid thing of 
 'em all is blending. You can get pass every guard to reach your target if you blend. They see your 
 weapons, but hell, it doesn't matter, you're blending! I've got nothing at all against Bush, but I'll 
 use him as an example once again. A guy with three assault rifles & two rocket launcers on his back 
 who wants to kill Bush gets unbothered near him, because he's BLENDING. Exactly like that is the 
 business in Assassin's Creed. Stupid, huh?
  
  Overall Impression:5/10 All in all, Assassin's Creed had a great potential. An unexploided period 
 of time & place of action & an excellent idea behind it. I don't know how it happened, but they screwed 
 up bigtime. Assassin's Creed is like a demo, like a beta version. It has a couple of ideas put along 
 together, but they still need to correct & blend them perfectly,& to add substance to the game, to 
 make it feel like a game. I waited untill the end for "that" moment to come. It indeed came by the 
 end, which means the rest of the game could have been fixed too. Hell, this could have been such a 
 masterpiece... such a pity. It's strange that the game is both very easy & very hard. Easy because 
 you won't have any difficulties in advancing, hard because not everybody has the patience to finish 
 such a game. At the beggining, I said okay, pretty good game, maybe an 8 in the review. At half time, no 
 wonder: 4 in the review, no arguments! Finally it was 7. To conclude, while playing Assassin's Creed 
 I didn't feel at all as an assassin. I felt like myself pushing buttons on my keyboard, trying not 
 to fall asleep or get to annoyed & banging my head on the desk from time to time. Not that it's 
 a bad game, but when you imagine what it could have been, what a legend... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoltcsas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is a fantastic experience, because it delivers most of the features it promised. I know 
 I may be partial, but after a few hours gameplay I was utterly immersed in the world the game created.
 
  What are the features that tempt me to play again and again? First of all: the sense of freedom. 
 While playing I can feel that I can go wherever I want to go, I can climb whatever I want to climb, 
 and, what is the most important, I can accomplish the tasks in a way I designed and can carry them 
 out in the manner I think is the best. Perhaps this freedom is just a clever design of the creators 
 but it works very well.
  The other tempting factor is the story which is well-written enough to drive me to play on to find 
 out what is going to happen next.
  And of course, the graphics and the world it creates feel so vivid and living that I feel that 
 I am walking amongst the crowds of Damascus, Acre or Jerusalem. The motion captured animations 
 of assassinations, sword-fights; picking pockets look terribly convincing, too. 
  I can only add a slight shortcoming of the game which is the repetitive task design, there is not 
 too much variety in the tasks our favorite assassin has to do, interrogations, assassinations, 
 picking pockets, destroying merchants' kiosks are in the list of quests, and when you are in the 
 second part of the game you can fell a bit of a dj vu. 
  All in all, the game is entertaining and I highly recommend to everyone who wants to experience 
 the tedious life of a 12th century assassin in the Holy Land.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameWarrior16
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft almost made a game that could be remembered for years to come, but a few mistakes will 
 eventually make you hate it. 
  First of all, the game is extremely repetitive, you must do the same side quests over and over 
 in order to assasinate youre main targets. 
  Second, way too easy, there is no exitement if you can always get out of the situation unscathed. 
 
  Third, unremarkable free roam, sure its huge, but the landscape is boring and has no appeal. 
 
  Fourth, slow-paced, there are millions of long cut scenes that end up just interfereing with the 
 game (like metal gear solid 4) . 
  And finally, there is a lack of stuff to do, all you can do is what you gotta do. 
  
  Okay, 
 enough about why it sucks now and more about what makes the game fun. 
  Graphics are amazing, the level of detail is unparalleled and conveys the scenerys perfecfectly.
 
  Its realistic, in this game things happen like they would, you can climb on ANYTHING that looks 
 climbable.
  
  Overall, your first impression of assassins creed will be great, but once you notice the games 
 flaws you cant stand it.
  Sorry ubisoft, almost but not quite. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  good game but thats not what i was expecting for... when i heard that UBISOFT are going to make 
 the assassin Creed game i thought to myself thats gonna be really good game beacuse i thought its 
 gonna be like PRINCE OF PERSIA with more acrobatics moves and some better counter attacks not like 
 in the game...
  
  the graphics is amazing you can say that for sure...
  the sound is also amazing sound so real!...
  
  its fun to move in the city on rooftops XD... 
 but also gets a little booring
  the game is repettive... the missions are really booring at some points
  the fighting is also 
 booring and thats not a game that i want to play again this type of game is a type of: BUY, FINISHED, 
 DELETE,
  
  and not: BUY, FINISHED, STARTOVER like GEARS OF WAR OR CRYSIS OR DEVIL MAY CRY 4... that game could 
 have been way way better...
  but its still great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zitzy2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Well people that have said that this game is a low score, I am surprised they thought that. Maybe 
 they were not playing the same game that I was.
  
  True enough, they say that it is very repetitive, yes I can agree with that to a certain degree, 
 but is that not the same with other games? For example, fps, you aim, and shoot, with this one, 
 you walk, you grab or whatever, then you kill, and it can get tedious when your not sure when your 
 target is, and then a group of soldiers attack you for becoming obvious to them. But thats all 
 apart of the gameplay. Its so much fun.
  
  You jump from building to building, looking amazing, the graphics are simply outstanding, and the 
 shadows and everything is perfect. I was playing it on pc with everything to the max at 1280x1024, 
 and it was one of the best graphical games that I have every played in my entire life.
  
  The story, is a little confusing, but eh you will get over it. The only bad thing I have to say 
 is that there is no way of getting out of the cut scenes when they are talking. And it would be 
 ok if they didnt talk alot, but they talked forever.... Like before you would start a mission, 
 you would have to talk to the bureau leader, and that was just boring, standing around, andI tried 
 to listen and make it exciting, but it wasnt that good. 
  
  
  But on the whole, an amazing game. You need a pretty beefy machine to play it, not as much as Crysis, 
 but still a very beefy machine will definately come in handy for this hog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockerest
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 1:24 am PT
Review:  The game itself is a great masterpiece. It would be pointless to add to the official gamespot review 
 here, so suffice it to say that the game's pieces fit together very well. The audio, graphics and 
 gameplay are all first-class. As for system hitches, I never experiences any in-game glitches or 
 bugs. However, ALT+TAB causes the game to crash. A little annoying, and a bit disappointing, but 
 nothing that will change the way I must play the game.
  
  The part of this game that I despised was the ending. The game is CLEARLY just setting up a sequel, 
 and I don't think the designers even tried to make a useful ending. The player is literally left 
 standing in a room with nothing to do. (given, he COULD go watch the credits scroll, but if he 
 doesn't want to sit through that, he's literally standing in a room with nothing to do.)
  
  I think this game deserves a 9 or a 10, but the ending left a horribly sour taste in my mouth and 
 I think the author should be inundated with angry emails, as should the publisher for letting such 
 a blatantly awful franchising maneuver through to the public. Shame on the game for leaving the 
 player standing in the middle of a room with nothing to do but look at silly puzzles on the floor 
 and read the credits. Shame.
  
  What poor form to end an otherwise great game.
  
  
  As a note of interest to any reader, I spent the time to do EVERY side mission and save EVERY citizen 
 and do EVERYTHING to fill up the little DNA completion bar thing. However, I accidentally went 
 to bed one night before I had gone out to the lab and I think I missed getting Vidic's password. 
 So, I couldn't access his computer, or the computer in the conference room. My fault. Also, I missed 
 three side missions in Memory Block 3 or 4, but my Radar showed nothing missing, so I'm not sure 
 where they were. However, I went back later and rebeat the entire segment. I didn't go and get 
 every flag, but if I saw one, I made the effort to backtrack and get it. I'd call my game completion 
 about 75%, just because I'm missing a ton of flags.
  
  -Rockerest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captain110
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed is a great game based on real historic events, developed by UbiSoft Montreal Studios. 
 You begin as a high rank assassin that wont follow the rules because of his pride. After he messes 
 up with a mission, the chief of assassins punishes him and you are forced to play as a novice to 
 complete the missions. each mission that you complete a rank is restored to you until near the 
 end, that you gain your lost rank completely.
  The story is based on historic events when assassins used to kill the big heads of each army. You 
 as an assassin are to kill 9 great man to stop the crusade and free the holy land.
  the Graphics are great. Lots of improvement from the pop1 from Montreal studios. the sounds and 
 musics are also great. the artificial intelligent is better of its kinds. the only problem is that 
 the game becomes a bit repetitive over the time because you should do all your works in 4 cities 
 only. But overall Assassins Creed is a game you shouldn't miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: en-z-io
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  After viewing videos, screenshots, and reviews of Assassin's Creed, I had high hopes that this 
 game would be great. Instead, it turned into a dichotomous experience. On one hand, I couldn't 
 help but applaud the vibrancy of the world that Ubisoft had created. From the magnificent graphics 
 to the great voice acting to the lively cities, everything felt so... realistic. On the other hand, 
 the game didn't really expand on it's original platform. It's really a rinse and repeat adventure: 
 be assigned a person to kill, complete tedious and mostly uneventful side quests to gather enough 
 information, and then finally assassinate this person -- nine different times. 
  
  The combat, although engaging is rather repetitive as well. Realistically, the only useful combat 
 move is the counter attack move. I was often surrounded by an abundance of guards/soldiers, so 
 it was neither practical nor possible to resort to other measures. You merely sit there, wait for 
 an enemy to attack and then press the 'counter attack button'. Rinse and repeat until all the soldiers 
 are defeated. Unfortunately you have no control over what type of counter attack move your character 
 will employ, so it can become somewhat frustrating when you merely knock down the opponent, not 
 kill him.
  
  And then we come to the story... It's rather lackluster and boring. Ubisoft tried to create some 
 story involving the past and present, but it came off as fragmented and confusing. The cutscenes, 
 although very nicely put together -- with fantastic voice acting -- are not very interesting; they're 
 also very long. The characters seem to ramble on and on about something that you honestly don't 
 care much about. In the end, the story essentially revolves around assassinating high members of 
 each city to eliminate any threat to the Assassin stronghold. Of course, what's a story without 
 a twist? I won't spoil it... but you'll spot it from a mile. 
  
  The game is of decent length. I breezed through it in roughly 10 hours, but there's definitely 
 much more to do. You can complete all six side quests to get to the assassination instead of doing 
 the minimum; although, I had no will to do so, it felt like I was just dragging on the game if 
 I did so. You can also go around saving dozens of citizens from the guards, which gives you these 
 thugs and scholars with which to blend. And finally, you can collect flags and find all view points 
 in the universe. The side 'quests' aren't very substantial and feel like more of a waste of time, 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farigor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  This game is an incredible combination of three successfull and funny game, GTA , Prince of Persia 
 and Hitman.
  Assassin's Creed inherites gameplay style of these games.
  Moreover, this is the most enjoyable game you maybe have chance to play.
  This game costs me 
 over 600$, because I had to upgrade all of my system's Specifications.
  
  Also when you are playing the game, Sometimes you suddenly realize that you are sinking into the 
 game. So game developers awake you and force you to take a rest. coooooool.
  Oh man, The must funny part of the game is the sword battles. spicy battle design and very good 
 war technic implementation.
  Wonderful and wholly huge and big city (kingdom) design with fabulous graphic till now, make Assassin's 
 Creed the BEST GAME EVER created and published yet.
  If you have'nt this game yet, you are wasting your life in every moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arijit_unreal
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  A third person perspective game that allows you to play the role of an Desmond Miles a bar tender, 
 who is the descendant of ancient Assassin named Altair. In 2012 a machine, "Animus", is able to 
 extract the memories from your DNA. Men from Abstergo Industries kidnapped you and has forced you 
 to extract your memory. To know more of the story you have to play the game. You will be jumping 
 back and forth between real world and dreams or rather memories (Matrix style) . The action takes 
 place in the past though.
  
  As an assassin you have to work in stealth. You will be equipped with all necessary "GADGETS", 
 that include Sword, Throwing Knifes, also my personal favorite, The Hidden Blade. As an assassin 
 you should not harm civilians if you do you will lose health! You can jump between rooftops to 
 quickly navigate the city (not to mention tons of other movement features) . Also occasionally you 
 need to find hide spots to become anonymous. To travel large distances you can also do a bit of 
 horse riding.
  There are three major cities of operation: Jerusalem, Acre, Damascus. As the game progresses you 
 will unlock different parts of the city which have varying levels of security. Assassin's Creed 
 has large number of game play elements along with nice story to keep you interested to play it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatalShot84
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Like many of us including myself when you first started this game you probably turned off your 
 xbox 360 just to take the disc out to make sure you had the right game. I know I did. 
  
  However, I do the feel the story in this game was very well played out and keeps you guessing to 
 know whats gonna happen next. The open ending definitely leaves you to believe there will be a 
 sequel.
  
  I think most that enjoyed this game are really looking forward to the sequel only because there 
 is so much room to improve on. Even with all the flaws of the game it still was a descent game 
 and there is room for lots of potential.
  
  When I first started playing this game I was amazed. I remember walking into the first city and 
 my jaw just dropping to the mass of the game. Not to mention the way the AI brings the cities to 
 life. 
  
  It's extremely fun and the game makes you feel like a bad ass assassin like no other. 
  
  The 
 combat system is very fun and smooth, but very easy, which there lies the problem because it's 
 to easy. 
  
  The first 1/2 of this game you'll be having a blast, but the 2nd 1/2 becomes very repetitive as 
 you start to realize all the quest are basically the same. 
  
  I know many that have gotten this game ended up beating it the day they got it or the next because 
 the side quest were so boring so they just did the minimum to get to the assassination quest. Even 
 the assassination quest aren't all you would expect. 
  
  If not for the easy difficulty and extreme repetitiveness I easily believe this game could of managed 
 a 9.5 or even a 10. 
  
  Let us all hope that in Assassin's Creed 2 they remove all these flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  i was looking forward to playing assassins creed, and i think all in all it delivered as a game 
 in a whole. But, i didnt scale all of the view points, or save all the citizens, so it took me 
 a shorter time to beat the game, and on that note, the ending is similar to portal in so many ways, Like 
 the signs that someone has been there before Desmund? i Mean, come on Ubisoft. Be original. I mean, 
 you can tell it was a marketing decision, not a game decision, because it ends after you see some 
 devil writing on the wall, and thats it. it just ends. arggg. Anyway, on the actual game itself:
 
  
  The gameplay in Assassins creed is good, but it just is the same old thing a bunch of times, which 
 isnt original really isnt that original, which is dissapointing, but fighting is very fun and engaging, 
 probably the most fun fighting has been in a game, it was something i always looked forward to. 
 
  
  The graphics are very nice, with realistic environements and DX10, it looked very good, but still 
 the character models besides altair were pretty poor and no different from the DX9 version, but 
 overall, very nice graphics.
  
  This is a good game, dont get me wrong. It just doesnt exceed good, because it relies too much 
 on the Werid sci-fi storyline to keep it going and the complicated new world story that it forgets 
 that it has repititve gameplay throughout. A fun game, but not worth upgrading your computer or 
 anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacob669
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  well when i first got this game the controls were a little wierd, i am stunned at the beauty of 
 this game (detail wise) but on most computers it will prob lag bad. overall the gameplay was pretty 
 good but counter attacks make this game too easy, also archers are soooo anoying! you cant kill 
 them without them killing you. up untill the last bosses this game is easy but fun.
  
  this game would have been alot better if the guards werent phycic
  
  the guards couldnt climb, jump, roll, 
 and balence perfectly like an assassin
  
  you could make money by stealing or killing
  
  you could spend the money on better wepons and stuff
  
  you could make your own mods easy
 
  
  and in the trailer the assassin has a crossbow on his back, just to let u know you never get the 
 crossbow you get knives
  
  so that's basicly my review on this game
  
  oh and if anyone knows and mod sites can you mail em to me plz? thx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed, takes a new setting, the period of the Third Crusade, thought to have been a 
 lost era, for video games. With games like Thief back in the 90's using such a time period. 
  
  Assassin's Creed has lots of length to it, with flags, view points, hostages, and challenges 
 to do, and if you go through all of them, it can take you more than 10 hours. With that in mind, 
 the missions are all the same, you go into a city, scout some information by either interrogating, 
 listening in or pick pocketing, once information is obtained you go ask permission for the assassination 
 then you go to kill your target, now repeat. This gameplay isn't that bad, even though its repetitive, 
 but i really wanted more of a stealth gameplay, for example, i wanted to sneak behind my opponent, 
 but it seems like my target had eyes behind his head and alerted the whole city. This sort of thing 
 prevents me from taking a more intelligent and stealthy path of play. 
  
  Assassin's Creed feels more like Spider-Man in the Third Crusade, only without the swinging. The 
 idea of going anywhere you want, is very refreshing, and fun. Climbing super tall buildings, especially 
 historical buildings. Taking the time to climb every view point, trying to find all the flags, 
 saving civilians feel rewarding, but not enough.
  
  The story is executed poorly, mainly due to the fact that there is no cinematic camera direction, 
 you can switch the camera during conversation, but they just stay in one place, and makes you want 
 to fall asleep.
  
  The graphics are great, cities are fully populated, and buildings afar are rendered with some details. 
 the lighting and shadows really stand out. The game runs really smooth, until you hit the higher 
 levels of details, but there are no unexplained stuttering, as there have been in recent PC ports. 
 The only downside are character models, the population of cities are i can understand, since there's 
 so many, but main characters should be better rendered, especially the faces. Only Altair looks 
 the best.
  
  The music is excellent, although there is only a few tracks that loop once in a while, and the 
 voice overs are good but not great, since everyone in the story is neutral all the time, there 
 are no characters with emotion, other than that seldom angry guy, but you cant really tell through 
 the VO. When you run around the city, you'll hear the same phrases from civilians such as "Can 
 I Have Some Money?!" or "Why is he doing that?" and when there are over 5 civilians to save in 
 a city, most likely all five will say the same thing to thank you. It would have been alot better 
 if there had been more variety of VO's.
  
  Assassin; s Creed like the Prince of Persia series, is a "not quiet there yet" kind of game, it 
 has too many flaws, such as repetitive game play, and lack of detail, that make this game from 
 being surprising and succeeding the way Ubisoft would want it to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilz_89
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  The one thing that really impresses me is the first impression that the game gives. I mean this 
 game has some really cool concept, and well executed at that. But there are some things that bring 
 this game sliding down from perfect to a great game. It does not mean that this one's not worth 
 playing. No sir. This is one of the must haves. Though i would recommend the consoles versions 
 above these. Lets start with the brilliance this game possesses.
  At First glance the Graphics are amazing. The amount of detail given Altair and the NPCs is praise-worthy. 
 The way Altair's robes move when he walks, runs jumps, hangs from a ledge is satisfying. The high-res 
 textures looks great. I really liked the character design. The whole game is extremely detailed. 
 Hat's off to Ubisoft for that. The grainy effect in the present world is superb.
  The game-play is immersive and rewarding at the beginning. Altair's animations are extremely smooth 
 and fluent. Just looking at him climbing towers and building is awesome. Also, the way he reacts 
 with the crowd is damn nice. The sword-fights are engaging, if not satisfying. Throwing a knife 
 is cool too. The blend concept is well implemented, although it seems stupid later on in the game.
 
  The city design is Perfect. I've never seen such Detailed cities ever. Not even a single space 
 in it seems wasted. each city has its own uniqueness to it, that sets apart one from the other.
 
  Story is semi-great. I mean the Animus concept is really good, and different.
  What brings the game down is its repetitiveness. I mean you always have to run after an assassination. 
 Stealth assassination never works. And the dialogues the dying target blabbers is plain dumb. I 
 mean i know it is a way the story unfolds but what are the guards doing while these two have their 
 conversations? Checking out girls? You do the same thing in each district.
  *Enter city.
  *Collect info about the target.
  *Assassinate target in front of Guards/Crowd.
  *Listen to 
 their Dying words.
  *RUN
  *Go to next City and repeat.
  After the third time it gets boring.
  Also i've noticed Altair's robes getting clipped whenever 
 I'm Synchronizing with the crowd. Also in one of the Stealth Assassination Targets Sum-Missions, 
 I never found the 5th Target. No he was not on the roof and neither on the street. He must be in 
 one of those houses between them having tea with the ladies. The climax is horrible. Oh, the limits 
 to which developers fo in order to ensure a sequel!!!
  Performance-wise AC is mediocre. Frame-rates in the cities are good, but in the kingdom, it lags 
 terribly. Snatches the fun from it.
  Play this with wide breaks. Play set of three missions at a stretch. Then go play a different game. 
 Come back and play some more. That way the feeling of repetitiveness is minimized. And you will 
 enjoy the game a lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: three_tiui
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  this game is what an action adventure should be, breathtaking graphics, awesome gameplay and storyline, 
 the weakpoint is : this game is REPETITIVE as hell from the beginning till the end, but regardless 
 of the gameplay the pc version is great, the game is taking advantage of the pc hardware, i mean 
 there are direct x 9 and direct x 10 option. Also there is rumor about this game have direct x 
 10.1 option, but nullified by d**n ubisoft, because of their agreement with nvidia, to support 
 "the way it's meant to be played" nvidia's marketing hype.
  The game also has amazing sound in it. you can hear the floor is cracking when altair is walking 
 on the roof, you also can hear the bird's sound. 
  People will react different depends on what you are doing.
  there are many ways to kill the guards. 
 you can stealth assasinate them, drop them from high place, throwing knife into them, throw them 
 into merchant stand etc. this is where the fun for me =)
  All of this is a plus point of this game.
  so my point is this game is GREAT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viet1125
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  My point of view is quite different from Gamespot's reviewer . People are a bit difficult on the 
 PC's version. When I first play this game, my first impression is that it's nearly flawless. However, 
 after a few hours and especially after finishing the game I have figured out something good and 
 bad about controlling the Flying One:
  1. Beautiful graphic. That's right. The concept, the texture, the natural sights are magnificent. 
 The screen shots can already make wallpapers, the game plays are already nice trailers.
  2. The AI is pretty good. The crowd, the soldiers, scholars, thugs react sharply to your actions. 
 And the good thing is you hardly find anyone keeps walking toward a wall or sticks to someone else.
 
  3. The story. It's great to know what you are fighting for rather than just smashing to satisfy 
 your blood-thirst. Assassin's Creed is a must-have for gamers who love history-based games and 
 also for someone loves sophistication and philosophy. It's story suck you in until you finish it.
 
  4. The fighting is just right. Exciting and quite easy after some practice. Your an assassin but 
 that doesn't prevent you to provoking the guards into a fight to show your stylish moves.
  It's not good for someone who haven't owned this game yet all the excitement . But you won't regret 
 for buying this game. The atmosphere that it creates makes you want to kill some templars for real!
 
  But there are also something I must warn you:
  1. Some glitches. Sometimes I got stuck and sink in walls.
  2. It's quite difficult to control 
 using keyboard.
  3. Altair cannot swim. Stay out of the water.
  4. The voice acting does not fit.
  5. Sometimes you get bored for repetitive game play. But if 
 you love the story it doesn't matter.
  Assassin's Creed is the best action adventure game in recent years in my opinion. It's a good thing 
 that Ubisoft still cares about PC gamers. This game require a good machine to run smoothly. Besides, 
 just grab yourself a good gamepad and enjoy being a ghost who haunts the Holy land. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holy_dave
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  I recently left the house on a rare excursion to the cinema, ostensibly to watch a film, but also 
 to get the unrivalled pleasure of watching said film in a room full of idiots with weak bladders 
 and big mouths. After seeing that nothing good was on, I opted to pay to see M. Night Shyamalan's 
 new 'paranoid thriller' (whatever that means) , "M. Night Shyamalan's The Happening, by M. Night 
 Shyamalan".
  
  I didn't expect anything special, scary, thrilling or even good, and let me tell ya folks, I wasn't 
 disappointed on those fronts. It had bad acting, a bad storyline, bad setting, bad characters and 
 MARKY MARK. But the thing that got me the most, and is getting me increasingly in recent years, 
 is the pseudo-scientific "It could happen guys!" premise.
  
  Bear with me, this is a reveiw of Assassin's creed, I promise. Basically, a summary of the story 
 is that trees and plants can talk to eachother, concoct a neurotoxin capable of forcing humans 
 to commit suicide in the most creative of fashions and control the wind. No seriously. And don't 
 worry about spoilers, this is all revealed within the first few minutes, making the subsequent 
 cinematic dirge a pointless waste of life. But the worst thing is, the film tries to pass this 
 off as a possibility. You always get the odd little nudge from M. Night Syamamalihjoaivnhvalk saying 
 "this could happen, so turn off ya standby buttons guys".
  
  Right, the reason i mention this is that Assassin's creed seems to be infected with the same disease 
 as The Happening. You play some dude who can't act who gets captured by some dude who can act and 
 Kristen Bell, and gets placed in some VR nightmare, so far, so Tron. Apparently, and here's the 
 funny part, they want to see some memories inside you. Ok, you say, sounds alright, they've invented 
 some sort of oneiroscope thing that can see my memories. Sci fi. Could happen. Maybe. 
  
  So far, so 'The Lathe of Heaven'. But then the guy who can act, who for my finger's sake we shall 
 call L'homme, tells you that he doesn't want your memories. No, that'd be too easy. He wants the 
 memories of you ANCESTOR, who was some badass ninja or somethin'. "Lol, wut?" you scoff incredulously, 
 but L'homme explains. This machine, the Animorph or Animaniac, "I forget what it's called," says 
 L'homme, can see into your DNA and retreive the memories of your ancestor in a convenient, video 
 game format. But what they want is to see the last level, but cos you're a total mind wuss, you 
 have to play through from the start.
  
  Your character, the guy who can't act (henceforth known as "Beau") , seems perplexed, which is understandable. 
 I was perplexed too, after I'd finished wiping up the piss on my seat that had leaked out after 
 my prodigious laughing fit. Not to worry though, cos L'homme wafts away the obfuscation with some 
 neato off the wall genius. 
  
  "Your memories," he purrs, "Are stored in your DNA, and said memories are passed down through the 
 generations, perfectly preserved."
  
  Silence. All that can be heard is the low hum off the offensive bloom effect. Kristen Bell scratches 
 her crotch nervously. Beau still doesn't get it:
  
  "But I thought," Says Beau, "that your brain had no effect on your genetic makeup, and that any 
 form of this interaction would be an impossibility. that's surely like saying that If you got your 
 arm blown off in some war and/or assassination attempt, any kids you spawn would also have said 
 arm missing. It's a scientific impossibility surely Keith Allen."
  
  "L'Homme," He corrects Beau, sharply, "No, Mr Miles, you've got it all wrong. Turns out I'm right. 
 How d'ya think birds known where to migrate to, huh?"
  
  "Well, from parental guidance of course. Orphaned birds don't even learn to fly."
  
  "Oh yeah," 
 L'homme seems stumped, "You've got me there. But the machine works anyway, look!"
  
  And suddenly, through an excellect interactive loading screen, you are transported into the actual 
 game.
  
  
  So yeah, an interesting concept, but total bollards, for reasons that our erstwhile friend Desmond 
 'Beau' Miles explained. You may now say "But Dave, this is fiction, it's harmless, leave it be 
 man!", and I would be inclined to agree where it not for the fact that the games creators seem 
 to be passing this pseudo-scientifical garbage off as written.
  
  Kristen Bell, who I really rate as an actress actually, claimed that the story was based on real 
 science. Yeah. Like, DNA exists? 'Cos that's about where the science ends. I'm just worried that 
 some impressionable young idiot is going to come along, play the game, and then be put under the 
 impression that it is based on valid scientific conjecture.
  
  
  Phew. Right, now, the game.
  
  
  The Game itself, fantastical story aside, is absolutely 
 superb. I mean, I haven't had this much fun since I smoked a joint and watched 'Wimbledon' in reverse 
 whilst listening to the Benny Hill theme. The feeling of being an absolute badass is unparalleled, 
 once you work out the controls. Jump from rooftops, scale cathedral towers, pounce on unsuspecting 
 guards... 
  
  Basically, I'd recommend buying it. Just don't take any notice of the story; pseudo-science aside, 
 it's boring and clichd and wholly predictable. Having said that, I look forward to the planned 
 sequels, which will hopefully further shed light on the stuff I've already worked out for myself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B0real
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  It is easy to recognize Prince of Persia playing. A correct and original history, a superb soundtrack, 
 spectacular acrobatics and combat system. The atmosphere transports us and Anymus makes us dream! 
 I really have good words about this game...
  
  But, It's a bit boring after 2-3 hours. When the "WOW!!!" is finish, there is no really new stuffs, 
 levels, missions, repetitive cinematics, etc. Not enough to rank this game as a incredible game.
 
  
  But, i must admit that I continue to play over and over again. ;) It's fun to run, climb and jump 
 everywhere, to have completely the choice of how you want to play the game depending of your mood 
 of the moment. He really worth playing.
  
  Ubisoft Montreal could lead us far away in this genre already seen and reviewed by the Prince of 
 Persia series. Even if it stands out very well by its qualities, unfortunately i think it will 
 be very quickly forgotten because of the rest. 
  
  It would be very great to see this game in a kind of GTA universe.. but please, don't bring it 
 in a MMORPG!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariusyka
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is an excellent action adventure game..... the ideea based on the 15th century is 
 not so bad...... Its just like Prince of Persia series who was made by UBISOFT..... The stylles are 
 not to bad, the graphics are higher enough if you ask me.
  This game consumes allot of resoursces, If you dont have a powerfull computer you wont be able 
 to play it...... If you want to play this game go to your parents and ask them to buy you a new 
 pc performance.
  Lets return to the game..... The free play mode arround the world is a very good ideea because all 
 the games created now are based on killing and ending missions quickly.
  In this game you are an assassins dressed like a monk and you can mess up in to the crouwds, you 
 cand stay on a banch YOU HAVE LIBERTY to play without making a mission.
  The story mode its excellent, I'm saying this because I have played the game and I liked it very 
 much.
  So I recomand this game to all fans of action-adventure games like Me......
  Im the biggest fan: D: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was one of those well-marketed 'next-gen' game, first appearing on Xbox 360 and 
 PS3. The third-person stealth assassin concept looked very appealing when set in the landscapes 
 of the 'Holy Land', dated during the Crusades. It was during this time that many discussed how 
 much fun they had with it so it was something to look forward to for the PC version. Some of my 
 questions in mind were what sort of specs was I looking at to play the game and how well would 
 the game translate to PC controls. I soon found out once i got to play it. Running it in 1920 x 
 1200 using an 8800GTX, it ran perfectly smooth 95% of the time. The 5% that was slightly juddery 
 was in sections of the game which you rode your horse in a large open environment at speed. Still, 
 it was very much playable in terms of performance and it had very sharp and crisp graphics with 
 a generous dosage of post-processing effects. Something to celebrate was how well my 360 pad worked 
 with the game right from the very start with no tinkering of the settings. Even the tutorial instructions 
 followed the right buttons on the pad. It's something to be expected since this game was on the 
 360, it makes sense for the controller to feel exactly the same, but you'd be surprised at how 
 bad control issues were on PC games some years ago. Let's hope this sort of development for game 
 controls continue for every other PC game, especially for ported console games.
  
  The story is very sci-fi esque, harking to similarities to Matrix and in ways, has borrowed art 
 directions from Half Life 2. Holding distinct impressions of what to expect from the game, i was 
 surpised to find myself controlling my character (Desmond Miles) in a future setting held 'as a 
 prisoner' under a seemingly authoritarian society. A machine called the Animus, looking much like 
 a operatiing table in a middle of a large, white, barren room is where the game revolves around. 
 This machine is used by your kidnappers to search out memories hidden within your DNA, supposedly 
 containing the experiences of your ancestors. However for the machine to produce results, the person 
 in the machine must 'synchronise' or otherwise experience unstability; you can't just jump right 
 into a memory from the outset and just retrieve whatever you want. From a stable 'connection', 
 you begin to play out your memories and increase your synchronisation levels. Within those memories, 
 your job is to kill - acting within the Assassin's Creed. Unfortunately, after endangering your 
 brotherhood in an incident, the brotherhood has seen fit to strip you of your rank and skill set. 
 But you are then sent on discreet missions working your way up once again.
  
  
  One of the first things that will leave a distinct impression on you would be the presentation. 
 Although graphically excellent in both detail and modelling, the game uses generous amounts of 
 post-processing effects to just make this feel 'next-gen' - the game makes an effort to advertise 
 this by giving you the option to change camera angles during cut scenes. The art direction from 
 both outside and within the memories stand out and contrasts well with each other. While out of 
 the Animus, the rooms feel like a laboratory, trapped, locked, and lifeless: Inside your memories 
 as an assassin, the landscapes become richer and full of life. It is within these memories that 
 the game really takes off. Guards populate the cities of the Holy Land, citizens walk around in 
 droves and with the buildings and objectives scattered around the map - it literally becomes your 
 playground. You can scale buildings, jump across gaps and literally be able to reach the tops of 
 the highest buildings. Watching your character do so is quite magnificent because the climbing/jumping 
 animation never really looks awkward and that the sense of height and freedom is believable. It's 
 done so well, it'd make any Spiderman game blush in shame. Why is there a need to scale these buildings? 
 Well firstly, it's needed to get a view of the city which unlocks objectives - plus, it's sometimes 
 easier to travel that way. Once you complete enough of these objectives (gathering information) 
 you are then given the clearance to carry out your assassination mission - the specific target 
 set by your leader. To add to the presentation, the sound is also excellent. The music will adjust 
 to the mood readily whether you're running away from guards, locked in battle, or hidden away waiting 
 for the coast to clear. The sound effects work realistically well but the highlight is the voice 
 work. It's 'Hollywood' convincing during the cut-scenes but can be irritating when speeches are 
 repeated over and over by the citizens within the city walls - especially the beggars.
  
  Repetition is the key word here. While the game tries to break up the game through different people 
 or locations, it all boils down to the same basic objectives numerous times in each and every new 
 city you visit: Rescue civilian, pick up flags within a time limit, eavesdrop on someone, kill 
 guards, escort a 'friend' and then boss battle. Granted, you only need a few objectives to get 
 clearance for the assassination mission but there's incentive to complete every objective available 
 (even though they're so similar to one another) to increase your synchronisation bar (health bar) . 
 The objectives are actually fun at the beginning because there's much to experiment at the beginning 
 - but it's done so many times over and over in each and every city that there is little to be unexpected 
 once you have done 2 assassinations or so. Thus, there is a lot of reason to get bored with the 
 game halfway through. In my case, i wanted to complete the game and find out what is going to happen 
 to Desmond Miles - those are the incentives to keep you hooked into the game, despite the great 
 gameplay it becomes played out by the time you get halfway through the game. But let's try and 
 be more positive. For what excitement there is to be had, it is excellent. The game combines so 
 many elements together - Spiderman wall-climbing, Zelda horse-riding, sandbox dynamics with guards 
 and hiding spots, Prince of Persia sort of combat, as well as employing stealth in a very accomplished 
 state - it becomes a unique, successful mix. It seems as if the game was made out of a genuine 
 inspiration but is just a snapshot in time - my meaning is that the game fails to evolve as you 
 progressed and so fails to keep your interest.
  
  The really good portions of the game are those thrill-seeking moments. Those times when you're 
 outnumbered by 6 others, the times you leap off great heights into a stack of hay or those times 
 when you climb up a building to stealth kill a guard with your hidden blade under your wrists - 
 it's excellent. But the repetition starts biting at you as you learn the patterns, and start seeing 
 some failings, like how can you climb 50 metres high, leap off into some hay and come off unscathed? 
 How can you stealth kill enemies so easily while standing face to face? Or there might be some 
 other slight bugs during the combat. The combat is excellent. Although the controls can be a little 
 loose and unresponsive at times, it ultimately is fun. While in combat, pressing attack at the 
 moment your sword hits will result in a special move - often resulting in a killing blow. If you 
 press counter at the right time, you'll unleash a special move. While these moves are played out 
 though, your character usually does not end up in the same place as where you started, this is 
 bad in some situations; if you manage to get your character behind an 'invisible wall', your character 
 will suffer an instantaneous death. There will also be times when you can get hit and be flown 
 10 metres into the air. While there are glitches in the game, they are rare. You may find some 
 frustration amongst the combat; there were times when i killed 10 or so guards one after another 
 with no sweat at all by spamming my countering moves, yet struggle against 3 normal guards because 
 my counter wasn't responding and just get hacked to death - but i'll reiterate, it is still fun.
 
  
  There is something about this game that doesn't quite leave the right taste though. While the game 
 is incredibly fun while your interest in it lasts - the story seems to be something of an afterthought. 
 Sure, there is a plot, there are bosses, there is some small development of your character, but 
 what if it wasn't really meaningful? The story is not your average tit tat in terms of gaming, 
 but i found it to be rather predictable. And the way the game ends was rather exciting, if only 
 it continued - but it came to an abrupt end hinting at a sequel. Now that i think about it, it 
 was rather forced. The game could easily have been cut down in repetition but lengthened by continuing 
 the story. Money-making scheme by dragging out and splitting one game into 2? I seem to think so. 
 Also, what was with these flags that you collected? After considerable time spent in gathering 
 these flags scattered across the lands, i found out that there was nothing to gain in doing so. 
 In many ways, i have to say that the game is rather short-lived and there is not much to do once 
 you have completed the story. I may sound negative a lot here but really, the game is really good. 
 The settings, characters, fights, freedom of movement and ambitious but far fetched storyline are 
 things that make this one game you have to play - although i'd really recommend a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mivanc
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 23, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Basically what my deck says.
  
  Innovative gameplay, great story. Enjoyed it the whole way through though after awhile it gets 
 repetitive to save civilians and run errands and such. I didn't bother chasing flags (though I 
 picked up the ones I saw) . Doesn't seem to be any reward in finding them, so no point wasting time 
 doing that. The assassinatons are great but having to all the sub-missions to activate the assassination 
 was a chore after awhile.
  
  I enjoyed the mechanics of the game very much. One I got the hang of it, killing guards was enjoyable. 
 Got my ass kicked a couple times, those guards didn't give up easy in some places.
  
  Graphics were good. Great fun playing through 3 historic cities. Viewing points were mostly the 
 same though. only a couple I remember were different. Not sure if I'll play it again though. Better 
 games out there that actually have replay value. This one doesn't, IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadyre
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This game lives up to the hype in my opinion. I enjoyed the story and the fact that it played well 
 on my 64x2 4600+ with a 320 mb 8800GTS and 2 GB Ram. Granted I did play it on XP due mainly to 
 the fact that the DX10 graphics are the same as the DX9 version. 
  
  Story: Nicely done crossover between modern day futuristic and medieval settings." Do at your pace" 
 style gaming appeals to me and this game reminded me a lot of Oblivion or Stalker in the sense 
 that you move at your own pace freely between areas. 
  
  Graphics: Excellently detailed graphics. It's the best I've seen since Oblivion and Stalker. I 
 do have a small complaint and that is that there is very little color to the environments. If you 
 like brown and tan then you are in luck here.
  
  Voice acting: Excellent again. There were some repeat conversations as I was saving citizens but 
 I can forgive that given the rest is just great.
  
  Music: Good score and dynamically placed. It didn't stand out like Thief, Deus Ex or even System 
 Shock but what does nowadays.
  
  Overall I thought it was a great ride. Now I'm heading back in the pick up all the flags (although 
 this is kind of a ripoff of GTA) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Last year, Ubisoft released one of the best selling games called Assassin's Creed. Xbox 360 and 
 PS3 users were now leaping across buildings as assassin Altair in the Holy Land, 12th Century AD. 
 Of course, where was the PC version that was promised? The release date was pushed back till February 
 of 2008, and then March and finally, the game arrived in April. Was it worth the wait? I would 
 say a definite YES! It's got its flaws but it's still one of the most unique games out there; first 
 and foremost is the fact that it's NOT a sequel to anything and NOT a shooter. The story takes 
 place in the Holy Land where you, Altair, are assigned to assassinate 9 targets scattered across 
 the Kingdom. You'll travel to cities like Damascus, Jerusalem, and Acre to achieve these goals. 
 There's also a twist in the story that is revealed early on but I won't spoil it here. Before you 
 can assassinate each target, you'll have to first climb a "viewpoint" to reveal the map then choose 
 which investigations to complete. You can eavesdrop, pickpoket, or use brute force in interrogation. 
 Exclusive to the PC are "Informer Investigations" where you can escort your brethren to safety, 
 assassinate Templars and archers (timed and untimed) , destroy merchant stands working for the enemy 
 (timed and untimed) and oddly, collect a series of flags in timed mode. It adds a lot more variety 
 to the investigations, but they seemed somewhat tacked on to allow a "Director's Cut" label. It 
 also leads into its one glaring flaw: repetition. You're pretty much doing the same investigations 
 in each cities most of time. You can also save citizens too where vigilantes will then stand around 
 breaking off pursuing guards. These are all nice ideas and you'll be amazed at the depth where 
 you first play but may get bored later on cause it's pretty much the same thing. The graphics in 
 the game are amazing, with the cities rendered in amazing quality full of crowds that react to 
 your presence. It comes with a price however, as you'll need a dual core CPU as the minimum and 
 at least Geforce 8 or 9 card to experience a smooth experience (a 9600GT is fine) . Sound is equally 
 great, with the music produced by Jesper Kyd of Hitman fame. The voice acting is also great; you'll 
 here Kirsten Bell in the game, though its kinda weird that Altair has an American voice. He also 
 doesn't really come off as likable and sounds brutish and arrogant sometimes so I think they should 
 soften his personality a bit if (and they will) they make a sequel. Assassin's Creed is a unique 
 game due to fact that no one has used such a setting before. You can climb anywhere and leap around 
 rooftops like some Medieval Spider-Man or Lara Croft and you'll get a kick out of it. The controls 
 are surprisingly well to handle but a little complex. The tutorial is lengthy so you should get 
 the hang of it with time. Everything revolves around the mouse buttons, spacebar, and shift button. 
 The combat is also nice but its a mystery as to why the guards attack one by one instead of all 
 at once. Like I said, the game does have a few flaws, but Assassin's Creed is still an amazing 
 game and you should definitely pick it up. And Jade Raymond is incredibly hot (her last name is 
 my first name!) =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anitrex
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Combine Platforming and Sand box games
  and the end result is Assassins Creed!!
  Once you get the hang of this game this
  game is more addicting then an availabe
  narcotics 
 out there!!
  Dont wory it wont harm you!!
  But just control yourself or
  you might end up finishing 
  the game in one go!!
  You wont even realize that it has been 14-16 
 hours!!
  (Note: All the above things about addiction are pure crap!! My review 
  needed to be atleast 100 words for submissin. There had to write
  all the crap. But except the 
 narcotics and the addiction thing everything
  else is real as well as the ratings below)
  Rate-O-Meter:
  Graphics:10/10 (Looks almost like the real thing)
  Gameplay:10/10 (Using a gamepad)
 
  Freedom:10/10 (Go anywhere anyhow)
  Story: ---- (I havent completed the game yet)
  Satisfaction:10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drek4
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 8, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Superbe graphics that is true... but with all the hype of THE game of the century I expected much 
 more... but that`s it... a pain to install, a tedious experience with the controls... the console 
 version of the game must be great I am sure... but for PC version I want to use my keyboard & mouse... but 
 with this game... not very much a thing to enjoy... maybe that`s why it`s cheaper in this version... compared 
 to the console versions... go back & do your homework ... unless you prefer to sell only to the console 
 market lol
  Because this game needs a few patchs to say the least... no wonder no demo was available... if so 
 the sales would be so very much less... that I am so very much sure... I expected more from Ubisoft...
 
  If this is the future of PC games... let me live in the past!!!
  Another $50 in the garbage... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorancez
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  The historical environment (buildings, the people, the life style in that period of time) was so 
 perfect which explains the good research that the game makers did and how they translate it to 
 this magnificent work.
  
  Also for the mission types and how to proceed with the game story line was so cool specially when 
 we have to investigate and know exactly why we should assassinate the target.
  
  The movements of the character "Altair" running from the enemies or climbing roof tops and the 
 way of hiding it was so real and it was a great feeling when he jumps from a high tower.
  
  About the way of fighting with knifes and sword was so excellent especially when he do a special 
 attacking move to finish the enemy.
  
  At the end its really good game and I hope we can see a lot of this kind of games in the future.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortex_gw
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  I was so excited about this game that I couldn't wait to get my hands on it. The first two hours 
 it was almost fun to play but after two more hours I realised that this game is just not what I 
 expected. And I will tell you why. The game is sooooooo easy and repetitive that I said:
  
  -"I want my money back".
  
  Just holding two buttons you can run from roof-top to roof-top, 
 climb tall buildings and basically everything. Isn't that laziness or what. The AI is so dumb. 
 It can't be explained with words. You just have to make some tests and you will see. An "army" 
 couldn't kill me. I was killing them one by one and the others were just waiting their turn and 
 watched their buddies die. The city was full of dead bodies so I decided to try something different 
 and guess what Altair can't swim. LOL! He can climb buildings almost like spider-man but he can't 
 swim. That's just hilarious.
  
  The "quests" are so lame. After the first assassination target I completed the game by doing only 
 the minimum (3/6 ) "quests" required for killing each target. Killing these guys was fun I admit.
 
  
  Of course the game looks great and the towns are almost alive but with time you realise that the 
 drunkards, beggars and the crazy dudes interact only with you. I never saw a single drunkard push 
 other person but me. The same thing is with the beggars. At first it was cool to hear someone saying 
 that you have lost your mind when you are climbing a building. But after two hours you will know 
 all lines by heart and they get so annoying that there was a time when I turned off the sound. 
 
  
  The storyline at first is as lame as it can get but when I found out why I had to kill all those 
 people it is not that lame. It's actually great. I like the part that all religions are just a 
 pile of lies and "Nothing is true, everything is permitted". I love that catch phrase.
  
  I haven't played it on the 360 but on the PC is just to da*n easy, repetitive and with lazy-ass 
 controls. Assassin's Creed has almost perfect graphics and I will say without any doubt that watching 
 someone playing the game is more exciting than playing it yourself.
  
  I will never play it again. Shame on you Ubisoft.
  
  I really hope the sequel will be more 
 challenging, with better controls and not so repetitive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxwalker
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I am not sure if this really deservers a 1 but with so many 9s and 10s, I think it needs the skew. 
 Great graphics, but that is the only great. It seems like you have almost no control over the game. 
 How you achieve your goals is completely mapped out. I don't understand how it got so many great 
 reviews. As others have said, I got bored with it very quickly. I got frustrated by having no control 
 over what happens next. I got frustrated by how often the game takes over your actions and dictates 
 the outcomes of encounters. 
  
  It seems like the game developers have sacrificed the Game AI to flashy graphics. I think when 
 reviewing games like these other reviewers should try to put them into perspective of other great 
 games of similar type and style. 
  
  Does this really rate a 9 or 10 compared to Oblivion, Half-Life, System Shock 2, Jedi Outcast, 
 Thief 2, Deus Ex or Far Cry? I don't think so. In my opinion game companies need to focus more 
 on making the AI smarter and more ways to get the player involved by giving them more choices on 
 solving problems, and allow for different outcomes based on user choices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highwayman2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I must say I give Ubisoft a hand for a marvelous game like their Spilnter Cell series.
  
  Anyway, you play Alstair, a top assassin of a order - no wait - you was a top assassin until YOU 
 messed up really bad.
  
  So what you need to do is redeem yourself has the most deadly assassin in the order...
  
  Seems 
 simple? No it not, you have to go about learning to control Alstair has he is agile. you control 
 the man to climb and jump buildings, fight or be at peace with your environment!
  
  I most say, to play this game initially, you need to know how to think llke Alstair! Once you can 
 accept the man, you enjoy the game.
  
  The ending appears so completely false that it took me time to think - This is worse than the movie 
 Brazil! - strange!
  
  Remember, you most have the right frame of mind before enjoying this piece of art - other wise 
 I fear for your sanity! - DWL!
  
  iPLEASE NOTE: IS ZENEDINE ZIDANE GONNA COME BACK FROM RETIREMENT HAS IF TO SAY - IS THIS GAME GONNA 
 HAVE A SEQUEL?!?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 9:57 pm PT
Review:  In Assassins Creed you play the role of Altair. An Assassin looking to regain his honor for a past 
 mission gone wrong. So how else do you regain honor as an assassin... plain and simple just go assassinate.
 
  
  Pros
  
  Graphics - Simply unreal at how beautiful Assassins Creed is. With an EVGA 8800GT Superclocked 
 Edition I can play Assassins Creed maxed out. Thats every AA, and "eye candy" feature enabled. 
 I even have crowds turned up to their max capacities. Did i mention it runs very smoothly no frame 
 choppiness whatsoever.
  
  The amount of graphical detail is simply amazing. Altair feels and looks very alive in his very 
 fluid motions as he scales buildings and hops rooftops. There are no in-game loading times as you 
 go from district to district of cities or across the kingdom. Which would lead you to expect environments 
 and people just magically appear like in a Grand Theft Auto game, but nope everything is there. 
 Which is very impressive considering how detailed and beautiful everything looks. Scattered throughout 
 cities and the kingdom are buildings called "lookouts." You guessed it theyre large tall buildings 
 you have to climb to see your surroundings and look for side quests and friendlies or targets. 
 Every time you climb a lookout the first time you are given a mini cut-scene that show cases the 
 games beauty and surroundings.
  
  The use of lighting in the game is absolutely amazing it adds so much more to the already beautiful 
 models of cities and characters and Altair.
  
  Best graphics I've ever seen... besides Crysis
  
  Controls - Assassins Creed has a very awkward 
 control scheme at first, but soon you come to realize it is very well designed.
  
  Combat - Counterattacks, throwing knifes, short blades, long blades... Altair feels like he could 
 hold his own against anybody. It feels simple but at the same time challenging because you have 
 to time everything correctly and constantly monitor all of your enemies.
  
  Story - I kind of had a mixed reaction at first, but the more I played the more I realized it actually 
 added some unique elements to the game. What happens is you are actually a 21th century descendant 
 of Altair who has to sit in this machine, the "Animus", that reads your memories (supposedly you 
 have your ancestors' memories stored somewhere in your DNA) and allows you to relive them as your 
 ancestors. So occassionally you will be forced to take "breaks" which will require you to walk 
 around and talk with the people or interact with surroundings because they further you go the more 
 you find out your ancestors and you may be intertwined somehow...
  
  Anyways Altair the coverboy... Like I said Altair was the man, the number 1, the guy not to mess 
 with, the guy nobody takes crap from, but when a mission he leads fails and one partner dies, Altair 
 is stripped of his rank and extra goodies (each successful mission restores a rank and weapon) 
 and is forced to start from the bottom of the assassins ladder and work his way back up to the 
 top. But how?... simply kill leaders or whoever the creed tells you to.
  
  Cons - (although an overstatement but really these things could have been better)
  
  Voice 
 acting - Voices fit the characters well but man... theyre either very apathetic, or have no emotion 
 whatsoever. I dont know if the creators were aiming for a "everyones a bada** so lets make them 
 all apathetic because thats how assassins were and should be" or if they had a plan but jeez the 
 voice acting is average at best.
  
  Plus all the side quest have the same voices and lines used over and over... ugh...
  
  Stealth 
 action - I just wanted more from the stealth action. Why couldnt they have had Splinter Cell type 
 elements where you can hang upside down from a rafter and break somebody's neck or hide in the 
 shadows using the games amazing graphics and lighting engines... I dunno about you but I wanted 
 a lot more from stealth game play.
  
  Environments - Yeah they all look beautiful and cities are build different ways, but the more I 
 did lookouts the more I noticed theyre all similiar... almost too identical in layout.
  
  Other - No night time. Would have liked to have seen a real time weather effects engine in the 
 game. Day and night, and maybe an extreme rare occurrence of raining... I know... it wont happen 
 in the Middle East.
  
  Final Thoughts...
  
  Graphically stunning. This game shows how powerful my 8800gt Superclocked can be. Combat and control 
 schemes are great. But so much untapped potential. Like I said with the graphics, lighting effects, 
 control scheme, and parkour/freestyle running elements they could have really taken the stealth 
 play to a whole other level of gameplay.
  
  There should definitely be a sequel to this game... although I havent finished so I dont know if 
 they set it up for one or not... but really this game has tremendous potential if they improve upon 
 the formula and add to those elements like I suggested you will have a superbly crafted masterpiece 
 of a game.
  
  Graphics - 10+++++++++++/10
  Combat - 9/10
  Stealth - 7/10
  Story - 10/10
  Voice Acting - 6.5/10
  
  Overall 8.5/10... oh please add in those elements 
 I was talking about
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shailesh_das
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 18, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  I think Ubisoft is very much fond of Prince of Persia series. Thats why they are taking most of 
 elements from POP series mix it with a new engine and a new story and this is what Assasin's Creed 
 is. 
  
  The game has some amazing graphics & sound. The new Animus system & Gameplay is innovative and 
 engaging. Whats rating it down is extreme repetitiveness. You have to do same and same things all 
 over tha game. You have to become a spiderman and do lots of climbing to reach a viewpoint and 
 which is very boring.
  
  The citizens of the city have the same look and they repeat the same dialogue. I didnt played it 
 to the end i just played 6-7 missions and they all are same just go to the city climb lots of structures 
 to score viewpoint , talk to the city bureau incharge, kill several soldiers, do some investigation 
 (which is similar all missions) and finally kill the bad guy and mission complete. After this all 
 you get is the same another mission in diffrent city with one unlocked item which makes combat 
 little interesting thats all!
  
  The game has beautiful graphics cities and people looks gorgeus.
  The game can somewhat be enjoyed 
 if the graphics settings are kept to max and your system supports it. But many cant enjoy it because 
 system requirements are too high which is another letdown. 
  
  The controls are very much new i never saw it in PC games. At the beginning you will be given a 
 lesson for controls and you will get accustomed to it after playing it for 1-2 hours.
  
  Overall this game is boring and Overrated. If you dont get bored easily and have a high config 
 Pc and just want to enjoy the latest Graphics Technology in PC gaming than you Should play it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a perfect example of how immersion can make you forget you're playing a game, 
 to the point that the experience is so rich that you end up easily forgiving faults that could 
 kill lesser games. This game features a terrific and engrossing story, one that is strong enough 
 to fill any logical gaps the game may present. It's also set in an incredibly lifelike gameworld, 
 one where you'll literally lose yourself in, both thanks to the incredible attention to detail 
 as well as some of the most stunning graphics ever seen. And it offers gameplay so exhilarating 
 that it'll be hard to put the game down. Unfortunately the game seems to run out of gameplay ideas 
 as it progresses, so it ends up being very repetitive towards the end. Still, the strong storytelling 
 as well as the always enjoyable gameplay (repetitive as it may get) , will keep you compelled enough 
 to see the game through the end.
  
  Assassin's Creed presents a dual story, (in one of the most bizarre and memorable story presentations 
 ever devised) , where you step into the role of a young man called Desmond, who has been kidnapped 
 by a group of researchers from Abstergo Labs to be a part of an experimentation with a nifty device 
 called the Animus. The Animus allows a person to relive memories by examining their DNA, but as 
 it turns out, your DNA also stores all your ancestors' memories, which is exactly what Abstergo 
 is interested in. Desmond's ancestor they need information about is Altair, a member of an eltie 
 group of assassins from the 12th century who fought the holy war against the Templars. Unfortunately 
 for Abstergo, Desmond can't access Altair's relevant memories without first reliving previous events, 
 so your memory recollection will start with Altair sent on a mission to recover an artifact of 
 great importance (later in the game you'll learn just how important it is) . This mission doesn't 
 go as planned, thanks in part to Altair's initial arrogance, so as punishement he must redeem himself 
 for having failed the creed by embarking on nine assasination missions against men that are all 
 considered enemies of the creed.
  
  As the assasination missions go, Altair finds himself confused by the motives of these men (who 
 not always seem as evil as depicted) to the point where he ponders on the legitimacy of his actions. 
 His faith keeps him going on however, and eventually many things will be revealed to him, including 
 the importance of the artifact he was initially sent to recover. As Altair's memories are recollected, 
 Desmond finds himself in an equally confusing situation, not knowing what does Abstergo really 
 want for him, nor what will they do with him when they're finished. While the story may seem a 
 bit convoluted, it's actually quite easy to follow, and the Animus twist makes up for any inconsistencies 
 you may notice as you recollect your memories. Needless to say, the story will keep you hanging 
 till the very end. Actually, it will keep you haging beyond the ending, because the game ends in 
 a cryptic cliffhanger note. While some may take issue with this, I found myself loving the ending, 
 since it offered enough resolution to make sense of most of your actions through the game as well 
 as keep me interested for the next installment in the series.
  
  The events recollected through the Animus take place during the 12th century in the middle east 
 (the main cities being Jerusalem, Acre, Damascus, and Masyaf) . And from the second you set foot 
 in Masyaf, you will realize just how stunning this gameworld is. It's not just the technical quality 
 of the visuals, but also the incredible attention to detail littered all across the cities. The 
 cities truly feel like a living, breathing place. Hundreds of peasants will wander across the streets, 
 all serving a different role (merchants, beggars, thugs, lunatics, scholars, etc.) . And they're 
 not there just for show, since they'll react to any of your actions, be it throwing rocks at you 
 should you perform socially unacceptable behavior, or calling for the guards when they witness 
 a murder. Beggars will constantly pester you asking for charity, thugs will join in on any ongoing 
 fights, while drunks an lunatics will shove you around begging to be on the receiving end of a 
 kick to the teeth. The cities are also greatly realized, with market stalls, fountains, temples, 
 convention sites, harbors, etc. But above all else, it's your ability to freely move across any 
 place in the cities that makes them feel like the real thing. You can leap across walls, jump from 
 one rooftop to the next, or climb some crazy high stuctures to get a better view of the city, only 
 to later take "leap of faith" and fall hundreds of feet into the ground (or better said, a stack 
 of hay) . The combination of all this factors makes exploration in Assassin's Creed a breathtaking 
 endeavour.
  
  And while you can let yourself loose in the gameworld for as much as you like, you must keep focus 
 on the task at hand, or better said, assasination at hand. Gathering information about your target 
 will make up the bulk of the gameplay. When you reach a city, you'll find several ways of acquiring 
 knolewdge about your target: Interrogations, pickpocketing, eavesdroping on conversations, and 
 informer challenges (which come in various flavors, some exclusive to the PC version of the game) . 
 You usually need to perform three of this missions to obtain the necessary information, but you're 
 free to do any missions available.
  
  There are also several view points (tall structures that can be climbed to obtain a better view 
 of the city, which will be displayed in your map) that must be cleared, and side missions, such 
 as rescuing citizens harrased by guards, collecting flags scattered across the cities, or killing 
 templar guards. While a stealthy approach is the recommended one when performing most missions, 
 sometimes brute force will be needed, be it because your cover was blown or because the mission 
 demanded it (saving citizens for instance) . And you won't want to stay away from combat too long, 
 because the combat is a blast. It's a relatively simple fighting system, but one that is forever 
 satisfying. Even when pitted against dozens of guards, you'll never feel like you're doomed, since 
 counterattacks can save the day.
  
  Assassin's Creed gameplay is refreshing and addicitve. Unfortunately, the game seems to follow 
 the same pattern for every single assasination mission, which means that you'll perform the same 
 types of missions over and over again. This is by far the game's biggest flaw, and some people 
 may find the final chapters of the game overly tedious. I for one even memorized most of the lines 
 used by citizens when you saved them (and at times it was irritating to hear the same phrase repeated 
 over and over) . Granted, since you're not required to do every single mission in the game, you 
 may end up finding enough variety across the different chapters, but it's a shame the development 
 team couldn't come up with more ideas to spice things up as the game progressed.
  
  But it's here where I praise the way the game immerses you in it's world. Repetitive as they might 
 have been, I never wanted to let a mission (primary or secondary) slip by, because I felt a need 
 to do them. Any time I found a citizen being harrased by guards I wanted to help them. The same 
 applied for helping out members of the clan in their respective endavours. And god knows I never 
 grew tired of climbing to all the view points, because the vistas were so beautiful, and the climbing 
 so exhilarating, it was always a joy. I truly embraced playing the role of Altair and living by 
 the creed's commandments. One can only wonder what could be achieved if the game was fulfilling 
 all of it's potential.
  
  As mentioned before, the game is a pleasure to look at. Aside from the great attention to detail 
 and tremendous art direction, the game is a technical marvel. It's incredible how such a level 
 of technical prowess can be achieved while rendering such a huge gameworld. The draw distance seems 
 to go on forever, which means there's virtually no pop-in effects, and you'll be able to see cities 
 in their entirety when you climb a view point. The textures are rich and vivid. The character models 
 all look great, especially Altair, whose movements are fluid and realistic. Even horse movements 
 are terrificly executed. From a technical standpoint, I only place Crysis above this game. Perhaps 
 the only slight detriment of the graphics, is that while all three cities have a different feel, 
 they still look relatively similar, so you won't enjoy a huge amound of visual variety. But that's 
 just nitpicking.
  
  And to top it all, the game's sound is wonderful. The voice acting is believable and well handled. 
 Altair's voicework in particular impressed me, but so did the voice acting of your fellow assassins, 
 or your targets. Even the beggar women put in a great performance, making you feel their desperation 
 for some help. And you could literally feel the pain when a guard screamed as you drew a blade 
 across his chest. All other sound effects are also terrific, be it sword clashes, horse gallops, 
 crowd chatter, or the eagle cry heard while your perform a leap of faith. The music is also outstanding, 
 changing from pulsating high tempo stuff as you attempt to escape from guards, to tense sections 
 as you attempt to peform a silent assassination.
  
  Assassin's Creed is a game that elicits mixed reactions. Some people can't tolerate how repetitive 
 the game gets, while others ignore that, for the fact that the game is so immersive. I find myself 
 in the latter group, and while I do feel that the game isn't reaching its full potential, I believe 
 Assassin's Creed is a terrific game that can be considered a work of art. I do warn potential players 
 that you must enter the game with the right approach to truly enjoy it. If you can look past its 
 flaws, Assassin's Creed will be one of the most immersive, unique, and memorable experiences you'll 
 ever have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  The controls barley respond the game play sucks this game is better left on the consoles. The Jerusalem 
 bug is really annoying but they fixed that what they couldn't fix was an extreamly crappy port 
 just like the MGS games and Resident evil 4. Console games except Gears of War never make the port 
 well. This game has bad AI unresponsive controls and sometimes Altair just moves on his own. Climbing 
 walls can be a real b**** and this game sucks with real long cinematics which just dull game play 
 furthure and a retard on steroids for a story line. dont waste your money on this game for PC its 
 perfectly fine on Consoles. oh ya and extreamly confusing button mashing for getting combos that 
 dont even work. This game is terrible and frusterating. This is just a medieval hitman/splinter 
 cell wannbe that fails to combine the two. So if ya want a stealth game play MGS or Splinter Cell, 
 if ya want a fun and very adaptable killing game that takes thought play a hitman game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cryser-Skyper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Man, this game is a total killer. The story is great, the gameplay is great, the graphics are great, the 
 missions are awesome, but I wish it didn't had so high system requirements. I've never seen game 
 which's minimum system requirements required a dual-core processor. But if thats the only way Ubisoft 
 could make the game, then I guess I have nothing more to say. But still if you've got all th recommended 
 system specs, the game doesn't really have any visable lags. But about the game itself - most of 
 today's games have a lot of "imagination" ideas in them while this game feels pretty real (except 
 that treasure that everybody wants) . Running on rooftops in such big cities can be a lot of fun. Assassinaating 
 your targets can also be exciting to perform. What I like about the graphics of this game - Iike 
 the visual design of the people a lot and I think the game has truly got a lot of detail. My only 
 regrets about this game are that it feels kinda short and that I never understood its ending. I 
 alsp think that the streets could be a bit bigger, but who cares about that. But the confusing part 
 is way in the end - just play the game and you'll see how fun and exciting it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlesg99
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  This game looks beautiful and the "open world is really cool to look at and to climb. The problem 
 is that the control are awkward and while you're progressing in the game you become good with them 
 but you already hit the wall of this game: It's SO repetitive!!! 
  
  I'm not lying here, every mission feels exactly alike and the way of completing them is always 
 the same (pickpocket, ears-dropping, etc.) The worst is that the characters have all the same EXACT 
 dialogue. The story is very weak! I mean we don't care at all about who the target is and this 
 really prove the lack of deepness in the story too. 
  
  I was expecting this game to be much more and I'm really disappointed with it. I really tried to 
 like it I swear but it just can't be ignored, it's too repetitive! Got it? Yes, repetitive, that's 
 it, repetitive!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Winzip_98
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Since I saw the first trailer for Assassin's Creed, I knew I had to get it, and so I did. As I 
 played it through, I thought of it as a beautiful game, set as a successor to the Prince of Persia, 
 with a good storyline, atmosphere and nice combat.
  There are a lot of things wrong with the actual gameplay and concepts, but we will go through them 
 in the course of the review.
  Let's start with the good bits, all in all I liked the feel of an open world game, where I can 
 start trouble with the local crusaders at every turn, have some medieval style GTA chases, and 
 the storyline, the propels you forward to see the game to its end.
  I did like the Sci-Fi twist given to the game, both to intrigue the player and make him play the 
 game to the end, and to make sure you can't actually die in it.
  I'll admit its a lot of fun jumping from roof top to roof top, losing crusaders in a succession 
 of alleys and just goofing around.
  Of course, all that is balanced by the bad parts, which I'll list bellow:
  Firstly, The combat 
 is bad, and I mean real bad, it seems like they developers copied the athletics of the Persian 
 prince and had no room for intuitive combat. Whats left is a blend "Press A, then press B to win" 
 which can sometimes just make combat dull looking.
  Secondly, like all other critics (those that matter that is) pointed out, all the assassinations 
 make but 5% of the game, and all the repeating 3 stages of reaching that goal do annoy after the 
 FIRST time, not to mention later on.
  Lastly, the entire "fool a guard by walking slow, get everyone alarmed by walking the usual" is 
 a stupid concept that makes the player hate the game. I hardly think that wearing all those knives 
 makes you innocent looking, but running past a crusader on a HORSE should seem quite normal, as 
 horses are meant to be ridden fast, if I wanted slow, I'd tell the developers to throw in mules.
 
  Bottom line, Assassin's Creed is fun, its trying something new and innovative, and for that I 
 can forgive most of its bugs. Who knows, maybe more game developers will try to make games with 
 new concepts, and maybe I am hoping too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  I wish that I could have been in the Ubisoft board meeting where the "Assassins Creed" project 
 was approved. I wonder if it went something like this
  
  "CEO: Okay, guys, we need some surefire winners to keep our stockholders happy this year. I want 
 a design document for Splinter Cell 6, another Rainbow Six game, and three more Tom Clancy games 
 on my desk by tomorrow morning."
  
  "Studio Head: Um, actually sir, we have this new idea that we've been thinking about."
  
  "CEO: 
 What? New idea? That's nonsense! Don't come in here and talk to me about this 'new idea' business. 
 I want to see sequels, dammit! Okay fine, tell me about it, but make it quick ."
  
  
  "Studio Head: OK. It's sort of a stealth game, but not completely. It takes place in the Middle 
 East during the Crusades. But it doesn't really take place in the Crusades. It's a futuristic game 
 and the Crusades part is just as simulation. It has big open-ended cities and Prince of Persia 
 style platforming. And it will have a new context-sensitive control scheme where the buttons are 
 mapped to body parts like 'hands' and 'feet' instead of specific functions."
  
  "CEO: Huh?"
  
  Assassins Creed is one of the most ambitious and unconventional games to arrive 
 on any platform in years. Between its unique setting, wacky Medieval sci-fi premise, gorgeous visuals, 
 inventive control scheme, and mixture of stealth and platforming gameplay, it is amazing that this 
 game was given the green light. It is such a unique and memorable experience that it is actually 
 possible to forgive the game for all of its problems. And boy, does Assassins Creed have problems. 
 The ambition level of this game is matched only by its gaping holes in the gameplay. Wonky guard 
 AI, mind-numbingly repetitive missions, and shallow combat all tarnish what is otherwise a finely 
 polished and stunning game. It is a game that will amaze you, and then disappoint you because of 
 all of the potential that it leaves on the table.
  
  Assassins Creed is a game that is very hard to describe. It combines stealth, platforming, basic 
 combat, and scavenger hunting in an open world for a wholly unique experience. Like Sid Meier's 
 "Pirates!" or Grand Theft Auto, it is impossible to put the game into one category, so it might 
 just be described as a huge "adventure" game. It sounds wonderful on paper, and the fact that it 
 works so well without glitches or quirks is a testament to the incredible effort put into this 
 game.
  
  
  At the heart of Assassins Creed is its unique and innovative control scheme. Controls are context 
 sensitive, which isn't always a good thing in games. Where this game excels is that it greatly 
 enhances the experience for the player, instead of dumbing it down and frustratingly taking the 
 controls out of the player's hands *cough* *cough* *Gears of War* *cough*. The controls enable 
 all sorts of complex actions and gameplay, without taking the gameplay away from you. Control buttons 
 are mapped to general ideas or body parts, and not specific actions. One button is for your weapon, 
 another button is for your non-weapon hand, another button is for your feet. Another button toggles 
 "socially unacceptable" and "socially unacceptable". Thus, "socially acceptable" combined with 
 "hand" causes you to perform a gentle push against somebody. "Socially unacceptable" combined with 
 "hand" causes you to grab somebody by the shirt collar and throw them. It works beautifully. It's 
 darn near perfect. As the main character, Altair, you will repeatedly find yourself performing 
 spectacular, breathtaking acrobatic feats smoothly and with almost no effort. The controls seem 
 like they were designed to address a need, and not to dumb down the game. They are unique and unconventional, 
 but also intuitive and very easy to learn. Thanks in large part to the controls, Assassins Creed 
 is ultimately a pretty easy game. Some might argue that it is too easy, and that the game is a 
 victim of its own success in this department.
  
  The control scheme blends perfectly with the huge cadre of spectacularly animated moves that you 
 can perform as Altair. Assassins Creed, in some ways, is a spiritual successor to Prince of Persia. 
 Arguably the greatest asset of that series was all of the cinematic, acrobatic feats that you could 
 pull off in real time. This game takes that feature to a new level. Assassins Creed, hands down, 
 sports the best animation ever for a video game. The animation in this game is absolutely incredible. 
 Every possible action or interaction has an animation for it. Every person in the game actually 
 has realistic inertia. If you bump into somebody, you don't just come to a complete stop. You stumble, 
 and the other person reels back. The animations in combat are perfectly seamless, so that you perform 
 all sorts of attacks and counter-attacks with no clipping, no jerkiness, and no hit detection problems. 
 The attention to detail in this department is nothing short of stunning. It's impossible to not 
 appreciate the amount of playtesting and feedback that had to go into this game to get it to work 
 the way it does.
  
  Assassins Creed isn't only smoothly animated. Technically and artistically, it is a superb-looking 
 game. It is one of the best looking games to date, and three or four years from now it will probably 
 still look great. Lighting and texture qualities are excellent. The art direction is great too. 
 The main character is nicely detailed and the game makes very good use of DirectX9 effects to give 
 clothing realistic texture. The guards in each city wear different armor and all of their outfits 
 look terrific. The highlight of the graphics might be the huge view distance, which is on display 
 beautifully when you reach one of the game's numerous high points. There is no pop-in in this game, 
 so when you are 100 feet up in the air on a wooden plank, you can still see a guard patrolling 
 the streets hundreds of feet away. The one drawback to the game's look is that the game's three 
 cities look too much the same, and the color palette is extremely drab. The Middle East in the 
 12th Century apparently was awash in nothing but brown and grey buildings.
  
  Unfortunately, Ubisoft appears to have blown most of its budget on animators and artists, and then 
 had nothing left over for mission design. The game consists of ten big assassination missions, 
 each of which consists of a bunch of small secondary objectives. These secondary objectives include 
 eavesdropping, reaching high observation points, and rescuing innocent civilians from overzealous 
 guards. The secondary objectives are one of the most blatant examples of copy-and-paste, unimaginative 
 game design that I have ever seen. Once you have done one civilian rescue or pickpocketing mission, 
 you have done all of them. All of them are fairly short and extremely simple. The civilian rescue 
 missions are especially bad in this regard. You simply press a button when you are nearby one of 
 these missions, fight five or six guys, and you are done. The game has about 50 or 60 of these 
 missions, and not one of them is different from any others. Ubisoft really dropped the ball in 
 this category. How some parts of the game can be so inspired, while some parts are so uninspired, 
 is baffling.
  
  Guard AI makes or breaks a stealth game, and here it is good, but it also has issues. Guards will 
 usually leave you alone if you are blending with a crowd and not drawing attention to yourself. 
 They will examine dead bodies and look for a culprit, attacking you if you are nearby and acting 
 suspicious. They also excel at pathfinding, chasing you everywhere flawlessly through alleyways 
 and across rooftops. However, their reactions to your behavior are inconsistent. Guards will sometimes 
 stand around and watch you climb the walls of a building. Other times, they will attack you for 
 it. They will attack you on sight if you trot by on a horse.
  
  Assassins Creed's combat is somewhat of a letdown. It can be spectacular to watch, with all of 
 its fancy movies, parries, counters, and grapples. However, once you have learned it, it is very 
 shallow, usually very easy, and ultimately not very entertaining. Most of the guards are fodder 
 that can be killed by simply standing around and pressing a button to counter when one of them 
 attacks. Your health regenerates so fast that even if you take some hits, you can shrug it off 
 easily. Some of the stronger opponents are more resistant to this tactic, but you don't see a really 
 good challenging opponent until the very last mission of the game. This is especially problematic 
 because Assassins Creed is supposed to be more of a stealth game than a swordfighting game. What's 
 the point of staying stealthy when you can slice up seven guys without breaking a sweat?
  
  Repetition and copy-and-paste design are the Achilles heel of Assassins Creed. The three big cities, 
 Jerusalem, Damascus, and Acre, are especially guilty of this. The only difference between Acre 
 and the other two cities is that it is grey and the guards speak English. Every district in each 
 city looks exactly the same. The distinction of the "wealthy" and "poor" districts is a complete 
 joke. The mixture of citizens in each area is the same and the cities have absolutely no personality 
 or character. The individual components, such as cathedrals, mosques, gardens, and markets, look 
 wonderful, but they aren't arranged in any interesting way. Ubisoft could learn a valuable lesson 
 about sandbox game design by looking at the Grand Theft Auto series. Open worlds that aren't fun 
 to explore lose their charm as open worlds.
  
  The question to ask at the end of the day is  "Is Assassins Creed fun to play?" In my case, the 
 answer is a definitive yes. The thrill of stalking prey is there, and the fun of climbing up a 
 150-foot spire like a monkey and looking across the city skyline is something that never gets old. 
 The unique setting, gorgeous visuals, innovative control scheme, and immersive gameplay do make 
 the game worth playing despite some of its enormous flaws. These parts of the game amazing, at 
 times. Ubisoft deserves to be commended for creating such a high concept game and then delivering 
 on 80% of it. The repetitive design in the sub-missions and the city layouts is a major problem 
 that needs to be fixed for the next game. You will probably like Assassins Creed, as long as you 
 have reasonable expectations about what it does well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed:
  
  I dont know where to Start off ! Coz, this here's an amazing game. The guys at Ubisoft Montreal 
 deserve an applause for being responsible in creating a true gaming Masterpiece. The Game has the 
 right to being awarded a 9/10 on every aspect. The game has an excellent storyline, great graphics, 
 enchanting environment and loads of Fun ! the character - Altair is excellently portrayed. his signature 
 move and stealth is truly amazing. the original soundtrack adds to the fun in playing the game, 
 this is definitely "The Game of 2007 - 2008". the dudes responsible, have really put their mind 
 and effort into it. The weapons and Combo moves brings in the interest along with a strong story. I 
 would definitely recommend this Game to everyone, coz if u have not played Assassin's Creed, then 
 what have you played ?!!
  
  About the downside of the game, there is'nt any.... except for the fact of complicated Exiting of 
 the game and a few glitches while doing the combo moves. some might feel the conversation boring, 
 but without that u will never get to know what is truly going on.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armaan8014
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  The game starts with a person named desmond, played by you, in the present time, being explained 
 about a machine called the animus by a scientist guy (vidic) that lets you see memories of your 
 ancestors. The scientist apparently wants the memories for some research which is not clearly specified 
 in the starting, but is slowly revealed throughout the game.
  
  So you start with a memory that begins the story of Desmond's ancestor-Altair (You) . You get out 
 of the animus at some intervals to discuss the memories with the doc and to do a little bit of 
 present day investigation too. The story turns from interesting to absolutely amazing in the end, 
 and therefore im not going to reveal it to you.
  
  In the game you get to travel to cities like Jerusalem, Damascus, Acre, Arsuf and Mysaf through 
 the kingdom on horseback or directly.
  The graphics are amazing and the shadows and the textures are greatly detailed, and if you have 
 a high end pc, you'll get an amazing experience.
  There are a lot of beautiful scenes that will force you to keep taking screen shots.
  
  The 
 NPCs are very realistic, reacting to every move you make, like commenting on you when you start 
 climbing buildings in front of them or jump from one.
  
  If on a run from the guards for some reason, once you break their line of sight, you can blend 
 in with the environment in pretty cool ways like sitting on a bench, blending with some scholars 
 or hiding in a haystack or a rooftop garden.
  
  The climbing and jumping part of the game is probably what made it so famous and waited for, and 
 it feels great. You just keep a few buttons pressed and the work will be done automatically, but 
 you will still feel as if you are doing some great work. It all is seamless and very realistic. 
 
  
  The city feels very alive, with the sounds of children crying, dogs barking etc. to be heard in 
 some places, plus a huge amount of crowd moving about the city makes it even more so.
  
  The combat part is never very difficult, but it would be an understatement to say that it is just 
 great. You can inflict a number of different blows to your enemies like grabbing, parrying, counter 
 attacking and the like. There may be around 20 people on the screen but you'll be able to kill 
 them all slowly.
  
  Assassination, as required, is one of the best parts of the game, with the hidden blade having 
 its own coolness. You can stealth assassinate in a number of ways too, jumping on with the hidden 
 blade, normal blade assassination, throwing knives (one shot kill, ranged) etc.
  
  Near the end of the game and the final assassination, the similarity of the game is blown away 
 as the plot suddenly twists leaving you dazed. The story, people and environment change so rapidly 
 that completing the game becomes way more than worth it. It is so much fun in the end of the game, 
 that however much you enjoyed the rest of the game, you'll enjoy the last part TEN times more. 
 Friends and enemies all get mixed up to form one smashing climax. 
  
  You get out of the animus feeling all strange and VERY entertained, only to know that there is 
 a lot going on in the present day as well. The only thing you will think except what you just saw 
 and did will be - "When is the next game going to come out?" 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohitmukheja
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  ubisoft have done a lot on this game and it is clearly visible..
  lot of stuff ur player can do.. quite interactive.. graphics are great and gameplay is also good.... learning 
 curve is very steep...
  killling other soldiers is really fun and u will enjoy the game
  i have to say that if this game is not the best , still this is among the better ones in its category... 
 i wonder why some people didnt like it...
  if u like roleplaying and action games and u are a fan of POP series then this game is what u will 
 fall in love.
  somehow i wanted it to be more colorful.. but this is just me.... i liked the colors of POP more...
 
  it is the blend of stealth and action..
  u have the full choice to do what ever u want.. u can take a sword and start killing or u may resort 
 to stealth and caution...
  somehow i found the game bit easy... 
  initially u will like to do each and every small tasks but after a while u will only like to finish 
 the main goals as the small tasks are all the same... once again this is my view.. but as a gamer 
 i like something new in the game... which this game lacks... i mean to say that when u start playing 
 u will like the game but after a while u will not like to save the citizens and all those small 
 stuff....
  also the level of difficulty changes as the game progresses and u will like it... so this is something 
 which will make the game interesting by the passage of time...
  also u will be getting new weapons and techniques in each stage of the game so it becomes more 
 engaging...
  
  final thoughts - 
  of u like action and rpg, get this game now
  worth money spent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alovia
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  First of all 
  
  the game is so overrated i have no idea how did this happen, is ubisoft paying everyone? lawl
 
  well even if they did pay me a million bucks, i couldn't say that this game was good. So many bunnies 
 would die if i lied that much.
  
  Second of all
  
  The game is all in a loop, really cliche story-dialogues, very easy combat, loop loop.
  Don't try 
 to exit the game like you do with a normal game. Just Alt+F4.
  Because if you try to do it normally, you will waste like 10 minutes tryin to quit.
  Don't listen 
 to the dialogues, i did, now i want my time back. They re all blah blah, different words meaning the 
 same thing.
  
  Story : Enemies become friends, friends become enemies OMG that's so interesting dude!! And i'm an 
 assassin for teh greata good, i'm a murderer with a golden heart, i have good in me i know that, i 
 just need to show it.
  
  Jump-walking horses (you wont ride much) , really easy combat, all the same missions.
  
  Third 
 of all
  Whats good about the game is main character climbs really cool, lot of animations there, but can 
 get really buggy and you can figure out how to exploit those, big cities with lots of people around 
 is nothing special tho, don't get hopes up there.
  
  If you can play the game 15 minutes a day it wont get boring maybe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilean_demon
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed is one of those great titles you will always remember, the story is fresh and new 
 like you being part of something hidden (if you like books like DA VINCI CODE or THE TEMPLARIES 
 you are going to love this game) . The playability is superb with the new moves in parkour on the 
 game, and if you played Prince of Persia before youre going to feel this is a new version of it. 
 I mean when you start to play the basic control is almost the same than Prince of Persia, but assassins 
 creed use the entire joystick (dont even try with keyboard and mouse, you lose all the fun) .
 
  The story in the game and the adaptations of the city is superb, they really put a lot of work 
 in that and you can see it, they also put something youre going to love it about silent kills 
 with the hidden knife (is a great part of the game who makes you feel the danger of being discover) . 
 The voices and the way you fight are great too.
  I just cant wait for Assassins Creed 2 and probably Prince of Persia: Prodigy is going to take 
 a lot of these kind of playabilitygreat job of Ubisoft Montreal (I really thought they lost 
 the touch after TMNT) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsHighway1
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  When first time Assassin's Creed was realesed for PS3 I was in love with Assassin's Creed...
  When i saw how Altair can climb at buildings, run on rooftops, simple i started to love this game.
 
  And when its realesed for PC i had a crap of PC...
  AMD Athlon 64 3000+ ( 1.8 GHz )
  ATI Radeon 9600 ( 256 MB Video Memory, Pixel Shader 2.0 )
  1 GB RAM
  I couldnt run game... 
 but now when i buyed a new PC ( before 3 days ) i can run it on DirectX 10 and all on highest preformance....
 
  My computer configuration:
  AMD Phenom X4 9850 Black Edition ( 4x 2.5 GHz [10 GHz] )
  4 GB RAM
  2x Nvidia GeForce 9800GX2 ( 1 GB Video Memory and dont forgot that is two cards what 
 means 2 GB Video Memory )
  
  For PC that is best game no matter if I gave her 8.0 Score.....
  
  And I looking for new Assassin's 
 Creed game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine_r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a historical third-person action-adventure game which was released late last 
 year for the Xbox 360 and the Playstation 3 to mixed reviews from the general gaming public. The 
 game has finally made its transition onto desktop PCs with a few additions in the form of a Director's 
 Cut Edition as well as enhanced graphics to take advantages of the PCs computing power. However, 
 most of the less-desirable aspects from the console versions that were responsible for the negative 
 press end up on this PC version too and they keep Assassin's Creed from being the classic it should've 
 been.
  
  Arguably, the best aspect of Assassin's Creed is the wonderful and unique world created for you 
 to explore and roam around in. The world is authentic and precise in its attention to detail and 
 the three major cities during the crusades  Damascus, Jerusalem and Acre  have been brought to 
 life in all their glory. Archers patrol rooftops, beggars annoy you with their constant whining 
 for money and citizens cry for help at being harassed by guards. The game also gives you complete 
 freedom to move around these cities in any way you please with the most impressive aspect being 
 that never does it feel as if the developers are artificially providing you with cracks and ledges 
 to climb on. The cracks and ledges are present as part of the architecture of these various buildings 
 with you being able to take advantage of them because of your impressive abilities. The game is 
 also very immersive as a result of the above aspects  citizens will pause and wonder what you 
 are doing if you don't use ladders to scale rooftops and guards will draw their blade if you run 
 into soldiers or cause havoc too often.
  
  If the developers show their eye for detail in the world they have created immaculately, then it 
 is even more evident in the game's story which is presented in two parts. In the modern world, 
 not many years in the near future, a bartender named Desmond Miles has been abducted by a mysterious 
 group proclaiming that he holds precious information required by them. A tool called the Animus 
 will help the group get hold of this information which is embedded Desmond's DNA as memories of 
 his ancestors. In the past, the year is 1191 AD and the game takes place right in the middle of 
 the crusades for the Holy Land. You are Altair, a well-trained assassin working as part of a group 
 of well, assassins. After a certain mishap, you are stripped of all your weapons and abilities 
 and reduced to the level of initiate within the brotherhood and tasked with assassinating certain 
 targets to reclaim your lost rank and pride by your master. As you proceed with these missions, 
 both the protagonists will come to understand their part in this gripping story, and so will you 
 as you will also build up an emotional bond with them.
  
  The core gameplay is pretty involving in the early portions of the game but becomes quite monotonous 
 later on where you will just want to complete them in order to get on with the story. The missions 
 typically require you to perform a series of investigations before you can get on with the actual 
 assassination itself. Four new investigations have been added for the PC director's cut apart from 
 the three  pickpocketing, eavesdropping and interrogating  which were present in the console 
 versions. These typically involve you helping other assassins with various tasks such as destroying 
 a set number of merchant stands or escorting them to safety after which they provide you with the 
 information you require. Though these new missions keep things from getting repetitive for a while, 
 they do not involve investigating of any form (as compared with the original three) and hence feel 
 quite detached from the rest of the game. Once you complete a set number of investigations, you 
 can proceed with the assassination which mainly requires you to focus on combat and free-running.
 
  
  Combat in the game controls incredibly well with the keyboard and mouse scheme provided in the 
 game. When the game starts off with you being stripped of all your weapons and abilities, combat 
 can take a bit of getting used to. However, as you level up in rank and regain access to such weapons 
 as the short blade and throwing knives, as well as the ability to counterattack and dodge, the 
 combat becomes a bit too easy and the lack of any depth becomes blatantly evident. The counterattack 
 especially becomes overpowering as it will enable you to tackle huge numbers of enemies with considerable 
 ease. However, one can argue that these abilities do keep the combat from ever being too frustrating 
 and the action portions of the game are always enjoyable as a result.
  
  Free-running is really the forte of Assassin's Creed and is perfectly implemented thanks to the 
 architecture of the game's various buildings and Altair's fluid animations. It is also a bit of 
 a relief that free-running is as good as it is because your general enjoyment of the game really 
 depends on how much you like this particular aspect as well as how good you are at it. However, 
 it is not only a gimmick because whenever you are spotted to be an assassin by the guards, the 
 only way to get on with things is to become anonymous again by running yourself and finding safety 
 in one of the many hiding spots available to you which is easier said than done.
  
  Combat and free-running aside, there are certain other aspects that help keep Assassin's Creed 
 fresh and unique when compared to other games out there. Health is shown to be the level of synchronization 
 you have with your ancestor's memories via the animus. This can reduce due to a number of different 
 factors and whenever you fully lose synchronization, you die and have to reload from the most recent 
 checkpoint. There are also many extra missions that you can look to complete though they do not 
 provide any bonuses as such. Saving citizens being harassed by guards provides you with vigilantes 
 who block guards chasing you or scholars who can be used to hide within. Climbing viewpoints which 
 are always the tallest buildings within cities to reveal various parts of the map as well as investigation 
 missions is a pleasure throughout, although even these begin to repeat over time. Apart from the 
 above two which are slightly essential to the game, you can also collect various flags which are 
 strewn all over the cities and the countryside in-between them and attempt to scale all the view 
 points in the map and so forth. All these extras combined with free-running will help keep your 
 attention to the game till the end and actually compensate for some of the game's other flaws.
 
  
  Assassin's Creed is raised from good to great thanks to its presentation. If you have a pretty 
 high-end PC and can crank all the settings all the way up and have access to higher resolutions, 
 then you are in for a visual treat. Buildings are crisply detailed with all the cracks and crevasses 
 showing perfectly. Each city has a unique look with a visual style to complement even though it 
 is not hard to note the fact that building architectures do repeat over cities. Character models 
 are near-perfect and combined with the game's wonderful animations across the board, really do 
 add to the unique setting the game takes place in. Lighting and shadowing is also pretty effective 
 and standing on top of a view point with the sunlight streaming over Altair casting his shadow 
 on the ground is always a wonderful picture. There are minor glitches here and there and some of 
 the textures are a bit weak because of the game's console roots but they aren't major enough to 
 break the deal. Also, the game is always displayed in 16:9 aspect ratio, so people with 4:3 or 
 16:10 monitors will see a lot of letterboxing. It is pretty frustrating that Ubisoft put a lot 
 of effort into porting it for the PC but still ended up missing this key aspect which has not been 
 fixed even in the 1.02 patch. However, the game is pretty stable as of the 1.02 patch and not once 
 did it crash on my system which cannot be said of console-to-PC ports too often. All said and done, 
 the highly polished graphics really help in bringing the game world to life as well providing it 
 with a level of believability with the only minus being you do require quite a beefed up PC to 
 enjoy the game in its entire visual splendor.
  
  If the graphics are top-notch, then the sound is even better. Jesper Kyd has composed some of the 
 best soundtracks of all-time for games such as Hitman 2: Silent Assassin and Freedom Fighters, 
 so it should come as no surprise that his music for this game is again brilliant and nicely complements 
 the subject matter. The music, which is suitably mellow and subtle when you are running around 
 the city or riding on horseback in the countryside, becomes quite bombastic during battles with 
 the usage of heavy percussion to get you pumped up. The sound probably contributes even more than 
 the visuals to making the world as immersive as it is. On top the game's largest buildings, the 
 sound of an eagle will fill your ears along with the smooth gush of the wind and the citizen's 
 cry will be but a faint moan. But it's the minor details that really grab one's attention such 
 as the sound of Altair's footsteps or the sound of the moan he utters when he scales a difficult 
 ledge or the sounds of citizens shouting in awe at the dead body you just flung to the ground. 
 The voice-acting is also top-notch for each of the game's major characters and really does help 
 in getting you involved in the story right away. Albeit, the voices of citizens do begin to repeat 
 over time but it is understandable given the number of citizens that populate these cities. There 
 are stuttering and hitches in the sound too but there are various workarounds floating around the 
 web that help in fixing a majority of the issues in the game. However, these issues are more annoyances 
 than anything else and they do not bring down the overall quality of the sound which is consistently 
 excellent throughout.
  
  Assassin's Creed is not without its flaws, however. As mentioned, the investigation missions do 
 become monotonous over time and the combat mechanics, while being easy, do not have enough depth 
 to be intensely satisfying over the course of the game. There are also no manual saves of any sort 
 and the game automatically saves your progress using a checkpoint system which can take a bit of 
 getting used to. Another non-gameplay related minus is that it takes an eternity to quit the game 
 by normal means which really asks a lot questions at the Ubisoft testing department. Thankfully, 
 there is a shorter method to quit the game via pressing Alt+F4, however it never should come down 
 to such shortcuts and it would be wise for Ubisoft to fix this via a patch. On other notes, if 
 you play only the story part of the game, you can be done within 15-20 hours. Although, going out 
 of your way to collect the flags and save every citizen does help in extending the time to about 
 25-30 hours. However, even then the game does not have enough replay value to warrant a second 
 playthrough as the missions themselves cannot be completed in any other drastically different manner. 
 It is to be noted that these issues only prevent the game from ever being a classic but in no way 
 do they spoil all the fun that is to be had with it. Assassin's Creed is still a wonderful game 
 that most anyone can enjoy thanks to its top-notch presentation, wonderful implementation of free-running, 
 two-faceted gripping story and probably the most unique game world ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tpapazdo
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  One of the funnest fighting games i have ever played. It is good to take a break from all the shooters 
 to play a fun game with swords. Fighting your enemies is like a movie experience if you know how 
 to fight right. Counter-attacking your opponents and grabbing your opponents and throw them off 
 buildings is incredibly fun.
  
  The fighting in this game is all about timing, if you don't have that, you might fine this game 
 a little difficult then.
  
  If you have been fighting for too long and you are tired and you need to take a break. They how 
 bout you climb the tallest tower and the take a look at the incredible city. It is easy to climb 
 because most of the environment in the game is climb-able and thanks to your freakish skills as 
 an Assassin, you can jumped cross building with a breeze like your Jackie Chan.
  
  Graphics are amazing in this game, but some cities and areas will slow down your system. Before 
 buying the game you must take a good look at the system requirements and make sure your system 
 is right for it.
  
  Storyline is bit weird and left me confusing in the end, but the gameplay and graphics are awesome 
 so i doesn't really matter, cause the game is fun. Sound and music is great in the game, really 
 finish off the experience well.
  
  I recommend this game too all types of gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franko_3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Story: No spoiler!: You start as a prisonner in a stupid chamber where you need to revive the memory 
 of your ancestor. The futurist story is barely acceptable, while Altair story is actually ok. It's 
 not perfect, but it get the job done to suck you in and get you involved.
  
  *mild spoiler*The end of both story is a facepalm in your face. They comes at the good time, but 
 they are so hideously done that I can't wait for the next chapter to explain to me the meaning 
 of that crap. Seems like we got another indigo prophecy symdrom inc...
  
  7.5/10 for the story
  
  gameplay: I will go against gs by saying that the kb/m combo is better 
 than a controller. The combat is ok for a while, then you will grow tired of it, because it's too 
 damn easy. Right mouse button+left mouse button when the ennemy attack you and bam you can win 
 100% of the fight without any effort.. You got a real sense of liberty when you play the game. 
 I will remove some point because of the stupid questing system.
  
  7/10
  
  
  Graphic: The graphic are good. I was pleasently surprised how good the game big cities looks. ok 
 everything is grey like every single console game this generation. Damascus and Jerusalem seems 
 more alive, thanks to some hdr effect, but looks the same, while acre look gray and boring.
  
  9/10
  
  Sounds: odly enought, I got the game for free with my new headphone, so I was expecting 
 something special music wise... Ho the deception... there is only 1 good song during the whole 
 game and it only seems to run during your fighting. The music sux and the sound effect are average. 
 
  
  6/10
  
  value: The game will last you an easy 10 hours if you only follow the main quest. It can go up 
 to 20 hours if you take your time and explore a little bit, more if you do the insipid side quests. 
 The flag are soooooo 1999, I can't see why someone would waste his time getting all the damn flags 
 in the game.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight113
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  What can one say about Assassin's Creed? Well, it has absolutely stunning visuals. There are many 
 small visual effects that makes this game a feast for the eyes.
  
  Unfortunately that's about it. There are no other redeeming features in this game whatsoever.
 
  
  This is a console game through and through, designed for children younger than 10, I'd imagine. 
 Or maybe the target demographic is high school dropouts with I. Q.'s within the range of 50 and 
 75. 
  
  If you were thinking of playing a game where any real level of brainpower is required, then think 
 again. The gameplay requires little if any problem solving skills, and its inherent repetitiveness 
 becomes old, really, really old, very quickly.
  
  In short, playing Assassin's Creed is like doing your own laundry the first time. It's new and 
 sort of exciting in a sad sort of way, but soon it becomes a chore you just can't get yourself 
 to do, even though you know you have to.
  
  What a waste of time and effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raziel2646
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I think "Assassin's Creed" is one of the games everybody's been waiting for it to be released. 
 It looks really amazing specially when you look at the screens and watch the videos, and it really 
 is amazing. But the only problem is that when you play for a while it gets boring and the missions 
 get a little repetitive. UBISOFT could have worked a little harder on the storyline and missions.
 
  Everything is really great in Assassin's Creed and you can mark it as "Worth the Wait". The graphics 
 is really awesome and you get surprised about how they've worked on details everywhere. Change 
 of color theme and building's structure in every city is really interesting too. 
  Of course the best thing about the game is the control system. Climbing up about nearly every building 
 and jumping on every rooftop is really fun. Talking about the control, I'd better to say that the 
 fighting system isn't great. UBISOFT's done better in "Prince of Persia" series. With that good 
 weapon design, fighting could really be more enjoyable.
  The side missions seem fun at first, but after a few memory blocks, they don't! And they start 
 to get annoying. Same about the main assassination missions; you just have to go right into the 
 next city, find the target and kill him, and if you F*** up or get uncovered you can't load the 
 game from a few minutes ago and do a neat, professional assassination. 
  Despite the fact about the repetitive missions "Assassin's Creed" is a good game and it's worth 
 playing. If it wasn't because of the climbing and jumping from place to place and a few fascinating 
 killing styles, it would really get tedious and boring. But I suggest you try this game and have 
 some fun exploring the assassin's world.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pecone_Penev
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  The game is very well made! The graphics the, the sound, the gameplay everything is just right! 
 As every good game however this game has flaws too. The things that got on my nerves the most are 
 the impossibility to skip the sometimes annoying cut scenes and the combat system is not as acurate 
 sometimes but other than that the game is really worth playing! The graphics is really beauthiful 
 and the sound effects are really good with some exeptions! Overall very good game! I reccomend 
 it to the third person action fans!
  What I don't like is that there are no different difficulty levels and the story ends really unexpectedly 
 and it doesn't make a lot of sence, but hey the gameplay is fun! Not worth replaying ther game-it 
 will be the basically palying the same thing over and over again, and the cut scenes are rather 
 annoying once you've played the game already! Definetely worth playing but just once, after that 
 it may be annoying (for me at least) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nine-Tialed_Fox
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is in my my opinion one of the finest games in the freaking world! It stretches on a 
 bit but it's still awesome!!!! If you own a PS3, X360 or DS, get this game!!!! I'm telling you 
 it's great! You are a headstrong assassin who is stripped of his high rank due to defiance to the 
 Assassin's Creed. In being stripped of your position, you are forced to start from the very begining 
 of assasin's training. As you complete missions in various places in Israel, such as Damascus and 
 Jerusalem, you earn higher and higher ranks you discover that in reality, you are not assasinating 
 for the sake of peace, as told by the leader of the assassins, but for havoc ( I think... sorry 
 if this isn't accurate! I never listened to many of the video clips) so when the leader finds out 
 you will not be loyal to this, he turns on you. You fight him and defeat him. That's just an extremely 
 small overview of the game. There's a crap-load of stuff i left out! If you want to find out more, 
 e-mail me at: terter210@yahoo. com, or play and find out yourself. Thanks for reading:) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Esios
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  =Sound=
  The sound was great. The sound in the center bustling city to the sound of being out in the countryside 
 . You'll feel like you were there. The voice acting really brings the experience home. It is just 
 how you expect the people around you to sound. There was one little bit of confusion I had and 
 believe others questioned it too. The character you will be playing most of the time, Altair, has 
 more of an American accent while his friends and comrades have more of a Middle-Eastern. While 
 that may confuse some, the person who voiced Altair does such a great job that him not having accent 
 can be overlooked.
  
  =Graphics=
  I was able to play this with everything at full, and I was just blown away how great it looked. 
 When you first watch the opening cinema be prepared to be fascinated. Expect to be playing with 
 that type of high-definition. The game just looks beautiful. Once you get up on your first tall 
 building and looking down. You will see what I am talking about, but just to let you know if you 
 have to put this on the low settings. It would probably be for the best to play this on console 
 versions to get the whole experience.
  
  =Control=
  I just want to start off with this. If you're trying to play this game with the keyboard and mouse..... BAD... you 
 do not do that with this type of game. Go out and buy or borrow a controller. With that being said 
 if you ever played any Prince of Persia title; you're going to love the control on the character 
 and feel right at home. For others be ready to spend a bit of time getting the hang of things. 
 I know I had to spend about an hour or so to get back into the grove of things, but after that 
 I was kicking butt, taking names, and climbing on anything I could get my hands on.
  
  =Game Play= 
  I can probably guarantee this. You are going to have a blast up until after you 
 first assassination. After that it can go three ways. You are either going to 
  
  1) Enjoy having to do the same type of missions 9 times find the story very compelling.
  
  
 2) hate having to do the same missions over and over, but going to keep on going just to see whets 
 going to happen next.
  
  3) Hate both the missions and the story.
  
  I happened to been number two... I am not going to tell what these missions, but expect to what 
 I said for #2 to hold true. That was the thing that held me back giving it a better score. Anyhow 
 just like most other PC games this one has a few glitches. I personally only experienced one during 
 30 hours I played. It was when I was being pursued by city guards and I brushed up against the 
 wall and Altair's foot got stuck, and I could not move or do anything... Eventually I got killed. 
 That was the only glitch that I had experienced during the30 hours that I played
  
  
  To summarize, I had a fun time playing this game. Being able to explore and climb where ever I 
 felt like was just an awesome feeling. It's just I wish there was a more verity of missions that 
 you could had done. As a side note if I were you I probably would not buy this as of right now 
 with the $50 price tag because we're talking about finishing EVERYTHING in this game about 30 hours 
 or so, and there is almost to zero replay value to this game. Even though that being said this 
 game is something that you must try out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_back
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  It is not every day that a game comes along that changes the way you look at the world around you. 
 Splinter Cell was the first, inspiring a generation of gamers to move stealthy through shadows 
 and attempt to climb buildings and lock pick through their homes. Prince of Persia was another. 
 The acrobatics of The Prince thrilled players as he bounced off walls and leaped over endless pits, 
 surely tempting a few to try it out themselves. Assassin's Creed, though not as revolutionary as 
 the two former titles, manages to achieve the same breathtaking experience as they once did, albeit 
 not as consistently. 
  
  For the most part Assassin's creed has you playing as Altair, a master assassin, tasked with the 
 retrieval of a scared artifact. When his mission is interrupted by the Templar and he fails to 
 retrieve the artifact, he is stripped of his rank and forced to earn it again. To achieve this, 
 he is to eliminate nine high profile political targets; all using the on going crusade to leech 
 off the poor and profit from the war. As noble as this may seem, things are not as they appear 
 and Altair finds himself in the middle of a conspiracy that aims to change the world as we know 
 it. 
  
  As a device to drive the game forward the story does its job, but the game really only shines once 
 the action starts! The first hour of this game is nothing like you've experienced before! The true 
 sense of freedom that the game presents is truly something to marvel at. The cities are presented 
 to the player as living, breathing places, where people go about their lives and it all helps to 
 suck the player into the experience. The feeling of freedom is only topped when the player starts 
 to explore the massive cities. 
  
  Another impressive feature is how intuitively the controls were ported over. Ports have always 
 been know for their unreasonable control systems and complete lack of polish, but yet, if you didn't 
 know any better, you could have easily confused Assassin's creed for a PC exclusive. The combat 
 is simple and easy to master and controlling Altair has a rather natural feel to it. 
  
  Graphically, the game is quite a looker. Textures are sharp, with plenty of detail in the world. 
 Nothing takes your breath away like climbing to the top of a church tower and being treated to 
 a view of the entire city in all its glory. The sound work is excellent, from the sounds of the 
 busy markets to the sound of the waves crashing against the shore. 
  
  Unfortunately, as promising as the game might seem, it does have its shortcomings. The first real 
 issue is that the game developers seem to forget which parts of the game are fun. Running around, 
 jumping from one towering building to the next, stealthily investigating your target, hunting them 
 down and assassinating them and finally fighting your way out. All these are heart pounding moments 
 that truly make the game worth it, but the repetitive sections that precede these periods just 
 serve as an exercise in frustration. 
  
  Before Altair is allowed to go after his targets, he is required to gather information about them. 
 This involves anything from pick-pocketing an informant to escorting a fellow assassin through 
 the city. The only problem is there are only six types of these investigation missions and even 
 though at first they are rather fun mini games, after you've done the same thing for the fifth 
 time, it gets old. 
  
  The second issue is the rather weak AI. It was in the console versions and it's in the PC version. 
 The AI somehow manages to completely ignore the player once they enter the game's so called blend 
 mode, which allows Altair to blend into the crowds or effectively become a ghost. You could kill 
 an entire army and no one would so much as look in your direction as long as you are in blend mode. 
 Add that to fact that the AI literally queues up to fight you, and the awesomeness of the opening 
 hour is quickly converted to a marathon of mediocrity. 
  
  That said, Assassin's Creed is one of those games that you just have to play for yourself. Sure 
 it gets repetitive and the AI leaves a lot to be desired, but the sheer feeling of awe that the 
 player experiences, is well worth it. The freedom, the size and the detail of the world is something 
 to behold and if you were a fan of the Prince of Persia series, there's a lot of fun to be had 
 here. On the other hand, if you managed to play it on the consoles, there's nothing new here that 
 warrants a replay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raps123
Rating: 7
Date: May 31, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I thought that the graphics were awesome but here is what i thought it lacked - the whole time 
 travel story line was crap and the missions settings like saving citizens and getting information 
 about each city was the same thing over and over and over - it is very dissapointing to see or 
 play a monotinous game or quests - i would have given this game a 9.5 - 10 if the gameplay was 
 not so boring and repetitive - but was a different game and was nice to try something else 
  
  I thought that the graphics were awesome but here is what i thought it lacked - the whole time 
 travel story line was crap and the missions settings like saving citizens and getting information 
 about each city was the same thing over and over and over - it is very dissapointing to see or 
 play a monotinous game or quests - i would have given this game a 9.5 - 10 if the gameplay was 
 not so boring and repetitive - but was a different game and was nice to try something else 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed, one of the biggest games to be released on the X360, back then the hype was huge 
 and everyone wanted it. Now AC sits at the bottom of most peoples game piles, but why? I may have 
 the answer to this question but before I begin lets note some of the things about this game that 
 make it so awesome.
  
  Story - Story isnt the best I have seen but I loved the twists and turns that were throughout the 
 entire game. 
  
  Graphics - One of the most beautiful looking games ever made, there is really nothing quite like 
 climbing up a tower and looking out over the city, everything is perfect.
  
  Character (s) - Atiler is a really cool character to play as, as he always have this mystical secret 
 about him. his clothes are awesome and his weapons are brillient. Other characters in the game 
 that you will meet are also just as good weather that be allied or enermy soldiers or even cavilians.
 
  They all move perfectly and they all react to you in different and understandable ways, If you 
 was to run into some and they drop a box or pot the people will stop and look at you, also guards 
 will be alerted to you. Its quite entertaining. 1 last thing, climbing up and down buildings have 
 never been more fun, so relistic and so brilliently done.
  
  I dont play this game much anymore and its the same with a lot of other people, I think that its 
 simply because there is very little reply value with this game. Unless you want to waist your gaming 
 time finding them flags for achievements then playing this again after completion is very unlikely.
 
  
  With not much in the way of replay value and next to nothing to do with online MP or even downloads, 
 this game gets a solid 9/10 because its beautiful and very well designed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weirdo_h
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game were awesome. The controls are also great, though it did get annoying 
 a few times. Jumping off really high ledges into hay and hiding is probably the funnest thing to 
 do, and it will cause your friends to be scared for a moment. It is also fun to jump and climb 
 buildings with ease.
  
  The game was repetitive after the first few assassinations. I had to put the game down for a while 
 and I just finished it recently because of that. I was able to pick up the controls fairly easily 
 after not playing for 5 months.
  
  You start off losing pretty much everything and you work your way back up into the ranks gaining 
 new weapons and abilities as you go. Of coarse, the game gets a little harder to make up for it.
 
  
  This game's lettering does not look very good on an old tube tv, but it looks great on a high def 
 LCD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darwin67
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Aside from being a stunningly beautiful game one can honestly say that the graphics match the gameplay. 
 At times it became a bit redundant and the tasks a bit boring, but I found myself consistently 
 imbibing in sword play as the cinematic features were over the top. As for the actual controls... frustrating 
 at best. Timing is everything when hitting the correct button sequence... my controller unfortunately 
 hit the floor a few times in frustration. The game itself had at least three frustrating glitches 
 to work through (the most annoying being that even upon synchronization my tasks would not appear 
 on the map, thus resulting in having to leave the animus to reboot) . The the game also froze up 
 on me twice just before an assassination (AGH) . The game weaves an interesting storyline into actual 
 history and locales. The designers delivered in spades in creating a unique game environment. I 
 am very much looking forward to the sequels as the ending left you definitely in need of something 
 more. While I have played better games, this one definitely ranks in my top 10 all time favorites. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omarko_54
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  The game is very cool it is an experience which will stick to your mind always. The graphics and 
 texture quality in the game were mind blowing, the cities were made with extraordinary details every 
 building looked different than the other. What i liked the most is the combat system of the game 
 the counters, the dodges and the throwing knives etc.... Also while playing with Altair u fell like 
 u r really in the game. The character moves very smoothly and what i like the most is that there 
 is no super stuff like flying or something. I admired a lot the guards AI in the game, u feal like 
 u r really dealing with a human. But at the end i was so disappointed by the mysterious end. To sum 
 it up we can say It is the best ever of its genre A game u would really love to play over and over 
 and over again.....10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staypuft44
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  Like many other people prior to the November release of Assassin's Creed for the major consoles, 
 I was completely caught up in the hype surrounding this game. Not being an owner of any of the 
 consoles, I was forced to watch tech demos and reviews as they spilled out after its release just 
 before Christmas.
  
  I'm patient, however, and after a few disconcerting delays for the official release on computer, 
 the game was unleashed for us PC enthusiasts and those of us with hefty rigs were drooling at the 
 thought of a game like this sink our time into.
  
  The wait was worth it.
  
  Initially when the game takes you through a tutorial, the controls and the explanations seem overwhelming 
 and difficult, but as you get comfortable in this new dynamic it all becomes second nature.
  
  One of the most attractive aspects of the game in trailers and previews was the ability to 
 interact with all environments through climbing, jumping, hanging, and of course the intense interaction 
 with the crowds of people. And the game surely delivers. The ease at which you are able to scale 
 gigantic buildings and leap from rooftop-to-rooftop, beam-to-beam is highly engaging and never 
 gets dull.
  
  The fighting system is also a real treat. Unlike some other actions games, when you find yourself 
 locked into a battle with 2 or 3 enemies, it can be pretty intense. When 4 or 5 more walk by and 
 get drawn in by the chaos, however, it's usually game over - but not in this game. 
  
  There's a certain sense of confidence and fluidity in the fighting system that makes these battles 
 a massive pleasure to be a part of. And as the game progresses you keep acquiring more and more 
 tools for your arsenal, including new techniques for defense and offense.
  
  As Altair, the main character (or rather the main character's ancestor -- it's a little complicted, 
 you'll see) , its your mission to utilize all of these abilities to gather information, complete 
 tasks, save civilians from pushy guards, and eventually assassinate your mission's target. Although 
 it requires only 3 out of 6 investigations to be completed to get to the assassination phase of 
 a mission, it's more than acceptable to get them all (and obviously a huge amount of fun, as some 
 are very challenging later in the game) .
  
  As well, save as many civilians as you can. In return, the more you save, the better your reputation 
 among the citizens will be and in turn rewarded with vigilantes which will block pursuing guards, 
 or groups of monks in which you can blend in to.
  
  Graphically this game allows a sliding scale and can run just fine on a mid-range computer on medium 
 settings, but if you have the horsepower it's a treat to crank everything up all the way. 
  
  The sounds are also wonderful, and change to fit your surroundings either in the marketplace, 
 near the churches or mosques, and even if you are climbing higher up out of range of the streets 
 and into the open air. There are some minor glitches in sound on the PC that might result in lowered 
 conversations between some characters but there are workarounds in the help files.
  
  The keyboard controls for this fit like a glove, the typical wasd and mouse interaction while a 
 little unorthodox at first (key combinations mostly) will become almost involuntary after playing 
 for a while.
  
  Some quick hits on the best parts and the not-so-best parts:
  
  What I love:
  - Climbing, you can climb anything as long as there's a hand/foot hold.
  - Fighting 
 system, never gets boring and by the end you will crave even more.
  - Voice acting - Altair is the weakest link, but the supporting cast is brilliant, I've found myself 
 craving more.
  - Graphics/Sound - If your PC can support it, rock this game on the highest settings - you won't 
 be disappointed.
  
  What could change:
  - Explicit ability to skip "cut scenes" - even though the cut scenes are real-time and even a little 
 interactive, replay value grinds to a halt under the realisation that you can't escape out of monologues 
 or events that you've already watched.
  - Travel system - after you've been to the cities you are given the chance to quick travel to these 
 locations once you hit a certain spot in Masyaf (your home city) , either out of the fortress or 
 out of the village. But for the life of me I could not find any other way to trigger this menu, 
 and bombing through the city to try to trigger it again was a little cumbersome.
  - Travel system part 2: Once I was able to quick travel, I decided to forgo any other long distance 
 travel - even to get more eagle towers and flags. Even the first time to these places, I pushed 
 the horse to a sprint and gave zero attention to the guards ready to chop me to pieces. A "blended" 
 trot through this much land was far too time-consuming when all the real fun is in the cities and 
 not the outskirts and inbetweens.
  
  *** Please note: these criticisms are very low on the "how it affects your gameplay" list, just 
 to put it into perspective. They are merely afterthoughts that prevented a game from achieving 
 perfection.
  
  
  Overall let me put it this way: It's been a very long time since a single player game has pulled 
 me in and kept me immersed into a storyline and a game play dynamic such as this, to this degree. 
 I can only pray that there is a sequel to this game as there's no doubt it's deserving of one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarwan_dude
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  Now that the game has finally hit the PC, I'm glad that I waited. Maybe this is just another case 
 of me arriving late for the party and being spoiled by months of hype, but Assassin's Creed seems 
 overproduced and flimsy. Even though the three cities in Damascus, Jerusalem, and Acre are big 
 and have an authentic Middle Eastern vibe (minarets everywhere will do that, I guess) , everything 
 is laid out in such a step-by-step fashion that it's like you're walking with mommy through a crowded 
 store. Sneaking is almost entirely absent, which feels weird in a game about a hooded assassin 
 with the powers of The Shadow, the storyline is clunky, and level goals are so repetitive that 
 you've seen everything that the game has to offer after a few hours of play. There is no room for 
 free thinking here, let alone any Thiefly freewheeling.
  
  Trouble begins with the plot. While the meat of the game takes place in the Middle Eastern Crusader 
 kingdoms of the 12th century, that story is introduced with a cutscene-anchored plot device about 
 searching for information through genetic memories. So while you're mainly stepping out in the 
 sneakers of Altair, a ninja-like Islamic assassin plying his trade and killing nine public figures 
 in the aforementioned medieval burgs during the Crusader occupation, you're also a 21st century 
 bartender named Desmond Miles who's been kidnapped and hooked up to a geegaw called the Animus 
 so that sinister scientists can peek at his brain. All of the events occurring in the game are 
 just memories that you're recalling while laid out on a table. It's all sort of like Vanilla Sky 
 with extra pretentiousness
  
  Which is niftyin theory. The story evolves into a grand conspiracy running through the centuries 
 that's vaguely reminiscent of The Da Vinci Code, and rather entertaining if you don't look too 
 closely at the multicultural-friendly "Muslims good, Christians bad" characterizations and dialogue. 
 Using this sort of you-are-there gimmick to draw players into a fantastic world has worked well 
 in the past, too. The Ultima RPGs, for instance, had the protagonist venturing to the fantasy realm 
 of Britannia from our own world at the start of every adventure. Seeing some average schlub sucked 
 out of his easy chair and into a magical gate set up a great, geeky "That could be me!" vibe.
 
  
  Here, though, the modern stuff is too big of an influence on gameplay. Instead of just introducing 
 the genetic memory claptrap and then ditching it for cutting throats in medieval Damascus, you're 
 beaten over the head with sci-fi nonsense. Visuals are frequently interrupted by computer code 
 that runs up the screen like blips in the matrix. Even something as simple as locking on to an 
 NPC gives him or her a halo of funky electronic gibberish. Larger static-like glitches are even 
 used as a gameplay device during cutscenes, as you're rewarded with a new camera angle if you click 
 the mouse fast enough when this interference ripples across the screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeusbark
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  This game has created some controversy. Some say it's awesome, some say it's to repetitive. Let 
 me tell you something, both opinions are right. This game is really good, it features really innovating 
 gameplay that makes you feel like an assassin during the crusades. However, the game has it's flaws. 
 Guards become to easy to kill as you advance, and killing them gets repetitive after a while. You 
 can climb huge structures, kill guards in different ways, fight and kill your enemies in awesome 
 ways, ride horses etc... but you end up doing all this way to much. It feels like you are doing 
 the same thing just in different locations.
  This is the major flaw in the game. They put a lot of thought into the gameplay mechanics, but 
 not enough in developing quests. I would have liked some sneaking missions, and missions in which 
 you have to kill your enemy in other ways (poison, making someone else seem guilty, in total secret 
 and disappearing their bodies, drown them... SURPRISE ME) Definitely a bit more creativity should 
 have been put into the assassination quests.
  
  Even though this game has it's flaws, it's still a great gameplay experience that gets very addictive, 
 and feels awesome. This is a definitely must play for any fan of action adventure games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante_94
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  You play as Desmond Miles in this game who is captured by a company called Abstergo. You are forced 
 to enter a machine called Animus which extracts memories of the DNA of the user passed by descendant 
 to descendant. When you enter the Animus, you play as Desmond's ancestor Altar. As Altar, you 
 are tasked to kill 9 targets within 3 different cities. You have several weapons in your arsenal 
 such as throwing knives and your hidden blade. 
  
  Before every assassination, you are to investigate by interrogation, eavesdropping and pickpocketing 
 which are you going to do over and over again for every assassination. At each cities, you can 
 save citizens and climb view points which is quite boring over time due to its repetitiveness. 
 You are free to explore the cities, though. You can also complete your additional memories by finding 
 flags placed all over the cities and killing templars.
  
  The graphics of this game is excellent. As for Assassin's Creed story, its marvellous but it tends 
 to be a bit confusing especially its ending which will leave you wondering why is there writings 
 and inscriptions in the room. Gameplay, as I said is repetitive. 
  
  Overall this is a excellent game if not for its repetitiveness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisChu22
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed promised to be one of the most successful games of the year, and it's definitely 
 succeeded in that sense.
  
  When I initially started, I was rather skeptical about its gameplay structure. As I delved more 
 and more into it, I eventually became hooked. The dialogue flowed, the scenery and environment 
 was absolutely stunning, and the cinematic cutscenes really made an impact. All the cutscenes followed 
 the cinematic "rule of thirds" in many occasions, and I always felt like I was watching a movie, 
 no matter where I was or what I was doing. 
  
  The one aspect I was disappointed in, however, was the feel of repetitive actions in trying to 
 lead up to assassinations in every segment of the campaign. You had to complete the same types 
 of challenges and look for certain items; it all seemed like an etched-out path already in the 
 sand, waiting for you to walk across it. Also, the plotline turned out to be a complete letdown 
 at the end. After building up to so much during the course of the game, it completely sets itself 
 up for a sequel, without even giving the player any morsel of closure. Some people may like that 
 and say "that's what a sequel is for," but I'm not really buying it. The end should have answered 
 at least one of the questions opened up, so I have mixed reactions about the cliffhanger-esque 
 ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syst3mW4rr10r
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  Leading up to my purchase of Assassin's Creed, I was quite perplexed by it. It received a great 
 deal of hype on the days leading up to its release, then depending on who you asked it was either 
 the greatest experience possible without being forced to cuddle afterwards or like eating salted 
 goat testes. Curious as always to see where I could direct my ire, I camped out at a friend's house 
 and played his Xbox 360 version for a few hours, then gave up when he revealed the disc was scratched 
 and the last hour was so glitch-tastic it ceased to function. However, now the PC version is out 
 so I jumped in to see what was new in this "Director's Cut Edition".
  
  Now, my first point today is plot, since plot is the main driving force behind the game. I should 
 probably say that unless you actually enjoy a game telling a story you should stop reading because 
 you will hate this game. You play as Altair, a member of the Order of Assassins (or Hashashim, 
 to give them their proper name) in 1191 AD at the height of the Third Crusade. King Richard the 
 Lionheart has captured the coastal city of Acre, and is preparing to march on Jerusalem and Salah 
 al-Din's waiting Saracens. Meanwhile the Knights Templar (who just can't seem to stay out of conspiracy 
 theories these days) are off doing their own thing with a hidden treasure beneath Solomon's Temple. 
 Altair is disgraced in the opening few minutes and is stripped of his weapons and rank and must 
 perform a series of nine assassinations to regain his position, which constitutes most of the game. 
 The links between these men and the significance of your actions become apparent later on, and 
 I shan't give out spoilers because it is at least interesting, if not a little predictable. Meanwhile, 
 there is a parallel plot running that you are, in fact, not Altair but a bartender called Desmond 
 Miles who's been kidnapped in the modern day by some pharmaceutical company and being forced to 
 relive Altair's memories in a machine called the Animus because Altair has information that they 
 want. Again, the significance of this and the links between the Crusades and the modern day becomes 
 apparent later on.
  
  As any idiot can see, this is quite a daring setting to place a game with modern day wars tearing 
 the Middle East apart and extremists willing to jump on the slightest disrespect to their faith 
 and use it in their wars of hatred. Despite being a Christian myself, I was actually quite pleased 
 to see that Assassin's Creed did not pick sides, in fact, it painted a fairly impartial picture 
 of the crusades, with both factions hating each other and neither being shown to be morally superior. 
 The rather pathetic assurance in the opening loading screen that Assassin's Creed "was produced 
 by a multicultural team of various religious faiths and beliefs" is frankly laughable, but I suppose 
 we can't really expect much else in today's environment where you can get sued for practically 
 anything.
  
  The gameplay in Assassin's Creed is certainly what I would call fun, though not without issues. 
 Before you can actually perform each assassination, you have to perform a series of small missions 
 in the city to gather information about your target. This is where the PC version truly shines 
 brighter than it's console rivals, because on the consoles there were only a handful of different 
 mission types, which got repetitive and boring before the end, but on the PC there are four new 
 mission types and this definitely helps add variety. Though all the new missions are favours for 
 fellow assassins and mostly involve stabbing people, they add much more variety and some beef up 
 the difficulty a bit, which is a very good thing, because Assassin's Creed is far too easy. Leaping 
 across rooftops in a manner remarkably similar to the Persian monarchy and a certain large-breasted 
 archaeologist makes evading the guards is child's-play most of the time. After the first assassination, 
 Altair's sword skills make him pretty much invulnerable, and your health bar swells to such a point 
 that dying is pretty damned difficult. However, despite Assassin's Creed's ease, somehow it never 
 stopped being fun for me. Leaping around the cities with a pack of angry crusaders on my tail and 
 laughing as they failed to catch me always kept me smiling. Admittedly, the last hour or so loses 
 sight of this whole running around and having fun idea, as you basically just fight wave after 
 wave of swordsmen, many of whom have actually learned how to fight well, with all the sandbox and 
 stealth elements completely removed. Despite its best efforts to screw up at the end, gameplay 
 still gets a big thumbs up.
  
  One thing I did find disturbing was the way that the user-interface and controls weren't all that 
 natural and had the definite feeling of a port from the Xbox 360. This is not a bad thing in itself, 
 but if you don't have an Xbox controller for your PC (like me) the control scheme takes a little 
 getting used to. Once mastered, though, control feels tight and intuitive for the most part, though 
 there are some issues as Altair breaks into a run. Because the same combination of buttons can 
 do different things depending on whether Altair is standing or running, there can be critical moments 
 when the game misinterprets your commands, which is incredibly frustrating. For example, the same 
 button makes Altair grab and throw a guard when standing whilst it makes him push the guard aside 
 if he is running. This one is truly irritating because the throw is quite a slow move and really 
 hands the advantage to your pursuers. However, these issues don't really come up that often, so 
 I suppose I shouldn't complain too much.
  
  One of the things I truly enjoyed about Assassin's Creed was the detail put in to the three cities. 
 Each is truly massive, with labyrinthine streets and uncounted alleyways, but for that, each has 
 its own distinct character and somehow feels far more alive than any other game I've played. Beggars 
 run up to you and harass you for coins (it takes a lot of self-control not to stab them when they 
 try this) , merchants boast of their products from their market stalls, demagogues deliver hate-filled 
 speeches vilifying the other faction. On top of this, though you can climb on virtually any building, 
 it never really feels like the developers put that ledge there just so you could climb it. The 
 life-like nature of the cities is helped along by some superb voice-acting, with English, French, 
 German and Arabic accents on display (though history nerds like me will note that King Richard 
 should speak with a French accent, not an English one as he does in the game) . The only weak link 
 in this terrific line-up of voice actors is, sadly, Altair himself. For some reason Ubisoft decided 
 that instead of continuing to have the Assassin's speak in Arabic accents, Altair should speak 
 in a pleasant American accent. I really have no idea why they did this, as it really spoiled the 
 whole experience for me.
  
  Graphically, Assassin's Creed is superb. The level of detail on everything is truly staggering 
 with every building and market stall looking as superb and realistic, though the main characters 
 like Altair and his targets look markedly better than all the other character models, which are 
 a little bland. However, the truly impressive feat is its draw distance. If you were to climb a 
 tower on one side of Jerusalem (which the game actively encourages you to do) , every building would 
 be visible right over to the other side of the city, still rendered in the great detail that makes 
 your jaw drop. However, this great detail comes at a price, and unfortunately Assassin's Creed 
 succumbs to what I like to call "Crysis Syndrome"; that no CPU and graphics card will be able to 
 create in it its pure unadulterated glory without significantly reducing the frame rate. On my 
 PC if more than about 20 people appeared on screen, which is entirely possible, especially if they 
 were all close to the camera, the frame rate would fall well below 20Hz, maybe even as low as 10Hz. 
 However, though I reviled Crysis for its temptations of luscious graphics which were denied, it 
 does not seem to bother me in Assassin's Creed. I think because Crysis to me was a festival of 
 mediocrity, whilst Assassin's Creed kept me smiling from the beginning until about an hour before 
 the end.
  
  I should probably roll out a few final complaints about Assassin's Creed here. The biggest one 
 is the massive cliff-hanger ending that it leaves you with, though that does fit with the rest 
 of the plot; it always seems to answer every question with another, even more perplexing question. 
 However, I hate all games that try to do this (Halo 2, Rainbow Six Vegas and a few others are particularly 
 guilty of this, and their sequels were basically the same game released again with shinier graphics) . 
 I feel cheated when game studios expect me to wait for 2-3 years and fork out another 30 to find 
 out the end of a storyline and a character whom I loved when I first played with, but now can't 
 be bothered with because the wait has robbed it of all excitement. If they don't think their sequel 
 will sell, they should try creating a new IP and do something different, instead of churning out 
 the same game year after year (as EA love to do) .
  
  Assassin's Creed would also be better if the crowds made more noise in the cities, because even 
 in marketplaces it can seem too quiet for a medieval city. The kingdom map in between the cities 
 is pointless because there's nothing in it apart from guards who will recognise you instantly unless 
 you ride very, VERY, slowly. There are a bunch of little flags scattered across the cities and 
 the kingdom (sort of like hidden packages in Grand Theft Auto) , but without an achievements system 
 there is no point to them unless you have OCD.
  
  I could go on nitpicking but I grow bored of it, so I'll cut to the chase. Assassin's Creed is 
 not for your average gung-ho idiot who loves Halo and thinks his console is best "just because 
 it is". You have to be prepared to watch and pay attention to the plot, and be prepared to accept 
 the sort of new-age "video games as art" theories, if only a little bit. Without the plot, Assassin's 
 Creed sort of falls on its face, but each element truly comes together in a beautiful way. Apart 
 from the cliff-hanger ending, Ubisoft have basically created something coming close to my idea 
 of a perfect game: driven by plot and character, fast paced and thrilling action, realism (but 
 not at the expense of anything else) , good graphics and a large amount of fun to sprinkle on top. 
 However, Assassin's Creed is not perfect. There are dozens of little flaws, not to mention the 
 fact that Ubisoft seem to have ran out of imagination in the last hour and said, "Oh well, we'll 
 just tie it all up over the next 3 years." But never mind, it's something different, at least, 
 and if you can't enjoy yourself playing it then you may as go out and trade it in for Halo 3 since 
 that's the only sort of game you can appreciate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggunsmith
Rating: 7
Date: May 22, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are brilliant, especially on a computer that can handle the max settings. Mine could, 
 and the result was seriously breathtaking graphics. Problems set in when one realizes that you 
 repeat the same action over and over AND over again. Typically, you'd have to go into a city climb 
 up towers, help citizens, check out informers and their quests and so on. After the first few hours, 
 you start to realize that it is extremely repetitive -- there is no real variant towards the game. 
 
  
  It is free to explore to some extent -- u roam the areas freely. But you are hampered by the fact 
 that all the mini quests you do tend to be repetitive -- you do a similar quest or a slight variant 
 in every city. So you are free to roam, but end up doing same quests everywhere. Only the landscape 
 (albeit beautiful landscape) changes. 
  
  Is it worth buying? Yes. Is it something that is worth above 8/10? Nope. The only thing that works 
 for this game is its brilliant graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viniterra
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game I was thinking this will be an city-ride style game, with just some furtive 
 and combat features. But the first impression was surprisingly interesting.
  
  Riding on the city streets like a common citizen, it is what I was expecting. But this feeling 
 broke when the guards detects me, and the fun started. Running away on the ground is funny, but 
 not so innovative. So I decide to go up and run over the buildings. The adrenaline on climbing 
 walls, jumping from roof to roof, while being pursued is the best point on this game, giving satisfaction 
 and immersing us on the game universe.
  
  The medieval middle east scenery matches perfectly with the assassin style, with blades and cloaks. 
 The ambient is beautiful and makes me feel inside the Arabian middle ages.
  
  The end is a bit confusing, and give the sensation that there will be a sequel. Overall, the game 
 is an wonderful piece of art, and I'll be waiting for the next games on this universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 20, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  First off, all the hype started with the trailer in 2006 showing Ariel make an exhilarating kill 
 on a talking soldier. The trailer was arguably the best ever made, and spawned a massive amount 
 of hype for Assassins Creed. So lets sum up the pros and cons:
  
  Pros: Great combat animations, descent story that will last 15 hours, sound quality is there, graphics 
 are there, the ability to choose how to assassinate your targets is where the game is at.
  
  Cons: As most hyped games turn out, Assassins Creed fell short of expectations, The combat 
 was repetitive and one could use counter-attacks all game and never die. Re-playability is abysmal 
 due to the fact that there is no difficulty options, plus one wouldn't even want to play it again 
 anyway.
  
  To conclude, I need to make it clear Assassins Creed is a descent game, it is next-gen and it plays 
 well on the PC. However, its only good through one play through, so unless you really want to shell 
 out the $50, I'd say wait.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Dmajid2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  Assassin't Creed is a masterwork.
  You can't see a game character like Altair. Altair is main player that you play by it. Altair's 
 moves are designed very well and natural. If you collision with people in city , you will fall on 
 the ground ! I have no seen a game like this that player moves designed very well. Assassin's Creed 
 Graphic is so nice and beautiful , You need to a TOP system to play with all of graphic options. 
 Some times if you look at sky , will see that sun in behind of cloud , So weather will be cloudy 
 and cloudy's shadows will set on the ground 
  ! When you walk in Citys and look at game lighting , you will find out to a professional lighting. 
 Light and shadows make Assassin's 
  Creed citys very natural and pretty. I can't remember a game that has a professional programming 
 like Assassin't Creed. When you fight in city , peoples look at you and some bodys escape or fear 
 ! They make peoples very well , you can't to find similar peoples in a zone !I read that Assassin's 
 Creed engine can control more 150 different AI in a scence ! its very nice. This game hasn't any 
 movies as cut scence and all of them happend in game by programming that you can find out to UBISOFT's 
 professional programmers. Levels are very interesting , When all of guards know you so you must 
 be hide from thair eys. When they chase you , its the best of game section ... you can to escape 
 very hard because thair AI are wrotten very nice. You can use some cache for escape. When you fight 
 , Camera absorb you. Camera change moves are very attractive and make game very pleasurable. Of 
 course I saw a little physic infirmity in Assassin's Creed that you can't see very easy and should 
 notice to game more. But totallyAssassin's Creed is a nice game and one ! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: izzi_whizzi
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 27, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  Well 1stly will say nice looking graphics, and possibly there is a story line. But that's where 
 my praise ends.
  
  This game is totally marred but the most frustrating and utterly crap game play controls I have 
 ever had the misfortune of experiencing in a game. 
  
  The camera angles for viewing your characters actions are very erratic. Often the controls are 
 not responsive so your character what ever his name is looses all continuity of what he is meant 
 to be doing, like trying to climb a building or ride a horse constantly falling off structures 
 failing to climb any higher, dismounting his horse when you don't want him to and the list goes 
 on. 
  
  What an appalling implementation of player control! 
  and as for the doing actions in low profile - what a joke utterly frustrating - half the time the 
 controls do nothing. 
  
  And to add to it all you are unable to save any part of the game yourself, exiting the game is 
 almost as long, if not probably longer than actually getting into game. 
  
  There seems little variation in the game - go to town, meet some dude in what looks essentially 
 the same building in every town, listen in on a few dudes, steal something from named target, rescue 
 some poor citizens, climb a few buildings just so you can admire the game engine, pick up a few 
 flags (what use they are I have no idea!) and oh yeah look for some other dudes like you that hang 
 about in white cloth with a big red cross on them, just in case you mistake them for any one else, 
 why? have no idea no one or nothing explains the flags and the other Templers. Can only assume 
 they are there because the story is short lived and the game developers thought they needed to 
 flesh this game out a bit otherwise people will think they are being ripped off. 
  
  Anyway as I say Sorry I cant be involved about the plot of the story but I cant play this game 
 any longer its just getting on my nerves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baoketian
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 20, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  What a hype about a really boring game.
  Sure the graphics, sounds, animation flow, etc are all great. But thats about it. The gameplay 
 therefore is really bad and boring.
  
  I mean i was excited about the first two hours, and than i got more and more bored. It`s always 
 the same, same missions, some line.
  I dont know why people are saying its hard to master the climbing. Yeah its hard in the beginning, 
 until you get used to the controls, than its fun to run and jump around. And than its just boring 
 to climb the same eagle tower again and again. Even the climbing in the city was getting boring, 
 as its always the same easy principle and there is no challange at all.
  
  But what is even worse, is the whole medical research part. Here too, i liked it in the beginning, 
 but got really anoyed pretty fast.
  1. The dialogs getting boring. It wouldnt matter if i could just jump over them. But no. I am forced 
 to watch those minutes of boring dialogs.
  2. You are forced to wake up, have another boring dialog, which when finally finished, tells you 
 to go to sleep, you wake up, talking again, and finally can walk (no running possible) to the machine 
 and can keep on playing. What a waste of 10 min playtime.
  
  The saving system is complete crap.
  Leaving the game is even more is a task by its own, that 
 really goes on my nerves.
  
  What a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: globalchimp
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  The best part of this game is most definitely it's story. It's really compelling and actually got 
 me to a point where I was simply playing to find out how it would continue. Overall this is a solid 
 game and worth playing. Now more in detail...
  
  The action is rather fun. The fights allow enough freedom but not too much that you feel overwhelmed. 
 The action feels very nice. And the moves look absolutely stunning. The free-running is also extremely 
 well put together and very intuitive, only occasionally did it not let me do what I want.
  
  The crowds and guards are quite plain. There is not much diversity. Though there are several 
 classes of people, so to speak, of each type they all look the same or at least very similar. As 
 for the guards, they are easy to avoid, take out, etc. and form not much of a hassle really. This 
 last bit is a good thing in a sense. Allow me to explain. 
  Basically in Assassin's Creed you have a choice weather or not to be stealthy. Given some parts 
 require stealth, and stealth is really part of the feeling of the game, you are not really constantly 
 on your toes and actually in many instances you can simply go in Rambo-style and finish the job 
 just the same if you prefer. Still, I have to say it really adds to the feeling of the game to 
 sneak your way in and strike unexpected. So rather than being annoying the stealth here is rather 
 fun and fluent and in cases optional.
  
  Though the main assassination quests are really fun, the side quests you need to do in preparation 
 are disappointing. There is not much of a story to them, and they come in only a handful of different 
 scenarios. Overall they don't feel that rewarding but rather mechanical in order to get to do the 
 assassination. I tried to enjoy them, and succeeded in a sense, but they could have been so much 
 more.
  
  As I said the story is truly amazing and really is a reason of its own to play this game.
  
 
  Altogether it's a solid game and fun to play. Worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtherT
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed.... The name alone is begging you to buy this game O. K first things first
  Storyline: The story takes place at both 2012 and During The Third Crusade 1182-1192 It Was Tearing 
 The Holy Land Apart Currently Palestine Or Israel (This Is A Touchy Subject) It Takes Part In Masyaf, 
 Damascus, Jerusalem , Acre And A Really Small Part Of Arsuf You Play As Member In The Assassin's 
 Guild The Hashshashin Sect Which Plans On Ending The Crusades By Suppressing Both Sides Of The 
 Conflict The Crusaders And The Saracens To Create "Peace In All Things" Or So you think At First........
 
  
  The Story Is Compelling Sucks You Completely In The Game play And Great Mix Between Real Life Parallels 
 And Fiction It Deserves 5\5
  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ _
  
  The Sound: 
 The Sound Is Perfectly Mixed In the Game Composed By renowned Composer Jesper Kyd You Know What 
 To Expect 
  The Sound Eased into the game it amplifies gaming experience and makes it all the better! And It 
 Deserves 5/5!!!!
  
  _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ 
  
  Combat 
 System: The Combat System Was One OF The Most Unique Combat System I've Seen During My Time As 
 Gamer But The Problem It Get More And More Repetitive That You Get Tired Of IT Wether You're Saving 
 Citizens Killing Templars Or The Such. It Gets A 4/5
  
  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
  Visuals: This 
 Games Has One Of The Best Visuals I Have Ever Seen Wether You're Looking From A View Point Or Running 
 Down The Streets As You Walk Around You Notice That The City Truly Is Alive! The Way How Shadows 
 Are Cast Over Every Little Thing Wonderful Architecture Has Made This Visuals Deserve A 5/5
  
  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
  Game Play: 
 The Game Play In This Game Has Made It One Of The Best Games Ever Made!. Walking In the Streets 
 When A Drunken Pushes Ypu To Someone Grabbing A jar The Jar Falls Grabbing The Guards Attention 
 mixing Events Like This Has Made The Game Considerably Believable Even The Annoying beggar That 
 Isn't Allowing To Pickpocket The Guy Adds To The Realism Climbing Buildings Scaling High Towers 
 Has Made It's Game play Ever More Thrilling! BUT The Con In this Thing Is That Climbing Over Buildings 
 Running From Guards Will Ever Grow More Repetitive
  
  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
  Bottom Line 
 Is This Game Is A Must Have For Any Type Of Gamer You Have To Add Your Collection!
  Good Luck With Your Purchase!
  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
 
  
 
  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graavigala
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one the best games there was in year 2007 and now that it has come to PC it 
 still is one of the best games there is, only if you computer can take it.
  
  The gameplay fits well to keyboard+mouse and is easy to learn. Only in very big chase or big battles 
 your fingers will be lost but overall there is no complaints in controls. Altair goes where you 
 want, jumps where you point him and the camera follows you perfectly.
  
  About the graphics... well there isnt anything bad to say about that. The game looks just beatiful. 
 Only bad thing is that it requires very hi-tech computer 
  
  For me the story was great experience. At first it was quite confusing but when you played the 
 game more it became more clear and exciting to see more of Altairs and Desmonds history.
  
  Those who say that playing as Desmond is boring, stupid or just useless and confusing but I liked 
 it. It was good balancing when Altair did all the killing and Desmond was the one who learnt about 
 those things. Also people are saying that there is too much talking when you get new target to 
 kill. Again i think that it is necessarity to have those conversations. They bring good balance 
 to the game and also make Altair to be more than just mindles murderer with no mind of his own.
 
  
  The game is worth playing to everyone. Im not good at sneaking games where you cant be seen but 
 Assassin's Creed fit me perfectly with light sneaking and action compined. Worth playing!
  
  Arm your wristblade and head out to Acre to find your first target! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiranrajd
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  The best game i ever played.. when comes to game play ubisoft given us and reality inside game.. 
 but when we play game seriously the game stuck up with doctor were he drags the game speed.. and 
 it slow down the game speed..
  
  its just an mix of Prince of Persia and GTA game play.. it has lots of visual effects like eagle 
 vision, high profile killing, horse riding and more..
  
  when comes to older PC models the game not much supported with tat.. if we need play this game 
 then we should upgrade our pc to latest and tat is the only draw back of this game.. But its really 
 worth buying it..
  
  And i have Nvidia 6600LE, 2GB ram, p4 3.2ghz.. in my pc it works in medium and low graphics settings.. 
 when i keep higher visual.. it drags in crowded area. i hope this game can perform well in high 
 end pc.
  
  Have a nice game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColonalMustard
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for a game that deliver's a combination of FTS... Thriller and Platform .. this is 
 it... I was amazed at the level of graphic's the game had produced... I'm running a Nvidia 8800GT 
 .. fully pumpted and it would sometime stall arfter 6-8hrs.. (if I did'nt keep the fan up to it on 
 a warm day) .. the Quality is where things should be for Gaming in 2008 it's about time they have 
 a game that has Cinematic Fight Scenes.... Once you have finished the story line it still has more 
 gaming which is good to see, However it does lack a bit in as far as fight moves When you are under 
 pressure... But that can add to the Thrill of the Game .... Maybe they need to look at the Rating 
 that it been given as it has 15+ Strong violence... It's Violent but not strong violence... Overall 
 a Really Top Game.... Money well Spent... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalker700
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  Once upon a time... in a land far away.... lived a little elf named Altair. Altair was a very friendly 
 fellow, and helped the poor from being tormented by the rich. He was a cuddly little son of a........ 
 and every one admired him. Chicks loved him and guys envied him.... Until he met a terrible fate 
 at the public toilets.... and died horribly.
  ... Yeah.... right, and I'm Chuck Norris...
  Assassin's Creed takes place at the Holy Land (AKA Israel) during the Crusades period.
  The main 
 protagonist, Altair is a skilled assassin from a little fuzzy town, Masyaf. With only one goal in 
 mind: Assassinate the rich and help the poor.... sort of like a twisted copy of Robin Hood.
  The story goes like this: Altair was sent together with 2 other assassins to a temple beneath the 
 grounds of Jerusalem to reclaim an important relic from the hands of the Crusaders, and because 
 he acted like a total jack*** he broke the 3 rules of the assassin's clan and pays for it dearly, not 
 to mention his entire clan.
  Altair gets stripped from his weapons and rank for his jack***-ness and in order to restore his 
 lost pride and rank, he is sent on a job to kill 9 historical figures who poison the Holy Land....
 
  ..... OR at least so do things look like from a first look at the game. HOWEVER, everything is quite 
 different in real. The story actually takes place in a secret lab at the present, and the main protagonist 
 is actually a dude named Desmond Miles, who was captured by freaky scientist in order to get a special 
 item they desire. And the only location of this item is known to Desmond great great great great 
 grandpa..... Altair.
  So... how are they gonna find the item? What about little Desmond? And what is the connection between 
 Altair and Desmond?
  This is something the players will have to find out..
  Damn that was a long intro.... anyway, on to the review:
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics - 10
  Ubisoft is known to make heavy games, but at the price of amazing visuals. This is no different.
 
  Assassin's Creed looks simply astonishing, from the amazing landscapes that really capture the 
 spirit of the era the game takes place in, to the amazing little details on characters and towns...
 
  The world really looks alive because it everything is  from 
 the clouds, dust flying in the air... they really turn the world into a beautiful work of art.
  This is a very accurate recreation of the place, and it's really amazing how the design of the game 
 can add so much to the atmosphere...
  However, the main graphical attraction of the game are the animations of the characters, especially 
 Altair's.
  Everything in the game moves and feels realistic, the sword play is very well animated, the running 
 and especially the climbing and overall the free-running is amazingly realistic. And overall, the 
 animation of just about every being or even object in the game is excellent.
  Of course, in order to see all of the amazing eye candies and all the goodies, you need a monster 
 rig, as the requirements are not so pretty... so much from Ubi....
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound - 10
  Probably one of the strongest aspects of the game. The music is simply amazing, it really immerse 
 you into the world and atmosphere, it can be cooling and relaxing, and it can be fast and more offensive 
 according to the situation...
  The voice acting is very well done, though the voice actor for Altair is... very American for some 
 reason. He does the job beautifully. Just like the rest of the crew.
  The sound effects are really solid: sword play sounds really realistic, diving to a pile of hay sound 
 really realistic, and all those little effects that really bringing the world to life even more...
 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay - 9
  This game is everything next gen should be: unique, while at the same time innovative and entertaining.
 
  The game offers an amazing open world for you to run, fight and assassinate in. The game is a complete 
 cross-over with the world of GTA, and Prince of Persia, the open world lets you use a lot of Altair's 
 acrobatics to the maximum amusement.
  There are 3 main cities in th game: Jerusalem, Acre and Damascus. Each of the cities offer a lot of 
 ground to cover. This can be done by an extremely well done free-run system. You can interact with 
 just about every object in the game (or more accurately every scalable object) and it's really a 
 thing you can do for hours because it's so damn fun!
  However, it's a pity that Altair can't have the arms and legs to SWIM (wait wait wait... he can climb 
 10 meter building but he can't do a pitiful doggy-paddle? That's simply sad...) and that's sort 
 of puts a limit for the exploration... and it's kinda annoying.
  The story is excellent if you can understand it, and every fact unravels in an excellent way, the 
 more you find out about it, the more interesting it becomes.
  The battles are very basic yet very satisfying, and while the AI is not very shinning, the battles 
 are intense and fast paced. The counter attacks\combos are sick and not so hard to perform, and they 
 offer a lot of satisfying bloody finishes. Not to mention every weapon you have has different set 
 of finishing moves, and it's very satisfying to see each and everyone of them.
  Altair has 4 main weapons, a sword for battles, a short blade for... battles, throwing knives for 
 distant kills, fists for..... battles.... with fists...., and probably one of the best weapons in any 
 game, the hidden blade. Altair uses a special mechanism on his left hand in order to draw a... hidden 
 weapon (blade?) that enables you to finish enemies, though mostly the weapon is for assassination, however, it 
 can also be used in combat to quickly despose of enemies using a counter attack, or when the enemy 
 gets knocked off.
  Now, from the name of the game you can expect the game to have lots of... assassinations, well, and 
 it DOES offer it, but there are some small things that sort of get in your dirty, bloody way.
  At the beginning of each chapter you are given a target by your master at your home base, you need 
 to go to the city where the target is located, and collect information about him using eavesdropping, looting 
 important information, interigattions using some very "friendly" acts, doing the boring work for 
 your failing assassins comrades and such. Though it is usually not such a bad thing, and can be fun 
 and amusing, it can also be annoying and frustrating at the later points of the game. However, when 
 you're done with your chores, you can go on to the assassination of the target, and the most interesting 
 thing is that you can choose how to perform it. The game offers you 2 ways of acting: Low Profile (LP) 
 and High Profile (HP) , each of them has 4 different actions, for example: In LP you can gently push 
 civilians out of the way, while in HP you offensively push them out of the way. In LP you can blend 
 into the environment by walking like a scholar (AKA Monks) and that pretty much removes every suspiciousness 
 from you (which is very strange since how guards don't notice the 10 knives you have and the blood 
 infested sword and the short blade that's covering your entire back..... NOPE, not suspicious at 
 all...) etc... 
  LP is the smart guys' way, and make the info gathering rewarding. You can use the info in order to 
 infiltrate your target's area, and assassinate him with the hidden blade behind the scene (because, 
 surprisingly, something always happens around your target when you're deciding to show up, and that 
 gives you enough confusion to do what you do best without attracting too many attention) . HP is 
 quite simply, going rambo style: Go in, kill every mother***** guard that gets in your way, and open 
 a can of whoop *** on your target...
  Both ways are interesting in their own way, so it opens some replay ability for the game.
  Now 
 another interesting aspect of the game are the civillians. They can offer you protection and help 
 if you help them in return, but overall, they're a nuisance, and that offers some challenge for you 
 after you perform an assassination. They will panic and start running, blocking your way and interrupting 
 your escape... it can be annoying... a lot, but it's very challenging overall, and it's a realistic 
 response (after all, at least I would start panicking and running if I was walking down the street 
 and some ****** will pop out of nowhere and kill a random guy in front of me...)
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Replay Value - 9
  Overall, the game is pretty short if you follow the main storyline, but the side quests and those 
 little bonuses like finding all of the view points, killing all of the templars, and collecting all 
 the flags and most importantly exploring the vast and amazing world will be able to keep you busy 
 if you get stuck on the main quest or if you simply want a break from it.
  And as I mentioned earlier, the choice between LP and HP in each assassination can also give you 
 some replay ability. 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall: If you've been looking for an unique experience and lots of assassinations and a vast, open 
 world to explore. Look no further than Assassin's Creed.
  The confusing yet well done storyline, following by an amazing graphical achievement and unique 
 and entertaining gameplay elements, turn this game into a one, big wok or art and enjoyment in one 
 package. And only few small misfortunes and problems stand in the way of this game from getting 
 a perfect score.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luciotss
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  Technically, it is impressive to see how the studios of Ubisoft Montreal managed to schedule a 
 game that, even with so many details, is extremely fluid. The distance of design is huge, the loadings 
 are scarce, and is in roofs or in the streets, there are new details each time you visit those 
 places. Since it is a game of season, the clothes of passersby, his trade, the speeches by public 
 auction, everything is present in Assassin's Creed and helps create a convincing environment.
 
  
  Assassin's Creed  aquilo que quiserem fazer dele. Lutem como um assassino profissional e vo ter 
 uma experincia variada, com mais de duas dezenas de horas de entretenimento. Se optarem por matar 
 sempre da mesma maneira, o jogo tornar-se- montono, mas a a culpa ser vossa e no dos criativos 
 da Ubisoft. Sem dvida um jogo que vos marcar pela ambincia recriada e um excelente ponto de 
 partida para uma nova srie.
  
  outside remarks about the game, this perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainmaker777
Rating: 7
Date: May 15, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  I would say the hype about assassins creed is slightly overrated . Hands down i accept that the 
 graphics are gorgeous the cities are beautiful. the voice acting and the score is great and suits 
 every moment. But the greatest flaw that ruins what could have been an exceptional game is the 
 game play, not the action itself but how it goes about it. 4 simple steps summarize the MO 1 . 
 stealth assassinate ,2 . beat up some one , 3 . get a letter ,4 . finally assassinate the main 
 target. do this nine times over and the game is over. The game takes whats positive from games 
 like POP style movement, and spider man type of an open city and tries itself to give a new look. 
 It would have succeeded had it not been for the completely repetitive game play. doesn't deserve 
 the 8.6 it should be somewhere around 7... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kerosine18
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  This game has stunning visuals and a very gripping story-line - fans of Metal Gear Solid will appreciate 
 the game mechanics and the storyline for example. In fact, This is like a metal gear solid game 
 set in medieval times, although stealth is not necessarily as important as in metal gear games.
 
  
  The greatest element of the game must be the swordfights with guards and templars ... the fighting 
 mechanics are simply awesome especially when you unlock the grab break & counter moves. The cutscenes 
 when you pull of a good move on your opponents are just amazing, and somewhat gory too if you have 
 a weak stomach!!
  
  Furthermore, the script is well performed and the voice talent is excellent - what could have been 
 done better is to give the saved citizens a few more varied lines - it seems like saved citizens 
 only say 2-3 different phrases and that gets boringly repetitive. On the theme of repetition, the 
 sub-missions too could take in more variety... 
  
  Basically, the game presents you with 9 assassination targets, but to get to the target, every 
 time you have to investigate amongst the city citizens. It is this phase of the game that could 
 improve, with slightly more variety maybe?
  
  Nonetheless, the game still rocks and if you could do with some repetition, and love action & graphics, 
 then this game is great for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Static-7
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  Overall Assassin's Creed is an awesome game. It is definitely a must buy no matter your taste. 
 You will find yourself playing nonstop for the first two days and then you will realize how short 
 the game really is. I played it two days and i already assassinated three quarters of the targets. 
 If you have a geforce 8800gt you should be careful because it might give you problems when you 
 play it on dx 10 but dx 9 graphics are great as well so it doesn't make such a big difference. 
 The control characters AI and especially the comments are great throughout the whole game. The 
 story behind the story is really impressive if you pay close attention to what's actually happening. 
 It impressed me from the first moment. If someone says this game is boring, stupid or it doesn't 
 live up to the hype well then they don't know what a good game should be, don't think twice about 
 buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asidscript
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  This is most defiantly the coolest best game I have ever played.
  It is the same if not better than Crisis. 
  
  I am still currently playing this game. I have 
 put in a fair few hours so far.
  This game is so good that it is affecting my social and work life. It is quite literally fantastic. 
 Very exciting, very addictive. Once you master the moves you really become invincible. The moves 
 are so real. On DX10 the graphics are fantastic and if you have a really good graphics card and 
 a high spec pc that has vista finely tuned then the graphics is almost life realistic. This is 
 more than just a game. You get pulled into a world where you really can do what you like just the 
 way you like it.
  You can interact with everything. And everything is very graphically detailed.
  So far I have 
 found absolutely no cons for this game at all.
  You really need to play this game. It is excellent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznboyeeee
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth playing (For a good 3-6 hours) , but other then that, this can be one of the 
 most specialist games made for this generation. It can be worth buying if u feel like doing sum 
 history lessons all over, or just use it to test out your good new hardware u bought, such as a 
 graphics card and blah (duh) . Other than that, u can go around this old MASSIVE land, and act like 
 u own it, because u can basically kill anyone in the game with a snap, and its fun doing counter 
 attacks all day =D (Tip: just don't stay on block mode) . i say u should buy the game, and enjoy 
 it as much of it as possible.... and think about it, this game was made also by a bunch of collage 
 students =P (pretty effen good don't u think?) .
  And for those of u who never looked at the requirements on the Box. here u go:
  
  Supported 
 OS: Windows XP / Vista (only)
  Processor: Dual core processor 2.6 GHz Intel Pentium D or AMD Athlon 64 X2 3800+ (Intel Core 2 
 Duo 2.2 GHz or AMD Athlon 64 X2 4400+ or better recommended)
  RAM: 2 GB (3 GB recommended)
  Video Card: 256 MB DirectX 10.0compliant video card or DirectX 9.0compliant card with Shader 
 Model 3.0 or higher (512 MB video card recommended) (see supported list) *
  Sound Card: DirectX 9.0 or 10.0 compliant sound card (5.1 sound card recommended)
  DirectX Version: 
 DirectX 10.0 libraries (included on disc)
  DVD-ROM: DVD-ROM dual-layer drive
  Hard Drive Space: 12 GB
  Peripherals Supported: Keyboard, mouse, optional controller (Xbox 360 
 Controller for Windows recommended)
  
  *Supported Video Cards at Time of Release:
  ATI RADEON X1300-1950 / HD 2000 / 3000 series
  NVIDIA GeForce 6600-6800 / 7 / 8 / 9 series 
 
  
  i hope i helped u guys out =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  To recap, the game is beautiful: amazing kinematic motion, fantastic freedom to go and explore: 
 climb walls, ride horses, jump of ledges, run roof lines or walk amongst the crowds. When you are 
 not in a hurry the game's movement wizards are pretty accurate in anticipating what action/motion 
 you are intending. However try it while fleeing a fight and suddenly you will be incredibly frustrated 
 in how it will judge incorrectly: just try getting off a ladder when being chased or when you want 
 to parry/attack when surrounded by lots of guys. Aggravate this with the need to press up to 4 
 buttons at once to do one action and it gets pretty frustrating to play this game in the potentially 
 most amazing portions: combat, fleeing across the roof tops etc. Add in some really stupid camera 
 actions where it will get stuck on a wall, flip behind grass or a tree or much worse: change the 
 rules of motion (and thus which keys you press to head in what direction) and this game screams 
 "port". An award winner on the console, it could have been one to on the PC but I will never vote 
 for this pathetic control system which is poorly thought-out for the PC. Console players need help 
 with aiming and moving, but with the PC and the flexibility of the keyboard mouse, why toss it 
 all away?
  
  On to the good stuff. Overall I really enjoyed playing the game and found it very immersive. I 
 just needed to leave it occasionally when I got very frustrated with the input problems and the 
 stupid "wizards". The atmosphere conjured by the crowds in the streets, the scenery, the background 
 buzz of the markets, the music, the amazing graphics and natural motions all contribute to a very 
 great game and a good experience. While I found the "now" story line kind of superfluous and distracting, 
 it does explain why you can start from a saved game etc and other things we sort of take for granted 
 when playing a computer game. The main story line however is well fleshed out with engaging characters 
 and you're never really sure who's pulling your strings. The game taps into the Knights Templar 
 mythos and spins some very good hypothesis. Your perspective is also unique and again a plus to 
 the game.
  
  So in summary, check the game out. If you have a console controller, use it otherwise remember: 
 it's just a game designed as it is and you can walk away rather than smash your fist through your 
 monitor. So take the game as it is and look for the next game from these guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Octavius09
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  When i first played the game i just couldn't stop myself comparing it with tomb raider. 
  And now after i finished the game i still compare it with tomb raider. 
  The acrobatics, the 
 climbing and the few moments of intense fighting, gave me such a deja vu feeling all throughout 
 the game. 
  With one exception, this game started to get boring because it became quite amazingly repetitive 
 after a while. 
  I know most will think, "so did Tomb Raider" but at least it had the attractive view of Lara in 
 it, and watching her climb never bored me.
  Now don't get me wrong, this game sure has great stuff in it like, the immense detailed city's 
 with dense populations that react on everything you do, the intensity of fighting large numbers 
 of enemy's, the searching for clues how to assassin your target, and the fact that you can climb 
 up on almost everything is truly remarkable.
  The main missions and cinematics are also great, but it is the small side missions that you have 
 to undertake that get so repetitive.
  Save a peasant, eavesdropping to get info, forcefully interrogate someone and pickpocketing to 
 get info just isn't enough in a big game like this. Oh, and i forgot one thing, climbing all the 
 towers to unlock nearby territory. 
  
  The storyline is very good and well brought, only the ending leaves you with many questions still. 
 And it certainly is clear that there is a thin line between good and evil in this game.
  
  Overall i find this game good but not great, and i wished they had more small side missions in 
 it, but maybe we expect to much nowadays from games. At least i played it through the end and maybe 
 i will play it again some day, but unlikely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homeyc
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game amongst thieves and princes. Fans of Prince of Persia, God of War, and 
 Splinter Cell will find elements of each of their favourites within this game. It is a game which 
 requires a multitude of skills. At times, stealth is required to get around soldiers. Other times, 
 brute force is the simplest answer. But, above all, the player must always be thinking as the game 
 has many puzzles designed within. This is a game which gets better with play. At the beginning, 
 there is a steep learning curve as you learn how to manouevre your character. In time, as your 
 progress improves, you are rewarded with additional skills and defences. In addition, your arsenal 
 of weapon increases. However, do not let this deceive you into thinking that the game gets easier. 
 As your abilities increase, so too does the difficulty of the game which forces you to stay on 
 your toes at all times.
  
  One of the characteristics of this game that is appealing to me is the free flow of the game map. 
 Although it is not as flexible as a game such as Grand Theft Auto (for example) , the game play 
 is not linear either. Players have choices in how they procede throughout the game. There are a 
 slew of optional side missions (which improve the health of the character) that are both fun and 
 innovative. There is also a "treasure hunt" component to this game which allows players to explore 
 the game map and look for flags in each of the levels. The part of the game that holds the most 
 interest is not the fighting, despite the objective and name of the game, but the ability to climb 
 structures. As a climber, the attention to detail and motion within the graphics is impeccable. 
 Not only can the character climb up, but he can also downclimb in the same accuracy as going up.
 
  
  The graphics are excellent. I found that my computer was able to handle them fine with my 7600 
 card without having to lower the specifications within the game. The detailing is fantastic complete 
 with shadowing and texture. The sound was equally well designed. However, I would have liked the 
 conversations to have been a little more clear and distinct from the background noises. There were 
 frequent times when I could not hear them and just had to accept it as part of the game.
  
  In summary, this is a game that will keep you captivated for hours. It is innovative and the forefront 
 of gaming in a completely new and creative context that no other game has achieved before.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 9, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  This is one game that actually holds up to the phrase, "All flash no substance." 
  They took an gorgeous, original, and expansive game, and made it very very boring. The game is 
 basically the same level over and over but with a different city. And even the cities start to 
 look the same after a while. Sure it was fun for the first hour running all over the city from 
 rooftop to rooftop, but that soon got old. Rescuing a citizen was very rewarding the first one 
 or two times, but after 20 times it grew real old, real fast. Jumping off my first building into 
 the hay was incredibly cool the first couple of times, but here again, after the 20th time it actually 
 became annoying.
  
  And once again, another game that went the cheap route with the voiceovers. Do you think you could 
 make up a couple of misc sayings at each levelodd, but no matter what the city they say exactly 
 the same thingover and over and over and over again.
  
  The graphics are incredible, and the landscapes are the best I have ever seen, but that is as far 
 as it goes. Play the game for an hour or two and you have pretty much covered it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maulik_ranolia
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 9, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  there are only few game-developers who delivers on wat they promise... Ubisoft is among them... since 
 last 5 years the games coming out from its shelves are instant hits... it doesnt matter if the gaming 
 concept has already been introduced... but wats amazing about it is how they put new innovation 
 in presently-big-thng and transform it into a next-big-thng... assassin's creed is awesome in every 
 way possible.... it has al the jumping , hoping, historical locations like we saw in pop and it 
 has an open-ended environment like gta... baah!!! it really worked from ubisoft side... this one 
 is for all 3rd person lover who loved the price of persia trilogy...
  at the same time its also for those who liked to roam on a streets and kicking arses of people 
 moving by... GTA style dude...;)
  
  thumbs up from ma side.... waiting for the sequel....:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatsu986
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 7, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Despite of the appearence there is ANYONE who can kill you, or stop you.
  You must only go around killing the same enemies whit the same style, doing the very same quest 
 and discovering the same stuff over and over. The graphic it's ok, also the music , but you can 
 see the same buildings repeated over and over, the same character and the same NPC. Too repetitive.
 
  Maybe an higher PG personalization, co-op quest (also with NPC) and something else could be appreciated...
 
  A note... No children and NO animals all around the world.. bah...
  Also during the fights, you can stai still waiting for your enemy's attack in order to counterattack 
 him, somethims someone cought you and psh you, but without damage... and... dulcis in fundo... YOU 
 CAN'T SWIM!!!
  YEs, you can climb a building for 100 meters, jumping from that distance into ground, killing 10 
 templars! RUNNING FOREVER but you CAN'T SWIM!
  Altair it's more a little cat than a royal eagle... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celrebro
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed features some stunning visuals with a incredible graphics engine and is very highly 
 detailed, a interesting storyline that keeps you going with unforeseeable twists, and some very 
 fun combat with a great combat engine which would turn out to be one of the most fun parts of the 
 game with some added fun 'fatality' like moves to reward you when you're fighting well which can 
 really make you feel like a super assassin.
  
  The graphics engine is demanding at times but has great visuals and highly detailed everywhere 
 you go, the first time you overlook one of the cities within the game you will notice the extreme 
 amount of work Ubisoft has put in to the detail of the game, with each city being of realistic 
 size and each and every area of all the cities being completely detailed. Each city has its own 
 unique style to represent its rulers and occupants, and is great to explore these giant free roam 
 cities and check out all the details of them. When not in the cities you will be exploring the 
 Kingdom, a large land occupied by all the factions of the game with many details to represent the 
 current age, being small villages, military encampments, and areas of battle where the crusades 
 have hit.
  
  The combat mechanics of the game can be really fun and something that you can even get in to wanting 
 to draw a entire army of guards to your position just to fight for some fun. With the range of 
 weapons you get as you finish your missions gives you a heap of different styles of fighting and 
 different 'fatality' endings to the combat to enjoy. The combat mechanics make use of striking 
 at the right times and countering attacks at the right time as well as making use of the environment, 
 and if you can master the use of countering and attacking and using the environment to your advantage 
 then you can really feel like a super assassin but although becomes quite easy to be able to even 
 take on about 30 guards at once but still very fun.
  
  The storyline is set during the time of the crusades and reveals the assassins war against the 
 Templar's, as of which are attempting to supposedly take the known world through the crusades and 
 manipulating all those in power, while your guild of assassins attempts to purge the world of the 
 Templar's and to bring in peace and order but takes a lot of twists as you discover more and more 
 from your victims The storyline is well put together from these assassinations and will keep you 
 really wondering about the truth behind all the manipulation of the Templar's as your character 
 Altair a master assassin relearns the way of being a master assassin through being put back to 
 rookie rank after failing a critical mission and going against all the rules thinking that he does 
 not need to follow them being of a master rank.
  
  But with the good comes bad, the story can be short if you play it straight through without taking 
 any breaks away from the story to maybe just have a bit of fun killing some guards or exploring 
 the detailed environment, and although it may be based on a assassin, I found that the assassinations 
 that you perform are more of just vulgar brawls then anything you would do on something like Hitman, 
 as I found from every assassination there doesn't seem to be anyway that you can assassinate your 
 targets nice and quietly or make it look like some form of accident and so on. Whenever attempting 
 to assassinate a target it would always end up as another brawl with the many guards and your target 
 or a chase to killing him, and then just attempting to flee from the guards to get out of the city 
 and back to your leader to report your success. And similar to this finding out information about 
 your target usually is simple and straight forth without getting too in-depth with the assassination, 
 of either just listening in to conversations, pick pocketing items like maps of guard positions, 
 or with the additions to the PC version of just killing a number of archers or racing to somewhere. 
 
  
  But after finishing the game you can jump back to any assassination target you wish if there were 
 any in particular that you liked and do anything you missed, or hunt down the additional extras 
 like all the flags that you can collect posted throughout the cities and the Kingdom, or hunt down 
 the 60 Templar's hidden throughout the world as well as a extra challenge, which can be worth fighting 
 the Templar's when you find them as they are the most skilled AI characters and will be fun duels 
 as all the other guards around will stand in a circle around you and the Templar as you fight.
 
  
  So overall I would say Ubisoft sure did put a lot of work in to the stunning visuals and details 
 and this great new combat system with a interesting storyline, but really needed to put more in 
 to the assassinations to make it feel more.. assassin like, and compared to Hitman really didn't 
 fit that sort of category, but is overall still fun to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan_Atkins
Rating: 8
Date: May 6, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I am only about a quarter, if that, of my way through the game having spent around 10 hours on 
 it. This gives you a good idea of the size of the game, and it appears to be getting bigger.
  
  With much to do on this game, it's no short one. As I continue along the main storyline there 
 are many secondary objectives to complete along the way which enables you to fully experience what 
 the game engine has to offer. As for the storyline, it is a most superb one. I rarely find games 
 that have a colourful, unique and interesting storyline such as Assassin's Creed. Generally, they're 
 all about killing the bad guy and saving the world so I tend to think storylines are cheap, but 
 this one has real quality and has given me a new interest for future games in terms of the story. 
 
  
  The game's focus and main feature is the ability to 'glide' Altair around cities in a very acrobatical 
 way. This is the main attraction and has been crafted in such a brilliant and smooth way. Every 
 building is climbable and has many ways to be climbed. The movement in which Altair grabs and climbs 
 buldings has been crafted very well and to a very realistic degree. You'll find yourself pouncing 
 among rooftops and disturbing order, just to be chased after so that you may flee for the sheer 
 fun of it.. Not only is the climbing fun, but the realistic way Altair is able to run, sprint and 
 move up ledges, hang on to ledges and run across wooden beams. Of course, the giant leaps are always 
 good fun ... never mind his back though. 
  
  The next significant piece of gameplay is of course combat and assassination. Now, typically you 
 wouldn't expect to hear 'assassination' and 'combat' in the same sentence, which is where this 
 game starts to skew slightly. Giving so much room to the way Altair is able to fly around has taken 
 the attention away from the element of assassination. Being able to assassinate anyone in the game 
 gives freedom, and is good. However, there are only 3 ways to assassinate someone. Walking up to 
 them and using your hidden blade to silently take their life, hanging from a ledge and pouncing 
 on top of them, causing unrest to the surrounding population, and running in and pouncing on top 
 of them. This is where being an assassin in the game has its limits and meanings, because following 
 on from an exposed 'assassination' you are forced to combat or flee. Now, since when do assassin's 
 fight 5 men at once? Since when are they running 75% of the time? Sure, the combat is well crafted 
 again and very fun, with a variety of different moves, but it just seems to kill the real feel 
 of the game. I truly believe this game should have implemented some of the ideas of the game 'Thief', 
 whereby stealth keeps you undetected and you can move in for the kill. You seem to be fighting 
 75% of the time (or running) and assassinating 25%. The open world of the game also adds to this 
 unrealism of fighting any guard that comes your way.
  Other features such as moving around crowds and being able to push them out of the way is interesting 
 and gives the idea of being able to 'blend'. However, it seems a little perculiar that you are 
 able to walk right up to a guard by just 'blending' and stabbing him. 
  
  Not only is this game revolved around combat most of the time, but it is easy too. The guards are 
 easily killed, and if stealth isn't going to be a part of the game then at least combat should 
 be hard, forcing you to flee. 
  
  This game is very fun, enjoyable with a great storyline. I think people are confused by saying 
 it is 'repetitive' but more misplaced in gameplay, with some aspects that needed more attention.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepsiboy987
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  Story: - Assassins Creed starts off in the early age of 11-13 centuries, set in middle-east during 
 the third crusade, where a bartender named Desmond Miles is captured by a Scientist and his Assistant 
 holds probably holds the DNA memories of our ancestors which they are trying to unlock it. You 
 play as Altair, a member of the Assassins or Hasshashins. You travel to huge cities of this Civilization 
 looking for the nine main people who is behind this politics.
  
  Graphics: - The Graphics of this game is absolutely stunning no matter if your still using an old 
 vid-card (runs fine on shader 3.0) ... Environments and Textures of this game is beautifully done 
 , I'm really surprised by the graphics and its quite impressive how hundreds and thousands of people 
 in the cities are individually doing something ..... Ubisoft would be really proud to release this 
 game. I didn't think the graphics/animations would look exactly the same as I have seen in the 
 screenshots a few years ago I was very much pleased with the graphic details thinking what a higher 
 graphic card it might need to run this game but when I first ran the game, I was totally shocked 
 to see that I can actually max out the game without a glitch although the game loves 4 GB of ram. 
 I give the graphics a 9.5 of 10.
  
  Worth: - This is one moderate game of 2008, would give it a 9.0 if the missions wouldn't be similar 
 to one another and I also think they could make it more better by adding some more different types 
 of weapons and with a better ending which wasn't much satisfying after so much of my game plays..
 
  The game is a mixture of three different games, i. e." Prince of Persia, Hitman & Thief" but just 
 with more freedom, fun and ofcource the hardcore game play... I would highly RECOMMEND this game, 
 really does worth it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death-in-Dark
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  assassin's creed is the game for which i waited crazily for almost 4 months. after seeing its screenshots 
 and gameplay videos in xbox and ps3... i was shocked that how a game can be so alive and realistic... so 
 when it came out in pc... i waited no longer.. rushed and grab my copy...
  
  this game fullfilled all my expectations... and easily became one of my all time favourites. in 
 fact... AC is that kind of game which you will remember always... the story is about an assassin 
 altair who serves his brotherhood and pursue his mission to kill nine important people according 
 to his order. this people are somehow related to the third crusade... altair kills this people to 
 stop the crusade and somewhat to get answer of his questions... wait wait. this is not the end of 
 the story. actually this whole altair thing happens in the brain of a modern bar tender Dasemond.. altair 
 is suppossed to be his ancestors... and according to a modern scientist.... our brain contains memory 
 from our ancestrs. he invents a machine names animus by which we can get those memory out from an 
 individual.. so he captures dasemond and uses animus on him to get some answers... what happens at 
 the end... for that you have to play the game.
  
  graphics is one of the best of its kind.... everything around you is magicaly real. people  
 is awsome. the bleding of light and shadow in this game is classic. in different level you get different 
 environment effect. whatever it is day or night... you are in superbly detailed environment. 
  
  sound and music was great... when you hit some one and guards run after you... you are running 
 to hide and the music getting faster.. man this was mind-blowing.
  
  you can run upon walls and buildings and climb as hish as you want. and you can jump from the highest 
 edge... this scene is the best in this game.
  
  in combat... your most importand weapon is your hidden blade... by this you can silently kill anyone... just 
 kill and vanish.. none is going to get you. beside this you have your sword... crossbow... throwing 
 knives etc. you can do counter kill when you fight multiple enemies. this part is out of the world. 
 just watch how fast and superbly altair moves and kills.
  
  at the end... assassin's creed is that game which you must play. at least you will not have any 
 regrets of wasting your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 6
Date: May 5, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  this game is big on the illusion of choice. if you're watching someone play the illusion remains 
 unbroken, but get behind the wheel and it's shown as pretty shallow.
  
  not sure what we were expecting. we had low expectations going into the game, so it's not like 
 we're disappointed. maybe we thought it would be something along the lines of the agent 47 hitman 
 strategy with the free roaming sandbox of a gta. well... that would be a pretty cool game, only 
 assassin's creed isn't it.
  
  assassin's creed is pretty much the hack and slash of any generic action game with the "freedom" 
 and "strategy" of manhunt.
  
  the graphics look alright. we've got a pretty solid next gen compatible system and it gives us 
 a hard time when operating at top capacity. with all the great games coming out with great graphics 
 it's easy to lose perspective. our compliant isn't with assassin's graphics though.
  
  music too is absolutely kicking. the music steals the show in our opinion. phenomenal.
  
  it's 
 just... it's just the gameplay. it's boring. the controls kinda bite for the keyboard too... but 
 that's kinda sorta to be expected, this game was made for a control. 
  
  story is ok... we guess... it doesn't interest us. the concept is kind of neat, the whole DNA scanning 
 memory deal... but yeah... we don't care one way or the other about some 11th century assassin 
 with limited options available. plot is a little contrived.
  
  very linear, no real replayablity factor. beyond the visuals... not much to write home about. looks 
 cool, plays weak... might have been better on console, but we doubt it.
  
  this was an impulse buy for us... and we kinda regret it. we'll probably force ourself to try and 
 at least believe we broke even... but yeah... we'd trade this game in a heartbeat for any of the 
 current top ranked games available now. this game really didn't deserve an 8.5... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpuppy
Rating: 6
Date: May 5, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  With a name like Assassin's Creed I kind of got the impression that I'd be able to  oh, I don't 
 know assassinate something. Anything at this point. Can I kill the bloody horse that I have been 
 riding for the last 30 min.
  
  The game looks great and the concept is kind of cool but like most things that come out of UBI 
 Soft in the last few years that's where the praise ends. 
  
  Forgetting that they seem to have forgotten about basic functions like SAVE GAME and EXIT (I still 
 have no clue how to leave the game without hitting Ctrl+Alt+Del) the game is more form than function 
 at best. Awkward PC controls don't help matters much. 
  
  I am the first to admit that I don't think I am that far into the game but I've been riding a bloody 
 horse for what seems like forever and there is no save game so I keep retracing the same ground.
 
  
  As a Montrealer I want to be able to root for the local company that has made great games in the 
 distant past but I can't recommend this one. 
  
  I'd revisit the review if I thought there was anything to look forward to but I am absolutely bored 
 beyond belief playing this thing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomFury_
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 5, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  First of all I would like to say the ending wasnt that confusing. If you stole Warren's pen and 
 accessed his computer you could read some information.
  Don't forget there will be a second and third version so its best they havent explained everything 
 yet! For all you people who still want an explanation of everything, go here: 
  
  
  The game was great, I enjoyed it the whole time. 
 Yea sure it was repetitive now and then but I could live with it. The story fascinated me, with 
 me knights templar and all. Also find the idea of a 'DNA-based memory' very ingenious. 
  Buttttttt I did get really pissed at a certain point;
  Somewhere near the end where you should 
 kill Robert Desable. I just killed the templars and people around him, then he came running for 
 me but sync was very low so... I countered him and he fell to the ground. I selected the hidden 
 blade but it told me I was 'Desynchonized: Dead'.
  I went like WTF ?!, Then I found out it was caused by me penetrating a memory wall because of the 
 counter animation.. oh great. Didn't take me long to beat him after that but it did piss me off 
 hehe.
  Apart from that there werent that many bugs. The HAVOC messed around now and then, throwing bodies 
 all of the place, but that was rather funny.
  
  Since I'm not a person who likes to give high marks (no I'm not your maths teacher) I would like 
 to rate this game a 7.5, which is pretty good for my standards.
  
  Can't wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  Few had watched the brilliant graphics and glimpses of gameplay in the various trailers and teasers 
 of this game, and were not impressed. When I saw the first interview with Jade Raymonds I sad that 
 I will buy this game!! Not because of Jade Raymonds of course! but because it seemed to be exactly 
 my type of game. I bought, finished and loved this game. Here's what I thought about it:
  
  Story: The story is engaging. It is a nice setup but a bit conventional. I don't want SPOIL this 
 for you so I don't say much.
  
  Gameplay: well the fact that the gameplay is somewhat "do over and over" is not deniable but the 
 fact that how much you enjoy doing it over and over will surely determine your interest in playing 
 the game. I personally never got tired of moving across the rooftops, eavesdroping, pick pocketing, 
 interrogating, doing some challenges and finally assassinating my target. The detail and the story 
 won't let you feel tired and rather reluctant to play.
  The battles are not challenging at all! you have two counter moves that is enough for one ARMY 
 of enemy soldiers! But it is fun if enjoy fighting with a sword as much as I do!
  
  Graphics: One word : GREAT! after Crysis this is by far the only game that shows you this much 
 detail in the scenes.
  
  Sound: anothre great factor in this game. voice acting is superb and so is the music. the sound 
 of people walking in the street may get repetitive very soon but the quality of the dialogs may 
 still make up for the fact that there should have been more street voices in the game's database. 
 I mean people voices like beggers, preachers, etc.
  
  Value and Tilt for this game are user varied. For me, it surely is higher than 8.
  
  If you 
 like a combination of Hitman, GTA and Prince of Persia with an all new feel and sense of atmosphere 
 into it, AC is surely your type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiSaZuL
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  At first I admit I said to myself "Bah another Ubisoft attempt to milk gamers" and I wasn't looking 
 forward to it what so ever. Lets just say Prince of Persia 3 left me with a lot of negative feelings 
 towards Ubisoft.
  However due to unforeseen events I ended up getting it.
  
  At first it looked very odd.... The fact that pc version had limitation on how you can change your 
 controls just added to the weird feeling. Prologue mission after you just finally start, again 
 seemed like nothing special what so ever. But as soon as you are left to free-roam.... thats where 
 you just get carried away.
  First thing that I noticed it does resemble PoP series but the game flow is a little bit faster 
 there is no slow climbing. All fights are fast paced and don't require you to remember long combos. 
 Game world is to say the least "AMAZING"... all the maps are well done they are not redundant reskins. 
 Npc's act fairly... Ai in this game is nothing great but it gets the job done. Story is well put.... 
 made clear from the start but at the same time it leaves a lot of questions which keeps you interested.
 
  Besides the storyline missions you are offered variety of other things to do. Ranging from collecting 
 things to saving peasants and just visiting places. You are able to do w/e you want and not required 
 to take any missions. I spend good 5 hours after cave prologue before I finally got to grandmaster 
 for the very first mission.
  The game is very well optimized for pc hight end or a few years old system. 
  Sound and Music 
 were great and I never got tired of it. In game cinematic could have used a bit work but its irrelevant.
 
  
  The only bad things I can say its horrible tutorial/tips.... The tips would disappear once you 
 hit a button... And combat tips are given mid fight so lets just say they appear and disappear. 
 So yes you should read the manual just so you don't have to guess.
  
  All in all this is a very well made game well worth playing. If your a Prince of Persia fan its 
 a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pragxyscin
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Its great as heaven because its an heaven , first i watched it on tv it looked like great game 
 to me but now that i have played it amazed me, it got nice and shart killing style more then prince 
 of persia all three and stealth more then splinter cell .It gives you some really great tips to 
 be an assassin. IT has all good AI who reacts at you just as real life. Stunt which are performed 
 or can be performe i say are more impressive than even and spider man or bat man series .I know 
 its very hard to compaire movie with a game but now days games are standing with same height . 
 All i want to say if you are planning to buy this game dont even think twise JUST DO IT . Yeah 
 thats what i say. 
  
  ciao amigos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 7
Date: May 4, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  Wow! What a great looking game; terrific level design that NAILS the period and locales (I lived 
 in Israel for two years, and have been to Jerusalem's Old City and Acre/Akko) . All the wall climbing, 
 roof leaping, and wall jumping is as great as the pre PC release videos led you to believe. The 
 assassin storyline; 12th century concept are very welcome, and a great break from other FPS and 
 TPS action games.
  
  Then the developers formed a committee and threw in the worst pages from Far Cry and Crysis in 
 the form an incredibly tacked on story element. You're "really" a modern day bar keep, kidnapped 
 by atheistic evil scientists bent on using your 12th century assassin's memories to control society 
 in a rational, sensible way; free from religous rivalries and bigotry. Bleep me! Why didn't they 
 just throw in some Trigents or Aliens? 
  
  More Silly story elements: Running around the fantastic levels saving one cloned citizen in trouble 
 after another, collecting flags (they apprently couldn't quite bring themselves to put health packs 
 and power ups in) . Climbing to the top of WAY TOO many towers for the purpose of "updating" a superfluous 
 GPS map, and finding out where the next cloned citizen in trouble is, group of slow moving "scholars" 
 , or rowdy vigilantes are. And, my personal favorite; the occasional "Templar" standing around 
 ALL by the themselves in odd places; waiting for you to come along and assassinate them (because 
 they're in oppostion to your good guy group of assasins, who're trying to straighten things out 
 in 12th century Palestine) . The silliest of these waiting for death to arrive Templars, are the 
 one's who're unbelievably placed in Muslim controlled areas. How about the methamphetamine crazed 
 guards, who can keep up with you on your galloping horse? How about easily beating the snot outta 
 WAY too many opponents (something you'll all to frequently be doing if you rescue more than the 
 minimum number of distressed citizens, walk too close to the guards, or bump too many citizens 
 in a crowd) ? 
  
  Technical issues: Doesn't play well with many hardware configurations, and IS NOT DX10 friendly. 
 There are a lot of unhappy campers who own AC for PC; because it crashes, burns, and CTDs on far 
 TOO MANY rigs! Yes, those will probably be fixed with a patch or two............. not much consolation 
 to those who own this graphical gem and CAN'T start, load, or play it. Did I mention I'm playing 
 mine in Vista 64 bit with DX10 compliant GFX cards and up to date drivers............... only I 
 HAVE to play it in DX9 because the game blue screeen EVERY time I start it in DX10?
  
  Console Port issues: Think this isn't a console game that's been violently diverted onto the PC. 
 Well you will, after you've played it a bit, and read the SHOCKING bit of advice, on the back of 
 the game box, that your NEW $50.00 PC game plays better with an XBox 360 controller for Windows! 
 WTBleep???? Yes, you can remap the keyboard and mouse commands................. but they're still 
 half hearted attempts at making this a PC game. Imagine you're picking up your new car, and the 
 salesperson tells you the steering wheel, foot pedals, and switches doen't work very well, and 
 too buy a mortorcycle handlebar and controls so you can drive it effectively? 
  
  Far too many canned story elements: I frequently get the feeling the Devs really wanted to install 
 a "play" button on this game. So you could press it at the beginning; then go get groceries, or 
 paint the house. 
  
  In the end.............. the beautiful and inspirational "core" assassin story and level design 
 prevail against the tacked on animus/malignant scientist element, and other designed by twelve 
 year olds, story components. If  let the adults on the Dev Team..................... have 
 more of a say. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetallicA53
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  Hey there! 
  True Score: 9.2
  Assassin's Creed for PC.
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  I was a bit worried on how the game would work with a keyboard/mouse configuration but Ubisoft 
 has done a great job porting the controls over to the PC. The tutorial will show you all the basics 
 and should get you ready for the great game ahead. It's really nice and easy to jump into and its 
 very enjoyable watching Altair jump around the cities. As many people have said though, the whole 
 process which leads up to an assassination can be repetitive and a bit jarring. I was expecting 
 a bit more in this aspect but as a whole it didn't really bother me because i enjoying the whole 
 climbing idea and would just do it for fun anyway, so doing as a mission was a bonus. As for the 
 other lead up missions, i enjoyed them even though you may have to do them five times. The combat 
 is great, though it is a bit weird how ten guys just circle you and attack one at a time. Though 
 it makes for some great moments. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  I think like most people have said, when this game is played to its full potential, it looks great. 
 Fortunately i just recently updated my computer so i was lucky enough to play it at these settings. 
 I had no problems with installation and came over no glitches along the way. At few spots i experienced 
 slow down during combat but i think that was due to playing for a while.
  
  Story: 
  
  Great!! What can i say, i was totally immersed by it. I think Ubisoft have written a great piece 
 here. Though at points i was saying to myself..... wait i don't understand. It all led to a very 
 interesting if not confusing ending, though i did enjoy it and can't wait for what is to come next.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  One word, brutal. I heard every counter and stab. The sounds of citizens where great and the open 
 air made me feel like i was in a breathing living city!
  
  Overall:
  
  This game had me very hooked. I've been looking forward to this title for a long time now, and 
 even though there are parts where Assassin's Creed may be a bit lacking, the whole free running 
 aspect and story more than make up for it in my opinion. This game probably had me the most excited 
 while installing due to anticipation. 
  
  I recommend this game to anyone and everyone who wants a great story and fun gameplay! 
  
  
 Thanks for reading my first review!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stunner4
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I rated game with 7.5 because I think that's all it's worth. Anything higher would be unfair to 
 me. Game has extremely good graphics and as noted in other reviews, the entire world feels alive. 
 Voices are mostly in sync but dialogs are all too similar. They should of recorded few more voices 
 and better lines to make it more interesting because right now it just feels like you are talking 
 to the same person all the time. Game play was good for while but gets really repetitive and missions 
 are all same. Game gets boring after Memory block 4 because you know what you are supposed to do 
 before it happens. Also Story was pretty predictable but twist in the end was pretty good. Overall, 
 I would just rent the game and it is short game so you should be able to finish within a week. 
 This game is Prince of Persia wanna be. But truth is Prince of Persia rules over this one by a 
 great shot. Prince of Persia offered great game play as well as graphics as opposed to thin one 
 where only graphics are good. And yeah, Master the counter attacks if you want to succeed in big 
 fights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neoxxgr
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  I saw the previews of this game about 2-3 moths before it's release on PC.
  I have to admit it looked like the perfect game i seen before . The was graphics 
  more than 
 perfect on DX9 and and on DX10 was something like reality (as i saw in PS3) ! I Spent those months 
 watching trailers , previews and parts from PS3 . After those months have passed i run to shop 
 to buy it ( Big mistake !!!!) . When i started playing i was amazed .. but after 1 day of unlimited 
 gaming i realized that i was only pushing 3 buttons and the character was climbing , killing ,resting 
 ,jumping .... everything was so automatic that i got bored in a week !The only thing that kept 
 me on my pc was the jump of faith , the silent murders i was making and the perfect view from the 
 view points
  Well the game is very good if you want to see an action movie because the half game is in cinematic 
 mode .. and when it's not you just push 3 buttons.
  Before you go to the shop to buy it just rent it first to check it out cause there are a lot of 
 money and you don't want to waste them !
  Thank 's for reading (I hope i helped you pocket :D )
  
  Sorry about my grammar mistakes 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ilsadir
Rating: 4
Date: May 2, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  The game had loads of promise: open world, free running, quick combat, etc. But that's all it had; 
 nothing capitalized on the promise. The game is fun for about an hour, then you've figured out 
 all the mechanics, combat becomes a chore, and each mission is just the same as the last, only 
 with a differently skinned enemy and cutscene. There is very little necessity for the free-running 
 past the tutorial mission. It's always possible to use it, but just running through the streets 
 is usually faster than lining up jumps and such.
  
  The investigation mechanisms are interesting, for the first through maybe sixth time. But wandering 
 around the map, climbing towers, saving citizens, pickpocketing, eavesdropping, just got very old, 
 very quickly. There was little to no variation. Pickpocket: follow guy from a distance for a while. 
 Eavesdrop: find a nearby bench. Intimidate: follow guy from a distance and beat him up. It was 
 SO easy, SO repetitive.
  
  The upgrades your character receives are fairly useless past the first reward (Counter kill for 
 the win) . They're nifty to have, but I never used them, because they're more buttons to remember.
 
  
  If they make a second game, I would love to play it. Because then they will have the time to spend 
 on content instead of pretty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getaris
Rating: 8
Date: May 2, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 10 / 10
  The best part of the game, its pretty good looking.
  
  Sound : 9 / 10
  You will get annoyed of the same quotes repeating over and over, but theyre quite 
 good.
  
  Gameplay: 9 / 10 
  The game offers a solid gameplay style that is easy to get used to.
  
  History: 5 / 10
  The 
 game history is good but you will find yourself in a "Go there do this, go there and do the same 
 thing" loop and the bad part is that, even when the things are good looking, they look almost the 
 same. And the ending is so lame that you will say to yourself "is that all?".
  
  Replay Value: 7/10 
  You get to play everything again if you like to, nothing new.
  
  Overall: 
 8 / 10
  Is a good game, but some aspects of the game are kinda bad, you need to do the same thing over 
 and over to beat the game and just see the credits, no real ending, just a "HAHA youre screwed, 
 buy the sequel!" message.
  The game spams you with enemies, which makes it kinda hard, but is playable.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lio83197
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is simply amazing. The artificial intelligence (AI) was written very well. The 
 fighting system is great too. It is not just one standard attack, there is tons of action especially 
 when fighting multiple enemies (which is usually the case) . You can climb nearly everything you 
 see, and go all the way up to the roof. Then you can run/jump from roof to roof without being detected 
 by your enemies. Of course while you are running along the roofs you will hear "help, someone help 
 me" and then you have to go protect the innocent person, which is fun because you get to use your 
 sword lol. Of course thats not all you do. There are missions you have to go on which involve different 
 things. Another cool feature is that you get to ride horses and fight while you are on the horse. 
 One thing I really like is how you can climb to the top of towers that give you an eagle view, 
 and once you are done you can jump off and land in a pile of hay all the way at the ground. Of 
 course in real life something like that would kill you, but its still lots of fun in the game.
 
  
  I highly recommend this game to EVERYONE (unless you are against violent games) . Just make sure 
 your computer is powerful enough to handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bstcrew
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 4, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed this game from a friend after seeing him play it at his house. It looked loads of fun 
 so I decided to give it a closer look. 
  
  First thing I noticed was that I couldn't get it to run full-screen without black bars. That's 
 a sign of a bad console port right there as it only supports 16:9 wich is a standard for tv's but 
 not 16:10 wich is the standard for most widescreen monitors. Another console ailment is that in 
 the pc version it takes forever to actualy close the game. You have to sit trough at least two 
 loading screens and click five times on exit before you can actualy exit the game. 
  
  The controls are ported perfectly however. It takes a little while to get used to at first but 
 when you get a hang of it the controls wil feel very natural and fluid. 
  
  The story didn't manage to keep my attention at all. It's told trough long unskippable dialogune 
 wich got on my nerves most of the time. It gets predictable very fast and you'll wish you could 
 just get to the actual game.
  
  Another big problem is the combat wich is just broken. You learn to counter attack at some point 
 and this move takes away all challenge in the battles. You just have to hold the 'block' button 
 and attack at the moment an enemy attempts to strike you. This technique works every time no matter 
 how many enemies are attacking you at the same time. 
  
  Another problem is that the missions get repetitive. This realy was the biggest fault in this game 
 IMO. You'll be send out to do the same things every time and allthough the difficulty ramps up 
 ever so slightly throughout the game you'll get bored with it pretty quickly.
  
  All in all it's hard to recommend this game and I realy can't understand why gamespot gave it a 
 8.5. I
  
  Anyway, to conclude this review, Assasins creed is an ambitious title that sadly misses the mark 
 too many times to be recommended. It looks great and has amazing animations but the actual gameplay 
 is too repetitive and stale and the port to the pc is not done in a very good way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sw0rdsMan_00
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 1, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Recently I've finished this 'massive' game and to be honest there's absolutely nothing in particular 
 that will fuel the dedication to this game anymore. 
  What I'm trying to say over here is that after 1 week of playing (Assassin's Creed) , after numerous 
 attempts to complete a mission (an assassination) , after numerous times where the camera plays 
 tricks on you while in middle of a 15+ opponents fight, after many, many, many times where I almost 
 sad: "That's it! I'm done with this buggy game." I realize that the most awaited game (I've waited 
 for this game from January 2007) it's just a product wrapped in an awesome package and all of these 
 tremendously amplified by the ads (nicely put together gameplay trailers, awesome wallpapers which 
 pictures fantastic game design ideas) .
  
  As I was saying above I've waited for a long time for this game, so, I'm guessing that this factor 
 kept me going till the end. I'm not saying that the game cannot be played due to miscellaneous 
 bugs (both interactions with AI and environment, camera view, low FPS rate in some particular locations 
 etc.) , BUT those miscellaneous bugs will surely make the gameplay annoying, especially when you're 
 in a fight with 15+ opponents and the camera decides that it will be for the best to change the 
 view, or you suddenly realize that the MC it DOES NOT what you tell him to do (there are some times 
 where you simply don't have the smallest idea what just happened  you simply press the keys and 
 the MC will decide what to do...) . For god sake, LET ME decide what to do!?! 
  Ooou, I almost forgot one small detail: - the mighty assassin, Altair cannot swim. Yeah, I found 
 out while in a mission (and to be honest I did not think for a second that he cannot swim. And 
 I'm sure you thought the same) .
  
  System requirements are not that hard to reach. I played the game with a setting of 3/4 for all 
 graphic options on a Club3D X1600XT PCI Express 16X VGA board, Pentium 925D CPU and 2Gb DDRII SDRAM, 
 also my OS is WinXP SP2. So, don't be afraid to install it, you might have a fine surprise.
  
  After all, Assassin's Creed scored 7.5 for me. 
  I love the game design, but that does not 
 keep me warm during gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 1, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  I was pretty WOW'ed when I first fired this game up, it looked awesome and was playing smooth in 
 DX10 and DX9. Then came the crashes during gameplay and bugs galore. I have a UBER system that 
 runs crysis in DX10 at a constant 60 FPS on very high... why shouldnt my sytem run this game flawlessly? 
 Because it's a bad port... but what ports are good? The storyline and gameplay are shallow to say 
 the least... but at least it looks pretty... that is if you can keep the game running or get it to 
 run in the first place.
  AC could of been so much more and i'm hoping they learn from mistakes made in AC and fix them for 
 AC2 but i'm not holding my breath. If you want to waste your hard earned money on a lackluster 
 game AC will fit your bill but if your expecting awesome gameplay, storyline and graphics be prepared 
 to get 1 of only 3 expectations fulfilled. Some people are happy with mediocrity.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadibm
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  I did not think a game like this could this much fun 
  
  OK fun is not the right word for it, but you really do have a great time playing.
  following 
 the general character of Prince Of Persia (A Great Trilogy)
  the Al Tayer Character is really one of a kind
  
  Giving the game a score of 9.5 would really 
 be injustice for games like Crysis, however while crysis events all goes in one island, a several 
 cities are built just for this game, giving the graphic design a full 10 
  
  Ubisoft games stories are often incredible, it's like they have an amazing brain behind thee success, 
 Assassin's Creed is not different
  Mixing the Past and The Future in a machine that can generate and store memories is so beyond imagination 
 specially if the story goes like this one does
  
  having the option to change the camera position in a dialogue is also a nice touch of getting out 
 of what is usual.
  
  while the game takes a lot from Prince of Persia
  it still is a lot deeper, fantastically designed, and well taking care of all the details, over 
 all it's a MUST TRY experience
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lopur94
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2009 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This medieval, stealth game is a great game for many rpg players out there. The game play is amazing, 
 the environment is interactive, the graphics is spectacular. This game shows you the everyday life 
 of the people in the middle eastern world during the crusades. The story takes place in three cities 
 in the Middle East during the crusades. You are an assassin with a job; and that job is assassinating 
 different targets. You will have to do simple investigations in order to find your target and plan 
 the most perfect attack. 
  
  The whole environment is interactive. From climbable walls to stalls that break down, the whole 
 world is your playground. You can jump from building to building, climb the tallest towers, balance 
 across beams, jump from pole to pole and many other things. The people are a real interesting crowd. 
 You will see women with pots on their head, people bargaining at stalls, poeple preaching, drunkards 
 wobbling, madmen grabbing etc. If you attract attention to your self, you will attract attention 
 and maybe the guards will pay attention to you. Its your world, you play the way you like.
  
  The game play is cool and all about timing and coordination. If you have bad timing, well, 
 you are done for... The fight scenes are all about your counter attacks and your combos. You can 
 attack your opponent with combos or grab him and throw him or be on your defensive stance which 
 is a lot easier though you will learn counter attacks in the higher levels.
  
  The graphics are spectacular, you will see birds on the top of buildings, eagles soaring high in 
 the sky and many other things. If you climb to the top of the tallest tower and look around, you 
 will be amazed. It will take the breath out of you.
  
  Overall this game is a great game to try, even those who didnt like rpgs that much will probably 
 have a liking with Assassin's Creed and is a must play for most gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmsbond35
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say this game is wonderful -- for the first few hours. The point I'm trying to make 
 in this reveiw is that it doesn't really deserve a 10, and too many reviews here are giving it 
 that, probably because they reviewed it right after they got the game.
  
  I've beaten this game, so I can tell you all about it, and it is very fun, don't get me wrong, 
 it's just too repetitive and you will get sick of the missions themselves but be more interested 
 in the actual gameplay and messing around.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is great, it's so fun to watch how Altair runs around, gets knocked over 
 and interacts with the people/environment. while nothing really looks climbable, you can climb 
 on everything. you'll love to just run around the cities a lot.
  
  GRAPHICS: Pretty good, I really loved them but others don't seem to like them, I love how the present 
 it, blurring the edges sometimes when targeting a person.
  
  FIGHTING: The best part of the game. whether you're jumping on someone with the hidden blade, silently 
 killing them and walking away disgused or fighting someone with a sword, it's great. Counter moves 
 are wonderful; if you like games with amazing finishing moves this game is for you (you can even 
 counter with the hidden blade) . It may seem shallow at first but when you obtain all your moves, 
 you'll start to use them and love it. Did I mention the satisfaction from throwing a throwing knife 
 at a guard that is running from you?
  
  Sound: Pretty good again, the voice acting is absolutely wonderful (Except you'll HATE Altair's 
 American accent when everyone around him has a foreign one) . But, the musical score is not too 
 great. On games like Crysis, you can feel the amazing atmosphere and hear how the winds and violins 
 change when your cover is blown, but in AC it's way more relaxed and in the backround, it doesn't 
 bring your anxiety up or anything. 
  
  Overall, this game is wonderful, and you'll love the fighting and running around. Everything is 
 fun the first time like the leaps of faith, the assassinations and the missions, but it all repeats 
 everywhere -- there's always x number of view points to scale, 5 missions to choose from (in the 
 PC version, I don't know how console players survived with only 3 types) and x number of citizens 
 to save, aka kill 3-5 guards. It's definitely worth it -- when the price drops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xivor-dk
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  I was worried when I first heard that Assassin's Creed was gonna get a PC port. I was a little 
 afraid that I would buy Assassin's Creed and it would turn out like the Metal Gear Solid 2 PC port 
 but it didn't.
  
  The controls in Assassin's Creed have been nicely ported from the console versions. You control 
 the protagonist using W, A, S and D. Choosing weapons with 1 through 4 and uses your other abilities 
 with space, E, shift and the left and right mouse buttons. The controls are smooth and responsive.
 
  
  With a high end PC you can make the graphics in the game look simply amazing and even top the PS3 
 and Xbox 360 versions (so I've heard) .
  
  The gameplay is great and just plain fun. The information gathering and following assassinations 
 are, however the assassinations lack a little depth. I would like to have seen a few more open 
 assassinations since your targets will be walking between point A and point B and you usually only 
 have one chance to strike them for a silent assassination unless you want to take them (and their 
 guards) on with your sword.
  The game regains its glory thanks to the open world which feels so alive. It's simply amazing to 
 climb up to a high location and take the entire view in. It's just as amazing when you walk the 
 streets and look at all the people walking around minding their own business. It's also exhilarating 
 to run and jump across the rooftops with ten guards on your tail.
  
  The game was, to me, fairly easy. First time through I only did the required number of missions 
 before I went on to the actual assassination but the rest were just as simple until the last assassination 
 where the difficulty curve takes a slight nudge upwards and I had problems completing the missions.
 
  It would seem that an assassin would favor his hidden weapon, subtlety and anonymity, however 
 in Assassin's Creed the sword fighting isn't very hard. Most of the fights you enter can be easily 
 won by holding the guard button and countering your opponents while only taking a few hits when 
 your opponents learn the guard break move.
  
  I would think that most people know the story of the game so I'll keep it short You control Desmond 
 Miles who is kidnapped and forced to relive the memories of his ancestor, Altair, who was a gifted 
 assassin in the 12th century.
  The fact that the game actually takes place in the future rather than the past is used well to 
 drive the storyline and remove some common game "flaws" like what happens when you die and why 
 does everyone speak fluent English.
  The story is intriguing and well thought out. There are several plot twists throughout the game 
 all serve well to keep you interested and not lose sight of your main goal.
  
  All in all I really like Assassin's Creed. It's the kind of game that has good replay value if 
 just for running around on the rooftops. A solid 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerkat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna make this sorta quick, because there isn't much more to say about this game other than 
 it kicks major ass.
  Lets start technical first.:
  If you have a Dual Core cpu, 2gb's of ram, and at least an Ati 1600 or Nvidia 7600gt, then you 
 can play this on medium. I have a custom built C2D and an 8800gt oc, so its maxed out at 1680*1050. 
 A lower computer without a Dual Core cpu will not run this game, at all.
  Onto the game:
  The game consists of the story of Altair, an assassin in the Third Crusade (A war over religion) . 
 He has "betrayed" his comrades in a sword fight, since he couldn't help. His rank was lowered because 
 of his disloyalty to the Assassins Creed. However, your master lets you earn back all of your weapons 
 and skills. 
  As the story progresses:
  You have to assassinate 9 key people of the Third Crusade, all of them are corrupt, and some are 
 sickening. To do this, you start exploring the cities you are told to, and you finally assassinate 
 a key person in that city. Then you get one of your skills or weapons back, and you can use those 
 skills in combat. 
  Wow! Did I miss something else?
  Yes, you need to understand that you do this 9 times, but its fun to see how a civilization worked 
 back then. This is all fine and dandy, but you will find it frustrating to repeat similar tasks 
 so many times. Lets take note of the simple, but sometimes its frustrating. The guards are increased 
 to a harder difficulty, but you repeat the same tasks. While they can be done easily, you dont 
 feel like fighting through hoards of guards enhances your fun.
  Now the ending (drum roll)
  Ultimately, I wrote this review to clear up people thoughts about what this game would be like, 
 I hope I have done a good job. For $50, this game is only as good as the person buying it plans 
 for it to be, as in, if you like third person adventures, then buy it. You wont be disappointed. 
 
  But if you aren't all into the action games and you are iffy about buying this because of the repetitiveness, 
 then do not buy it, wait for a price drop (or buy it used on ebay) .
  Thank you for your time, and enjoy your adventure if you decide to buy the game.
  -Gamerkat
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woodyisgod
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  All in all I have enjoyed this game. The creators did an excellent job of creating a living, breathing, 
 realistic environment. The audio is done very well. The cities are immaculate and show off every 
 little detail. The controls work flawlessly and provide very fluid motion between running up walls, 
 grasping hand holds, and jumping from roof top to roof top (an xbox 360 controller is highly recommended) . 
 The fighting system is simple yet works well. Your weapons are unique and all are useful. The cut 
 scenes are also done very well and create an interesting story. As far as recent games go Assassins 
 Creed should have been an incredible game.
  
  However every game seems to have a downfall. This one in particular suffers from a lack of variety 
 in its missions. After the first half of the game, everything kind of grows a bit stale. I would 
 have liked to see a horse race mission or maybe some kind of fighting arena to make a profit. In 
 fact a monetary system of some kind would have added a great deal i think. The ability to purchase 
 new weapons or possibly pay some guards to borrow their uniform or just something. I just sort 
 of felt the developers needed something to spruce up the variety a bit. 
  
  Like I stated above, I still thoroughly enjoyed this game and would give it a good recommendation, 
 however, there seems to be little replay value. 
  
  As a last little note, I noticed many people complaining about bugs and problems they had while 
 playing the game. I didn't experience any issues graphically or in the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t12161991
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  As I said above Assassin's Creed has wonderful game play and graphics, while suffering from some 
 important graphical glitches and other software errors. I am attempting to do justice to the game 
 with a fair and balanced review. I will review this game in the following sections: Graphics, Game 
 play, Story, Sound, Lasting value, and Errors.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics in Assassin's Creed are among the best seen on a computer to date. The detail and 
 quality of the buildings and people are absolutely fantastic. From special points called viewpoints, 
 you can see the surrounding city and if you focus, you can even see some faces on the streets below. 
 The developers have left out nothing in terms of detail. No matter where you look in the game there 
 is always a great amount of detail in the images. While such good graphics require a very good 
 computer, (5.5 recommended on the Windows Vista Rating System) , if you are able to turn the graphics 
 on full then it is absolutely stunning. The only game on any system that can compete in my opinion 
 is Crysis (which, according to the rating system mentioned above still has recommended requirements 
 much lower than Creed) . The frame rate has never slowed considerably, nor have the graphics suffered, 
 even during the most demanding sequences (although admittedly there are no scenes or sequences 
 that are as demanding as most explosions are in FPS or RTS games) .
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  The game play in Assassin's Creed is admittedly by far its best feature. The free roaming environment 
 is graphically stunning and you can do almost anything a real assassin would be able to do in a 
 city. While assassinating or hurting ordinary citizens gets you hurt rather badly, and killing 
 more than five or six kills you, you can still run around, climbing any and all buildings in one 
 way or another, bouncing across rooftops, over streets, and through the streets. While you are 
 only allowed into one district at a time in each "assassination city," in that district you can 
 go anywhere. While one weak point is that you cannot enter buildings, which would add a whole new 
 dimension to the game, even only being on the outside of the buildings is wonderful. Assassin's 
 Creed is organized into 3 cities (Acre, Damascus, and Jerusalem) , one "base" (Masyaf) , and the 
 Kingdom. The Kingdom represents the terrain of the holy land, and it is used to discover each city 
 (once you have found them all, the game lets you teleport to the city of your choice) . In the kingdom 
 you have access to a horse for faster travel. This is especially important because almost all of 
 the soldiers in the Kingdom will attack you on sight, and the horse provides a fast and easy means 
 of escape. As for fans of action combat, there is much here for you. While the fight controls stray 
 away from most fighter games, there is still a lot of skill that needs to be learned in order to 
 be successful. While there are only a few "fight" buttons (attack, high profile/block, grab, and 
 dodge) depending on how you use the buttons there are many attack and defense sequences to be used. 
 While when you first start the "real game" (after the prologue sequence) you only have your hidden 
 blade and sword, and only can use basic attacks and blocks, as you go on you unlock a shorter blade, 
 which is good for fighting off multiple opponents, and throwing knives which provide you with a 
 ranged attack. Combat in Assassin's Creed depends on timing and skill, rather than button mashing. 
 While you will win if you constantly press the attack button, using counter attacks (generally 
 instant kills) and other special moves which can be activated by pressing the attack, grab, dodge, 
 or block button at the right time are much faster and deadlier, especially the counter attack because 
 it is unblock able and instantly fatal to all normal enemies. Assassin's Creed uses a sort of combined 
 stealth meter and health bar. The icon next to the health bar indicates your current "social status" 
 that is, how close you are to being discovered. The icon changes depending on whether you are: 
 unobserved, watched, suspicious, revealed, or out of sight but revealed. Completely white or green 
 indicates that you are completely invisible to guards, yellow means you are either being watched 
 or are out of sight of the guards chasing you, and red means you are in combat, being actively 
 chased, or being closely watched by an alert or informed guard. The icon also changes shape from 
 a triangle for inconspicuous, to a three pronged shape with an eye for watched, to the outline 
 of a triangle for exposed. When attacking a "boss" or main assassination target, you can try for 
 a stealth kill, or a more overt method if you wish. After these kills (and the following cut scene) 
 the city is put on alert, which means that guards all guards are alerted to your presence and will 
 attack you on sight.
  
  STORY
  
  While there are varied opinions on the story in Assassin's Creed, I must say that while the overlying 
 story is rather Matrix-esque and not very interesting, if you pay attention to all of the little 
 cut scenes and plot complications it becomes very interesting as it evolves. All of the bosses 
 are varied targets as to your reasons for assassinating them and how you do so, as well as the 
 consequences for doing so and where you do it. However, I would not buy Assassin's Creed simply 
 for the story.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound in Assassin's Creed fits the setting it is in. while mostly Middle Eastern with some 
 percussion elements, the pace and tone of the background music generally fits the events being 
 acted out in the game. As well, it is neither to loud or quiet and does not interfere wit the conversations 
 in game or any of the important in game messages.
  
  LASTING VALUE
  
  While Assassin's Creed admittedly is not focused towards replay-ability or multiplayer combat (though 
 such a mod or patch would be absolutely fantastic- imagine combat between a mix of the Spartans 
 in 300 and Jet Li's; can we say acting out a martial arts movie?) it still has made some attempt 
 for lasting value. While there are various types of flags to collect (5 total, one type in each 
 city and one in the over kingdom) which unlock extra content, as well as a templar "kill meter" 
 (because Altair is said to have killed every templar in the Holy Land) there is a lot to do besides. 
 Because Assassin's Creed is focused on open world game play, where anything is possible, you could 
 say run through a city and try to kill every guard with out dying, or with a friend, take turns 
 trying to get from one end of a district or city to the other the fastest. As well, all of the 
 assassination missions are extremely satisfying to play over, and while there is not he same feeling 
 of accomplishment if you know what to do, it is still very, very fun.
  
  ERRORS
  
  While Assassin's Creed has many good qualities as listed above, there are some errors that for 
 some make it unplayable, and for others annoying. One error I encountered at the beginning was 
 that, despite the CD being in the drive, I was getting a "No CD in drive" error. This was caused 
 by my various virtual drives, which I was then forced to disable. On the box it says that the copy 
 protection may interfere with virtual drives, but I have never had any problems before. This simply 
 means that they were too lazy to create a CD key generator for the game, so they made it impossible 
 to use virtual drives with this. Despite the protection, I was still able to easily copy the game 
 disc using PowerIso, MagicIso, Nero, Alcohol 120%, and DAEMON Tools. To sum this all up, all the 
 copy protection does is annoy you. I have heard of numerous graphical glitches such as the infamous 
 NV4_disp error message, as well as sound repeats and freezes, artifacts on screen, game freezes 
 and crashes, and various graphical errors. The only error I have suffered is the game crashing 
 about 15-30 minutes in, but the error was caused by the no-CD fix I was using before the above 
 solution. However, the crashes still persist, albeit 2-4 hours in rather than 15-30 minutes (I 
 rarely play for more than an hour and half in any case so this does not bother me that much) and 
 this error may be caused by my graphics card overheating in any case (I am still investigating 
 it) .
  
  Ratings (out of 10)
  
  Graphics: 9
  Game-play: 9.5
  Story: 8.5
  Sound: 8
  Lasting value: 7.5
  (The errors section is just comments)
  
  Overall: I would 
 say about 9, but depending on what you pay attention to in games, then the overall score could 
 change. The average of the above ratings is 8.5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NsNsis
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  *No Spoilers*
  
  Assassin's Creed is defiantly the next-gen game you will expect from the original Prince Of Persia 
 team. The first POP game delivers an interesting new gameplay futures such as [kind of] realistic 
 battle system, and an amazing good looking acrobatic moves. Everybody liked the way that our prince 
 used to run on the walls, flipping all over the place hitting his demonic creatures, shifting between 
 time and fighting for his own life and kingdom. Well, although the formula changed quite a bit 
 since then, lots of futures were delivers straightly from the (sadly now dead) series, "PoP".
 
  
  Ubisoft done a great job creating a huge hype around this game. There is not even a single gamer 
 that never heard about AC. The claims about this game were huge and ambitious, and the loving crowd 
 was searching for information and pre-order deals all over the net for this game, before even a 
 single gameplay demo was shown. And things were yet to come, after the "live" demo on the X360, 
 the hype about this game grew bigger and bigger. Well, not, its finally here and all those fans 
 can relax, AC defiantly quite lives to the expectations that Ubisoft and Fans both had.
  
  ------------
  Storyline |
  ------------ 
  By all mean, one of the greatest I saw. I meant, 
 I saw great story's and great games before, but this one is just really amazing. The story id a 
 big mass of history that was cocked with a pack of great sci-fi ideas, mixed between the 13Th century 
 and the 21Th century. This mix is surely an amazing thing, about great Assassins, Templers, and 
 such things. You will really enjoy this game story, from the beginning to the end it will keep 
 you stare blankly at the screen even after the ending [which is great] .
  
  --------------
  Gameplay |
  --------------
  If you ever played POP, well, thats the same 
 deal here, only its much better. Everything, every little move of acrobatics moves and fighting 
 moves got so much better, that its hard to believe its possible to even make those animation's. 
 Running thouing the 13Th Century Jerusalem feels much better then other games of this kind, like 
 Spiderman, its really hard to describe. The fighting it self is not that special, but it is pretty 
 much as awesome as anything about this game. The AI, thu, can be pretty stupid some times, and 
 there are glitches here and there, nothing special thu.
  
  The world is huge, you can drive a horse, visit many places, help citicants, explore ruins, and 
 pretty much many things. What is sad thu, is the lack of said quest that will take advantage of 
 many areas that ARE in the game, but don't have much too do with the story line.
  
  The controllers are mapped pretty good. Sure, you will enjoy it more if you will plug an Xbox 360 
 controller, but its pretty good using the mouse and keyboard and I really am quite surprised from 
 that.
  
  -------------
  Graphics |
  -------------
  Pretty much? Awesome. Not only that the city's are huge, alive, and beautiful the technical level 
 and the whole design is made in high level, and based on real history from that time. You need 
 a good PC for that, but its defiantly more forgiven the Crysis.
  
  ----------
  Sound |
  ----------
  Same can be said here, it makes the city come alive. Evey thing sounds good, everything 
 here screams "quality", and the music will stay in your ears for hours. The city comes alive when 
 you hear the people talking between them.
  
  ------------
  Lifespan |
  ------------
  Well, this is were the game comes short. Its only about 15 hours long [which is good, but not quite 
 as you will want it too be] . There is a huge lack if potentially in many places in the game, and 
 it gets repetitive quite fast.
  
  ***************
  Overall: 9/10*
  ***************
  this is a great game. If you like action games such as POP, DMC, or GOW, you must have this game, 
 the best of this genre there is right now. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: minigeo
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 29, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed I think is a console game and should have stayed on consoles, i feel with a keyboard 
 it isnt very responsive and will not feel natural because if you push a button next to the one 
 you need may mean you die and have to start it again.
  Assassins Creed also hasn`t moved away from the console version it is basically the same game as 
 the console but a few extra investigations.
  The game also hasnt got a brilliant story as it is confusing and hard to get until you are a part 
 way through the game, the ending is also very confusing.
  And done say to me that is isn`t because i dont like it and never wanted it, to be honest i wanted 
 it ever since i saw it on the Xbox360 and i found it dissapointing. 
  Altair is a good main, well half main character but why does he have an american accent when he 
 is in the middle east, well lots of people have american accents, but the main character who`s 
 name has escaped me is a guy in the future who wierd scientists want to test to find out about 
 Altair, it is good for driving the story to a certain extent.
  I do have to say the assassinations are very fun but you take too long getting there it is ridiculous 
 and travelling to towns on a horse extroadinaraly slow isnt my idea of a good way to spend time. The 
 investigation missions arent very good and get a bit tideous. I will commend assassins creed though 
 for just trying something new but sometimes new isnt enough to make a good game work, and also 
 there are excellent graphics.
  Assassins Creed is worth a go but maybe you should rent it before buying because you may spend 
 30 and be bored after a few hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuyt19
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  I personally haven't played the console versions so i don't know how this fares in comparison to 
 those. I was amazed at how much attention the developers gave to the little details in each map. 
 The physics and realism are much more than i had expected. It probably aced in that department. 
 The game is really life-like and each object is done with extreme detail. The bloom given to the 
 cities made them look and feel real. The sword-fights, fist-fights, wall-climbings, rooftop chases 
 and horse ridings were very believable. But it is due to the realism that the game progressed rather 
 slow. The fights quickly became somewhat old. Same with the chases and the assassination scenes. 
 The 'Leap of Faith' felt nice in the beginning but turned repetitive after a couple of tries. Coming 
 back to the fightings, they look real but slow for a game. Being a POP fan, i was hoping this game 
 would have awesome fight scenes and fast-paced killing moves. But the visuals alone made up for 
 that deficit. It felt more like a heavily souped-up GTA game rather than a new and improved POP (wall-climbings, 
 rooftop jumps) . If you ask if this game is better than a GTA game, i honestly don't know. But it 
 does score one over any GTA game ever in the eye-candy department. It's not an absolute must-have 
 for PC gamers, but if you're into free-roam RPGs, then you should check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameScoutKL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  when i first saw this game i was most afraid of the fact that it would be very difficult because 
 when u see Al Thair doing everything he does u expect that u have to control everything like swinging 
 the sword buton combinations to do cool moves and a lot of button mashing when scalling walls, 
 well i was surprised how easy it is and u would expect it to be pretty borring because its so easy 
 but its not u will forget everything bad u ever thought of this game when u acctualy get to play 
 it, it just sucks u in that if it werrent for the brakes u have to take from the animus u would 
 never let it go. Everything is so beautifull so detailed its an absolute joy to ride the horse on 
 the country side or climbing on top of buildings to see the view and when u know that everything 
 interacts and isnt like a photo u can never reach u just feel better. i cant say enought about this 
 game it has so many features so many details like the horse will kick soldiers on its own even 
 if u are dismounted and start fighting, if a soldier goes too close to the horse it will kick him 
 and birds that will fly off when they see you come near by. stealth killing is amazing it realy 
 makes u feel like an assassin and gives u that sens of power like u could actualy do that in real 
 life.
  If u play the game long enough ull start walking like Al Thair then ull kind of behave a bit like 
 Al Thair beeing more misterious and not attract attention to ur self .the only reason i dint give 
 it a straight ten is because the campaing is a bit short for my taste and it would be cooler if 
 sword wounds would be more realistic but if they would of been more realistic then they allready 
 are i dont think they would of let them sell this game
  As far as system hardware requirements go i can play it at full detail and resolution on an nvidia 
 7900gs with a E8200 intel processor and a gigabyte P35-DS3R motherbord wich all together cost way 
 under 1000 euro in eastern europe where everything is more expensive.
  Overall this game is a masterpiece of engineeiring that can impress anyone in one way or another
 
  If u want to talk more about assassin's creed this is my yahoo! ID whitelion_4_u
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  This game, has been talked about a lot before it was released. As usual, the proud PC owners got 
 it after the console owners because the world seems to run around like this nowadays ... nevertheless 
 I expected much, i say, from this game and Ubisoft ( and the guys from Ubi Romania ) did a great 
 job... I can proudly affirm that this game is one of the best games i played... now let's see why...
 
  
  Graphics are an important part of videogames nowadays... in fact if game X has less shaders than 
 game Y, the graphics aren't as good as they should be... well Assasin's Creed may not use CryEngine 
 (thank god) but it's graphics are simply amazing... Everything looks so alive.. from Altair to 
 the madmen in the cities and to the cities themselves.... The (3) cities you are sent to "visit" 
 are masterpieces of gaming architecture.... they respect the architecture of the time, having specific 
 elements... as an example.. where the muslim towns had round-ish shapes, and that exotic look, 
 the crusader towns came in with a more serious look... the buildings structure giving them a solid 
 look a "rectangular" shape if you will , making you feel different each time you travelled from 
 Jerusalem to Acre..... the citizens look very alive , as does Altair and his assasination targets..... but 
 with all these strong points , come the bugs you can find (like people stretching unnaturally when 
 falling from buildings, stretched people appearing in the sky.. etc ) 
  
  VERDICT - 9
  
  The Sound fits in and helps with creating the atmosphere of the time... the voices of the citizens 
 are good, the voice acting of the main characters is ok, but doesn't get the spotlight (though 
 Altair has a convincing voice in all what he says ) ... the music during chases is very good .. 
 helping the adrenaline get to you faster ... 
  
  VERDICT - 9
  
  The Gameplay is what this game has the best .... As you know it is a platformer with combat and 
 stealth elements.. usually you would say "bah... another PoP like game.. boring" but it brings 
 some innovative ideas into the so-called "PoP gameplay"
  I'm going to start with the best part of the gameplay, and that is the platforming part.... in 
 other platformers you only needed to jump over gaps and obstacles or catch certain ledges in order 
 to move further..
  In Assasin's Creed you any small piece or crack in a building can help you get to your goal.. this 
 brings fun to the game because you can literally stay off the streets and on top of the buildings 
 all the time ... 
  The goal in the game is to assasinate 9 targets ... to get to them you must investigate to find 
 information about the time and place which would favor your strike.. now this is probably the weakest 
 part of the gameplay ... because there are 6 (entertaining) minigames you can choose from.. 3 being 
 the minimum limit of investigations needed to allow you to start the assasination mission....
 
  Though most of the times you'll be performing stealth kills at certain points (after assasinations 
 or because of some dumb mistake your keyboard or gamepad made you do..) you will find yourself 
 exposed... now in order to become anonymous again you can run and hide in certain hiding spots 
 (hay carts, hay packs , between 2 seated citizens on a bench, in a special thing on top of the 
 buildings ) , or kill all the guards chasing you ) .. and here we come to the most controversial 
 part of the game.. the combat... at first sight it will seem boring but when you get the counter 
 attack you will see that repetitivity is fun for the first time ever ..
  Apart from the times you'll be running errands to get the informaion needed you'll just feel like 
 climbing buildings or walking... and you'll see that Altair moves so naturally ... I mean the movement 
 synchronizes with what directions he goes, what moves he needs to do... putting the body in the 
 real positions neede for some actions..... 
  So this is the main reason why Assasin's Creed is a must have
  
  VERDICT - 9
  
  The story 
 starts off pretty weird (in a high tech research facility) but as you play on you'll see that it 
 fits to the gameplay and vice versa... I won't give further information , because there might be 
 SPOILERS..... it's not bad but it's not the best , either
  
  VERDICT - 7
  
  The overall impression the game left me was one of freedom... one that gets near to reality.... 
 that i was visiting a living world that i was taking part in everything... that no one could stop 
 me from (killing the nearest peasant then running like a phuxtard around with 20 guards after me) 
 doing what i want ...
  
  VERDICT - 10
  
  So this sums up my opinion and impression on Assasin's Creed... if you haven't got it.. get it 
 now... or at least rent it.. because you'll be missing out one of the best games that ever came 
 out ..
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaikon7
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  I can't even know where to start. This game is absolutely brilliant piece of art when it comes 
 down to play a singleplayer game. Ubisoft devlopers have really done it this time. lots of dedication 
 and creativity has been set and the results of this game speaks it for itself. Who have played 
 Assassins, Thiefs, bad asses, before in games will sure love this. "Reminded me of my glory days 
 with my Rogue in World of Warcraft. This game has it what it takes to get peoples to really enjoy 
 the game with thrill and emotions they do not fall to sleep 'cause of the same old same old' used 
 form in games. I'm speechless how much i enjoyed this game for the first 2 hours i've played it. 
 The graphics and effects, are just fanastic it really makes you feel like playing in a movie instead 
 of a game
  One of the few games that really got my attention latetly and i was looking forward to play it 
 and you know what? It wasent a dissepointment. 
  
  The only bad things i can say about the game is is its requirements so the people with older PC`s 
 will have a slight problem and the combo moves are hard to handle in keyboard and perhaps lack 
 of good missions, it feels like doing all the same things all over again kill this, go obtain that. 
 if they'd put as much creativity on missions and quests it would of been probably the best game 
 out there, so 8 instead of 10, great but not perfect, perhaps assassins creed 2 will manage to 
 do that.
  
  But nontheless, thanks for the fabulous singleplayer game
  
  decrasing my score after finishing the game, because it really too repetitive in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shiben
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 28, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a story oriented game which does its part really well. It tells us one of those 
 stories for which I am ready to read as much text as possible to learn more about the mystery. 
 Its just fantastic. The gameplay's main feature are its parkour system and sandbox style level 
 design. The sand box offers an open environment where you can go to any place you want and thus 
 parkour here and there for fun.
  
  The game has some major flaws which can make the gameplay experience a little painful. First of 
 all, the jumps and all parkour maneuvers don't work as they are supposed to, at many points (don't 
 know if this is true for 360's version) . It is a little repetitive which reduces the replay value 
 a lot. Combat system is really really bad which further reduces the replay value.
  
  However, the game's save system is amazing. As soon as your profile changes by a slight amount, 
 game saves. If you die, you return to your previous, not so far save point, making dying not at 
 all a problem. During assassinations, as soon as you assassin, the game saves. While escaping the 
 enemies if you die, you return just after you have assassinated. Thus the flaws mentioned above 
 don't create much of an havoc.
  
  The game's flaws I mentioned do become significant near the end of the game were the save points 
 are sadly far apart. If you have been doing this game all stealth and escaping guards, working 
 around the combat, the end (which asks for good amount of combat) is going to bug you a lot.
  
  The combat system I would really like to comment since it really annoyed me. All the combat 
 offers is attack, block and grab. 1 hit kill tactics are there, but that is all. You will be doing 
 the same thing again and again. Moreover there is no guarantee whether your combat tactics will 
 work since your enemies can use the same tactics upon you making your attacks backfiring. I forgave 
 the bad combat system of AC in the beginning and dint b*tch about it but until the end, where the 
 game doesn't save at crucial points and u have 2 start over the most parts. Enemy count is terribly 
 high and, each of them have to be fought with. About AC the best part i liked was its highly conservative 
 save system which betrayed and punished me really bad in the end. I believe no other game's combat 
 system is going to annoy me now that I have went through Assassin's Creed's.
  
  There were some issues some people talked about, one mainly about pinging ubisoft's server for 
 DRM purposes which I found absolutely not hindering my performance (if it was doing it at all for 
 me) . The game NEVER crashed for me. It may have been better to have the game fullscreen on 4:3 
 monitors (it comes with 2 black stripes top and bottom) but it is not a valid argument to say that 
 the PC port is bad. A good port is recognizable by the performance of the game, which is fantastic 
 here! Whether you move on roads or on the roofs, or if you climb tower tops seeing the whole city, 
 the performance remains consistent. THE PC PORT IS REALLY GOOD... dont listen to stupid digged 
 articles, which are trash talking the game but not on valid points.
  
  Overall the game is a really good experience. The story is very intriguing and it is making me 
 crazy to uncover more of the mystery: same way I went curious when I played The Longest Journey. 
 The Sandbox style is fun, you can always go into the game and move here and there, do some side 
 missions. For the adventure part, Assassin's Creed is a must play if you can go through its painstaking 
 combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anacardo
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  The game is simply outstanding from a visual standpoint, being both technically and artistically 
 one of the best games out there. Art direction in particular is the real distinguishing feature 
 in the game, being simply on par, and sometimes even exceeding, the one found in much biased movie 
 production nowadays. Dramatic lighting, blowing dust, steep camera angles, and the overall look 
 of almost every object in the game is not only top notch, but incredibly well balanced, giving 
 this game a unique, distinctive and believable look. If only...
  If only the direction and screenplay were on par with the visual aspects of the game, Assassin's 
 creed could have been a real masterpiece. Sadly it ain't so. Playing through the first few levels 
 of the game clearly exposes the main shortcomings of this title: unimaginative direction, a mixture 
 of free roaming and level-oriented environments that really cannot decide which to be and worst 
 of all boring and repetitive gameplay.
  The game is well summarized in a simple mechanism:
  *Assassin's fortress - cutscene and gaining of equipment - unlocking places
  *move to location 
 - very easy side missions (mostly killing, no cutscenes)
  *enter location by saving someone (They could have thought of thousands of ways to get into the 
 location and yet, they always revert to the same thing, this is unbelievable)
  *location - go to assassin's safe house for debriefing (brief cutscene)
  *location - missions 
 (to find cover and info. always the same stuff over and over again)
  *location - go to assassin's safe house for debriefing (brief cutscene)
  *location - Killing 
 the victim (cutscene)
  *location - go to assassin's safe house for debriefing (brief cutscene)
  Go back to point one.
 
  Same stuff over and over and over again.
  Now, this could have be sufficient for some B-game, or some first attempt from some unknown software 
 house. For Assassin's creed is simply a disgrace. The fact that everything else in this title spells 
 quality almost every second gives even more the feeling that something went wrong, definitely wrong. 
 Suddenly the free roaming side of the game where and the intricate and incredibly well crafted 
 world turns absolutely devoid of any attraction, because every element is repeated with very little 
 variation from one place to the other. At the same time, the lack of direction and bad screenplay 
 doesn't allow AC to exploit the linear-mission driver gameplay at all. 
  In the end this game is a real missed opportunity, one that could have been a masterpiece, and 
 instead is a boring repetitive exercise of great graphics and art direction, but nothing more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veteran_gamer
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 28, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  The GOOD - Prepare to launch a gaming engine that is best described as Eidos' Hitman on steroids. 
 The areas which you can "explore" are decent enough to make you skip "fast travel" a few times 
 to collect flags perhaps. 
  
  The Melee combat is extremely satisfying, it feels good to chop, block, counter & finish off opponents, 
 not to mention the sound effects of bones cracking, human skulls being pierced, flesh stabs & human 
 cries of pain are second to none. The sound is what makes you say "ooooh damn", especially using 
 counter attacks with the hidden blade in combat. 
  
  Except for the main character, saved citizens & certain comments from the public, the voice acting 
 is great. "Authentic" Middle Eastern, French & English accents really pull it off well for many 
 of the characters.
  
  Movement is a breeze. I think this guy could hang with spider-man without a doubt. You can hop, 
 climb, dangle, cling, sprint and leap with less effort than it takes to pick up the phone while 
 you're playing. Good job on that, it's cool.
  
  The BAD - Annoying missions such as rooftop race challenges, pick pocketing, eves-dropping, timer 
 based missions & meaningless, almost detached cut-scenes and dialogue that accompany these missions 
 can really turn the jaded gamer off. I believe it is more fun to simply wander around and kill 
 entire units of guards, kill saved citizens after rescue... and I'm sorry to say, not much to do 
 after that.
  
  The citizen saving missions become especially annoying when the exact same speech and scenario 
 are repeated 8-12 times in a row. 
  
  It becomes a bit boring when you've learned all the moves, and in fact, it's almost -hard to die- 
 unless its an accident, falling off a viewpoint perhaps.
  
  The game quickly becomes Grand Theft Auto with no cars or fire-arms with the very poorly thought-out 
 repetitive mission layouts/templates. By the third HIT, you just want to beat the game for self-accomplishment 
 purposes & so you don't have to reinstall it later just to see the ending. I -did- enjoy the game 
 (for 2 days before it became a "chore") so I'll stop with its faults.
  
  Conclusion - If you've been around since the beginning, this is junk food for your brain. Just 
 like McDonalds, it'll fix the hunger temporarily but in the end you realize maybe you should of 
 held out, just as a Quarter pounder makes you feel bloated & tired, you may find yourself wondering 
 why you wasted as much time as you did doing meaningless activities (flag collecting) for a game 
 that has little to no replay value.
  
  If you're younger, new to gaming, not into hardcore gaming, the casual gamer or just someone with 
 a bit too much time on their hands, this will definitely hit the spot for you, and the kids too.... maybe 
 (it is very violent at times) . You will most likely be impressed by just about every aspect of 
 the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyperson2003
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  First may I point out that the system requirements of this game are portrayed as way too high. 
 I am running a 1.6ghz single core CPU and still running the game with barely any lag (only when 
 there are many objects on the screen) . So budget gamers do not despair (just overclock and put 
 graphics down)
  Anyway....
  
  When I first installed and began playing the game I was just amazed by everything in it. It uses 
 hardware to it's fullest potential and therefore still maintains a huge level of graphical detail 
 even on slow computers. Once I was finished ogling the visuals I was drawn in by the level of interactivity 
 you seem to have with your surroundings (not the people however) . The way that you can simply run/climb/jump 
 over anything in the game (with only a few times in the entire game when you could obviously see 
 the developers hand in making something traversable) just draws you in; making you want to just 
 run around just to see if the level design is really as good as it appears (it is) . From then the 
 next thing you notice is the incredible attention to detail that the developers used when making 
 the game realistic. Gone are the days of clunky transition animations while you watch your character 
 get off a ladder. No matter what bizarre route you decide to take when climbing or running the 
 game controls each limb onto a realistic looking surface.
  Once your vision has come to terms with the visuals then you begin to notice the intricacy of the 
 sounds and the subtlety with witch they are employed. I can still remember the days when there 
 would be an MP3 or similar file in the install somewhere that played on a loop when your outside 
 to simulate voices however in Assassins Creed it seems as though each sound is sourced from a particular 
 person, from guards (with whom you will 'interact' with many times) to mad men and drunks raving 
 madly at you. For these reasons I think that Assassins Creed has to be one of the best games of 
 the year if not the decade.
  The only thing I disliked about Assassins Creed was it's unfilled potential. It had such a great 
 engine that seemed to be so flexible at times it is a wonder to me why they did not incorporate 
 more GTA style game play. By this I do not mean random pointless violence by all the extra features 
 that it comes with e. g. greater range of weapons (like maces or bows) . Once you have finished the 
 game there is very little extra you can do other than trivial tasks like finding flags or redoing 
 levels. Some form of currency also would have been a great bonus to the game and could have added 
 a huge depth of interaction with the people of Assassins Creed.
  That said, Assassins Creed is already set to be a legendary game in the same league as GTA or Half 
 Life I just think that, without much extra work the game could have become a much more immersive 
 and fun to play (if it is actually possible) than it is already 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2489,0. html
  
  I'll be honest: the Prince of Persia: Sands of Time trilogy and the Splinter Cell series have ranked 
 amongst some of the best games I've played. Both of them have offered fun and innovative gameplay 
 combined with interesting story elements that fully immersed me in their worlds. I loved POP's 
 acrobatic moves and interesting puzzle, and I just can't get away from knifing guards from behind 
 as the now-legendary Sam Fisher. This is why I grew excited when Ubisoft Montreal announced their 
 newest game, Assassin's Creed. Made by talented people from the teams behind both franchises, AC 
 looked to combine stealth, assassination, and acrobatics that were inherent to both series. The 
 console versions were released late last year, and they mostly stunned the gaming world, earning 
 high reviews and selling over three and a half million copies. Now, not even half a year later, 
 Ubisoft has released the Director's Cut on the PC, looking to improve upon the previous version 
 and garner even more success.
  
  AC's first surprise happens right off the bat when you start the game. Your character is Desmond 
 Miles, and he has been kidnapped by unknown people. He is forced to interface with the Animus, 
 a machine that extracts memories from the DNA of the user, passed on from descendant to descendant, 
 allowing the user to replay those memories as if he were there himself. Apparently, Desmond is 
 the descendant of Alta&iuml; r Ibn La-Ahad  at-ta'er 
 in Arabic meaning "Flying One" and his last name meaning "Son of None") a member of the Assassin's 
 Order during the Third Crusade of the Holy land. He soon starts to adapt to the Animus, and becomes 
 able to access a series of memories that leads to the researcher's ultimate goal. The rest of the 
 plot becomes intertwined with the memories that you journey through as Altair. Fortunately, unlike 
 most games released nowadays, the game's plot is mysterious and filled with twists and intrigue. 
 It was enough to keep me going through the game's 15 hour campaign.
  
  Let's get down to the gameplay. The bulk of the game takes place in Altair's world. The game takes 
 place on a vast, open map that connects the major cities you visit, including Acre and Jerusalem. 
 Altair is controlled from a third person perspective, with various keys/buttons controlling the 
 different parts of his party, such as feet, eyes, and arms. You can do actions in either socially 
 acceptable or unacceptable ways, such as walking calmly down the street vs running and tackling 
 innocent bystanders out of the way.
  
  Altair is given nine assassination targets, and the bulk of the game focuses on these assassinations. 
 You journey from the Assassin's base to the city where your target resides. While cool at first, 
 traveling between cities does tend to take a while, even on horseback, and is really a one trick 
 pony. Thankfully, after only a few visits, the game begins to offer you quick travel options to 
 the cities, since you tend to revisit them.
  
  Once you get to the city, you can't just start killing. You have to investigate around the city 
 to gather information about your target, and so come in the changes done for the Director's Cut. 
 The original game featured five different investigation "types," such as escorting informants, 
 eavesdropping, etc. However, since you need to do three of these each time you investigate, and 
 there's nine assassinations, it tends to get very repetitive. Ubisoft looked to alleviate that 
 with the Director's Cut. It adds 4 new missions, like archer assassination and sales stand destruction. 
 They are fun, but after a while, you still end up doing the same things.
  
  Once you've done your investigation, its on to the kill. You have a brief chat with the city's 
 Assassin's Bureau "representative," and he gives you a feather with which you must smear with the 
 blood of your target to prove the kill was successful. And then, its off. You witness a brief cutscene 
 which sets up the situation and are given free rein to kill your opponent in any way you want. 
 You can approach him stealthily and stab him from behind with your concealed blade, fight like 
 a madman through his guards, chase him all over the city, incapacitate him with a throwing knife, 
 etc. These are amongst the most memorable moments in AC, and they are set up in some interesting 
 situations, such as a party where all the wine is poisoned and archers wait in the shadows to kill 
 off the guests.
  
  After a brief chat with your dying target that moves the game's plot forward, its on to a pulse-pounding 
 chase through the city. If you think that the Prince's level of interactivity with the environment 
 was impressive, think again. Altair can grab onto and climb virtually any object, outcropping, 
 window, etc. He is very nimble and the game's platforming is essentially boiled down to two or 
 three buttons. You essentially point Altair in the direction he wants to go, hold down one of the 
 buttons, and Atair makes the appropriate moves. It is awe-inspiring to watch yourself running and 
 jumping across the rooftops of Jerusalem with five or six guards behind you.
  
  Assassin's Creed most stand-out achievement is the amount of detail and life put in each one of 
 its cities. The buildings and streets are incredibly detailed and lighted well. People walk around, 
 seemingly minding their own business, and preachers stand talking to crowds. This is one of the 
 most realistic and impressive game worlds I've seen in my several years of gaming, and almost nothing 
 compares to the detail, scale, and scope of these areas. The game supports DirectX 10, but contrary 
 to most games, it doesn't add effects and actually improves performance.
  
  Unfortunately, as I said before, certain elements of AC tend to get repetitive. Once you get on 
 to your fifth or sixth mission, you feel like "I've done this before." The game does eventually 
 change gears and offer up a pulse-pounding sequence and interesting conclusion, but the middle 
 of AC drags on for too long. Once you do get to this part, you might be discouraged to play on. 
 I would recommend that you stomach this part, as the rest of the game gets better.
  
  All in all, AC is an incredible technical feat. With its huge cities, impressive graphics, and 
 stunning interactivity; it presents a world that rivals that of Crysis in its immersion factor. 
 It's gameplay and story premise is interesting, but the game does tend to get dragged down in repetition 
 towards the middle. If you can stomach this, you'll find that you've played one of the most intriguing 
 games of this generation. And that, my friends, is the mark of a piece of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  1. Technical Issues
  2. Graphics
  3. Story
  4. Gameplay
  5. Multilayer
  
  1. Technical Issues - I haven't found any big bugs so far. The only thing that i may say is that 
 when you press alt+tab it takes a considerable amount of time to get you back in the game. But 
 this may be due to my video card and only happens to me. Very big areas without a single loading 
 screen.
  
  2. Graphics - Outstanding. Realistic movements. Extremely beautiful cities full of life. At all 
 settings at high you can almost imagine that you live in it. The finishing animations are very 
 realistic. Sometimes i just stated a fight to watch Altair killing these poor bastards :Evil grin:
 
  
  3. Great story. I haven't finished the game so far but a friend of mine who had refused to spoil 
 even the slightest piece of it claiming i have to learn it on my own and that the story is one 
 of the best aspects of the game. The only thing i can mention is the complete lack of subtitles 
 which for people who aren't fluent with English (or any localization of the game) may be a big problem. 
 Also this is one of the most originally served story. Even the HUD menus have an explanations why 
 are there
  
  4. Well... Maybe the worst aspect of the game. It is really fun in the beginning. But with time 
 the missions get repetitive, fights became a nuisance, climbing view points is boring and on the 
 PC version of the game collecting flags (something like the packages in GTA) have no sense, because 
 the only give some stupid XBOX achievements scores. The interaction with objects in the game is 
 very limited - you practically cannot talk with anyone else outside of the scripted missions. I 
 must mention that the game is full with small almost unnoticeable details which make it very realistic. 
 Like the slight closing of the eyes of Dasmond when the sun is shining in his eyes. The horse riding 
 is very realistic and although not so important is adds even more realism to the game.
  There is like 10 different types of mission you can encounter in the whole game. At the end you 
 will be so pissed "saving citizens" and listening to the same (ok 3-4 ) dialogs again and again 
 that you will want to kill them yourself. 
  
  
  5. Complete lack of multilayer :D Altair alone killed like half the Crusade and the Saracens so... 
 For the sake of all Religion let's not make Jerusalem a blood bath. (this was some kind of lame 
 joke ;) ) .
  
  Finally, i would strongly recommend you to play Assassin's Creed. It give you a lot of fun hours, 
 and you will really like the graphics in it, but if Ubisoft have just made a few more missions 
 and better interaction with the things around you it could have been a revolution. Now it is just 
 a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigy333
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  The story is great, the controls and the physics even greater but if you play this game for a while 
 you start to get bored cause it's just the same stuff over and over again: "Go to a town, do the 
 investigation, kill the man". In the beggining i was really excited but after about 5 hours of 
 playing.... well it's just not the same. For me assassin; s creed was a dissapointment. I was expecting 
 much more and especially after the talks about this game after it was released on the XBOX. I hope 
 if they make assassin's creed 2 better make it more like Prince of Persia + Hitman and try a little 
 bit more new stuff to keep the interest of the gamers. The only thing that kept me until the end 
 was the option of going instantly from town to town, otherwise i wouldn't make the effort to even 
 finish it. Sorry, but that's the truth. I don't know what everyone is saying but i think this game 
 is overrated!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AhmedGogo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  this nice game have make me like i am in the past with a beautiful, exciting experience and great 
 game play and it makes you live in the past with nice combact and acrobatic moves and nice atmospheric 
 game and with all of this it has a good story that makes you love the game and want to now what 
 will happen and The visual design has a lot to do with how believably organic everything feels. 
 The cities are absolutely huge, and though you don't get full exploration privileges in the first 
 few chapters, they eventually open up to let you travel seamlessly from one side to another 
  Assassin's Creed is endlessly entertaining in that it features a fine mix of stealthy exploration, 
 tight platforming, and exciting combat. To discover the whereabouts of your assassination targets, 
 you must first follow up on possible leads. There are several different mission types in this regard. 
 In some cases, you sit on a bench and listen in on secret conversations
  BEST GAME OF 2008 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilscranap
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is a great game the graphics is great the sound the story n most of all the gameplay... GREAT 
 GAME FOR THE ONES WHO LOVE MA STYLE HA HA IM HEADIN TO THA BANK RIGHT NOW
  GREAT GAME FOR THE ONES WHO LOVE MA STYLE HA HA IM HEADIN TO THA BANK RIGHT NOW
  GREAT GAME FOR 
 THE ONES WHO LOVE MA STYLE HA HA IM HEADIN TO THA BANK RIGHT NOW
  GREAT GAME FOR THE ONES WHO LOVE MA STYLE HA HA IM HEADIN TO THA BANK RIGHT NOW
  GREAT GAME FOR 
 THE ONES WHO LOVE MA STYLE HA HA IM HEADIN TO THA BANK RIGHT NOW
  GREAT GAME FOR THE ONES WHO LOVE MA STYLE HA HA IM HEADIN TO THA BANK RIGHT NOW
  GREAT GAME FOR 
 THE ONES WHO LOVE MA STYLE HA HA IM HEADIN TO THA BANK RIGHT NOW
  GREAT GAME FOR THE ONES WHO LOVE MA STYLE HA HA IM HEADIN TO THA BANK RIGHT NOW
  GREAT GAME FOR 
 THE ONES WHO LOVE MA STYLE HA HA IM HEADIN TO THA BANK RIGHT NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedrolopes7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  I love you Ubisoft!!!!!!!!!!
  The PC version is just as wonderful as the console ones... This is the best game ever... beautiful, 
 complex, great story, i suppose they could make a best-seller book or a great movie...
  The Prince of Persia trilogy got to an end... 
  The action is very balanced... every combat moment 
 is like a puzzle... i mean, you have to strike an enemy in the perfect timing and still read the 
 others movements... 
  The graphics are amazing, every time i put the game on i just can't believe it.
  Sometimes you 
 just want to stpo playing and stay steal in front of the monitor observing all that complex world 
 moving around Altair...
  The sound.... you can listen to everthing is happening around you... and the music stick like a 
 glove...
  Gameplay is very futuristic, this concept of two states of spirit, more agressive or more social 
 acceptable is incredible! I think this is the begginig of something really big!!!!
  You must buy this game, not backup the one you don't have....
  Sorry for my bad english... 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aedo84
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 25, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  just as i said before when first began to play i thought that it would be an amazing game, the 
 graphics, the innovation about climbing the roof tops of the houses, go wherever you want, it was 
 just great, even the story was quite cool, but the i spent the whole rest of the game doing the 
 same things over and over again, with an acceptable story but the only things you do is climb, 
 run, and kill in the same ways thoughout the game, and then when i finish it nothing good was taken 
 from that it was jus as a bad movie with good effects. i think the creators need to analise how 
 they drop off the opportunity to make an outstanding game replacing it with an average game just 
 because they couldn't increase the amount of diversity in the missions making it boring and repetitive. 
 the final thing i can say about this game is that it isn't worth its price, i wouldnt buy it if 
 i were you, better rent it first you'll likely finish it in two days and discover everything that 
 the game has to offer in just 30 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wormmeister
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  Firstly Assassin's Creed for the PC does not feel like a console port. The controls are absolutely 
 perfect and there are no slip ups hinting at this game's console origins.
  
  The graphics are very impressive - if you have a beast of a PC that can handle them. As with many 
 recent Ubisoft games Assassin's Creed is an overly demanding system hog and poorly optimised too. 
 That said when you see Assassin's Creed played as it should be, on the highest graphic settings, 
 it is a pure visual delight. 
  The cities of Acre, Damascus and Jerusalem are superbly created, highly detailed and look fantastic. 
 The same goes for the guards and citizens that inhabit these cities. The main character Altair 
 also looks excellent and amazingly real.
  
  The game sound is good. The voice acting is well done and the main characters are imbued with personality 
 because of it. My only complaint about sound is the somewhat dimwitted comments of the guards.
 
  
  When you get right down to the core of it Assassin's Creed's most enjoyable feature is the free-running 
 gameplay. It is a near-perfect example of how free-running should be done and other developers 
 should undoubtedly be taking notes. The pace of Altair's movements is spot on - its fast enough 
 to keep the adrenaline high while being easy to control and plan your route.
  The sword fighting is good but doesn't quite stand up next to the free-running. It can be bit repetitive 
 for an unimaginative player but there are several potential combos and moves that can be used to 
 mix up a fight. The animations for the standard combo and the counter combo are extremely satisfying 
 to watch.
  The assassinations themselves (performed with the hidden blade) are good most of the time but frustration 
 can mount when attempting to take out the main targets with some degree of style. The approach 
 to some of the main 9 targets often feels unexciting - lacking in the excellent and stylish free-running 
 and instead descending into simply running after your fleeing target.
  The investigations that are required to be carried out before you are cleared to strike your target 
 are a bit disappointing in their lack of variety and the repetitiveness can be a grind.
  Unfortunately the last part of the game breaks down turning into a linear series of basically corridor 
 battles. This is deeply disappointing considering the enjoyable freedom offered earlier.
  
  Story-wise the game is very engaging and thought provoking if approached with the right frame of 
 mind. This is a thinking-man's/woman's game! You cannot just sit back and have everything explained 
 to you. The Assassin's Creed encourages you to think and form your own opinions. 
  The death-speeches of the 9 main targets are deeply interesting as they attempt to justify their 
 supposedly evil actions that your investigations have revealed.
  The sci-fi element of the game (which I will not go into too much detail so as not to spoil anything) 
 is also filled with deep thought provoking ideas.
  Assassin's Creed explores many intelligent philosophies and debates such as the right of one group 
 to police the world.
  
  All in all Assassin's Creed is a very enjoyable game with an intelligent story and a sci-fi twist 
 and no game on the market can rival the fantastic free-running experience.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amephist
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I have just finished Assassin's Creed after 6 days playing it, and I can tell you for sure that 
 you will not get disappointed with this game, but you will get bored as hell sometimes.
  
  Fights and "fooling around" are on the main just for fun features of the game. The background history 
 is somewhat new on a saturated market and it has twists that will make you want to see more until 
 you finish the game. Graphics are credible, every movement the characters do is fluid, the atmosphere 
 seems right on every moment and you will not have any problem immersing into the game. There are 
 plenty of moments were you will say "WoW, that was great"; on my particular case my wife is really 
 fed up of being shown how I may kill an archer jumping from roof to roof and using my hidden blade.
 
  
  On the bad side and my personal opinion on why it does not deserves 1.5 more on the score, you 
 cannot avoid cinematics and everything you do after a few hours it feels the same with minimal 
 variations. This problem scales when you get used to the fancy screen "gibberish" and it starts 
 to mess with the continuity of the game, one time fine, two does not bothers, three times is starting 
 to suck and on the seventeenth time you get the same dialog you will look around searching for 
 a fly while you wait. Another minor issue that maybe happened to somebody else is that any fight 
 against "x" foes will end (if you like) just holding right mouse button and pressing left one on 
 the right moment, difficulty is on the easy side due to that matter. But do not be 
  
  Overall it is a fun game and it really worth the purchase.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcane_artist
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 25, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Like I said, beauty can be weak. Why? Assassin's Creed is obviously a game that you can tell has 
 had an immense amount of effort put into it by the artist and programmers. One can be completely 
 immersed in the game play and play experience alone, but all that is broken by a extremely weak 
 and fickle story. 
  
  The story reminded me of a fanfic, written by a 15 year old. Which probably went along the lines 
 of him writing something in a vision of his inexperience youth and thinking it's pretty cool. Okay, 
 okay, there was a degree of coolness to it, but unfortunately it just wasn't executed well enough 
 to make it worth paying attention too. It was like one of those stories that try to be really smart 
 and technical about what they're writing about. Only to come off sounding to smart and inevitably 
 looking really really stupid. That whole, so smart, it IS stupid theory. 
  
  Assassin's Creed tries to be too much, in fact, so much so it probably doesn't even know what it 
 wants to be. In the future looking through someones memories to go into the past, to get information 
 about something that aids the people you're trying to stop in the past, in the future... well present... 
 present to game in futureness. 
  
  When you go into the real part of the game, running on rooftops and fighting, throwing peasants 
 off cliffs and into water, and nudging guards of roof tops. It is just plan fun, it is what all 
 games should be (but unfortunately mostly these days aren't) . It's fasted paced and adrenaline 
 pumping even when your blending into the crowd. But when you're pulled out and have to be taken 
 away from all the fast paced action and awesomeness, into a something that's is slow and dull, 
 kind of like a really really bad Adventure Game. That whole impression of awesomeness is lost. 
 
  
  Alright, alright, I get it, they're trying to create a jarring experience from what is the past 
 and what is present/future. But it just doesn't work. It's like those traffic barriers that pop 
 out of the ground when you think you can get through in time. All your left with is a smashed up 
 car, and several passengers who may have been with you, ejected out the front of your car (Safety 
 first, wear a seat belt!)
  
  The ending, without unloading spoilers, was the most pointless ending a person could make for a 
 game. Giving the player the ability to loiter and do nothing much but walk around snooping through 
 people emails and read a whole lot of information that doesn't help or make much a difference to 
 the ending of what you've already come to know through the experience of the game *BREATHES* is 
 a big pointless empty void of wasteness. There was nothing at the end of the game that didn't tell 
 you what you already know, nor did it give you more information about any other potential titles 
 that may be coming. 
  
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is a stunning and immersive game. It breaks the mold of what can be done 
 with games in terms of game play. But however it also broke the mold of what shouldn't be done 
 in terms of story and mixing game types (even if it is all the rage these days) . Yet, if you overlook 
 it's obvious weakness', the game is great fun and I'm sure you'll enjoy it, even if your not into 
 action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Asassin's Creed is an ambitious game, it took a few risks making this kind of game. There were 
 others like this in the past, like tomb raider and prince of persia, but this one is rehashed, 
 and generally better than thos other two franchises. The story is great, you'll get quite a few 
 history lessons here, all the characters play theire role very good, the surroundings are superb, 
 the crowds, everything is so good you actually feel you're in 1191 AD. One more thing about the 
 storyline: you'll notice from the start that you, yourself aren't in fact in the years of Altair, 
 you're not even Altair, he's your ancestor and you are in the Animus, a device that reads your 
 DNA and analyzes your ancestor's memory. Pretty good I'd say, and how you're introduced to this 
 device in the game is credible. The only annoying part about this is that you'll have to do little 
 pauses between sitting in the Animus and living Altair's memories and going to sleep. It's not 
 really a big deal, but sometimes you're so engaged in the story and then... "you'll have to take 
 a break, Desmond". It's soo annoying X ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAnconia
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  I was semi satisfied with the game. Unfortunately the game gets very repetitive after a while. 
 
  
  The combat system if very fluid and extremely easy to kill a group of gaurds that are persuing 
 you through the city. In all the demos that i had watched they would always run away and warned 
 the player that getting into fights was not the best thing to do. After a while of running away 
 i just stayed and fought the gaurds. 
  
  About 3 quarters of the way through the game i would just start fights with the gaurds to keep 
 myself interested. I would run through the gaurds barracks and try to aggro as many foes as i could 
 to see how many i can take out in one sitting. It got up to about 20 gaurds once and i walked away 
 from it fairly easily. 
  
  There really are no consequences to be had in the game. If you anger a group of gaurds you just 
 need to kill them and you are off the hook. Even when people are keeping their eye on you, you 
 are still able to walk about the city unchallenged. Towards the end of the game i would just start 
 picking off soldiers one by one with stealth kills. 
  
  The sound was really good and so was the musical score. The atmosphere of the cities you visit 
 are very unique. You can definitely tell which city you are in with the differences in architecture, 
 clothes and accents of the local inhabitants. 
  
  One thing i had a problem with is the denouncement of God and Christianity. Throughout each city 
 there are public speakers asking for the death of the Christian leaders and all the regular infidel 
 talk we have come to know in the last couple of years but i can only recall one time where there 
 was a public speaker for Christianity. Yet at the beginning of the game it says that it was developed 
 by persons of different religions and races. Yet still there seems to be only one side spoken out 
 in the streets. This is a personal issue of course. Im just sick of all the movies, games and magazines 
 playing down persons of the Christian persuasion. 
  
  The ending has got to be one of the worst in all of gaming history. Whoever wrote the screenplay 
 for this game should be shot. Its like he ran out of ideas the night before it was due and farted 
 on the keyboard and out came this lame ending. It does not due the game any justice and causes 
 the game to seem like a waste of time. You play for hours and hours and all you get is the one 
 line ending to the game. I was almost angry that i spent money on this game when it ended. The 
 fact that it set up a sequel did not help at all. Cause if the sequel is this repetitive and the 
 ending this bad i will not be buying the game. 
  
  All in all it was interesting enough to finish but not great enough to recommend it at the hefty 
 price of 49.99. I would wait til its 19.99 or at least wait for it to go on sale before plopping 
 down your cash. I most likely will not be very interested in the sequel. Someone really needs to 
 make a good game quick. I though this was going to be the game but it wasnt. It was Prince of Persia 
 with better fighting mechanics and a horrible story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13ozzy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I was tracking Assassins Creed even before it came out for 360 and ps3. I have been looking forward 
 to it since the first time i saw the trailer. Finallysomeone thought of somthing different. This 
 game has its own unique experiance, like galoping on a horse, or just killing random dudes. Averall 
 a great game, good job Ubisoft. Still its missing something, its not a game that you can spend 
 few straight hours playing. Its getting a bit boring after a while. FreeRuning looks great, but 
 it foesnt feel that way. Its kinda dull, because all you do is you hold few buttons and look the 
 way you want to go and Altair will find a way to get there. It would be better it you would have 
 different buttons for different movements. Like separate buttons for hands, and a different button 
 for swings and leg, stuff like that. As i said its abit boring, it doesnt have that feeling that 
 most of freeworld games have. GTAthat you can play it over and over. Its a great game and something 
 you shold play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mephistoau
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok ok, where to start......
  
  Assassin's Creed was a game i had been looking forward to for a very long time. Pre-ordered months 
 in advance, watched all the dev diaries etc etc. Come reviews i noticed that they were mixed, some 
 loved it, others didn't really. Oh noez, doubt starts to form!! Why oh why did these people not 
 like the game? Not enough action? Not believable? 
  
  Well. Let me go through my experience so far.
  
  You start the game having a "malfunction" 
 within the system, and have to get your mind "pulled out" because your brain cannot handle reliving 
 the memories. Sound cool? Well, yeah it is. Proceeding through some generic tutorials lets you 
 into the game but doesn't show a whole lot - just the extreme basics, enough to survive your first 
 mission :)
  
  However as you manage you get through the game, missions unlock various weapons and abilities yada 
 yada yada. You've heard all that before. If you haven't heard (if you've been in a hole) - the 
 games visuals are breathtaking - one of the single most believable and visually stunning games 
 i've ever seen. The crowds live and breathe - REACT to your actions - and guards actually become 
 alert etc when they think there is trouble afoot. AI wise, i think the game has made a real achievement. 
 
  
  The free-roaming aspect is a true breath of fresh air in the genre - finally a game that you can 
 basically move / climb over EVERYTHING - like an experienced rock climber without the safety gear. 
 It's fantastic. Forget what you may have heard people say about the movement being too easy. Sure, 
 it's not particularly difficult but LOOK at the movement - it's realistic, it's believable - you 
 could almost imagine yourself doing most of it. There are bars / ledges / cracks - all of which 
 you can find hand and footholds in - it's not easy, it's just POSSIBLE. 
  
  As for "battle", again i've heard the same complaints. Easy, boring etc etc. Again, i cannot see 
 ANY resemblance of this. Perhaps i can agree - like the movement - it isn't overly difficult, but 
 when you have nine soldiers around you and you actually try to make it more interesting instead 
 of just waiting and countering every move (which takes time and can get boring) - and try to attack 
 in between enemy movements etc, it is actually a very involving and immersing experience.
  
  The voice acting is actually surprisingly good - i was almost expecting purely cliched crap 
 - but it's quite good, and the script is believable enough.
  
  All in all i find this game very difficult to criticize. If you sit back and really look at things 
 around you, if you FEEL the game living around you it's absolutely brilliant. Don't come into the 
 game looking for a pure action fix - because you won't get it. If you come in looking for a game 
 where you can really play the assassin and enjoy the environment then you'll love it. The only 
 reason i didn't give it 10/10 is because it would have been good to have a little mission change 
 in between locations, but if you move around and pick what you like at what stage, it doesn't get 
 overly repetitive. 
  
  And absolute winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rainbow_Lion
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Anybody who doesn't like this game is probably a clumsy nerd! This is an absolute class game where 
 you can do battle with 10+ enemies and despatch them is a glorious display of violence and sword 
 skills and for all those people who say this is a repetitive game than that I'm afraid is just 
 a reflection of how boring a person they are this game is so open and free that a creative personality 
 with find a different way to approach each challenge whereas a dumb person will approach a challenge 
 the same way each time. This is about as repetitive as GTA which I also love. To summarise, if 
 you like adventure, excitement and feeling as hard as nails then Assassins Creed is for you, personally 
 I feel like this game is a nice gameplay mix of Tenchu, Gun, GTA & Soul Reaver. If you have a nice 
 PC then the graphics surpass the inferior console versions too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_csa
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Hello
  I've buy this game and already finished it. This game is really awesome. The story, gameplay and 
 graphic is one the best of all games. The bad is that you need a really good PC for this great 
 game. Yeah good games need good PC's :) . The game isn't so long than I've expected. But... I think 
 this is a must buy game if you have a really good PC with Windows XP or Vista. I think that you 
 can play it with a middle good PC too but than you must take the graphic, details and shadows to 
 1/4. On low graphic and detail is it nearly so good as on high detail or graphic because the gameplay 
 and fighting moves make this game so great. I know this is a short review but I hope it is enough 
 because I don't have to say more about this awesome game. Just one thing: this game is awesome 
 ;) . ( And sorry for the bad English) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormweaver
Rating: 4
Date: May 9, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  You can buy the game if you like the following sequence of events:
  
  1. Gallop into a city
  2. Sneak into the city through hiding among scholars
  3. Climb a tower 
 to refresh your (ancestor's) memory of events
  4. Jump down
  5a. Punch someone up (interrogate)
  5b. Eavesdrop someone by sitting down on a bench near them
 
  5c. Pickpocket someone
  Repeat steps 3-5 ad nauseum until you unlock sufficient clues to where and how to get to your mark, 
 then:
  6. Kill your mark.
  7. Run away either via the rooftops or hiding within some scholars.
  
  Oh, and you get to fight 
 countless guards and templars along the way with the same moves and weapons (sure you get some 
 weapon upgrades, but you're better off sticking with the sword or short sword)
  
  And wtf, here you have an assassin fully decked out with weapons walking among some monks, and 
 the enemy can't tell him apart?
  
  Graphics are nice, but it's WAY to repetitive and boring. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeXgoreXcore
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  Design - The game looks stunning, the world is highly detailed, every 3D bump you can see on a 
 building... you can climb on it, the people surprisingly look very different so you wont see the 
 same guy twice in a long time (they say like the same 7 line every time the see you but I personally 
 didn't care much) .
  The characters are highly detailed too and very lifelike.
  
  Gameplay - The game is pretty fun to play, running around and climbing on buildings is pretty cool. 
 The mini missions are fun but some of them are too easy, for instant pickpocketing is too easy. 
 The new missions on the PC are kinda fun like meeting an informer in the other end of the city 
 under 3-2 minutes using the free running. The mini missions add a bit of information about the 
 target you are supposed to kill although the game is super repetitive I found it very fun to play.
 
  
  Story - The story is about a bartender who was kidnapped by a scientist to see through a machine 
 called the Animus the memories of his ans esters (Altair-The character you control) . I found the 
 story very interesting with a few twists. The ending is kinda confusing so don't expect something 
 good and question answering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atmu5ph3ar
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why others are complaining about long load times, and the game running in a window, 
 because this game runs flawlessly on my PC. Loads quick, no lag what so ever, and the graphics 
 are quite stunning. I use a 360 controller with my PC and usually play it on my TV screen, so I 
 don't have an issue with the controls, although I can't say I've tried the old keyboard and mouse 
 setup. 
  
  The game itself is great fun, and no more repetitive than any other games, ie The Godfather, Hitman, 
 Splinter Cell etc. If you get sick of being stealthy all the time and just feel like murdering 
 folks, you can just go attack any gaurd and you'll have to fight about 10, then boogy off and find 
 a hiding spot to lose the heat, and continue on with your missions. A lot like GTA without the 
 cars or the gunplay. Being able to scale any building or structure and run quickly across the city 
 reminds me alot of Crackdown on the 360, and its always fun dropping down 2 stories into a crowd 
 of gaurds and going on a murderous rampage. 
  
  I did however find the voice acting a little on the weaker side, but most everything else is just 
 right. Definately worth the buy, and you have the choice to prettty much play the game how you 
 want. The beginning is linear, but its all part of the storyline, after that it's wide open, choose 
 the city, choose the mission, and choose how you want to accomplish the mission.
  
  If you're looking for something fun, different and graphically stunning than this is definately 
 the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unst4blec0d3r
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I found the initial concept and storyline to be very creative and intriguing. The graphics and 
 animations were amazing and overall the game performed quite well on my slightly above average 
 gaming PC.
  
  I did find some things confusing and often would find myself being attacked by guards while uncertain 
 what I had done to draw their attention. Even my "assassinations" seemed to really turn into large 
 sword battles with the final blow happening automatically at the end.
  
  While the controls are a little awkward at first, once you begin to master them they provide some 
 very fluid and enjoyable fight sequences. With the practice ring available after learning a new 
 skill, you are given some time to adjust to it before being sent on your way.
  
  The sites and sounds of the cities are wonderfully immersive. From the merchants on the street 
 hawking their wears to the insistent beggar asking you for spare change, the world seems teeming 
 with activity.
  
  While I haven't found the game to be as interactive and "free" as I'd like, it is still a wonderful 
 game and proves itself to be very entertaining.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invisiblejim
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 21, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Well its been much awaited for the PC.. however as an casual player with a reasonable knowledge 
 of PC qliches I'm pretty sure this has some.
  
  First off
  
  Game looks lovely, lets be clear on this..
  
  Now for the PC pains..
  
  1 Game only seems 
 to Run in Window. At first this doesnt sound bad. but once you start moving around watch out for 
 your mouse drift off screen and you inadvertantly selecting desktop icon menus.
  
  2 Drivers - Gotta make sure you got the top notch upto date drivers.. even with that I'm still suffering 
 the odd choppy sound.
  
  3 Spot the Conversion.. in game help insists on saying hit button 1 with a four button layout in 
 game.. the kind of thing you expect for consoles.. Poor conversion highly likely here.
  
  4 With all the prettyness dont expect a free rein,,, early part of game seems very linear. Sad lack 
 of options of things to do. Another annoying thing is the little flash ups of hit button 1 when 
 your close to the only thing your can do in lab. Makes no sense now huh... just wait and see.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzakj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  The load times are fast on my PC (3800+ X2, 7950gt, 2gig DDR) . Visuals are alright for a game this 
 day and age but the thing that takes frames away the most is resolution. I kept it on 1280x800 
 and 80% of the details on max (some a notch lower, and 2 bars on multisampling (AA?) ) . I got about 
 30 fps or so with that. There are some minor bugs but nothing you can't overlook.
  
  The gameplay is repetitive, you do the same thing is slightly different circumstances. The story 
 is interesting although a bit foreseeable eventually. It's suspenseful to say the least. You won't 
 want to stop playing without seeing it through. 
  
  This is a game you want to rent or get for about $20. If there's a sequel (which there damn better 
 be!) I would at least play that through as well. Overall it's worth it. I'd recommend anyone to 
 give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYuuRaKuS
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  When I first tried this game, for some reason something made the game glitch up during kills and 
 when your status changes, I reinstalled and now it works fine (but when I'm doing something resource 
 intensive, I find it pauses for a fraction of a second at the same points) . Anyway, Ill give it 
 a fair review now.
  
  Gameplay: At first it seems pretty awesome. You have quite a bit of freedom. You can kill anyone 
 (with consequences) but the game still remains to be more linear than I'd like. "Side missions" 
 like saving civilians.... get redundant, as well as scaling large towers to map out the city. I've 
 gotten to the point where I cant stand playing the game in large doses. 6/10
  
  Graphics: This game is on par with the console version, I suppose better, since its at higher resolutions 
 and all. Still, for what it takes the run the game, I dont understand why it isn't better looking. 
 Don't expect any sort of realistic blood or gore. NPCs don't vary all that much in looks. But seeing 
 the view from high places as well as diving into a haystack looks awesome. 7/10
  
  Controls: I've used both the PS3 controller and the 360 controller for the PC version. The 360 
 controller gave me problems... since the triggers did not work in the game.... dualshock3 worked 
 nicely. I'd have to say it was a poor port.... not automatically setting up the 360 controller.... but 
 part of the blame lies with the 360s drivers. 7/10
  
  Sound: Sound is alright. Usually I can tell which direction a sound comes from (5.1 speakers) .... but 
 in this game... when someone screams for help, I can't seem to pinpoint their location. Its not 
 like GTA4 in sound quality, but it is sufficient. 6/10
  
  Some irritations... When I pickpocket, why does the guy accuse me when I'm standing fairly far 
 away, but simply marking him as my target? Idk if that a glitch. Sometimes its easy to pickpocket.... other 
 times it seems impossible. Combat system feels clumsy when attacked by large group. Guards are 
 too sensitive at times. Button pressing during cutscenes. Having to exit to several menus (WITH 
 LOADTIMES!) just to exit the game (use CTRL+ALT+DEL :P)
  
  Overall, this game was definitely not worthy of the hype surrounding it. And like many other say, 
 "once youve played the first level, youve played the game" or something like that. If your still 
 interested, I'd recommend a console version. I havent played AC in a while, so this review is off 
 memory :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 20, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I am pretty disappointed with this game and i am surely not falling into the over-hype of the gamespot 
 review
  
  PROS
  - Great Graphics
  - Good story (at first)
  - Some interesting gameplay features
  ----------------------------
  ----------------------------
 
  CONS
  - Repeative gameplay
  - Pretty high system requirements (especially for DX10)
  - A. I is dissapointing
  - Some strange bugs
  - Low replay value
  
  Great Graphics does 
 not make a game necessary a classic
  The game for me feels like a cheap copy of the Thief series with just better graphics
  
  In 
 conclussion
  -It has some idiotic bugs 
  -The A. I is pretty average 
  -System requirements are pretty big 
  -From the gameplay perspective its monotonous after the 
 first stages making the player doing basically the same and the same thing,,,
  
  Its a good game for playing with it for some days but after finishing its going to go into a self 
 to get dusted
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdoelrock
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 21, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  with a very stunning visuals & controls you will fall in love with the game ,it will amaze you 
 with it's great storyline & environment. .
  
  but after a while you will find yourself doing the same things over again, like jumping between 
 houses, rescuing citizens, climbing towers .and the combat is completely different from that of 
 prince of Persia. it's much simpler , you will be pressing the same two buttons the block & the 
 attack buttons for most of the combats .I was expecting the game to be more like pop but in the 
 crusaders time. but it seems like they have mixed prince of Persia with gta or mafia producing a 
 new style game play. 
  
  In the end Assassin's Creed is a very good game but it lacks the fun & excitement needed to addict 
 the game. with system requirements, that will need to make a full upgrade to your system so you 
 can really enjoy the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncannyChuckles
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I'll try to keep this short and to the point-
  There seems to be an especially wide variety of reactions to this game. There wasn't anything clearly 
 answering my questions about the game. My main worry, before playing, was: "Will this be another 
 half-assed port?" I had also heard on various forums about the high system requirements causing 
 problems for some people, and others having stability issues. I read as many reviews as I could 
 before I bought it, but I ended up just taking a gamble. 
  I'm very glad I did.
  Though it IS a port, the boys (and girls) at Ubi Montreal did a very nice job on it, they seemed 
 to have put actual thought and care into it. Which is, unfortunately, much more than could be said 
 about some of the recent ports that have been tossed at us PC gamers. They even added some extra 
 content, in the form of extra 'build-up' missions leading to the main assassinations you have to 
 carry out. They also included enough graphic, sound, and key-mapping options to be able to customize 
 as needed, something that should be taken for granted in all PC games, but has been left out in 
 other ports. I can only hope other studios take a lesson from the way this game was handled.
  I have a mid-high range system, exceeding the minimum requirements but not blowing them away. I 
 keep it clean and keep my drivers and software up to date. I didn't have any problems running Assassin's 
 Creed with all the graphic settings maxed. The game is very next-gen and nice looking. I experienced 
 one crash when entering a major town but no further problems after a quick reboot.
  The gameplay in Assassin's Creed is amazingly fun. I read in one review (I think it was ign. com) 
 that the missions were boring. I don't know what that guy was used to (obviously he has never played 
 WoW) , but I did every single 'info-gathering' mission and saved every bullied citizen, and it was 
 different and exciting every time. The combat and sword fighting in this game is epic, it puts 
 The Witcher, ES: Oblivion, and all others to shame. I also enjoyed the freedom to climb and jump 
 on any rooftop and tower you can see. It is probably the best and most free parkour experience 
 I have had in a game.
  I found the story-line to be very interesting, and the character (s) you play to be dynamic and 
 'cool'. It is actually quite brilliant the way they set up a 'game within a game'. I enjoyed further 
 unlocking the story and in-game cut-scenes and, though it ends leaving much to be tied up in the 
 sequel (s) , felt satisfied that I had accomplished something.
  There are a few things that the devs could have done to improve the game as a whole.
  I would 
 have liked more opportunity and incentive to explore the vast cities and kingdom that exists in 
 the game. While there are hidden flags and enemies to find in every town, there really isn't anything 
 compelling about finding them besides getting 100% completion and more amazing battles. Also, in 
 order to go back and do any exploring, you have to 'replay' a mission. There should be an option 
 to just explore, once you have completed all the objectives.
  There are, despite what would seem to be the devs best efforts, some leftover port issues. The 
 menus are a little large and you have to go through a million menus and loading screens to quit 
 the game. There is even a video on youtube about it:
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=gwOvuY0UbFM
  The bottom line is:
  This is one of the most entertaining 
 games I have played this year (and I've played many) . I highly recommend it!
  
  -Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saginadir
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Try to describe the "Mona Lisa" or the Great wall of china it's an impossible task, This game simply 
 creates a new league, A new Era of games, Like Diablo did long long time ago.
  
  This game worth every penny, Not a long game nor a short one (you will feel sadness when you finish 
 it) , This games brings new things to the table:
  1) New fighting system
  2) A new feeling of realism no game had before (if you ignore the "Leap of faith" 
  3) You have 
 some control over the player during the dialogs and cut scenes.
  
  And also all the little things are upgraded, When you are playing you are feeling one with the 
 universe of the game, The game is not a hard game, But it will make you think, Not only about what 
 to do next but also about the life we are living in, When assassinating you have a choice between 
 a low profile assassination, sneak from behind, draw blood from the target and RUN, Or a high profile, 
 Burst into the area, Confront the target and his guards and again ,RUN!.
  
  I cannot sum this game up, nor have the will to do so, Just get the game and play it ,I can assure 
 everyone who will buy this game , You will not regret about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  Technical:
  
  This is a hardware intensive game but not so intensive that you'd need a 500 dollar graphics card 
 and a super overclocked dual core 3.2 ghz CPU. What I got this game running on was a 2.6 dual core 
 cpu (slightly overclocked) and a 8800GTS 320mb Nvidia card and about 4GBs of cheap DDR ram (around 
 $40 for 2 GBs) . My OS is XP64.
  
  It ran like a dream for most of the game and only when I get a panoramic cinematic view of a city 
 through "synchronize" do I see a slight slowdown in frame rate (I had the game on the highest settings) . 
 I played this on Saitek rumble pad from the get-go and the game recognized it without having me 
 install drivers and the controls were smooth just like when I played it on the PS3.
  
  I tried playing the game with the keyboard (and other configurations) and I was really thankful 
 I had a gamepad because the game became a little tedious when I was forced to only use keyboard.
 
  
  I saw some "screen tearing" when I was playing Assassin's Creed on the PS3 and I didn't see any 
 screen tearing in the PC version.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  At first, I was blown away by the detail of everything but after a couple mission assassinations 
 I grew tired of the somewhat repetitive gameplay. Don't get me wrong, I love to pounce on archers 
 but after a while the game seemed a little too easy. I could literally cut my way out of 20 guards 
 (using lethal counter attack) without breaking a sweat. I usually restricted myself to killing 
 that many guards with the hidden blade when they surround me (note: the hidden blade counter has 
 a more precise trigger for lethal counter compared to the other weapons that give a big leeway 
 which made the game too easy) . Running away from guards is also fairly easy if you've saved enough 
 citizens. Maybe I just felt that the game was too comfortable to play, I always think of the Hitman 
 series and the thrill of almost being exposed when I walked too close to a guard, which is absent 
 in AC (though I must admit being exposed because of walking too close also has it's frustrations) . 
 
  
  I didn't like the ending but I'm not going to hold the ending against this game because I've thought 
 God of War I & II were great games even though they had cliffhanger endings. I just felt that the 
 ending for AC didn't have as much "momentum" and drams as God of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: browersr
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 18, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The concept and story surrounding this game are very interesting and hold much promise. However, 
 the execution of the game world is extremely lazy and unforgivably repetitive. 
  
  You are saddled with the same set of objectives for each city with even the dialog being repetitive. 
 The fighting sequences are a standout and don't seem to get old, however, the control scheme is 
 a bit wonky at least with the keyboard and mouse.
  
  Clearly the game is set for a sequel and we can only hope they take level design more seriously. 
 Hour after hour of running through the same save the citizen, rooftop challenge, eavesdropping, 
 interrogation, and perching has taken game design backwards at least 10-15 years. There is a real 
 gem waiting to be uncovered here, so lets hope they take more time with the next iteration.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLINK1824EVER
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  great game... great gameplay... great graphics... but the only thing i didn't like is that the game's 
 graphics are better with dx10 like shadows and multisampling are better with dx10 so only vista 
 users can enjoy the best performance but with xp it's much faster ... nice work Ubisoft ....... why 
 do i have to type 100 words !!!!!!!!!!!!!??? i don't like this ..... anyways .. anyone who hasn't 
 bought this game yet it's worthy go and buy it ... u will learn arabic if u buy it LoL... i finished 
 this game in 10 hours lol without any distraction lol .... i'm from Iraq ... i hope u accept me as 
 a friend  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rayjohansson
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  This game IS Prince of Persia and Splinter Cell wrapped up in a different location and updated 
 graphics. Ubisoft treads on no new territory. That's not a bad thing, but if you're an older gamer 
 who has played all of the titles from where many of these newer ones continue to evolve from, you'll 
 be far less impressed.
  
  The inability to skip many of the cut scenes makes it tedious and drawn out in a way that is irritating.
 
  
  It's a very nice looking game but I found that it got old very, very quickly. It lacked the depth 
 I was looking for. It wants to be historical and realistic yet some of it feels like an old Capcom 
 video game.
  
  If you've never played Prince of Persia or the Splinter Cell titles, you just may have found a 
 game that will give you many hours of great fun. In fact, if you're a young person or someone who 
 hasn't played any of the titles from which this game copies, I'd give it an 8.9 to a 9 for you.
 
  
  If you are a seasoned gamer, a 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1029
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  So, first off I didn't think my PC was gonna be able to play this game all that well after reading 
 the review, but then I realized my system, though it may not be super high end, its still in the 
 "high end" category. I'm using a 8800GTS 640MB coupled with my Intel Q6600 @3.0GHz and 2GB of RAM 
 and the game still runs very, very well. There are times where I can tell my video card is getting 
 taxed it gets a little choppy when there is a ton of landscape and features insight... but most 
 of the time, the game runs like money. 
  Anyways, I really hadn't read too much into the storyline before playing the game other than the 
 fact that you play as an assassin in 12th century Israel. After playing through about 1/4 of the 
 game, I have to say that I love everything about the game. The storyline is great, the environment 
 that is created within the game is freaking awesome with all that is constantly going on. The sounds 
 are what amaze me almost as much as the graphics. The sound creates an environment that is as realistic 
 as if you are there walking the streets of Jerusalem or Damascus yourself. The violence is also 
 not to overwhelming. I've played plenty of games recently and in the past that just go over the 
 top with violence to compensate for the rest of the game. This game I feel has the perfect balance 
 of exploration, side quests and fighting... and not to mention not too much blood. Some games just 
 overdo it with blood, and this game is realistic with the amount of blood that is shed during sword 
 fights, stab wounds, etc. Still waiting for scene where I counter someones attack and lop their 
 head off, but for some reason, I don't think I'll see that in this game. Anyways, the game took 
 about an hour to really get the mechanics down to the point where I can seamlessly run around, 
 fight, jump from roof top to roof top without fumbling around and getting caught up with the camera 
 view. 
  You can pretty much pick this game up at anytime and play for a little while, stop and come back 
 to it later without having the urge to "level up" or any of that BS that you can find in alot of 
 games out these days.
  Love the game, its one of the best games I've ever played... and I've played quite a bit. I can 
 recommend this game to anyone without hesitation.
  This game is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mori_Daemoni
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  While the computer version has a few glitches that cause some annoyance, the game itself is a masterpiece 
 of simplicity; from racing across rooftops to stealthily sneaking up behind your target, Assassin's 
 Creed has everything an aspiring assassin could want in a game. 
  
  Graphics: Outstanding. Character skins and AI movement is the best in the genre, if not the industry. 
 It'll amaze you from step one.
  
  Sound: While not the most engaging, it definitely does nothing to draw away from the game, as many 
 programs often do.
  
  Gameplay: While the gameplay is very simplistic, it has just enough to it to hit the mark. It will 
 take about 20 minutes to figure out, and after that it's cake; just enjoy the ride.
  
  Story: Fantastic. It's rare to find an outstanding story, and Ubisoft really outdid themselves 
 this time. While the ending defines "cliffhanger", I have no doubt that the second installment 
 in this trilogy will be able to mollify our curiosity.
  
  All in all, this is a game well worth getting; there is nothing tedious to it, and with just the 
 right mix of action, adventure, and intrigue, this is a game that you can and will load up time 
 and time again, just for the plain old fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormri
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed looks like it was based on a movie, or a very good book, maybe it's because there 
 are hell lot of cut-scenes, or maybe because the story is so great-
  
  The main plot is about Edmund, a bartender who's ancestor was an assassin during the crusade set 
 in Israel, the Holy Land (my home, to be more exact) .
  while playing you switch roles between Edmund (whom you will not see often) and Altair. so mainly 
 after some quick tutorials you will be sent doing some assassinations (after all, it is ASSSASSIN's 
 Creed.) and it goes like this:
  first you will arrive at a city, look around and gather clues doing missions such as pickpocketing, 
 assassinations, race against time, and such- when you're done, you will be given the information 
 that will assist you assassinating.
  
  anyhow, no matter how long the cut-scenes are, and how repetitive the gameplay can be, you will 
 be astonished- 
  You can do almost anything a parkour swordsman could ever dream of! climbing up almost every building, 
 jumping from roof to roof, accomplish various stunts, and finally busting every living form in 
 town (well, except the civilians whom you are not supposed to kill) .
  
  Oh, about the controls, at first, their a bit of a problem, after all, the translation of the keys 
 from the consoles to computer was quite confusing, but you will get used to it, and when you will, 
 combat will be a lot more fun and excitement, though sometimes bit frustrating, anyway if you wanna 
 take my advise, RENT (as usual) because if you're an obsessive video gamer, no more than 3 days 
 will take you to complete the game, and hell, it's fun.
  
  Have fun, and a nice day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maestro85282
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  First of all, Jade Raymond (game producer) is hot so I feel bad that this isn't a perfect 10 review.... and 
 I do have more respect for the game after reading some of the engineer's interviews.... but...
 
  
  Pretty repetitive and full of random crashes. It only take about 20 seconds to reload the game 
 after it crashes on you so in these days of drastically declining standards, it's something you 
 can live with....
  
  The concept of being put into a virtual machine to relive memories is kinda cool and makes the 
 game feel a bit more..... I dunno, plausible? I could certainly do without the religious disclaimer 
 at the beginning, without that I would have never even thought anything negative so... yay, thanks 
 for the counter-productiveness there.... come to think of it, I could do without the entire office 
 building scenes that seem to serve very little purpose but make you wait.
  
  except for the office scenes, the graphics are great but I should hope that's to be expected these 
 days... it kinda reminds me of the Prince of Persia games except that AC has painfully long and 
 boring cinematic scenes and the controls are not nearly as fluid as PoP was. The AC team apparently 
 was trying to create a completely original gameplay for the future or something so on that account, 
 I wouldn't call this a success.... it's not really that original IMHO..... and the AI, which they 
 spent the most amount of time on.... hmm.... I dunno, if I just killed 20 of your fellow guards would 
 you stop looking for me after 10 seconds of hiding in a haystack? 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: davenesw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great game, nothing better than running around a big landscape doing as you 
 please. If you into free running you can climb up buildings and leap from roof to roof, great fun 
 at speed. Or alternatively you may want to kill people as you please by assassinating them quietly 
 without anyone noticing or creating a fuss as you jam your hidden blade into your victims face.
 
  
  The fighting sequences are great fun very simple and solid. Trying to counter your opponent's attacks 
 is rewarded with spectacular closes ups of your killing blows. Altier may not have a large variety 
 to weapons but the main ones are covered a normal sword, a short sword for multiple enemies which 
 includes throw knifes 'very useful' and your hidden blade for generally stealth kills.
  
  The story doesn't have a confusing ending it just doesn't finish which is annoying and leaves you 
 wanting to know how the story will continue. Just gives Ubisoft space to make a sequel hopefully 
 something to do with Chinese history that would be sweet.
  
  After about ten hours of playing Assassin's Creed you do begin to grow tired of similar missions 
 for example: If you spot an eagle circling a building. Finding a way to the top of it will earn 
 you a spectacular view of the city. After doing that about 40 times you wish you didn't feel compelled 
 to do it.
  
  Overall Assassin's Creed is a must play, graphics are tip top, game play is top quality and story 
 is different.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MT4K
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  This game has alot to be desired, it's a lovely game to play and look at and the free running is 
 simply amazingly well done and fluid and easy to pull off, but like all games it does have it's 
 share of flaws.
  
  it's biggest flaw will have to be the fact you pretty much do the same thing every time which can 
 lead you to think it's crap but it's a well executed game and one to be proud of as it has untouched 
 potential for the sequel.
  
  yes the game is very repetitive but if you space your time on the game it will remain a gem, don't 
 play the game for long periods of time and do not play it rushing to finish it or you really will 
 miss out on it's unique charms.
  
  play the game for what it is, a unique adventure free roaming game, the game will be as good as 
 you want it to be based on how YOU play the game which is the best thing about it, the game can 
 be all action orientated if you want it to be and just slash away at all the guards until your 
 thumbs bleed (i use my ps2 controller which makes controls even easier and using a gamepad is the 
 best way to play this game for sure) or it's a very stealthy game if you try to play the game without 
 being noticed by anybody during assassinations. the game is unique because it's as good as you 
 want it to be, just don't play it too much or you might see it lose it's spark that makes it so 
 great.
  
  another drawback is that the game really is too easy, you can counter 100 guards with your hidden 
 blade as easy as anything so using the short sword or the main sword makes the game a piece of 
 cake. sure it doesn't offer much incentive to play stealthily when you can just kill everybody 
 without breaking a sweat, i mean why try to hide from the guards when you can just kill them? but 
 the game becomes so much harder when you DO play stealthily and try to remain unnoticed.
  
  in summary i would say it's a great game, but play it wisely, and space your time on it to keep 
 it's appeal lasting that much longer and it should hold you out until the sequel which if done 
 properly, can finish up the untapped potential of this gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorehound
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a wonderful game. I have become addicted to it in the last few days and even 
 now sitting in bed writing this review I would rather be playing Assassin's Creed rather than sleep.
 
  
  The environment is breathtaking. Climbing on top of viewpoints located throughout the land you 
 can see the massive cities that become your playground. 
  
  PROS: 
  
  - Beautifully crafted story with a wonderful plot.
  - Extremely realistic graphics and wonderful 
 level of detail, especially during close up shots.
  - Climbing walls and rooftops is a lot of fun, especially while being chased by soldiers.
  - 
 Fighting and assassinations are a lot of fun and are well crafted.
  
  CONS:
  
  - The modern elements of the game are a bit boring and in my mind unncessesary. But thankfully 
 95% of the game is placed in 1191.
  - It takes way too long to exit the game when you want to... at least 8 steps.
  
  OVERALL: 
 
  
  Not since Age of Empires II came out years ago has a game addicted me so much to it. Enough said. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supreme_Fantasy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Well u start off the game in the modern world, and listen a long conversation while the doctor 
 reliving the memory of ur... something like that. 
  
  While u're on the game, the missions are quite nice and may get repetitive but every missions is 
 very fun and challenging. The gameplay is very nice which u can do things like assassinations and 
 pickpocketing. I really love it..... stealth assassinate games are alwayz interesting. While u're 
 on the mission, u're to hide ur identity and stay as anonymous in the cities to keep out of the 
 guards. Another thing is that jumping here and there on the rooftop and grab a hold of something 
 in order to get to higher place is quite interesting. If u're lost in some place, u can have a 
 good view on higher place navigating the cities or inspect ur target's location.
  
  The combat system what i think is not very good enough. It should have been better if adds more 
 signature moves. The movement control of the character - some people said it's a bit wonky using 
 keyboard but i think it's very simple and easy if u get used to it. The fighting is pretty solid 
 and may gets boring on the combat system. That makes me more prefer assassinations than combat. 
 I love stealth kill. 
  
  The graphics - making this game juz nice and brilliant. Shadows, blurry textures, people walking 
 here and there and their clothes design making this game lively. Every people in the cities is 
 full of activities and u're juz the one of it wandering around.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Great storyline. very nice graphics and assassination moves. I highly recommend this game. Get 
 a copy of it and it's worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: domy_g
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  soon as you are done by the time-wasting dialogue at the start of the game, the one with the doctor 
 and all... bang you are totally hooked up, realizing that this is another game by a Ubisoft that 
 totally worth the hard earned $50.
  
  a deja vu you might call it, but this is what you feel after about 2 to 5 minutes of playing, a 
 deja vu of the glamorous series of "Prince of Persia".
  
  you are right this is a totally different thing but c'mon for god sake it's just feel like you 
 are playing a new release of the POP with all new graphics and engine "a sugar coat if you would 
 like naming it that way". yet this game is totally new, totally addictive & simply wow...
  
  the thing with me comparing this marvelous game to the POP is not a bad thing at all but rather 
 another confirmation that Ubisoft is on the track with another hit. 
  
  Any way as i was saying, the game is astonishing in every aspect. regarding graphics, audio & the 
 game play it self but the only bad thing about this game is that it's not truly optimized for keyboard 
 game play. i mean that its really tricky to get used to it but if you where lucky enough to be 
 a pride owner of a performance game pad then you are simply going to enjoy it without any downfalls.
 
  
  finally i ain't going to complain about the hardware requirement as i usually do because first 
 of all I'm the one with the out dated rig here, secondly as soon as i found the sweet spot for 
 the graphics settings with a little overclocking notches here and there. I just got into the seat, 
 buckled up and I'm on my way enjoying another great title
  
  the word is this is just not a waste of time at all but rather another hall of fame icon for Ubisoft... enjoy
 
  
  to sum up...
  hi five goes to amazing and wonderful soundtrack, graphics and story
  the thumb down goes to... mmm "Controls and hardware requirements" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerlu
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I have very few bad things to say about this game, but the few bad things are really glaring if 
 you're into an immersive storyline. There's no spoilers here, but what killed the game for me was 
 that you start off as a person in modern times... and the entire game takes place as the memory 
 of your ancestors.
  
  So while you're in this medieval gameplay setting, there's a paralell world that is modern times, 
 the cut-scenes are all bio/futuristic.
  
  I'm guessing they did this not to piss off any religious groups or to make it seem like they were 
 supporting the crusaders... but what you lose is any kind of immersion into that time period, because 
 it's treated as a memory or a dream.
  
  So if you're expecting a game where you ARE this assassin in old medieval jerusalem, that's not 
 the case.
  
  Graphics are amazing, gameplay is innovative and will set the bar for any future games of this 
 genre. 
  
  I have a dual-core 2.4gig with a ATI Radeon 1900GT and ran at near full settings, just to give 
 you an idea, that the machine requirements aren't that high, since I bought this machine over a 
 year ago and got a mid-end graphics card at the time.
  
  Anyway, it's definitely worth playing, just not the RPG feel i was expecting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Molezzi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  I Love this game! The graphics are fantastic, it's got great game play and has vast free roam areas 
 to explore. As you walk around the different cities you feel as if you are a super hero... invincible... 
 knowing, that if somebody is irritating you for whatever reason, or a beggar starts hassling you, 
 or you just don't like someone, you can silently put them out of their misery. And then run away 
 b4 anybody notices. Or walking up2 an unsuspecting guard, and assassinating him. Awesome.
  
  The fighting system is quite simple. Just a simple attack, block, counter & dodge. It would've 
 been nice if they added a few moves, or made the system more complex, but rather make it simple 
 and solid, than complex and overly ridiculous! There's not a huge variety of weapons, but the fighting 
 sequences are great. 
  
  Jumping from roof top, to roof top is fantastic. Taking a leap of faith off a high building and 
 hoping to catch on to some sort of window or crevice is exhilarating. The only problem I have with 
 being able to climb pretty much anything, is that guards can too. When you are being chased down 
 by soldiers and avert to the buildings... the guards are almost as good as you when scaling walls 
 and jumping across alleys. Which I find terribly annoying. The way I see it, Altiare is a skilled 
 assassin, who has trained all his life & can do amazing feats. Lifting himself up with one arm, 
 leaping across wide spaces and balancing on narrow planks of wood while running... but I cant do 
 that, so why should some random 'no name tag' guard be able to scale a wall or balance like a gymnast. 
 BS! 
  
  I also find the game to be very short, in my opinion the developers should've added in more targets 
 & missions. Although there are stacks of hidden items to find.
  
  Anyway those are the game's only cons. Its original with a fantastic story (be prepared to concentrate 
 hard on the dialogue) . Set in a time period that is quite rare, when it comes to games. It's a 
 superb addition to my collection, which I won't get bored of quickly. I just hope they are planning 
 an even better sequel!!! That's Longer & involves more cities. Looking forward to Splinter Cell 
 Conviction! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed
  
  
  What's to like:
  - Immersive (sandbox type a la GTA with infinite spawns)
  - Rich Story
  - Thrilling Action 
 Segments
  - Fun horse rides
  - Believable Non-Protagonist Voice-Overs
  - Ingenuous Controls
  - Invigorating Music
  - Superb "On the spot" Animations
  - Exciting 
 Combat
  - Breathtaking Visuals
  
  What you may not like:
  - No nights?!
  - No open-ended endings
  - No real stealth involved
  - Little ways to approach your assassinations
 
  - Repetitive Missions
  - Screams RPG everywhere but never materializes as one
  - Random Crashes / Hangs / Deep Freezes
  
  
  Story
  
  Part of the story is about reliving 
 the life of Altar (Alta-ir) , an assassin from the time of the Crusades at the end of the 12th 
 century. In order to restore Peace and Justice, you will be given the mission to eliminate 9 main 
 figures in the Holy Land (Israel area) .
  
  Another part of the story will consist of playing Desmond, a bartender, in a world closer to today. 
 Desmond is actually a direct descendant of Altar, and so is the reason why it is possible for 
 you, through the means of a device and your DNA, to relive his memories.
  
  The story design is actually pretty clever and opens the doors to so many possibilities. Assassin's 
 Creed will openly set the foundations for its sequel (s) and will leave you with more questions 
 than answers by the end of this first, 20+ hours, installment.
  
  
  Game
  
  As Altar, your role will be to eliminate the targets dictated by your Order. To achieve this, 
 you will need to gather information about your targets through different means. They are:
  
  - Eavesdropping: Sit on a bench and listen to a conversation
  - Interrogating: Stalk an informer 
 and then beat the information out of him
  - Pick pocketing: Steal a letter from someone linked to your target
  - Helping a fellow assassin 
 (assassinations, messages, etc.)
  
  To help you find out where those events can take place, you will have to climb to a high place 
 (viewpoint) and inspect the area. Doing so will make them appear on your map. You won't have to 
 worry about getting back down though, as you can jump and fall safely in a conveniently located 
 cart of hay. Those jumps might give you a slight motion sickness at first, but that's actually 
 a good thing.
  
  The same routine is used for every mission that you will get. This is where it can get repetitive 
 to a point. Know this: each event, task or side quest is a lot of fun to do despite how many times 
 you will end up doing them. What's bothering is, the element of surprise is completely gone after 
 the 3rd target or so.
  
  
  Exploration
  
  One of the most fun aspects of Assassin's Creed is the ability to move easily and rapidly through 
 the city roofs and other structures. Picture "Prince Of Persia" controls done automatically for 
 you. This means, simply by holding a few keys, you will automatically climb, jump, run, and avoid 
 any obstacle coming your way making it a real breeze to go from point A to point B.
  
  If you are not within a city, there are many horses available to help you go through hills and 
 encampments. You can also fight while mounted if desired, but it won't happen very often. Your 
 horse will also automatically follow you if you decide to go on foot. Pretty neat.
  
  
  
  The Assassination
  
  Once you have enough clues, you can finally go after your target.
 
  
  A very well made cut scene precedes every target encounter. After that, you are free to attack 
 your target by any means necessary. After each kill, another cut scene will follow adding a different 
 perspective to the "evilness" of your target. At that point, all the guards in the city will attack 
 you on sight until you make your way back to your base. Those pursuits are very exciting, mostly 
 because of the great sound track that kicks in at that time.
  
  Know that Altar is probably the most athletic and talented fighter found in Assassin's Creed, 
 but he isn't much of a great assassin, so to speak. Reasons are, you can't plan a hit past nightfall 
 or act really stealthy about it. You don't need to be smart or subtle either. Every event, and 
 I mean every single one, will happen in broad day light in the middle of a crowd for everyone to 
 see. 
  
  This can be a bit disappointing as you can't outsmart your target or be stealthy like in the Thief 
 series. It's more a matter of how good your combat skills are or how fast you can catch up to a 
 fleeing target.
  
  Not to mention that all the clues you will have gathered don't have a real impact on how you can 
 take down your target. Also, unfortunately, the assassination found in the trailer with the people 
 about to be executed is not in the game, despite the fact that, minus the crossbow, the actual 
 moves can be done exactly as shown in the trailer.
  
  
  Artificial Intelligence
  
  Though the different AI's seem appropriate at first, it won't take many missions before noticing 
 there isn't a great deal of depth about them. For instance, the guards will attack you if you cause 
 too much trouble initially, also, the people seem to react accordingly to your actions like: "What 
 is this guy doing?" when climbing a building. Punching a crazy person will make him go away and 
 people lying dead will make the crowd go nuts and the guards suspicious. 
  
  But by the end, you would expect the guards to be a lot more aggressive toward you. Considering 
 all your assassinations are done in broad day light in the middle of crowds, you would think they 
 would recognize you from a mile away. Not to mention that the "trick" to blend in with the priests 
 always work  which shouldn't be case considering even the cutscenes refer to the fact that they 
 know you try to look like a priest on purpose. So you would think they would be able to identify 
 you at melee range.
  
  
  Combat
  
  The combat is extremely satisfying. You will get to fight 1 to multiple enemies at the same time. 
 Among your arsenal, you will eventually have:
  
  - A hidden knife (the one used for your "stealthy kills")
  - A dagger (also used for throwing 
 knives) *
  - A long sword (your most damaging weapon)
  - Your fists (for hand-to-hand combat and interrogations)
  
  * There is no crossbow as shown 
 in the trailer; it was replaced by throwing knives.
  
  All the animation transitions are smooth and unique for the weapon currently in use. The actual 
 final blow is more often than not closer to a Fatality move with lots of blood and cheese added 
 to it.
  
  You won't have all possible combat skills at first. Though, by the end of all your assassinations, 
 you will get the ability to block, counter attack, throw knives, grab, counter-grab and assassinate 
 your enemies. These skills will be a must to master before the final moments of the story.
  
  
  Graphics
  
  The scenery visuals are one of the biggest selling points of AC. They are 
 simply Gorgeous, Breathtaking and Jaw Dropping. There are sun-transitions (gamma intensity variations) , 
 every texture is incredibly detailed and the level design is just close-to-perfection. Every little 
 visual FX is also applied when appropriate: some blur when listening to a conversation, particles 
 here and there, and some bloom effect at certain key locations. The shadows are still better in 
 Call Of Duty 4 though.
  
  The actual characters, on the other hand, didn't get the same attention. They don't look bad per 
 se, but they don't look too polished either, almost generic. A special note has to be given about 
 knights. They are so unbelievably good looking. Their armor, whether it is plate or chainmail, 
 look extremely good and shiny.
  
  
  Ending (no spoilers)
  
  Considering you play 2 characters (Altar and Desmond) , there are 2 endings.
  
  For Altar, 
 once you are done with the assassinations, the following event is pure fantasy coming to life. 
 I won't spoil you in any way; just know that once you are done with the assassinations, there is 
 still a very nice spectacle awaiting for you. 
  
  For Desmond, it ends a bit abruptly -- in a sense that you can't really tell if it's over or not. 
 Fortunately, you will be glad to know that, after seeing the credits, you will still be able to 
 go back and play Altar.
  
  
  The Missing Element: Interaction.
  
  This game biggest fault is the lack of interaction. It's not an action game, a stealth game, a 
 shooter or an adventure game. Then what is it? 
  
  It's a game that tries to put you in an immersive environment with many fun mini-games and a rich 
 story. Unfortunately, you will want to do a lot more. For instance, there are merchants, but you 
 can't trade items or upgrade your equipment with them.
  
  You will kill a lot of guards and the thought of looting their bodies will undeniably cross your 
 mind. There are also a lot of people in this world, but none that you can talk to. One can only 
 wonder if Assassin's Creed would have benefited from less figures to execute, 3 instead of 9 for 
 instance (1 per town) , and more depth added to the people living in it and more importantly, freedom 
 of choice in the path (s) you take -- whether it is through dialogues or your assassination techniques.
 
  
  All in all, this game screams to be an RPG game, but it isn't.
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  Game freezes and crashes put aside, Assassin's Creed is a very high quality game. The depth 
 of its story, the breathtaking visuals and the almost-too-close-to-reality animations make it a 
 more than worthy game to experience.
  
  If you don't fall in that category, or are still unsure if this game is for you, try to rent it 
 or borrow it, a few hours will give you a taste of the overall game minus the greater plot.
  
  Still, make sure you play it through at least once before AC2 comes out, just so you get a 
 chance to touch base with its story.
  
  
  8.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demigod_r
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Actually, I paid only $30 after trade-in.
  
  Regardless, I have only played through the first assassination and I have to say this game is pretty 
 damn good. You don't need a brand new PC to play this game at the highest settings. I have 2.6 
 Quad, 2 Gigs of RAM and a HD2600 and I'm playing at almost all max. settings with absolutely no 
 lag.
  
  Graphics are amazing, especially when you're on top of a tower looking all around you. The A. I 
 is pretty good. I love the fact that no matter who you bump into, there's a reaction. Kill a civilian 
 and the crowd will sell you out. It does feel a little like Prince of Persia whenever he's climbing 
 the walls but other than that, way to go Ubisoft. To fully enjoy this game, you will need patience. 
 Decent side missions, good audio and it looks like the game has some re-playability. It would be 
 hard to choose the same path and actions if you play this game a second time.
  
  I stopped playing Bioshock and it looks like it will be awhile before I play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanno555
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  First off I love this time period and am a student of the Crusades, so the setting is caught my 
 attention first immediately. I have not completed the game yet, but have been playing it solid 
 since I got it last Saturday (its Wednesday now) . 
  
  Observations:
  The graphics are good to excellent. There have been a few places where I ran into an empty area 
 only to be attacked by a Templar who appeared out of nowhere or had people just pop into the scene. 
 These occurrences are rare, however, and not enough to seriously detract from the game.
  
  The controls are a bit "wonky" using a keyboard-mouse. Once you get used to it you can compensate 
 for the deficiencies. 
  
  The camera work is excellent. There have been a few times that the camera moved to where I couldn't 
 see my attacker, usually because there was a flag in the way. Simple enough to solve for me - just 
 move the character a bit.
  
  Some of the quests are annoying (the Flag Race in Acre for one) , but overall the missions and quests 
 given help further the storyline. 
  
  THE BAD:
  When is the damn game saving? I can't tell you how many times I have redone everything in Acre 
 because I quit the game thinking it HAD been saved. This just absolutely has to be fixed in any 
 sequels and is the main reason for my lowering the score.
  
  After 26 citizen saves, I don't think its necessary to lock the friggin camera on the scholars/vigilantes. 
 Hell, I need to get lost NOW usually after making such a ruckus.
  
  OVERALL:
  This is simply an outstanding game. It has a couple of flaws, but the game play and the story more 
 than make up for it. Kudos to the devs on this one. When's AC2 coming out?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yacbos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is a game that takes you into the crusader age with an assassin that has a master 
 (al mualem) telling him who to kill and where .
  first impression when i opened the game that i was shocked from the realistic graphics , awesome 
 colors simply the game is beyond all my expectations altho it needs some goood rig to run it am 
 glad that i bought the 8800gt before buying AC lol.
  what is also very very impressive in this game is the AI of the characters in the game you can 
 see beggars in the streets, crazy people that hits you for no reason the guards AI advance also 
 threw the levels they might be suspicious earlier in higher levels when reaching Jerusalem (almost 
 the 3rd level) i found even guards on roof tops with archers to stop you from jumping even on roof 
 tops , even roof tops aren't safe lol.
  the sound quality is good but not impressive on my 7.1 system there are a lot of times that the 
 sound should be coming from around and back to be realistic but it just doesnt but i think if you 
 concentrated enough in the game play that am sure will get you in the game you won't feel the sound 
 issue that much.
  the game is easy to learn and to play, didn't find any difficulties to overcome most of the objectives 
 even in higher levels.
  the city models are seriously beautiful never saw such modeling in a game ever before its real, 
 its beautiful and its beyond any expectations you can see every turn around buildings and when 
 you go up a view point you get one the most beautiful sights in the game :D 
  they spent a lot of time in this and as the usual of ubisoft they still amaze me every time they 
 release a game.
  the only problem of the game is it needs a loooot of resources but what can we say to see such 
 beauty in glory you must have what it takes to show it ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runt9a
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I've played plenty of Ubisoft games over the years, but I never really enjoyed Prince of Persia. 
 The Rainbow Six series has always been one of my favorite series because I would almost always 
 use the newest RS game as a benchmark for my computer. I had heard of Assassin's Creed, and figured 
 I might pick it up, but I doubted it. I watched X-Play one day, and they reviewed it and gave it 
 5 stars... I usually buy any 5-star game they review, because it obviously means it's one hell 
 of a game. I'm extremely glad I did. I have stayed up late the past few nights playing it because 
 I just can't seem to stop. I've got a pretty high-end system, so I can run the game at a nice resolution 
 with most everything on high and it looks spectacular. I'm not too far into the game, but the way 
 they joined together a modern machine with an old-time storyline is ingenius.
  
  I love open-ended environments, so whenever I get bored with the storyline, I can go do some side 
 missions. I love being able to run around, save a citizen, go run up on the rooftops, kill a few 
 guards, and go climb an eagle tower for fun. The sound goes together perfectly with the environment 
 and is a perfect compliment to the amazing graphics.
  
  There are very few flaws that I have found, probably less than I have found in any game in a long 
 time. The gameplay does get repetitive after a while. The fighting system doesn't grow as much 
 as it could, and swordfighting isn't as intensive as it could be. The potential for this game is 
 more than what it actually is, but what game isn't?
  
  Pros: Immersive environments... If you can run the game on high settings, you will be amazed by 
 the graphics you will see. Every detail is perfect. The sound is great as well, and definately 
 gives you the feeling of being in a 12th century village. The storyline will keep you interested 
 enough to keep playing. Almost every aspect of this game is perfect.
  
  Cons: The game will become repetitive after a while. You will want to see who your next target 
 is after you kill someone, but odds are, you're gonna kill them the same way you killed the last 
 guy. The AI isn't spectacular, the swordfighting isn't as great as it could be, and keyboard and 
 mouse controls take a while to get used to... But all of this is very easy to overlook.
  
  Overall: Get this game. That's all there is to it. Very few things are wrong with this game, and 
 the flaws are so minor, that all you have to do is climb a few buildings and make a few leaps of 
 faith and you'll forget all about them. The only thing that stops this game from being perfect 
 is that there were those few flaws. Invest your money, you won't be disappointed... I know i wasn't. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cormac12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  If you are like me and saw Assasins creed in a magazine last year or even earlier, then you might 
 have pre ordered it so you would get if for Feburary 14th. I did not talk to any of my excited 
 PS3 or XBOX 360 playing friends about the game as I wanted it to be a complete surprise. Then the 
 date was bumbed back to the 18th and then finally, I got it on the 11th April. I opened the box 
 and installed it right away. i immersed myself in the world of Assasins creed for the whole day. 
 This is a seriously good game. The historical settings are almost up to scratch and the graphics 
 are breathtaking-although not quite as good as Crysis. I felt the controls on the keyboard were 
 confusing-but you will be dispatching enemies like a true assasin after no-time. The story line 
 also is an absolute treat. The futuristic bit-where you play as desmond-sounds bad but surprisingly 
 makes sense. The only thing about the story I didnt understand was whether Desmond was a proper 
 assasin ever or not-ie Assasinating People. The other bad thing is the beggers and the drunks and 
 the thugs. the beggers annoy you non stop but dont get you into danger. Drunks and madmen count 
 as innocents and push you into guards-so you get into a fight-or in one case they even pushed me 
 into the river-which you cant swim in and so i died. Also Thugs always jump into fistfights. If 
 you are interregating someone, make sure that there are no thugs about. You may find yourself facing 
 quite a big group. 
  
  
  All in all, a very satisfying and enjoyable game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siyideng
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  Repetitive gameplay. Repetitivity is the sin of most action games, but in Assassin's creed this 
 is even more intorlerable. I don't know how could a company that produced Prince of Persia could 
 degenerate into making game like this: glossy surface, but barely nothing beneath. The combat system 
 is fun at the first glance, but a few minutes later you realizes that your enemies are just morons 
 who don't even have the intelligence of mobs in diablo games. The graphics is ok but too hardware 
 demanding, the camera control is messy. music is lame. Storyline? nonsense. I'll give it some credit 
 for the few innovative and creative things, like the climbing, the parry-dodge combating system. 
 But overall you'll get bored much faster than you expected. I would suggest you rent it first or 
 just watch the various trailers: There's not much left after what's being shown in the trailers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gsusnme316
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 15, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  Great game play mechanics; albeit a bit repetitive. Fun atmosphere and a good story with fairly 
 well done voice acting, the library of dynamics with the wall-climbing is obviously the high point. 
 Few games have ever offered something like this outside of a Spider-Man game, and rarely even those 
 did it well. 
  
  Controls are clunky at best, even when using a game padone of your classic Port to PC traits, 
 as well as the Options, namely the graphics options menu that changes very little between the scales. 
 As for the DX10 "Enhancements" and "Optimizations"we were promised, there are little to none to 
 speak of from what I can see, however on my system with the latest graphics drivers installed I 
 get a decent 50fps / 30 on full load, so at least I have been lucky enough to not have as many 
 problems as most, though I am experiencing a random crash bug that appears to happen after about 
 45 to 60 minutes, possibly just poor driver support with the game, maybe hardware conflicts. 
 
  
  All in all, not the worst port I've ever played but, certainly not a specially made multiplatform 
 PC variant. Assassin's Creed falls into line with so many other games that should have been truly 
 great, but they're not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Man4ever
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  ... and ask him if he can ask Zeus to spare me a couple of DDR, Saint Peter for a new dual core 
 processor and why not.... he can ask the devil for a brand new ATI video card (yes, ATI gets it's 
 technology from the devil...) . Because this game will NOT work on an outdated PC. 
  And this is the end of the negative review. Yep, that's all. I can't find anything else wrong with 
 it. I mean... nothing. Maybe i was a little bit annoyed by the crappy "in-cave-voice-effect", when 
 i couldn't understand every thing that they said... but maybe that's because my heart was beating 
 so f*cking fast because of the OUTSTANDING graphic level design. Not joking, and that was in the 
 cave, you should see me when i got out of the cave and saw the city... pffff. What can i say for 
 a first impression. Just........ *really long pause*, i hope i will still be just as impressed 
 at the end of the game just as i am now (after 1 hour) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l_eeburgess
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Considering the length of time it has taken for this game to be released I expected it to be better 
 than it is.
  The majority of the graphics are very good, there are issues with shadow pop up, blocky shadows, 
 item pop up, background pop up, blurry textures, poor physics on things such as clothing on people 
 in the crowd. As I say though in general the graphics are excellent, if those little things had 
 been fixed I would have no complaints at all.
  The sound is good, the sound effects and ambient sound are spot on, the music is suitable too.
 
  Playability wise, although the gamespot review slates the keyboard & mouse, I have tried both 
 controller and keyboard & prefer keyboard, although thats a personal preference I know. Control 
 of the character is simple enough, perhaps too simple, climbing buildings should be a bit more 
 interactive than just holding down move forwards.
  The stealth aspect is good, however I do find it annoying that when you are riding a horse you 
 have to move at the lowest speed in order not to alert the guards, this gets a little annoying 
 in busy areas and can make the pace of the game a little boring.
  Perhaps its my system that cant do the game proper justice, my graphics card is only a single HD3870, 
 I know this card is not exactly the most powerful. Also its probably not helping using Vista, in 
 general games would seem to run worse on Vista than XP, but I want to use DX10 so I don't have 
 much choice.
  I intend to upgrade my graphics card fairly soon to a 9800GX2, I'll see how the game performs then 
 and rewrite this review if its any better.
  The bottom line though is that this game is a console port, and I don't like console ports. I want 
 a game thats made to run for the PC, a game that is optimized to use the extra power a PC offers 
 over the console. I notice that the minimum requirement is a dual core processor, I have a quad 
 and I want to see the processor being used to its fullest, as it is this game is not using the 
 processing power that is available. Clearly its more GPU intensive.
  Overall though the game is quite good up to this point, but I only got it today and have been playing 
 it for only 3 hours or so, so its early days yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagri7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Amazing Story Line
  Amazing Graphics (Considering the PC can handle it)
  Great AI
  A taster of what there is to come.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Will kill your computer if 
 everything is full and you cant handle it.
  Some aspects are a bit unbelievable.
  Rag doll physics are way glitchy.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Well finally Assassins Creed is out for the PC, after being delayed several times. I'm glad i have 
 waited for this game however. It is breathtaking, no doubt about it.
  
  Straight away from starting the game you are thrown straight into the acction, tasked with stealing 
 some treasure which fails badly due to the players fault or Altar's fault. This sparks a hatred 
 for you withing your creed. And you must regain your loyalty and weapons along with it.
  
  Occasionally in the game you switch to the present, or the future, around 2012. At first i thought 
 this will be annoying but it helps move the story along, as you learn nothing is as it seems.
 
  
  The story line is based on real life events, all the assisinations you do are on real people, from 
 real life who actually dissapeared during the years of the crusade.
  
  The graphics of the game are stunning, realistic and all you could ask for, you feel like you are 
 in the cities as they are modelled exactly. Considering you are running Vista and have a top of 
 the range PC (I mean TOP of the range) you can benefit from these amazing graphics.
  
  The AI of the people in the cities is amazing, realistic in the guards and the crowds. The guards 
 will actively seek you out should you cause a disturbance and you have to hide if you want to lose 
 them, haystacks or benches and such. If you try climb a building while being chased they will throw 
 rocks at you which, if they hit will cause you to tumble down to the ground. This is the same for 
 the civilians, who will throw rocks if they take a dislike to you.
  One of my main problems with the enemies and civvies is that, the guards are able to do everything 
 Altar can do, which annoys me as he is a master assassin trained in acrobatics, he seems less 
 special when you see guards mimicing you, the only thing they cant do is climb buildings.
  
  Should you kill anyone in the game and there body falls to the ground from a building be prepared 
 to be amazed, for the wrong reasons. Im not sure if it is the case for every copy but on mine the 
 rag doll physics were bad, really bad. Should a dead person fall their limbs will be stretched 
 into some deformed... thing.
  
  The innovative aspect of the game is, of course the free running. This adds much to the game, you 
 are able to climb almost all of the buildings in the game, and unlike some games which offer the 
 same, Altar actually grabs ledges, if there isnt one he will refuse to go up, although frustrating 
 at times, its realistic.
  
  As the game progresses you get extra weapons, and more becomes clear in the present world about 
 your captors. The ending is amazing and will make you want the next one straight away.
  
  The replay value of the game, is lacking a bit. Considering you complete the sub missions, like 
 view points and saving civvies, all there is to do is find flags around the cities and the kingdom 
 and killing templars.
  
  Long review again, but a great game, one of the greatest of its genre, and a must buy for anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboybebop990
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  I missed to 360 release of this game and when I read that it was coming out for the PC and I had 
 a few bucks I decided I would go buy it. I entered this entire experiance not knowing anything 
 about the game, just hearing a lot of really good things from friends of mine. Let me say this 
 now it was worth every penny.
  
  This game is a mixture of just about everything done right in games so far. There is the obvious 
 prince of persia acrobatic feature but it has part of a GTA style open ended come here to get a 
 mission way of doing things. While another part is a hitman-esque style hiding with the crowd to 
 get close to your target. The game also brings brand new formulas to the table by making the player 
 do his own dirty work instead of having all the information conveniantly placed in their lap. It 
 was also VERY refreshing to see a game that doesnt rely on light and dark stealth tactics but instead 
 relies on planning and thinking ahead.
  
  The story is worth buying the game for alone. The idea and premise behind it is something I have 
 never seen before and it is extremely refreshing to find a game or any item of media these days 
 that leaves you with questions about the world around you. This brings me to the end of the story. 
 Not everyone is going to like it but the game seems to close one book only to open a brand new 
 one.
  
  The gameplay is phenominal depending on how deep you find yourself in this game. How the game works 
 is simple you find info on your target then kill your target then run away from angry guards then 
 skip town. Now the hit itself is where the fun starts. This can go extremely well or you can botch 
 it. The game gives you the option to explore where the hit is going to take place (you know where 
 it is by talking to informants) you can figure out escape routes after you kill the target then 
 save a citizens along the path so you have extra help. This is a stroke of genius. The game rewards 
 patience and preperation. As stated you dont have to do this and you can improvise and things can 
 work out just fine too.
  
  To continue with gameplay running around was REALLY fun! You feel really cool jumping from building 
 to building especially after killing a target and everyone is after you. One problem that is more 
 or less annoying is sometimes this game is unforgiving. In one particular scenario an informant 
 asked me to kill a few templar so off I go walking through the street when a crazy person walks 
 up hits me right into my target who runs away and I have half the town trying to kill me. I would 
 be okay with this once or twice but this happened about 7 or 8 times. There are a few places in 
 the game like this buy with some patience it doesnt effect the game too much.
  
  Controls is where this game losses a lot of points. The controls were playable but you could tell 
 this was designed for a console. The way they are set up is very strange but once you get the hang 
 of it, its very easy to play with. The controls were not as responsive as I would have liked them 
 to be. In many cases your pulling off moves at a very quick pace and then you hit a wall you cant 
 scale so you climb up then fall back down but sometimes I would do this three or four times with 
 guards trying to kill me
  
  I had no problems with graphics and for the most part my computer has the minimum except for my 
 video card. I was able to max out all the settings and have no lag at any part of the game. The 
 cities were breathtaking and so beautifully made. I cant stress that enough this game is gorgeous.
 
  
  To wrap all of this up lets do a spiffy little pros and con thingy.
  
  Pros: Amazing story (will make you think about it for weeks after playing it) , Gorgeous looking 
 game, This game is just fun from jumping to building to building to standing in a crowd of people 
 pouncing out of seemingly nowhere and running off is probably the coolest thing I have ever done 
 in a game. No light and dark stealth.
  
  Cons: Controls are unresponsive at times but still very managable. Not everyone will like the ending. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahwa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  Firstly I'dd like to say that games minimum requirements are quite high. But I still find myself 
 playing this game all graphics on maximum except shadows 2/3 setting. And still this works smoothly.
 
  
  My pc:
  
  2Gb RAM ddr
  Geforce 7900 GT
  AMD64 3800+
  
  Luckily it was quite nice surprise it works so well when my processor is quite crappy one nowdays.
 
  
  But to the game. I'm huge fan of this historical age. And also I'm very interested in Assassins 
 "cult". I have had really fun with this game. Graphics are awesome and gosh, how much I love that 
 wall climbing and rooftop jumping. Also fighting is really cool and those counter moves are really 
 nice looking. Though, once you get counter move ability. It's only thing you use. Since blocking 
 requires skill to press one (1) button, and counter to press another in correct timing. 
  Also when you save those citizens from guards. It gets really irritating when you can't skip part 
 when they speak. And since they have like five different voice samples. I don't want listen them 
 over and over again.
  Also games difficult level is quite low. I'm hard difficult fan, so I would have had some difficult 
 system implanted.
  
  But hey, still myself I think this game is overall pretty awesome. Most of all I love looks of 
 main character and that hidden blade in your left arm. It is really cool that main character have 
 his "ring finger" cut, and hidden blade come from his bracer to it's position. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avadiator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Unlike newer games trying to hard and failing AC although it took a while longer than expected 
 to get from Xbox to PC was probably worth the wait.
  the graphics and feel of the game are the best by far out at the moment, i mean where else can 
 u find a ledge that doesn't look (oh look a ledge i have to climb that to do something) This game 
 has the feel of everything being natural. however there are a few points that make no sense (e. g)
 
  what was up with the ending... i can see they would leave it open for a sequel if it took off 
 but i made little to no sense and there are assassins out there asking you to do there tasks, yer 
 right if they dont have the skill they wouldn't make the brotherhood.
  
  but overall the quality of the mapping, Graphics, sounds and we can't forget Altair's sequentially 
 exciting combat although pretty basic at the beginning it unfolds into one of the most spectacular 
 fight scenes i have ever seen is undoubtedly this games highlights 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knemo77
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Looks good. Not really designed for the PC, lazily ported over from the 360. Background interacts 
 and looks good but is a little repetitive and getting the camera right takes some getting used 
 to.
  
  From start to where I'm at right now the combat has been fun and the murders are spectacular and 
 very fluid (y) . Completing this game will be fun and I'm looking forward to where the next generation 
 of this genre will improve upon this platform. 
  
  Overall a decent buy and I think I'll play it to the end before I get bored. If you are looking 
 for a game that will utilize your new fancy and expensive machine then this looks like a good choice. 
 Also my cheap little Logitech game pad is not the best for this game but it beats the crap out 
 of the keyboard.
  
  Some people have complained about the windowed mode being annoying. Exactly what I thought at first. 
 All you have to do is use your ALT-F4 and it will toggle between the two modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannis27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Missions and/or quests may get old and repetitive, but theres always the challenge to complete 
 them all. The game has beautiful graphics, and jumping around on rooftops and navigating the cities 
 reminds me of a platformer. It's really annoying to exit the game back to desktop because first 
 you have to exit your memory, then exit the Animus, then exit to the menu, then select your profile, 
 then you can finally exit the game. Good thing is that load times are not very long at all. This 
 game kind of looks like its from the future in terms of graphics and design. Sometimes the controls 
 can be wonky because the game was made first for the consoles. The modern day story aspect to the 
 game seems kind of added at the last minute to make the PC different from console. It's kind of 
 contrived. I like that you start out with minimal equipment then as you complete the missions you 
 get your stuff back. So it kind of has an aspect of an RPG to it. It's fun, you should try before 
 you buy though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisKumfi
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Most things have already been said about the console version of this game and they apply to the 
 PC version.
  
  While the setting and story (you see the major plot twist coming from a mile away, though) are 
 pretty immersive, the repetitious information gathering and view point climbing become quite tedious 
 after the first couple of missions to the point where you just do the bare minimum of what's necessary 
 to achieve your goals. While playing, I asked myself why they didn't make it so that every bit 
 of information you gather about your targets gives you an advantage in carrying out your assassinations. 
 This would have given it the replayability that it lacks even with the new sidequests in the PC 
 version. Also, I would have liked the option of being a little bit more stealthy. I tried that 
 approach for some time but found out that Altair is no Sam Fisher. It irked me somewhat that, for 
 most missions, you have to be on ground level in the crowd for scripted events to trigger.
  
  Other than that, the presentation is top-notch. Graphics are alright, I guess, except I didn't 
 like the shadows. The cities are bustling with activity and each one has its own distinct flavor. 
 Cut scenes are very nicely scripted and directed. The soundtrack is fitting. Voice acting, though, 
 is fairly standard -- not awful, however. I was a little bit annoyed by hearing the same speeches 
 from the demagogues over and over again.
  
  Some view the cliffhanger ending as a let-down. I, too, think it came too abruptly. But there is 
 so much stuff going on in that final sequence, you just keep on wondering what happens to the characters 
 in the sequel. And a game that keeps you thinking after the credits roll is a good thing in my 
 book.
  
  I like to think about AC as that first season of your favorite sitcom where it still lacks that 
 certain distinctive element that makes it truly awesome. So here's to hoping that they weed out 
 the gameplay quirks for the sequels.
  
  8.0/10 where 1.0 comes from the perspective of future greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxoidRodi
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I fell in love with Assassin's Creed since it came out for the next-gen consoles, but since I don't 
 have either one of these, I excitedly awaited the PC version. Boy was this game worth the wait!
 
  
  In a very interesting story, a thing we rarely see in video games, you play inside the memories 
 of the ancestors of an average bartender by the name of Desmond Miles. Desmond is kidnapped by 
 a company who found a way to decode memory genes of one's ancestor's, and the reason they desperately 
 seek Desmond's memories is because they want to retrieve some sort of treasure back from 1191. 
 Most of the game occurs in that year where you assume the role of Altair, an assassin stripped 
 of all his ranks due to a failed mission. In order for Altair to retrieve his weapons and ranks 
 back he will need to start from the very beginning and has to assassinate 9 leader in 3 different 
 cities, Damascus, Jerusalem, and Acre. Masyaf is the fourth city, the assassins' stronghold, and 
 where you will be coming back after each of the nine assassinations and talk to Al Mualim (the 
 master) to retrieve your new weapons and rank. I haven't finished the game yet so I won't go any 
 deeper into the story, but just know it is indeed and engaging one.
  
  The four main cities in the game (all part of the kingdom, which you'll also pass through when 
 traveling between the cities) look really beautiful and are quite well designed. Altair can climb 
 on almost every single wall. The cities look truly alive with citizens going about their daily 
 chores, guards keeping order (or molesting innocent citizens) and other types of characters like 
 thugs (whom you can pickpocket for throwing knives) , trouble makers (like street beggars and insane 
 people whole push you around when you get too near) . I was amazed by how characters around you 
 react to your different actions. For example, people will wonder what on earth you're doing when 
 they spot you climbing a wall, guards will prepare to draw their sword when they spot you sprinting 
 towards them (and will keep watching you afterward) .
  
  As an assassin of course you need to keep your identity anonymous from soldiers and guards, otherwise 
 you'll find yourself in trouble. The game will give you tips on how to stay anonymous as much as 
 possible although combats with soldiers and guards are inevitable in some situations, and in my 
 opinion are quite fun to engage in. 
  
  Another fun feature (and a significant part of the gameplay) is the roofs walking. This is a great 
 deal of fun and gives a sense of the true assassin city exploration process.
  
  The music score of the game is amazing and perfectly fits the theme. The characters sound great 
 and are totally believable although I am really annoyed by the audio sync problem is most of the 
 cut scenes. Ubisoft clearly knew about this because they posted a workaround for Win XP in the 
 Readme file. So why didn't they fix this is beyond me.
  
  Needless to say the game is a resource hog and will require a PC up to the task. I suggest you 
 take a look at the minimum requirements before investing in the game as some say it's even more 
 demanding than Crysis. If you want to enjoy the cities' perfect scenery you must have a high end 
 video card (think Nvidia 8800gt+) although you should be able to enjoy the game nonetheless with 
 a budget video card and low - medium graphics settings.
  
  Overall I am truly enjoying every bit of Assassin's Creed and should a sequel come out in the future, 
 it's definitely on my buy list! Highly recommended!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonnyboy1219
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I had been waiting for this game since it was first announced, and so almost driven to tears when 
 Ubisoft said that the PC version was going to be delayed, and delayed again, and oh wait one more 
 time. I finally got it the day it came out. I already had played the 360 version with a friend, 
 but for some reason I just had to have the PC version. And I finally got a computer that could 
 run it, but since it was a laptop, I had to lower the graphics a little, which was fine. 
  If you have played Prince of Persia, then it is really easy to get the hang of Altair. the Free 
 Running was amazing, and there is nothing more fun than running on rooftops and killing archers. 
 However the archer missions were not so much fun. Making a "Director's Cut" to apologize to us 
 pc gamers didn't go over so well. The new missions didn't add anything, and well the game so entirely 
 the same. I really like the game regardless, come on if you're making a director's cut you need 
 to change more than just four missions. 
  
  That being said, I really did like the game. The story is really compelling, with plot twists almost 
 as good as Knights of the Old Republic. There really isn't great replay value, but I will be counting 
 the days until the next installment comes. Oh, and I lost a bet with a friend of mine that there 
 would be a Assassin's 2 trailer at the end of the PC game, and there wasn't, so I lost five bucks. 
 But all and all an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gordon_freman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  i believe that if the ubisoft did not make the prince of persia before the assassin's creed they 
 can not make it such this (great and wonderful) . the prince was an experiment to make the assassin's 
 great and nice such this. all of that things which we could not get in prince of persia (every 
 3 game) we can get easier and nicer in assassin's creed. i have a computer but i could not wait 
 for the pc version and i borrow my friend's xbox 360 and play it on that. fortunately i did not 
 upset for ubisoft imitation from the prince of persia versions and counter i very happy after i 
 played this game. perhaps it is funny for you that i know the prince of persia game from my friends 
 and they inset to me this game so i bought it and i play it . i play it for the name of that game 
 (prince of persia) well i am a persian and i like this game for this reason and lots other. i bought 
 and play the assassin's creed for the prince of persia if it did not be i never play the assassin's 
 creed because i heard that this game is similar to prince game .the ubisoft had not the good incantation 
 for this game. i very want to see the next version of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pidow
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  In the beginning, I was not sure I was going to buy this game because I do not do game pads. I 
 am strictly keyboard and mouse period. Their was a lot of talk about which to use, game pads or 
 which controller to use with the game. Again, almost no buy. I decided to take my chances and buy, 
 a very good move I must say; and for all of the talk, it is just that talk. This game can be played 
 with whatever one wishes to use. I have not in-countered any, I repeat any problems with this game 
 at all. My problem lied with me not utilizing to proper control for the player at the start, once 
 learned the correct methods of use, no problems. I very much like this game, what can be accomplished 
 in the game, makes it stand by itself. One has to play it to appreciate what the game has to offer 
 the player over and over again until the player decides he/she has had enough playing for that 
 period of time. This game will remain on my rig for all times with the very few I considered great 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adversary16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  First off, I just want to say that Assassin's Creed is not a 100% stealth-game but more like a 
 mix of action and stealth! Bear this in mind and you'll enjoy a unique and intense experience...
 
  
  However, you can still play it stealthy for the most part of the game. Like I said, this game is 
 truly awesome, both from start to finish:
  
  Combat experience: 90%
  It doesn't get any better than that! Well, except for the fact that, considering how fun it is, 
 you'll only be left asking for more combat animations.
  
  Story: I cannot actually comment on that... Else this review wouldn't be spoiler-free and really, 
 it depends on the individual. 
  
  Controls: 100%
  Honestly, with a game that demanding for accuracy of controls, it's perfect!
  
  Performance: 
 75%
  DirectX 10 doesn't perform how I hoped it should or how it actually should but the game remains 
 very much playable.
  
  Graphics: 95%
  One of the best looking games around and possibly the best looking game of Ubisoft!
  
  Overall: 
 95%
  This is, without a doubt an amazing game! It's all about the genre i. e. it won't get boring if 
 you are a hybrid action-stealth fan!
  
  Personally, I strongly believe Assassin's Creed for PC can be a contender for Game of the Year 
 Awards 2008! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickenhide
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This game could very well be the best game to come out in our Earth's history.
  
  I don't know where to start. The graphics are B-E-A-UTIFUL! Small details with surprise you, the 
 texture is smooth and everything. A game can't get better than this.
  
  The whole stealth aspect of the game is... unbelievable - like nothing before. the Prince of Persia 
 were my all time favorite games, until this came out, and yes I'm aware of the fact that they were 
 made by the same people. You can assassinate anyone you please (With the downside of disynchronization) 
 and you can assassinate your targets, which usually results in a wetting of pants, because it's 
 so epic and amazing.
  
  The soundtrack was made by Jesper Kyd, whom in my opinion, is a very good composer. The soundtrack 
 will keep you hooked through-out the game, guaranteed.
  
  Now, the storyline. The storyline of AC is indescribable... It's AWESOME. Yes, it can be confusing 
 at times, but turn the volume up and listen closely, and you'll love it. The ending is so intense, 
 you'll be angry that you ever beat the game, because you want to play more and follow more storyline!
 
  
  Jade Raymond and the rest of the Ubisoft team focused on the freerunning aspect of the game - a 
 next-gen game promise. You can hop from building to building, or jump off towers into hay barrels. 
 
  
  For the system requirements, this can be resolved. You can turn down your settings, which will 
 result in less detail, but it takes nothing away from the game.
  
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is the best game to ever be made, and will be remembered for ages to 
 come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vonwombat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  In A. D. 1191, war was beginning. 
  
  Heralded as a Messiah of gaming by both gamers and critics, and viewed as equal in scope to the 
 Second Coming of Christ, Assassin's Creed offers a blend of jumping, running, and stabbing innocents. 
 And if you're patient, you'll get to assassinate people.
  From a technical point of view, the game is impressive. The cities are superbly constructed, literally 
 teeming with life. And with life, comes the unstoppable urge of ending it. So, if you lack your 
 share of violence in real life and feel a sudden need for stabbing innocents, this is the game 
 for you.
  Combat is fun, mainly due to the animations, but once you get the "Counter" ability, the whole 
 system looks like it was made for mentally disabled individuals. You basically have to hold one 
 mouse button, click the other one and your Hashshashin with an American accent will either punch 
 people in the face or end their pathetic scripted lives with a slash of his sword.
  Climbing is arguably the best part of the game, though throwing guards off buildings is great fun 
 as well. The things is, that when you climb the buildings, nobody, except from the rooftops guards 
 will do anything to stop you. They'll just stare at you as if nothing ever happened and it's perfectly 
 normal for suspicious-looking people carrying a large amount a weapons to run over rooftops in 
 major cities during war time. 
  Assassinations aren't exactly the bulk of the game, and to be able to stick your blade in other 
 people's faces, you'll first have to complete some sort of sub-quests, and you'll probably be surprised 
 to find out that all your informers face similar problems and YOU are the one meant to solve them. 
 When you actually get to kill a damn target, you can do it in any way you want, so if you want 
 to play either 47's grandpa or Serious Sam trapped in the Holy Land, you can actually do it.
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is not necessarily a bad game, but it surely could have been much more. 
 I think everyone should at least try it, because, although quite boring, it's also quite innovative. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agarthi
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 12, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Not too much to say, game looks good, especially on a PC but it is very repetitive, after the first 
 city or two you have already experienced everything the game has to offer, you repeat the same 
 missions over and over, rescue civilians about 7 or 8 times, climb about 7 or 8 towers, then go 
 complete the plot portion which means watching a cutscene, stab the guy, and go hide, repeat ad 
 nauseum.
  
  It seems another case of a game dumbed down for console gamers where simplicity and flash are all 
 its got, sadly by reading the reviews thats all it takes for most people.
  
  Again, dont believe the hype, if you are looking for a sandbox type game with lots to do, this 
 is not it.
  
  graphically its pretty good but there isnt much in the way of interesting, after walking the city 
 for an hour or two it wears off, climbing is so stupid easy and obvious look every third house 
 has a ladder against it, and a crane on top, amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  .. superb atmosphere & story telling techniques ! Practic this game is the whole package when it 
 comes to story related its Sci-Fi=Fantasy=Modern life based all in one & it is all done with so 
 much integrety so that nothing seems off course ! By now i think everybody knows the seed of the 
 story sincethe games was released in 2007 but i won't spoil because the story tree of this game 
 is equal as the one from Half-Life (the entire series i mean ) .... so lets get in to GAMEPLAY = 
 1st the gameplay is structered on exploring , seeking & hit & run with multiple side missions to 
 keep the fun up ( with 4 more for the PC version) but all those elements are backed up by the most 
 advanced crowd & animation sytem ever made i just can't explain how versatile the feeling is when 
 you are in a crowd... you have your guards , your drunnks/baggers that give away your positions 
 , troublemakers/demented ppl that push you arround distorting your route & your way of thinking 
 during an assassination or chase ... the feeling that all these things give you are similar to a 
 movie .... like imagine a scene where the assassins is walking thru the crowd twords the president 
 or the mafia leader + all of these is backed up by the most supreme perfect platforming system 
 practical you can go & climb anything that looks like climbing but all those clibing things are 
 just a part of the envirement they don't shine your face like in Tomb Raider or PoP ... its so natural 
 & inpredictible ! The fighting system is very advanced & pleasent for a realistic games ihave seen 
 complaints that its to simple .... what the hell do you want Devil May Cry fighting system in a 
 game like this .... its simple but tactical , its realistic & brutal its al about timing & motion 
 + the enemy A. I. is great especially the enemies you face after 50% fo the game they grab you , 
 they push youy , they counter your attacks like you do they throw rocks if u try to climb something 
 ! & From a presentation stand point what can i say its atmospheric it gives you the illusion of 
 real life ( who needs Crysis & all its shaders &renderer modes :D ) & the voice acting god i tought 
 i was watching an animation/movie like Final Fantasy the Spirits Within ... in fact i think its 
 a little better ! The only flaws of the game are ... I= because the engine is presenting yu so 
 much animations & contacts between characers espect to see some minor bugs & the II= missions can 
 became repetitive but as you progress they become more challenging & to tell you the truth it didn't 
 afected me ... evan GTA San Andreas had repetitive missions after a while ! I enjoyed it like i 
 enjoyed all the HL series & for me HL is 1st & because AC was so innovative HL has to make friends 
 with AC & share the 1ST spot :D ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 7
Date: May 17, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  Gamespot reviewed a different game to the one I'm playing as I only have what I consider to be 
 a good medium rig but I can play this game maxed out without any problems.
  
  Its difficult to comment on the story line without giving away spoilers, but the gist of it is 
 a waiter is held in captivity by a scientist who wants to probe his brain to unlock secrets held 
 by an ancestral ancient middle eastern assassin. The game moves between modern day and ancient 
 Israel with the story interspersed with frequent cut scenes.
  
  What lets the storyline down is that this is set in the medieval middle east, but you have access 
 to a global positioning satellite ! Also your main character, which no doubt will turn out to be 
 good in the end, has an apple pie American accent, whereas everyone else has Arabic accents.
  
  Graphics are outstanding - by far the best seen on a PC to date, certainly better than COD4 
 or Crysis. The character models are awesome, with incredible detail and realism.
  
  Sound is also top notch.
  
  However it is the gameplay that really makes this game stand out. 
 Taking on quests is seamlessly integrated into the game, and the gameplay style is revolutionary. 
 The combat system is very well done and theres plenty of blood and gore.
  
  
  A lot of people are complaining about the controls - yes this is a straight console port and the 
 controls do take some getting used to for mouse and keyboard users (for example to run you have 
 to hold down the right mouse button and 2 keyboard keys at the same time) . However, the devs really 
 should have made the game controls more PC friendly and this is what spoils what would otherwise 
 be a very good came. The controls make the game so frustrating, you simply want to give up playing. 
 For example there is a lot of platforming which involves climbing walls, but getting your toon 
 to actually climb is a hit and miss affair. To be honest, at times I wanted to throw the computer 
 out of the window.
  
  Overall, whilst the gameplay is new and innovative in terms of game mechanics, I have to mark down 
 the gameplay score due to the controls, the fact that this is a direct console port and in-game 
 bugs.
  
  There are also numerous small bugs for example your character wont climb a wall when you tell him 
 to which is incredibly frustrating, or he will walk around NPC's in circles for about 5 seconds. 
 The game also has an annoying checkpoint gameplay system which means you can end up playing the 
 same bit over and over again. Also, the mini map is very confusing.
  
  Overall this is a game that breaks the mould in terms of gameplay, graphics and sound but is sometimes 
 impossible to play because of the controls and the bugs.
  
  
  
  Graphics 10
  Sound 10
  Gameplay 6
  Value 8
  Stability 9
  Overall 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sir_miss_alot
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 12, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this game was on the X360 and could not wait till it came out on the PC. 4 months 
 later it has arrived and what do I think? Well there is no change to the graphics and all the instructions 
 are still in X box with PC controls in brackets. Also the game is in a window that if the mouse 
 hits the edge when you are fighting you start bringing up windows sub menus, of course you are 
 trying to get your mouse cursor back into the game whilst your guy is getting killed, it happened 
 a few times already and I have only been playing for a couple of hours.
  The game it self has a good and easy story line to follow, massive area to roam about and interact 
 with.
  Overall not bad if you can put up with the annoying things of sub menus popping up and trying to 
 work out the controls it can be an enjoyable game, just wish Ubisoft put a bit more effort into 
 the PC version.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjtycoolstop
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  Superb Graphics!! Very Interesting game play!! absolutely addictive!!! realistic 3D environment. 
 must have game. the first time i played this game was last march 15, i download it in advance even 
 though it's not yet release on the market. Ops sorry !! my friend just gave me a software copy 
 for short a pirated copy, but when the game out on the market, i just buy the original copy for 
 patronizing the beauty and addictive of this game. you should consider this as one of your rack 
 collection of PC games. beautiful set-ups from start to end. the negative of this game is just 
 the storyline, it's confusing a bit, but you can understand it at the end. so thats not a big problem. 
 some say its poor, or maybe they just don't like this kind of game, thats why they rate it poor.. 
 but for me i rate it as superb perfect 10!! OPEN your eyes Folks!!! this is a must HAVE game of 
 the YEAR!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bins53
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  this game is soo good it is for all genders excpet for people who don't like playing games. yo 
 i woke up got dressed pulled my pants down below the waist ent to the store and bought that shi# 
 it was worth playing i lost track of time i got fired form my job because i did not shw up because 
 i was playing that i would not play any other game than that every game is boring to that good 
 and it is nothing like anyother game i ever played in my life it is the greatset iam just writting 
 so i can creat a uinion and get you to level 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csenftleben
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  If you have read the Gamespot review of the PC version of Assassin's Creed, then I hope that you 
 took it with a grain of salt. Having personally played and finished the game on my friend's Xbox 
 360 back in November - not wanting to buy a console just for one game, because that's just stupid 
 - and having loved it then, it's just so simple to say that on the PC: I love it even more. Now, 
 don't take this as a PC fanboy rant, because it isn't. Despite Gamespot's complaints about chuggy 
 gameplay and sound glitches, I can say that whoever reviewed the game must have got a bad copy 
 of it because I can play it perfectly at a constant 60FPS (with VSYNC enabled, of course) . Now 
 true, I have a quad-core with 4GB of RAM and a 9800GX2, but my friend doesn't have a computer as 
 good as mine (*read* dual-core, 2GB RAM & GTS 320) and it still ran just fine on maximum settings 
 at a screen resolution of 1152x864 with 2x AA.
  
  So, Gamespot and performance issues aside, let's get to the game itself, shall we?
  
  Assassin's 
 Creed is one of those games that cannot be viewed or have an opinion passed on if you haven't played 
 it. It's a visceral experience that makes all other platformer/adventure games turn a pale shade 
 of pink.
  From the outset of the game, you start as bartender Desmond Miles, who has been kidnapped by Abstergo 
 Industries. He is placed into a device known as the Animus, a machine that can "read" the DNA of 
 the person hooked up to it, and through it, decode the memories of the person's ancestors, because 
 the entire memory "bloodline" of your past family is stored in your genes (*cough* Hollywood bulls**t 
 *cough*) . And after a rather lengthy, tedious cutscene, we meet the ancestor, who is the character 
 you will play as for most of the game.
  Step into the shoes of Altair Ibn La Ahad, a name which translates directly as "The Flying One, 
 Son of None". Pretty cool name, huh? Anyway, for those of you who haven't played the game yet, 
 Altair is an Assassin (and a complete a**hole too; well, at least at the start of the story he 
 is) who is tasked with the elimination of nine key figures in the Holy Land of the 12th Century, 
 1191, sometime in the Third Crusade of Richard the Lionheart. Fear, oppression and terror grip 
 the land, and the Assassins seek to bring peace through the death of a few men, for the betterment 
 of many. Still, despite long-winded cutscenes, Assassin's Creed still manages to maintain a simply 
 wonderful storyline that surpasses many other games of its type. Even the heavy, deep stories of 
 games like Oblivion don't seem quite as good as this tale.
  But I won't give too much of that away... you'll have to play Assassin's Creed for yourself.
  
 
  As such, your goal is to sneak around and generally kick butt. Kicking butt, however, is harder 
 than you think, so I'd stick with the sneaking around part if I were you... it's just faster. And 
 by way of sneaking, we now come to Ubisoft's controversial new "control scheme", which can be wrapped 
 in in one word: Sublime. Never before could a player press "three" keys to jump from a rooftop 
 instead of the "one" that they pressed in Prince of Persia and still come away saying "this is 
 way better than Prince of Persia".
  Instead of keys being mapped to certain moves for the player character to make - like Spacebar 
 for "jumping" - , the control scheme in Assassin's Creed involves pressing a button that controls 
 a certain "body part", which executes a different move in different contextual situations, and 
 also when other keys are pressed in combination with that key - for example, pressing Spacebar 
 (which controls the "Legs" of the character) when in "Low Profile Mode" will cause Altair to pretend 
 that he is a Monk, and "blend" into the crowd. In contrast, when you click the Right mouse button, 
 Altair goes into "High Profile Mode", and begins to run, but when you press the Spacebar in combination 
 with the Right mouse button, Altair sprints along at a higher speed. This also doubles as a contextual 
 move when coming into contact with a climbable object. When these three buttons are held down, 
 Altair can begine to scale any walll that he is running towards, and search for a handhold.
  Which brings me to another cool part of Assassin's Creed: Anything that sticks out more than two 
 inches from any flat vertical surface (like a decorative nub on the outside of a high tower, or 
 even the metal bars protecting a stain-glass window) can be used as a handhold to climb with. There 
 is no preset way to climb, and no complicated control scheme once you begin to scale the wall. 
 After mounting the wall, just use the directional keys, and wherever Altair can "find" a handhold, 
 he'll jump from griphold to griphold to work his way to the top of the building.
  Immense Kudos to Ubisoft Montreal for bringing this kind of character control to the Platformer 
 genre. Gamespot reckon that the PC directional controls (W, S, A, D) don't give that "omnidirectional" 
 feel of completely smooth movement that the console version had. To coin a rather blunt and tactless 
 phrase: They are so full of s**t. Haven't people ever heard of pushing two buttons at once, so 
 that you can get the diagonal angle when climbing a wall? If that's all they're complaining about, 
 then it isn't too hard to find the solution (Just read what I said a sentence earlier) .
  In my honest opinion, the PC controls are as good as the controls of the console version. It all 
 depends on your preference. If it pains you so much, then plug in a damn 360 or PS3 controller 
 and stop your whining.
  
  Sorry... carried myself off for a bit there... well, getting back to the review.
  
  There are 
 no annoying continuously-changing button combinations required to scale a wall and sprint across 
 rooftops anymore. Now, you just hold down "Legs", "High Profile Mode" and whatever directional 
 key you want to, depending on the direction you want to go in, and Altair jumps off the rooftop, 
 lands nimbly on the horizontal beam, leaps to another beam - without having to switch any keys 
 save for the directional one - but wait, the next beam is too high to land on.
  That's easy: Altair just reaches out, grabs the bar, swings under it, and lands on the ground, 
 going into a roll, before diving through a merchant's shop under a portico, and scaling the wall 
 behind it. And all this, without altering any control keys other than the direction you want to 
 go in. Now the character does all the moves "for you", per se.
  No more jerky transitional animations, as the character switches from scaling a wall to standing 
 again (or from running to swinging on a horizontal bar, rolling, standing up, and then running 
 again) .
  No more "Spacebar, then forwards, then left, right and Shift" to make the player character leap 
 across a divide in the buildings and land, before switching to a bladed weapon.
  No... now, with a few keys held down, the character adapts to whatever contextual situation he is 
 placed in, with adapting animations that make him look like a person, and not like a glitchy puppet. 
 However, there are a few issues that Assassin's Creed possesses, and one of them resides in the 
 PC version. I'll deal with it first. 1: Two of the four new "Investigation Types" that us PC Devils 
 get over the console version of the game don't really add anything interesting. The Rooftop Race 
 Challenge and the Assassin Escort Challenge tend to take away from the "Sandbox effect" of Assassin's 
 Creed, and make it feel more like the time-based challenges in a game like Grand Theft Auto. True, 
 they are fun... for the first few times, but after that: BORING!
  Sorry, got a bit loud there.
  The other two challenges, Rooftop Archer Assassination and Merchant 
 Stand Destruction Challenge (which work exactly the way they are described herein) on the other 
 hand, "do" add to the immersion of the "Creed", giving you something extra to get rid of the monotony. 
 And this is where I write something nasty about this game, the reasons why I didn't give the Creed 
 a perfect 10:
  
  - Replay value: The second time around, after the first three hours (and if you're a cynical bastard, 
 this would happen to you the first time around) , unless you become really wrapped up in the game, 
 it becomes "Boring as Hell". No, seriously, it becomes so repetitive and monotonous, that even 
 the four new Invesigation Types in the PC version can't get add enough variety to break the endless 
 cycle of "Investigate, Report & Assassinate". There comes a time when gawking at the amazing graphics 
 gets a little old. - You can't skip the Goddamn cutscenes! One thing I loved about Crysis was that 
 when the cheese started to leak out of my computer screen during the cinematics (you do get the 
 joke, right?) you could always hit the Spacebar, and the game would leave you back in control of 
 that big a** shotgun again.
  In Assassin's Creed... UH-UH, NO ESCAPE FROM IMPORTANT PLOT-PUSHING CUTSCENE FOR YOU!
  The first 
 time, it's fine... but when you die and have to see that cutscene "all over again"... no, just no.
 
  
  2. Why can't all the NPCs have as nice a body animation sequence set as Altair, the enemy soldiers 
 and key assassination targets?
  Ubisoft could at least have added "that" to the PC version. I mean, they added extra content, a 
 revamp of the brain-dead search and combat enemy AI that the console version possessed, they even 
 bumped up the graphics, textures, lighting and physics a bit more than the console version.
  But they left out a decent animation for those stupid Beggar women that you see so much of! They 
 still jerk about in front of your face with crappy stick-like movements, similar to those stupid 
 purple dual-blade wielding "wenches" from Prince of Persia: Warrior Within.
  
  But in the big scheme of things, these are just minor whingings, because the first time around 
 (unless you're a cynical bastard) , you won't see the repetitive nature of the game, because each 
 time a Pickpocket, an Interrogation, a Challenge or an Eavesdrop comes around, it's in a different 
 place, with a different city vista landscape in the background, with varying crowds of people around, 
 or even a whole pack of guards patrolling right past you.
  
  The whole "life"; the "real" feel that the world has to it, of bustiling city streets, alive with 
 people, shouts for sales prices, cries for help, beggars in the streets, and even the rush of wind 
 and the call of the Eagles as you do the "Leap of Faith" off a high tower and land in a hay cart 
 on the ground: All of these things drive your mind away from the fact that this game plays the 
 same simple gameplay mechanics over and over for nine cycles.
  
  Even talking about the game now makes me wish that I'd just shut the Hell up with this review, 
 fire up my PC and sink back into that wonderful rendition of 12th Century Israel, sneak past some 
 guards whilst blending into a group of monks, unsheathing my hidden blade and knifing a Templar 
 Knight in the back of the neck, and running up two scaffolds and onto the rooftop, before descending 
 back down again, through the deluge of screaming, panicking, running people and landing on top 
 of my target, slicing him through the throat, only to go through the pain of experiencing another 
 "inescapable" length of Hollywood cutscene reel.
  
  If only there was a Quicksave function, then I might have pushed that 9.5 to a 10 (irrespective 
 of all my other complaints against the game) .
  
  My final verdict: Just go out and play the game - wait... no, it really can't be descirbed as a 
 "game"; it's more like a wonderful, almost "real, living" world in which you play a part.
  It's an experience that will stay with you for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  Ok I have to admit I couldnt play the whole game or beat it yet cause I played the leaked version, 
 so I was stuck at Jerusalem, but the game until that was quite interesting and cool... 
  
  If you looked at the screenshots there is not much to say about the graphics or the atmosphere 
 of the game, it is brilliant, the streets are alive with merchants, beggars, idle people standing 
 around or sitting around and such...
  
  And the game gets a little repetitive... Yea it gets repetitive but somehow you want to play the 
 game more, you want to see more cause the game starts quite interesting, I dont want to give away 
 a spoiler from the beginning but it gets quite interesting as the game goes on.
  
  The game's ineresting aspect is that some of the characters like Altair, is real... They were actual 
 people who lived in medieval era, also the guild Altair is in (Could be I am not 100 percent sure) 
 Hassassins Guild, so the guild is or could be very much real... Well it is not that important but 
 I think it is a good addition to the game...
  
  And Altair's attitude and behavior, his pride and his arrogance is beautiful! the way he walks 
 talks acts, makes you feel like "Yea I am gonna take you down you son of a... ": D so I think you 
 should give it a try I am pretty sure you wont regret it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harpua4321
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 10, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I've been a Gamespot member for years. In all of this time, I've never been compelled to write 
 a review. Until now. After being duped into buying this game on Xbox 360, I feel it is my moral 
 obligation to tell unsuspecting PC gamers to avoid this game at all costs. Yes, the graphics are 
 nice. Yes, the story is somewhat interesting. Unfortunately, those attributes aren't nearly enough 
 to mask this game's one fatal flaw : it is unbelievably repetitive. 
  
  Every mission involves repeating the exact same tasks. Climb a tower. Jump in some hay. Sit on 
 a bench and eavesdrop on a conversation. Pickpocket some random idiot. Sneak up on another guy, 
 kill him, and run away. Rinse. Repeat... for each of the nine missions. 
  
  Despite the tedium, I managed to finish Assassin's Creed in about twenty painful hours, just to 
 see what happened to the characters. The cliffhanger ending was interesting, but my anticipation 
 for the sequel quickly diminished when I remembered that I had just spent twenty hours of my life 
 jumping in hay and sitting on benches. 
  
  If you like games with your stories, avoid this one.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: windfish113
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I never played this game on 360, but i saw my friend playing it, and decided to get it for PC. 
 While i like this game a ton, its not the greatest ever, and you have probably heard about it so 
 i won't go into detail. ill probably play through it once and thats it. its comparable to fable 
 in the feel of everything, but the graphics and controls are a step above... verging on, to die 
 for. i will say, use a 360 controller - the key/mouse input is good, but not as good as it could 
 be.
  
  but anyways gamespot's review would have you believe you need a top-line system to run it properly. 
 this simply isn't the case. I have every setting set to max @ 1680x1050 w/ vsync and the game runs 
 perfectly. it looks absolutely marvelous, way way better than the console version and so smooooooth... 
 k it doesnt compare to crysis or cod4, but it's for sure the best looking third-person game ive 
 played. my system is by no means amazing
  
  Athlon 64X2 5200+
  NVIDIA 8800 GTS 320
  2 Gb Corsair 800
  win xp pro
  
  etc. nothing is real new or fancy and i'm telling you, the 
 game runs brilliant. i just don't get why their review said it was slowing down on their test rig. 
 im assuming everyone who plays games has a dual-core machine by now so if you are reluctant to 
 buy the game because of your other system specs, i say don't worry about it as long as you have 
 a halfway decent rig. and if you don't, just go play fable again. you aren't missing that much. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsornasse
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 28, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  I just finished Assassin's Creed for PC and while I was initially impressed by the stunning environments, 
 the graphics, and the historical background of the story, the overall game fell short.
  
  The good: 
  - Amazing city rendering
  - Highly detailed character rendering
  - Elegant main 
 character animation, especially while running on rooftops and climbing structures.
  - Excellent voice acting of main characters
  - Historical story background
  
  The bad
  
 - Ridiculously repetitive game play
  - Obnoxiously repetitive voice acting from minor characters: only 4 or 5 different speeches by 
 rescued civilians while you have to save over 25 during the all game. Only 1 speech by the beggars 
 (only women by the way) while you have to deal with them throughout the game
  - The most convoluted series of menu screens to exit the game (who thought of that?)
  - Present 
 time story line: completely pointless. You would imagine that after making you sneak around and 
 talk to the Vidic and his assistant , you would get something at the end. Nope, it looks like that 
 segment of the game was started and then forgotten. 
  
  The so-so
  - Combat controls are acceptable most of the time but in crowded quarters, the sloppy positioning 
 of the camera can be highly irritating
  - Soldier & Archers AI: while it is usually easy to sneak behind a soldier's back, there are instances 
 where soldiers/Archers can "see you" while facing away from you.
  - Synchronization of voice with facial animation of minor characters: not even close
  - Floating 
 characters: during the fairly long cut scenes where you talk to the assassin's leader or the assassin's 
 bureau agent, you'll notice that the main characters appear to float just on top of the background 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesilentkiller
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  I would like to start by providing my system specifications. I have a vista premium, core 2 duo, 
 3 GB ram, 500 GB hard drive, GeForce 8800. I am able to run the game with all graphics at maximum 
 levels. Let me say that the graphics to this game are totally awesome. This is what I would truly 
 call next generation graphics. The writers brilliantly link the cinematic dream scene to the game 
 play. The realism is captured at the smallest detail. The way the assassin climbs the buildings 
 by actually using the crevices within the concrete; the music score that is played when the assassin 
 kills a victim from the back is all very well done. Even though the good far out ways the bad, 
 I would like to mention a few problems I encountered: It takes a while to get accustomed to the 
 movement controls. The game is not configured to operate with the standard WSAD movement keys. 
 We do not have the ability to skip the cinematic scenes and get straight to the action (some of 
 the cinematic scenes take several minutes to run its course. Still, in my opinion the game is definitely 
 worth buying if your computer meets the high end requirements.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matneee
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed looks stunning. There's no denying that. The levels drip detail, lighting is superb, 
 and it is in general front runner for most authentic looking world ever created in a game. It's 
 quite dissapointing in that respect that they actually forgot to include any actual gameplay content 
 in the thing...
  
  Don't get me wrong - for the first hour when you're learning the ropes and doing your first assasination 
 mission, it nees new and quite exciting, despite some obvious flaws (I'm looking at you, hideously 
 clunky combat system...) . But after that... well, you have to do EXACTLY the same thing eight more 
 times. And that's it. The whole nine missions of the game are essentially exactly the same thing 
 - complete 3 inane 'information gathering' tasks that have absolutely no bearing on the final assasination 
 (you'd think that info saying 'The target will be on his balcony...' would be a setup for a good 
 bit of planning witha crossbow, but no...) , then you walk up to your target, listen to five minutes 
 of pseudo-philosophical ethics churned out by someone not quite as close to death as you may have 
 hoped, then repeat. Again. And Again. And again and again and again.
  
  It'd be forgivable if the 'free running' thing was exciting, but it isn't. It's like a badly arranged 
 racing game and that's about as much as you can say really. To put it in context - I played for 
 eight and a half hours, shouting and swearing at the clunky evade controls every mission, and suddenly 
 toward the end of the Eighth one it suddenly occured to me "WHy the hell am I still playing this??? 
 I'm not enjoying it, it's boring me senseless, and clearly it's only bloody-mindedness to get to 
 the end that's keeping me going!!!". And I've not touched it since.
  
  So - not a bad game as such, just stunningly tedious and the most repetative thing I've played 
 since Horace Goes Skiing back in 1982. 
  
  Avoid. Spend your money on something more interesting. Like a tin of paint to watch drying, for 
 example.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawa7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 1:13 am PT
Review:  Graphics look wonderful on high settings. Story is quite interesting, it seems to draw you in from 
 the very begining. I like the whole matrix/total recal kind of theme added to the story line, it 
 gives the game a modern twist. Maps are large enough to spend plenty of time roaming around. Controls 
 are pretty simple to use with game pad, I tend to avoid using the keyboard for these type of games 
 and so far its working great with the gamepad. I waited a very long time for this game and even 
 lost my patience back in februrary, after ubisoft decided to push back the release date a few times, 
 however I am glad to see that Its finally here! I recommend this one for all of you action gamers, 
 especially if your into assassins, ninjas, stealth fighting. I hear that the ending is quite strange, 
 I got plenty of time to get to that point and I definitely cant wait to see what the future holds 
 in store for assassins creed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigl1230
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I really can't see how people can't say that this is the HOTTEST action game ever. This 
 game is truly mesmerizing and innovative. I mean, what game you know don't get repetitive after 
 playing it for a while. This game is nowhere as monotonous as games like Dynasty Warriors. This 
 game has taken the crown for action games. If you can name a game that comes close to this game, 
 then you should be out there creating games yourself. Ubisoft has taking the Action/Adventure Genre 
 and War game by storm (i. e. the perfect Call of Duty 4 and tom Clancy games) . Ubisoft has raised 
 the bar to a new height. 
  Now I have been playing the Assassin's Creed for 360 and now I have it for my PC, I'm a PC GAMER. 
 Its about the same game with a couple of new additions, which it really didn't need. It should 
 have come out with AC for 360 and PS3. The game starts out amazing and it has continually been 
 a exceptionally game. I haven't beaten it yet because beating a game too fast is rather pointless 
 ( A real gamer would know this) . That's like swallowing your favorite food whole without savoring 
 the taste by chewing it. I'm not going to go on to explain the story or anything because I want 
 you to get the game and experience this masterpiece first hand. TRUST ME! If you can find a better 
 game then this, please let me know. I'm a hardcore gamer so I have played many and this game should 
 not even be in the same sentence as any game out there other then Prince of Persia. If they make 
 another POP then they have to step that game up a lot. What else could you expect from the makers 
 of the leading games today? PURE PERFECTION 
  
  
  Ubisoft Supporter 4 LIFE!!! Keep making HITS!!!!! RESURRECT AVENT-RISING!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vargre666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok, im going to concentrate on the negative here, because other than what i write, in my opinion, 
 everything else is perfect.
  
  Everything id hoped and wanted in a game. Graphics are amazing. Play is amazing. Everything so 
 far is perfect, except the voice actor for Altair. He... sucks. He sounds wooden and over "EE nun 
 cee ATES" everything. And apparently he doesnt believe in contractions when speaking. Its a small 
 thing but, integral to a game like this, which is so centered on one character. And... hes basically 
 a dick. 
  
  Like, not in a cool way either. He's arrogant, in a snobby, whiny sort of way. Not like Wolverine 
 arrogant, more like a little kid who cant have the balloon. 
  
  There seems to be a glitch in the fight tutorial. You cant, or at least i couldnt, finish the practice 
 fight. You can finish the combo kill practice, but when you go into the practice fight, it just 
 seems to go on forever. Maybe im doing something wrong, but if i am, then they made it bloody difficult 
 to do it "right" and its a tutorial (its supposed to be easy.)
  
  And lastly, the copy protect on the game might give a few of you some problems. If you have any 
 virtual drives, disable them. (like MagicDisk) It will tell you that you dont have the right disk 
 in the drive if you have any on. 
  
  And its a VERY graphic intense game. Read the specs before you buy. This isnt necessarily a bad 
 thing, because I guarantee that any game worth playing in the future is going to be the same way. 
 2G of RAM, high end vid card, etc. Funny thing is, and im not that tech savvy so it might not be 
 funny at all, but for some reason its not compat with Vista 64 bit but it is with 32 and XP. 
 
  
  So thats really ALL the bad stuff. The combat is great, it makes the Witcher look pale in comparison. 
 The graphics are simply amazing. They look... real. The characters, aside from Altair, seem really 
 well done. Im biased, im a history freak and the Crusades are one of my favorite time frames. So 
 the fact that this is taking place in the Middle East in the 1100's got me going right from the 
 start. And its based on real people and places and things. The Assassins really DID exist, and 
 most kings paid tribute to the "Old Man of the Mountain" (Altairs Master) and the Templars really 
 did go to war with them. (One thing that hasnt made sense to me, though im no where near the end 
 of the game and it may reveal why later on, but, its why Altair has an American accent yet everyone 
 else speaks with a Middle Eastern dialect...)
  
  All in all, id give this game a 8.5, agreeing with Gamespot for once. There are some flaws, but 
 all in all its an amazing game and i highly recommend it to anyone who likes the Witcher, Jade 
 Empire, etc. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayganey
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is probably one of the best third-person games in the Medieval, Ancient-type 
 genre, I've ever played. in the past, games like Knights of the temple 1,2 tried to give me the 
 kind of ancient looking environment but the creativity, skilled-design and the innovation, implemented 
 into this game is far more powerful than any other game so far. the world created in this game 
 feels so real and identical to a real world that the player unintentionally adapts to it's existence. One, 
 real amazing moment I had while playing this game was when in Jerusalem I was climbing the Dome 
 of the Rock (which always feels good to climb :D ) and reached the top, I really felt like I was 
 ruling over Jerusalem, because it felt so real. All I can say is all thumbs up to the guys from 
 Ubisoft and well done to all of them. the only sad thing about the game is the mysterious ending, 
 which sucks tho whole fun out of all the fun you gather playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShortCutToHell
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  This game can have a large number of series. Just imagine how this assassin can look in a World 
 War II Episode. In my opinion this won't be the first and the last title of the Assassin's Series. 
 It will be nice if we can see this character killing some of Aperture Science facility docs  :) 
 in one of the titles. This story can be fully explored. This character can also become a NINJA 
 or a SHINOBI in one of the series. Imagine Altair using smoke bombs, throwing shurikens instead 
 of throwing knifes, having sais instead of short sword, using a sarbacane with poison darts and 
 other ninja stuff, fighting with some samurai warriors and killing Shoguns. Sounds good, don't 
 you think? As a conclusion I belive this game is realy innovative. It's a combination between Hitman 
 and Prince of Persia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adi_colegu
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I don't know about you guys but I think that this game really is a masterpiece. Starting with the 
 menu everything you discover in AC is amazing and it doesn't lose the flavor till the very end, 
 and the first thing that crossed my mind when I finished it was REPLAY. 
  The graphics are first thing that will grab you by the neck and throw you off the chair, I don't 
 know how they did it, but the result is fantastic, surprisingly though for Ubisoft, who sometimes 
 used to relese not so great games ( starting with Splinter Cell Double Agent ) and ultra-end requierments 
 lately. 
  But the graphics don't make it original, it's the combat dynamics and physics. Do you remember 
 all the "great" RPG, RTS and action games ( excluding Splinter Cell series ) which are based on 
 a dumb muppets style combat physics ( ex : WOW, Oblivion, Star Wars and so on ) , where the character 
 just swings the melee weapon towards the opponent like he/she has no brains or a serious movement 
 disorder. Well, AC will offer you a combat experience never seen before in pc action games. Altair's 
 moves are very realistic, precisely executed, designed to show you his high skill and training 
 as an elite warrior. The counter attack moves of Altair are the juice of the game, mind-blowing 
 fast-paced scenes with impressive simulation of real face2face combat, not like you used to see 
 in all the other games : player with highest damage and longer heatlh bar wins... that is boring... playing 
 WOW for months/years and executing the same melee combat moves over and over again ( I'm saying 
 this because there are some persons saying that AC is boring and repetitive ) . 
  In addition to all that we have the complex and entertaining story and the relatively non-linear 
 gameplay, meaning that you can explore the world and complete secondary objectives whenever you 
 like, which gives you the opportunity to blend in inside a city and understand the ways of the 
 game, learning what to do, when and how to do it.
  Now, everyone has the right to his/her personal opinion accordingly to their own tastes, some might 
 find this game good or best others may not. But I assure you, it is one of that kind that you must 
 try at least, 'cause damn.... it's a fine game folks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flesh19no
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  I have discovered that some reviewers of t his game can not have played it for longer than a couple 
 of hours. 
  Cause after playing it for just over three hours, I discovered that there is nothing really more 
 to do or discover in this game. 
  There is only one thing great in this game, and that is the graphics. I enjoyed more just watching 
 the graphic than really playing it. 
  Lets start with all the bad things: The fighting in this game is really boring and too easy. I 
 could easily take down 100 of soldiers at the same place without any trouble (went to an outpost 
 with lots of soldiers) . And after watching the same combos over and over again you really get tired 
 of it. And it is too easy; you just hold down defense button and Altair can defend himself 360 
 degrees. You just have to be patient and wait for the moment to strike and you should be safe.
 
  The other thing that annoyed me was after killing these 100 soldiers in the outpost, was when 
 I went out of the map area (loading screen) and went back to the outpost, all the soldiers was 
 back in their original position and alive! After spending all that time killing them! Such a waste.
 
  When I heard of this game I thought: "Wow, a hitman game with a twist!". Boy, I was wrong: You 
 can not choose where and when to kill your main target! You have to complete several boring missions 
 before you can do so and when you are finished doing them, you get some info where the guy you 
 must kill is, and all you have to do is to go there, kill him and escape. And it is as easy as 
 I just explained it. I mean: Where is the challenge? It is like following an arrow all the time 
 that says: Go there, go here, do that. You don't really have to think. 
  I was hoping for a more puzzle game like Hitman, where you had to find out where your target is, 
 how he looks, his patterns, the guards pattern. A way to get to him, and finally kill him. All 
 this does not excist in Assassins Creed. 
  Climbing in this game was very cool at first, until you discover that Altair really do it all for 
 you. All you have to do is holding down a button and he climbs flawlessly all over. I think I never 
 once fell down. So again: No challenge. 
  And the big world to explore: There is nothing in it! Just flags to collect, no extra missions 
 or other characters to meet. An empty shallow world. All the missions are in the cities and the 
 missions are all alike. And the A. I is very stupid too; Too easy to kill, trick and manipulate. 
 
  Sadly the devolpers was very good at hyping this game and trick people into thinking that this 
 was a game with very rich content. And I must say after the first hour I thought I had the coolest 
 game in my hands....
  ... Boy, was I wrong..... so F*****WRONG!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: javsousa
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  For the first hour of play you have to force yourself to stop drooling since all that makes this 
 game amazing will be thrust at you in amazing glory! Unfortunately, after you finish you first 
 kill and move on to the next, you start realizing that the game suddenly has you repeating all 
 the same tasks as you just have done before.
  
  Mount up, run to the next city through the exact same paths that you just used in the previous 
 assassination attempt, for some reason made even more boring due to those pesky guards that don't 
 allow commoners to ride fast (why???) forcing you to slow to almost a complete halt and pass them. 
 Then you arrive at the city and realize that you'll be using the same old tricks to get inside 
 the gates. Once inside and given the mission.... yes... again try to collect clues by listening 
 to conversations or beating someone up. Finally you have your target and you skulk near him and 
 stab him, seeing afterwards a boring cut scene that simply lasts too long and off you go running 
 until you reach again the base. Rinse and repeat several more times and you have this game figured 
 out...
  
  Amazing graphics, amazing interface, sound and atmosphere... unfortunately, the game play falls 
 short of what should have been. Too repetitve and after a couple of hours, what was new and amazing 
 about the game is simply old news and you'll get tired from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larry_muhd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  As of 8th April 2008, the release date of the PC Version here in Singapore, was the day I made 
 the purchase. My heart was filled with happiness after a seriously about 2 year long wait for this 
 game! Now its in my hands, hard-drive, drawer.. and well.. the computer itself.
  
  Prepared myself by buying more RAM for my computer.. after hearing that this game requires pretty 
 high RAM.
  
  Still new to the game here,.. so the review will be abit... off. But I will know better once I've 
 reached further into the game!
  
  .......
  And so I reached home, Installed, and played 'til my eyes hurt.
  SIMPLY WOW!!... Graphics wise 
 was astounding! Intriguing initial storyline.. really pulled me into it.
  
  Well,.. about the gameplay.. yeah!.. simply loved the art of Altair's Free-Running!! Not many games 
 I play in the pass allow me to scale everything.... and I mean EVERYTHING!!
  
  I love the animations,... very realistically done,.. as in I feel, I'm Altair. Hah! The kills to 
 make was real fun,.. never knew killing was this much fun. Imagine this:-
  
  "You prowl above, with your eyes on your target. You make your move as you try to get closer. As 
 you sprint and make that jump, you launch your attack. Like an eagle swooping down to his prey.. 
 Your target is gone in an instant."
  
  MAN, I LOVE DOING THAT!!! It's tough, but worth the action! I really feel like him!! Haha..
  
 
  I must really salute the A. I., not the guard's A. I. though,.. but in general. Its amusing and cute 
 at times the A. I. The horses are really cute as in,.. they follow you (if you had rode on them 
 earlier) as you approach a target or walking around. I like that. The guards though... they give 
 up tooooooo easily. Challenge was lost after awhile.. maybe if they can, you know, look into the 
 hay, or the through the curtain... you know what I mean. And they tend to turn into human dominoes, 
 they fall too easily if you pushed them away,.. I'd rather the game to be more,....... how you 
 say....... dynamic, as in there's that probability that they can withstand your push or able to 
 prevent themselves from falling. But really good effort, I assure you!
  
  In general,.. I feel this game is just right for me. Has that GTA feel, nice world to roam around, 
 great scaling ability.. hehe.. (Wish Altair can feel tiredness creeping in, in the course of the 
 missions.) 
  
  But of course... one thing I must say... It CAN BE a bit repetitive. BUT ALL IN ALL, I LOVE IT!!
 
  
  And I think Jade Raymond is hot... hehe...
  
  Comp. Specs.:-
  
  I have a good enough computer for this game.
  A Pentium D 3.0Ghz, 4GB RAM, an Nvidia GeForce 
 8600GTS, Windows XP SP2... (and of course the other basic necessities..) .
  
  Once I had installed, of course, the graphical setting was a must for me! And I was amazed, that 
 even though I maxed everything out it was running fine... with occasional stutters, so toned down 
 and was moving smooth enough for me.
  
  (Tempting.... If only I can get the DX10 feature activated.. hehe.. like Crysis did.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russian_takeout
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  been waiting for this game since i saw some screen shots a few years ago. didnt think that the 
 actual game will look anything like this. 
  developer should be very proud with this release. assassin's creed is absolutely amazing. 
  
 
  advanced graphics.... i still didnt see how it looks on new generation video cards (directX 10) , 
 but beleave its much better than directX 9. i was suprised that the game run on full graphics. 
 lots of people warned that the game wont run well on older systems, but i have a 2 year old computer, 
 p4 3.2 and 1 gb ram. nvidia 7600 GeForce 7600 gt. and the game run almost with out any problems. 
 some times had slows downs, but posibly due to bags.
  
  sound is perfect. feels alive.
  
  battle system is just the way it should be in most of the games. i hope other developers will 
 learn something from this game.
  
  i still would like some things to be different, for example to many missions are similar, and after 
 playing through a few missions, you already know how to aproach the next one perfectly.
  would be nice to make a few different type of weapons, maybe even some kind of trade system or 
 something like that (like in hitman series) .
  
  not 2 sure about replay value. so far looks good.
  
  other than that, i would recomend this 
 game to any one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: In Assassin's Creed, the game starts off in the modern world with a bartender named Desmond 
 Miles who is captured by a scientist and his assistant. Apprently our DNA holds memories of our 
 ansestors and they are trying to unlock that. For most of the game you play as Altair, a member 
 of the Hashshashin (or Assassins) , a real-life group that performed politically-motivated murders 
 between the 11th and 13th centuries. Set in the Middle East during the third crusade, You traval 
 though three huge cities looking for nine main people who are organizing the crusades. There is 
 just so much to do in this game such as saveing people, listen in of people, do small missions, 
 pick pocketing and so on but they do get reapetive. Also the ending of the game is not that good 
 and does not leave you satisfied with the game. The only thing is that I don't exactly like the 
 PC controls with this game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing in this game. Enviroments are beutifally done and everything 
 looks natural and realistic. Movements are really nice and smoothed out. I'm amazed by how detailed 
 the cites are and how thousands of people in the city are indivially doing something, but seem 
 a bit blocky and robotic but thats forgivable since there are so many people around.
  
  Sound: The soundscore is good and well yeah suits the game for the time period it is set in. So 
 is the voice acting all the characters in the game have good voice acting accept Altair, which 
 was not done as well.
  
  Value: A ok story, repetitive gameplay elements, and ok AI lead to the downfall of one of the more 
 promising games in recent memory. Also this game mixes elements of the games "Prince of Persia" 
 and "Hitman" but with more freedome. Even though I really enjoyed this game, it does have it's 
 issues which prevented this game from being amazing. Assassin's Creed could have been one of the 
 great games of this generation. Instead, it turned into just another action title. I give this 
 game 8.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 8, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  just wrote a review and went for a spellcheck but closed the window accidentally. don't you hate 
 it when that happens.
  
  anyways, the game is a decent game with good graphics and good combat but there is too much open 
 world around and not enough immesivness. you cannot talk to people (like you should do) and it 
 is way too repetitive. 
  
  for me, the game is a huge let down and i would pay half its retail price at the absolute most. 
 (that; s my honest opinion of its value for money) .
  
  there are too many let downs and the game failed to be what it could have been and what i was hoping 
 it would be considering all the hype around it. 
  
  it is still a decent game and worth playing but rent it first or buy it second second and truly 
 don't believe the hype around it. 
  
  i am truly sorry - this game could have been one of the great ones, one of the legendary games 
 and it's just a failure compared to my expectations, although i did have a fair amount of fun with 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehrdad1987
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is the first version of AC , this game allows us to walk in the city's of century 
 11 , 12 . you are Altair, a Die Hard. an Assassin, a perfect assassin. the storys of this game 
 is real as i know, so this is a real-time playing game. very nice city, Just Like the real time. 
 at first it is important to know , that you are living in 2010, and there is a new system that 
 it can send you to past, so you are sent.
  your real name in 2010 is Mr. mines Or Mr. miles , so in the past you are Altair, an Assassin.
 
  in the game you can climb anything, learn anything in fight , you can fight with any people , 
 and there are the tempolars , they can fight nice and carefully with you , they know you, you must 
 find them around the town.
  i enjoyed the game, and you just can feel it , when you are Playing ASSASSIN"S CREED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zertos
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  well lets start where i did when your starting the game the controls are a bit of pain to get use 
 to but you will adapt quickly so don't worry about that. the story line a bit confusing at first 
 (i thought) when it starts to make sense on the way but i wont tell what happens in it you need 
 to find that out for yourself. cool move to be performed maybe a bit over the top but what game 
 isn't not right and the cam the way it rotate to your moves make them look more cool with even 
 more better looking combo attacks which you need to work on for a bit to perfect them. a nice free 
 roaming environment with great graphic even if you don't have an awesome PC the graphic still look 
 good so don't worry about that so still buy it even if you only have min specs. ok the bad thing 
 about this game which i hate and you with properly will to is trying to quit the game it takes 
 to long cause you have to go through so much like when you first quit you get sent to the machine 
 the guys in (i forgot the name and can't asked to look) but your still in the game so you quit 
 that one then you have to log in to your profile to quit the whole game which is pointless they 
 should have applied an quit to windows option like most games apart from that its awesome you must 
 play.
  
  I'm not one for long review like most people cause they write to much and i get bored and i don't 
 want to bore you lol enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  "For a more detailed background I suggest reading Gamespot's previews among other information pertaining 
 to this title as my reviews are geared more to gamers who pretty much already know the gist of 
 the game and just want to look into other perspectives on the positives and negatives of the game 
 in question. When it comes to reviews in general I do not believe that any one opinion or rating 
 of any single person or organization is the be all and end all judgment of any given game, instead 
 I feel they should be sifted through in moderation and simply be used as a starting point.. not 
 a concrete outlook that might skew any reader's own unique gaming experience if/when they decide 
 to try the game for themselves. That's why I consider my reviews to be closer to simple recommendations 
 based on my own experience alone (devoid of reading other opinions beforehand, only my ending statement 
 discusses possible outside perspectives) .. and me just enjoying the game for what it is and not 
 overanalyzing just for sake of being critical. Basically, I call it how I see it without an agenda 
 behind it.."
  
  Intro -
  Assassin's Creed is brought to gamers courtesy of the game developers responsible for franchises 
 the likes of the recent Prince of Persia titles, which is not to surprising considering the quickest 
 way to describe AC's gameplay is probably "Prince of Persia meets Grand Theft Auto". The games 
 protagonist Altair takes his Prince of Persia-like acrobatics into a massive open-ended world.. 
 which for most of the game takes place in faithfully rendered versions of Third-Crusade era (early 
 1100's) middle eastern cities Jerusalem, Damascus, & Acre. Similar to the recent God of War titles 
 which made it roots in the largely untapped potential of Greek Mythology, Assassin's Creed also 
 takes a less traveled road when it came to the time era and subject matter that it is centered 
 around. In my opinion using the Third Crusade timeframe was the right way to go for the simple 
 fact that it played to the strengths of what the development team was trying to accomplish.. which 
 was to create a fresh gaming experience for gamers to enjoy both in terms of gameplay as well as 
 environment. The premise is undeniably interesting to even the most experienced gamers, being able 
 to take control of a skilled Assassin not just simply in confined quarters, but in a huge virtual 
 world of the past. While some may have disliked the revelation of the sci-fi twist which revolves 
 around the game for the most part taking place within the memories hidden inside the DNA of a modern 
 day descendant of the playable character.. I believe that that as well is an intriguing element 
 that adds even more depth to the overall experience. Due to some of the aforementioned aspects 
 of Assassin's Creed among other things, it unsurprisingly garnered it's fair share of hype even 
 amidst the deluge of other highly anticipated titles being released in the back end of 2007. As 
 most gamers already know.. with hype comes an increased amount of scrutiny upon the finished version 
 of the game of many self proclaimed critics.. so here is a quick overview.
  
  Positives -
  Great graphics, an engrossing storyline with characters that are actually interesting (unlike 
 some other major titles as of late) on top of being able to take the helm of a stealthy assassin 
 exploring huge fully realized virtual worlds is a recipe for quite the memorable gaming experience. 
 Despite being able to traverse towns with many NPC's and varied structures (almost all of which 
 are scalable) on screen at once, the loading is minimal. One of the better parts of the game is 
 the big payoff that comes with getting around to triggering the assassination memory of each of 
 the nine main targets throughout the game.. while the investigation to gain details specific to 
 each target is quite linear for the most part.. the actual assassination itself can go however 
 you wish it to be, allowing for a very unique thrill. Around 10-12 hours of gameplay even if you 
 cut corners, quite a few more gaming hours if you're a completeist that intends to pick up all 
 of AC's version of GTA's hidden packages which are various types of flags that are scattered throughout 
 each town.
  
  Negatives -
  The expected tradeoff for a huge populated gameplay areas with minimal loading is indeed the occasional 
 game freeze (which can be quite frustrating if takes place amidst an assassination) . The framerate 
 can also be suspect at times, which is why I would recommend the PS3 version for its more stable 
 framerate.. unless that is you're an X360 achievement fiend. Though even with the achievements 
 on the X360 version coupled with the various free/flag quests the replay value is moderate at best. 
 Another tradeoff for the open ended assassination memories is indeed a mildly repetitive round 
 of grunt work to attain them. The button timing combat system might be a little on the simple side 
 for some.. but I suppose they went that route for the simple fact that it is possible to fight 
 quite a large amount of enemies at once at certain points and throwing in a advanced fighting system 
 would have made things quite difficult.. especially to do it without straying away from the game's 
 normal mechanics and without going from a "Prince of Persia" type of combat mechanic to a "Heavenly 
 Sword" type of combat (which obviously would have been out of place) . Lastly, the last 1/3 of the 
 game sees quite the increase in difficulty.. which can also be frustrating for some.
  
  Overall -
  Although Assassin's Creed has it's fair share of hiccups that prevent it from a perfect 
 rating, the sum of it's part more than justifies a rating far above average. The main critique 
 I've observed concerning the game is indeed it's repetitive portions. I personally can't punish 
 Assassin's Creed TOO much for the simple fact that the premise is what it is.. being stealthy, 
 observing and investigating, and then the eventual necessary assassinations.. sort of like how 
 I'm not going to go out and punish various First Person Shooters for there "being too much shooting".. 
 at the end of the day your either a fan of the genre or you are not. Either way, I'm not saying 
 the game shouldn't have mixed it up a little bit more as the game progressed.. but as with most 
 first efforts in new franchises (which is expected to have a few more installments before all is 
 said and done) .. I give the developers the benefit of allowing them an opportunity to build the 
 groundwork the best they can initially and then henceforth learning from the experience and move 
 on to improving in the future (which also means less patience on my part for sequels) . Bottomline, 
 whether you consider yourself a fan or not.. you can't help but admire what Ubisoft Montreal set 
 out to accomplish in the first iteration of their new IP. Despite whatever issues the game may 
 have.. they were part of the growing pains of game developers paving new gaming grounds, not of 
 treading well traveled ones. In a console generation being suffocated under the weight of the same 
 old genres such as FPS's, sports, and MMO's with more often than not little to no innovation but 
 mere fresher coats of paint.. Assassin's Creed is very much a welcomed sight. The production value, 
 graphics, storyline, and art design are all top notch.. the game is repetitive at its worst, but 
 an engrossing and unique experience at its best.. I personally am not going to allow any single 
 issue to significantly take away from the game as a whole. Also alongside Bioshock, AC is one of 
 the few titles nowadays that indeed put more emotional and intellectual weight upon who and how 
 you kill as well as consequences of such actions.. adding a very compelling element to the games 
 chemistry beyond just mindlessly disposing "enemies" without taking a second notice of who your 
 true adversaries really are. The potential of both the storyline and gameplay is ENORMOUS, I certainly 
 look forward to the inevitable sequels that will hopefully build upon what this iteration has managed 
 to accomplish. In the end, any who consider themselves a serious gamer owes it to themself to explore 
 the world of Assassin's Creed at least once. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
