-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: A Tale in the Desert
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/taleinthedesert/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  5, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.1, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 95 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: eGenesis
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Feb 15, 2003

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A Tale in the Desert has been described as a social experiment, and that description is startlingly 
 accurate. 

  The most common complaint leveled at massively multiplayer online role-playing games is that they 
 are all too similar. No matter what the setting, whether deep space or high fantasy, the genre 
 tends to be stuck on what's come to be known as the leveling treadmill, where the basic gameplay 
 remains the same, but the numbers get bigger. Plenty of games have attempted to find subtle variations 
 on the formula, but until A Tale in the Desert, no game has done away with it completely. And while 
 there are faults to be found with this peculiar game from eGenesis, a lack of originality certainly 
 isn't one of them.  

          You learn new skills at academies.     

  A Tale in the Desert is unlike any online RPG to come before it. Its emphasis on cooperation may 
 sound vaguely reminiscent of NetDevil's Jumpgate, but the truth is that it is very, very different: 
 In A Tale in the Desert, cooperation is the whole focus of the game. You will find this to be true 
 from the moment you log in. The game will suggest you find a mentor to show you the ropes. It is 
 not only a good idea to follow this advice -- it is necessary. The game is daunting, because you 
 don't just create a character and start fighting. There is no fighting, and your character, or 
 what passes for a character in the game, is created entirely through your actions.  

  A good mentor will start simply. A Tale in the Desert is set in ancient Egypt. Very ancient Egypt: 
 The only society to be found is that which has been created by the existing players. Your mentor 
 will show you how to gather materials and show you the basics of learning and construction. These 
 are the primary goals in the game -- you learn from academies and universities, and then you use 
 what you've learned to build things, such as structures and tools. As your character learns new 
 skills, you can advance. But advancement is very different from how it is in traditional role-playing 
 games.  

  There are seven disciplines in the game. Each discipline has a variety of "tests" that you must 
 pass to advance. For instance, initiation tests in the body discipline require you to explore areas 
 of the world in a specific amount of time. Tests in the architecture discipline require that you 
 build a house. Tests in the art discipline require you to build a sculpture and have it judged 
 appealing by others. One of the leadership tests requires that you successfully mentor seven other 
 players, further illustrating how important helping others is in the game. Each discipline has 
 seven tests, though many are not available yet.  

  Higher-level tests are much more complex and require you to enlist lower-level characters to help 
 you complete them. Players are directly involved in almost all aspects of the game, from the introduction 
 of new technologies to the game's rules to the landscape itself. With a few exceptions, almost 
 every structure you see in the game was built by a player or group of players. New technologies 
 are introduced through research at universities, which is aided by players' donations to these 
 institutions. Most interestingly, though, the game rules themselves can be changed through the 
 legal system. If you don't like a certain aspect of the game, within reason, you can introduce 
 a petition to have it changed. If you get enough signatures on your petition, it will be subject 
 to a general vote. If it passes, it becomes a new law. This system is also used for permanently 
 banning players who have, for some reason or another, made other players' in-game lives difficult. 

          Most of the structures you see were built by other players.     

  A Tale in the Desert has been described as a social experiment, and that description is startlingly 
 accurate. The actions of the game's inhabitants have such a direct impact on the game that it's 
 interesting just to run around and look at the towns that have been created. Pollution becomes 
 a problem in highly populated areas and affects your ability to grow certain crops in that area. 
 As a result, laws can be passed to prevent the construction of certain buildings in certain areas. 
 It's uncertain what the long-term results of the game may be. With more players, the landscape 
 could be overrun, and ridiculous laws could be passed. But that potential drawback is also what 
 makes the game so refreshingly different -- the future is fairly uncertain, and players have a stake 
 in the long-term well-being of the world.  

  A Tale in the Desert certainly won't appeal to everyone. It is about long-term goals, and the short-term 
 rewards aren't better weapons and armor, but rather better tools and crops. It doesn't look very 
 good, and the simple graphics may turn off players with a desire for exciting landscapes. Further, 
 there is really no sound to speak of, except for the footsteps of your character as he or she runs 
 about. But it's so ambitious and offers so many interesting tasks for those who can enjoy its unique 
 elements, that those who get past its aesthetic shortcomings will likely find themselves addicted 
 to harvesting flax and making charcoal. The designers themselves have stated that A Tale in the 
 Desert is about creating a society, and watching the experiment in action is almost as enjoyable 
 as taking part.   

    Editor's note 05/05/03 : This review was posted earlier with an incorrect, slightly lower review 
 score. GameSpot regrets the error.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: benjaminngrimm
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 24, 2004 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Just got back from playing the game. I probably would have continued playing even at this moment 
 but something strange happened.. but let me go back a bit.
  
  About a week ago, I'm flipping through Gamespot and trying to find something new to play. I stumble 
 upon this game 'A Tale In The Desest 2' and it says 'FREE TRIAL!'. I'll give anything a shot even 
 if it isn't in a genre that I typically enjoy.
  
  So, create a character. Play a few seconds and think to myself..'I don't like my name.. I'll make 
 a new character.' Well, that is exactly what I do.. goodbye Ifahi (or whatever he was called) and 
 hello PepperMD (mmm Dr Pepper mmm) .
  
  As soon as I enter with the good doctor, a delightful fellow with a nifty 'mentor' tag on his name 
 asks me if I am new. I reply in the affirmative. He then goes into great detail about every little 
 step I should take and what I should do next and so forth. Considering the nature of the game (or 
 at least how I had understood it to be) , I felt that the fun was being removed and I expressed 
 as much to the Mr Mentor.
  
  Mr Mentor then says one of the most irritating things ever, "Don't sass me noob". Well that took 
 the cake as it were. I had assumed this game was about community. The only community I saw rivaled 
 that of Diablo 2. Screw that. I exit the game and say 'good riddance'.
  
  Flash forward to today and the strange part. I say,' I bet that was just one bad apple. I'll give 
 it another go.'
  
  So again, create a character. Play a few seconds and think to myself.. 'I don't like this character (deja 
 vu, yea?) .. I'll make a new character. So boom! Rosemont is gone and Isopropyl lives!! Best part? 
 No sign of Mr Mentor. I am free to learn what I want and when I want. 
  
  Many minutes pass and I'm just getting into flax production when I recieve a personal tell from 
 what I assume is a Guide/GM. Guide/Gm wishes to know why I have two accounts. I mistakingly assume 
 they are talking about the ill-fated Ifahi/PepperMD. Ono my friends Ono! You see.. every character 
 is a seperate account. I respond with,' 2 characters = 2 accounts?' I was then informed I should 
 read the rules of conduct.... like I'm psychic and would just KNOW wth the rules of conduct could 
 even be found. Keep in mind THERE IS NO SIGNUP PAGE. You download the game and create a character 
 and you are instantly playing. I wonder if the creators of this marvelous gem of a game ever played 
 an online RPG. If so, do they not realize that almost all RPGs let you create more than one character? 
 Guess not.
  
  So, I'm asked which account I wanted to keep. I said 'neither' and that is why you are reading 
 this now.
  
  But enough of all that, you wan't to know my position on the actual game. Let us get to that:
 
  
  Gameplay - It was, well, interesting. For one thing.. there is nothing to kill. You spend your 
 time trying to find what you can do... and what you CAN do is pretty much forage and craft. Yes 
 my friends, foraging for components and then using the components to create even more components. 
 If you enjoy extracting wood from trees and sand from the shore.. well God bless ya cuz that is 
 what this game is all about. WOOHOO!!!
  
  Graphics - Oh man. I almost don't want to even think about it. The graphics were pretty bad. I 
 know I know.. graphics aren't everything!! We love teh ADOM and whatnot!!! Whatever. The graphics 
 of this world seem to be ripped from a bad PS1 title. I kid you not.
  
  Sound - Pretty much the only sound is you stomping in the sand. No music. No nothing.
  
  
 
  It's not all bad. I was interested enough to see how much crap I could collect and craft. I would 
 still be collecting/crafting this moment if I wasn't snapped from my fugue by two people who had 
 very different ways of getting the same result... the result of me never playing the POS again. 
 
  
  If your selling point is how great the community is.. you may want to rethink that position. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kvgial
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 28, 2003 10:30 am PT
Review:  Just because there is no combat doesn't mean a game can't be fun. 
  
  The most important aspect of ATITD is the need for teamwork and coordination. You don't have to 
 be in a guild to move forward in the game, but the vast scope of this game strongly encourages 
 interaction (something that is surprisingly absent from other MMORPGs) . I was fortunate enough 
 to join the game with a group of friends that already knew how to coordinate themselves. But even 
 a new individual player would be able to find veterans in game and there are plenty of guilds with 
 openings. 
  
  The graphics are nice, but certainly not groundbreaking. The sound could use a bit of work. There 
 isn't a lot of depth to the environmental sounds (animal noises, wind, etc.) 
  
  Gameplay is simply fun. Sure, you got the basic run around gather/collect routines like in many 
 other games. However, there are so many things you could possibly collect for construction purposes, 
 animal feed purposes, farming, etc... that it doesn't get boring. Finding various resources (or 
 crafting them) to build something can be a rather extensive project. As you advance in skills and 
 materials you can build better equipment that lasts longer and you can automate more tasks. 
  
  Overall, I expect to play a lot more of ATITD. I fully recommend it to anyone who enjoys games 
 that encourage teamwork, coordination, and socializing... with the bonus of never needing to deal 
 with playerkillers or griefers. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
