-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Athens 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/athens2004/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Decent TV-style presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Poor timing.
 Simple, repetitive gameplay.
 Missing several significant events.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 11, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.6
Critic Score: 3.7, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 114 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Eurocom Ent.
Genre: Olympic Sports
Date:     Nov 5, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Athens 2004 is a lousy port of a console game of middling quality. 

  When Athens 2004 hit the PlayStation 2 in July of this year, it seemed like a fairly uninspired 
 but somewhat necessary exercise. The summer games had arrived, someone needed to make a new video 
 game following in the tradition of Track &amp; Field, and Eurocom was saddled with the task. Now 
 it's November -- time for the heavy winter coats and long nights -- and in a rather baffling move, 
 Athens 2004 is just now appearing on the PC. Aside from showing up well after the party is over, 
 Athens 2004 for the PC has been gutted of its four-player support, as well as some of the more 
 enjoyable minigames found in the considerably more relevant PlayStation 2 version.  

          The summer games come to the PCin November.     

  Comparisons to Track &amp; 
 Field are easy to make here, simply because Athens 2004 is little more than a collection of athletically 
 inclined minigames. There are 20 different events for you to compete in, and there are a variety 
 of different ways for you to do so. There's a handy practice mode, which is absolutely essential 
 for understanding the somewhat cryptic nuances of a few of the games. You can choose to compete 
 in a one-off event or in a series of events, such as a decathlon or a heptathlon. If the prefabricated 
 competitions don't suit your liking, you can also generate your own custom competition by cherry-picking 
 the events that you enjoy the most. A big part of the appeal of Athens 2004 on the PlayStation 
 was that it nurtured the inherently competitive nature of the games with full four-player support. 
 This has been knocked down to two players on the PC, though single-system multiplayer just feels 
 kind of out of place on the PC.  

  The events themselves include a decent cross section of competitions from the summer Olympic Games, 
 including dashes of various lengths, hurdles, the long jump, the high jump, the triple jump, the 
 pole vault, the discus throw, the javelin throw, the shot put, aquatic races of various lengths, 
 weight lifting, archery, and skeet shooting. Gone is the equestrian competition, which felt like 
 a really strange choice when it appeared in the PlayStation 2 version to begin with, but the complete 
 absence of gymnastic events stands out as a big omission, especially considering the incredible 
 popularity of those events in the  real  Olympic Games. The mechanics of most of the games in Athens 
 2004 boil down to mashing two buttons as fast as you can and occasionally tapping a third. But 
 despite this extreme simplicity, the game's implementation of abstract, esoteric meters can make 
 some of the events needlessly confusing, simply because there is not often an obvious correlation 
 between what the meter represents and what's happening onscreen. Although what you're seeing onscreen 
 changes, you don't get much sense of variety in the actual gameplay between these events.  

  Once you figure out the game's cryptic interfaces, it's just a matter of endurance. The game 
 is an absolute nightmare on the fingers. Few other games these days are so demanding of continuous, 
 rapid-fire button pressing, so if you're not used to this type of mechanic, you may well find yourself 
 with cramped hands after playing Athens 2004.  

  By general standards, Athens 2004 isn't a good-looking game, though it is the most technically 
 accomplished Olympic video game to date. Considering that the last time a comparable product came 
 to the PC was with Eidos' miserable Sydney 2000, it's not much of a feat. To its credit, the game 
 has a tidy look to it, and though it's fairly economic with the polygons, there are a few nice 
 touches, such as the wobble in the high-jump bar as you pass over it, or the long-distance runners 
 that continue to run laps in the background during various other track-and-field events. The game 
 helps cement a TV-broadcast feel by constantly switching to different camera angles over the course 
 of an event, and it makes liberal use of instant replays. The biggest problem with the graphics 
 in Athens 2004 lies in the athlete models. Though the game lets you play as nameless, young athletes 
 from literally dozens and dozens of countries around the world, the athletes all have exactly the 
 same build, and they only alternate between a few different facial types and skin tones. This leaves 
 you with a lot of really generic-looking athletes who often don't really look like they're from 
 the country that they're supposed to be representing. The overall presentation doesn't hold up 
 as well on the PC as it did on the PlayStation 2, largely because the textures haven't been enhanced 
 any, revealing a lot of muddiness at higher resolutions that you simply couldn't see on a standard 
 TV.  

          For just $29.99 you can mash on two keys for hours on end.     

  The sound is fairly subdued, with a few, occasionally silly-sounding, athletic grunts playing over 
 some simple crowd noise loops. You'll also hear the crack of the starting gun, and you can hear 
 the field announcer echoing through the park. Additionally, you're treated to an English-accented 
 TV-style commentator. The commentator doesn't have a huge number of clips to draw from, and so 
 he often ends up repeating himself. Occasionally his commentary isn't appropriate for the action, 
 but he manages to mostly remain contextual and relevant. There are a few short clips of rock and 
 funk that play during the instant replays, and there's a sort of regal-sounding tune that plays 
 over the main menus. This is about the extent of the music that you can expect to hear in the game. 

  Athens 2004 is a lousy port of a console game of middling quality. The timing of its release is 
 almost more of a liability than its technical aptitude, making Athens 2004 for the PC almost wholly 
 irrelevant. The simplistic button-mash that comprises most of the gameplay at least felt a bit 
 at home on the PlayStation 2, but the absolute lack of depth becomes apparent much more quickly 
 when you're spending almost the entire game hitting three buttons on a full keyboard. Even if your 
 fondness for the 2004 Olympic Games is at the level of mania, there's no defensible reason to buy 
 Athens 2004.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: langrisser2005
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 5, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a decent Olympic game to be released on the PC, and was hoping that Athens 
 2004 could possibly be the savior, though it seems it's another disappointment once again. However 
 if you can forgive certain aspects, it may be acceptable.
  
  The game itself is simplistic, which basic choices to setup and what events you wish to participate 
 in. You have over 20 different events to choose from including Track & Field events, Swimming, 
 Shooting, Archery and Weightlifting. However, I was originally under the assumption that there 
 were going to be quite a larger amount of events to choose from, however it appears that quite 
 a few of the events were removed from the PC release for no logical reason.
  
  You begin at the main menu with choices consisting of practice events which are highly recommended 
 or else you'll just fail immediately if you don't know how to use the controls. Afterwards you 
 can participate in single events which you compete in just one event for the gold. Then of course 
 is the main competitions where you compete in a whole bunch of events including decathlon or heptathlon's 
 or go the whole distance and compete in every event. Another option is to create your own custom 
 list for competition by choosing from the list of events and arranging in them in order.
  
  Gameplay is quite terrible. Most of the time you'll be needed to bash two buttons as fast as you 
 can while pushing a single other button to perform your events. This technique is mostly in all 
 events which will give your fingers a lot of Aching , especially in long events such as the 1500m, 
 your fingers will most likely get too tired to even finish the race. Really as GS points out, it's 
 a matter of endurance.
  
  The Graphics are pretty good. Characters are fairly detailed and the animation in movement and 
 jumps are nice. Backgrounds mostly blend in and color is used efficiently. 
  
  The Sound is actually quite good. The music at the main menu is good enough to follow the Olympic 
 theme and the sounds of the crowd and competitors are decent. Also there's commentary which isn't 
 bad but does repeat the same dialogue quite often. 
  
  There isn't a lot of Value in Athens 2004. Once you've played through the main competition events 
 the only other thing worth doing is to shatter some world records. Beyond that there isn't much 
 else. 
  
  Athens 2004 is a game thats hard to accept. If you can disregard the awful gameplay then it's 
 remotely possible to enjoy it. It is the best Olympic game to date regardless so if you are looking 
 for such a game then this is your best bet, however I suggest you get it cheap else don't bother.
 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
