-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Atlantis Evolution
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/atlantisevolution/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 25, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.9
Critic Score: 6.0, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 78 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Atlantis
Genre: Sci-Fi Adventure
Date:     Oct 17, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can bear playing Atlantis Evolution long enough, it starts to get better toward the end, 
 but by then it's scant consolation. 

  There are times when playing Atlantis Evolution could make Chinese water torture look like an appealing 
 alternative. The writing and voice acting are so bad they're almost good -- you probably won't find 
 more unintentional camp humor in a game. The interface can be cumbersome. The gameplay will have 
 you shaking your head in disbelief and disgust as you encounter one badly designed puzzle, maze, 
 or action sequence after another. Fortunately, if you can bear playing Atlantis Evolution long 
 enough, it starts to get better toward the end, but by then it's scant consolation.  

          These guards give you grief throughout the game.     

  In Atlantis Evolution, you play 
 as Curtis Hewitt, a young photojournalist steaming home to America in 1904 after an expedition 
 to Patagonia. His ship sinks during a fierce storm, leaving him stranded on a lifeboat that spirals 
 down through a whirlpool into a hidden world. Then an alien craft appears overhead and sucks Hewitt 
 up into it. From there, he's transported to the civilization of New Atlantis, which he has to explore 
 and escape from.  

  That's no easy task, because Hewitt is viewed as a "deviant," an outsider who doesn't bow to the 
 ruthless, all-seeing "gods" who rule the Atlanteans with iron fists. Everywhere Hewitt goes, he 
 encounters statues of the angry humanoid gods, statues that are actually observation devices used 
 to intimidate the simple agrarian populace into utter obedience. Hewitt also gets chased by armed 
 guards who zap him at the slightest provocation. When he tries to glean helpful information from 
 cowed, zombielike workers, they only regurgitate whatever they've been taught to say.  

  The idea of a simple civilization forced to submit to suspicious alien gods will be nothing new 
 to science-fiction fans. It still could have proven interesting if it weren't so horribly implemented 
 in Atlantis Evolution. Between the stilted dialogue, weak voice-overs, lapses in logic, and exaggeration 
 that slams every point home with the subtlety of a Day-Glo jackhammer, the story begins to feel 
 like a big joke.  

  You start to see this early on, when you encounter an enemy guard who has a litany of ridiculous 
 things to say to you. Imagine a Keanu Reeves impersonator. Now imagine him reading a line like, 
 "The path you will follow to humility depends on the death of your deviancy." Whoa! When you try 
 to escape from the guard, he shoots you with some kind of ray gun and warns you, "And that was 
 nothing, outsider. This weapon can reduce you to  dust ." A few dialogue clunkers like that wouldn't 
 be so bad, but they're everywhere, lending the game an unintentional air of parody. Simple peasant 
 farmers casually note, without any hint of irony, how they've been "purified and freed from independent 
 thought." They'll assure you that " [truly they] are blessed to be so downtrodden for [their] own 
 good." This is  Mystery Science Theater 3000  material.  

          You save a village by beating this simplistic minigame. Talk about anticlimactic.     

 
  You play the game from a first-person view with occasional cutscenes that show Hewitt interacting 
 with people. You proceed from one fixed node to another, though you can pan the camera 360 degrees. 
 You interact with the world using a basic point-and-click interface, but for something ideally 
 so simple, it's surprisingly flawed and counterintuitive. It takes too many mouse clicks to access, 
 use, or store inventory items. It can be hard to move around, thanks to a bug that sometimes prevents 
 your mouse click from registering. (Other bugs can cause the game to crash and sounds to drop out.) 
 When talking to characters, you choose topics by clicking on little icons instead of text. This 
 system works pretty well, but you may as well just click all the icons, since "conversation" in 
 this game means sitting back and passively listening to characters.  

  The biggest deal breaker in Atlantis Evolution is its gameplay. When you're exploring a village 
 early in the game, your first "puzzle" is the dramatic task of getting a drink of water. That can 
 turn into an onerous chore. A cutscene can mislead you about the location of the bucket you need 
 to dip into the village well. If you try to leave the village to find it, you're told you need 
 more information first. That leads you to believe you need to talk with the villagers for clues, 
 even though you've probably already done that. Eventually, after a pixel hunt, you find the bucket 
 and grab your precious drink of water.  

  Now the "fun" is only beginning. You leave the village to find yourself pursued by enemy guards. 
 You run away by clicking on the path in front of you, but you discover you're in a forest maze 
 with no clue at all where to go. If you slow down and consider your path, the guards catch you, 
 and you have to restart the segment from scratch. You might finally elude them by finding shelter 
 in a cave, but there you find yourself confronted with a row of marching crab-spider thingies. 
 If you get too close, they leap onto your face and kill you, and you have to start the segment 
 over. Why you can't jump over or climb around them is unclear, but it does become clear that you 
 need another inventory item to pass them. So, it's back out into the forest for another endless 
 series of do-overs whenever the guards catch you while you seek the elusive item. Heck, you don't 
 even know what you're looking for.  

          It's a jungle out there. You'll walk through countless scenes like this.     

  The 
 sad irony is that after you solve this segment, you're plopped down in another forest maze and 
 then another one after that. There you engage in more pixel hunts for items like a stick. A stick 
 in a forest -- of course! These sorts of annoying, boring, repetitive, or downright dumb challenges 
 fill the game. If you're not wandering through confusingly similar scenery again and again, you're 
 hunting for tiny objects when you don't even know what you're looking for. When it's not a pixel 
 hunt, it's a string of nearly identical Dragon's Lair-style action sequences with sloppy controls 
 and "gotcha" deaths. When it's not a cheap death, it's a simplistic minigame that has nothing to 
 do with the main gameplay or story. These minigames lamely ape old classics like Defender or Frogger, 
 so you actually have to win a match of Snake to shut down a big death ray and play a game of Pong 
 to battle the gods.  

  Despite its lengthy catalog of flaws, Atlantis Evolution isn't all bad. In one segment, you get 
 caught in a tree snare and suddenly find yourself viewing the world upside down as you helplessly 
 dangle there in a net. It's an unexpected and memorable touch. In a dramatic cutscene, a giant 
 water serpent attacks our hero. The puzzles start to get more interesting and original when you 
 finally encounter the humanoid gods. The game also boasts some decent music, replete with unusual 
 ethnic instrumentation. It helps make up for the many weak voice-overs that badly mar the audio. 
 You'll encounter colorful graphics, too, with lavishly appointed private chambers for the gods 
 and forests of huge alien flora. Then again, a lot of the graphics are blurry or numbingly repetitive. 
 In fact, numbed is how you'll likely feel after subjecting yourself to the tedium and torments 
 of Atlantis Evolution. If you can stick it out until the final third or so, you'll find a few rewards, 
 but unfortunately they're too little, too late.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pbego
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  If there were an award for "bad adventure game" this is certainly a contender.
  
  It seems it had some potential but falls short in many areas. The graphics/images are actually 
 not bad; fairly sharp and detailed. Sound and voices not too bad, but some are pretty silly (like 
 hearing "Halt, Deviant!" about 50 times in a row. Most of all, the character development is just 
 silly. The story is disjointed. The gameplay is mostly just annoying -- pixel-hunting for twigs 
 in a forest, running for cover in a timed sequence, playing ridiculous Atari-2600 level minigames, 
 etc.
  
  At first I really wanted to get through it to learn the story, but it's not a grand story that's 
 worth learning, not like in Syberia, Still Life or even the dreaded Myst series, on in great RPGs 
 like Morrowind, Oblivion, etc. It's like watching a bad sci-fi movie late at night thinking "this 
 has to get better, I'll stick it out till the end." and eventually realizing that the movie ends 
 and you wish you just went to bed sooner instead.
  
  This quote (directly from the game) sums it up:
  "Oh yes, yoiu're sorry now. You can't say I 
 didn't totally warn you!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BNT_Stuff
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:49 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. But we all have our own opinions. It has a very nice story line, the 
 voice overs were amazing, the graphics are amazing, and the music is the best I've heard in a video 
 game. I remember at the end, the main character, Curtis, was brought to a house, and has to stop 
 the future from repeating itself from two people being murdured. When you get past all the stuff 
 in the midel of that level, one of the gods, as a teenager, had a knife, and was threataning to 
 kill the mother, if they didn't leave the relic. But If you clicked the giant tom cat on the deck, 
 then clicked the relic, a cut scene would come up with Enna (teenage god) walking over slowly with 
 the knife up in her hand, ready to stab anyone. But the tom cat jumps up, and kills Enna. You see 
 the knife hit the floof or the deck, with a volcano smoking in the background. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 3.3
Date: Oct 26, 2004 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This game... what can I say about it that Gamespot has not said already. How about: For god's sake, 
 don't even THINK about playing it! After spending 8 hours looking at (mostly) boring graphics, 
 stumbling through mindless fetch quests and trying not to die a little every time some stilted 
 dialogue popped up, I found myself wanting to get Atlantis to refund that time... that sweet precious 
 time... that I burned playing their little crapfest. I've never seen a quasi-myst style game with 
 such amazingly poor gameplay mechanics. HOW HARD IS IT TO MAKE A POINT AND CLICK INTERFACE WORK? 
 Avoid this game at all costs, unless you feel a strong desire to feel your soul sucked out of your 
 eyeballs by your moniter. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
