-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Atomic Bomberman
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/atomicbomberman/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 15, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 6.8, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 228 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Genre: Action
Date:     Jul 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Atomic Bomberman is one of this year's biggest missed opportunities. 

 I play console games. That's right. I've said it. Despite having been a PC reviewer for seven years, 
 I do occasionally sneak over to a console machine just to take a peek at how the other half lives. 
 And, usually, I'm not impressed. The one glaring exception would have to be HudsonSoft's release 
 of Super Bomberman 2 for the Super Nintendo. Throughout the years, this one simple game has been 
 the pinnacle of what all games should aspire to be - simple to learn, requiring very little in 
 the way of flashy graphics or spectacular sound, and delivering great gameplay and multiplayer 
 competition. I was overwhelmed with excitement when I first heard that a PC version was on its 
 way. Sadly, though, the game just didn't live up to my expectations.  

 Like its console predecessors, Interplay's Atomic Bomberman is pleasingly simple. You control one 
 of several different colored bombers from an overhead perspective. By clicking your button (the 
 game can be fully customized so this can be any button that suits you) you drop lit bombs that 
 explode after a few seconds. Using these bombs, you must destroy all of your opponents. That's 
 it (well, there's a little more to it, but that's basically it) . By collecting icons that are hidden 
 within the walls you can arm your bomber with power-ups, such as additional bombs, more powerful 
 bombs, acceleration, the ability to kick bombs (good for getting out of a tight pinch) , and the 
 ability to throw bombs. All in all, if you are a new player you can expect to spend at most five 
 minutes learning how to play. But as you play you'll learn tricks and acquire skills that will 
 improve your game.   

 So here's the tricky part. The game is actually so simple that most PC users would look at it and 
 say "shareware" without ever taking the time to actually play it. Interplay's solution to this 
 potential problem was to send in their design teams to add a load of new features and artwork that 
 would enhance the game without losing its overall feel. Unfortunately, they were only partially 
 successful. Some of the game's new features are great, such as the addition of hilarious death 
 animations and a bunch of new maps. Others are horrible, like the new icon art and the megs and 
 megs of "taunts" that play every time you pick up a power-up. And some are just plain inexplicable, 
 like the inclusion of the golden bomber feature in the single-player mode, but not in the multiplayer 
 mode for which it was designed. But even these changes don't really hurt the game - the real coup 
 de grace comes in the poor network support.  

 That's right. The most important component of Atomic Bomberman - multiplayer - is also its weakest 
 component. At best, play is jerky and at worst, players get randomly kicked out. There are also 
 really bizarre problems, like adding players who aren't really in the game, and awarding wins to 
 players who haven't earned them (and not registering those ghost wins on other players' computers) . 
 For a game that revolves around multiplayer competition, this just isn't acceptable.  

 On a positive note, Interplay has made some real jumps forward with the game by adding customizable 
 characters, game rules, and more. But Atomic Bomberman is one of this year's biggest missed opportunities: 
 PC owners had a chance to not only get introduced to HudsonSoft's classic, but to play a title 
 superior to any that had come before it. Sadly, that isn't what happened.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: EthikPrajeck
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  This is a really fun game wih four friends trying to use the same keyboard.
  The gamplay and cheesy commentaries are memorable along with the satisfaction of blowing up your 
 friend next to you. The graphics are perfect, sound is great, and gamplay is superb. This game 
 is definately one of those got go back in time and relive playing it again kind of game. As for 
 the single player game, I really wouldn't bother because the AI is so dumb its just for beginners 
 trying to figure out how to play. The controls are easy to get use to. The only drawback to the 
 game would probably the lack of maps. Hey but if you know what your doing and can find a map creator 
 progrma for the game then i guess problem solved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fyrephlie
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 28, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This game came out about 320 years ago, and I was there. I had such high hopes for this title that 
 I tried to start the Atomic Bomberclan . Unfortunately, the game fell flat. I've never understood 
 why bomberman hasn't had a bigger following over the years. The simplistic gameplay makes it the 
 perfect multiplayer title. Plus, who can't say they don't enjoy blowing stuff up!
  
  It tried hard to capitalize on the classic design of Hudson's SNES Super Bomberman titles, of which 
 I logged many hours with friends. Perhaps why this game is so dear to me, it brings back memories 
 of great joy and happiness.
  
  This game actually had a pretty big budget, and I think Interplay really had it's hopes up on it, 
 but, like so many other titles of the era, it shipped with some major flaws that couldn't be fixed 
 with simple patch downloads as 'downloading' wasn't a big thing, back in the dawn of the interwebs.
 
  
  Now, so many years later, I still think it's one of the best titles ever. It's worth hunting down 
 if you've ever enjoyed bomberman, or just think the idea of dropping bombs around a 2d maze sounds 
 like fun! Put it on your scavenger hunt list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Game_hi5
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 25, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Well this game really helps you if you have a broken hand or if you eat or drink something-it can 
 be played with one hand. It's an entertaining game and you have to put your brain to work. You 
 have to blow 'em up. You can play against AI or HUMANS. Well nothing else. Just blow 'em. Well 
 the powers are pretty funny. Asspecialy the skulls. They make run fast but leave a trail of bombs, 
 make you run slow, make you run fast, switch the controls... etc. Ofcourse they last a minute or 
 less. It is a funny game though. I enjoy playing it with my friends..... for 15 mins. then we play 
 something else. Something more 3D cause this game looks to me as 2D. It is 3D but not c00l. Well 
 you could like it. 
  well Bye-Buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pista_69
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  The game is far from perfect, and the network bugs are really a drag, but hey, it's small, no system 
 requirements to speak of, and it's really really fun. The best thing is that you can play it at 
 the office, with colleagues, and it junps out really fast when the boss comes in :) . What's annoying 
 is that every time you jump out of the game, jou have to restart it, and there is no pause option. 
 I'm a little disapointed though that it's been almost 10 yers since the release, and there stil 
 is not any folowup. I think adding some 3d graphics and improoving lan play could help the game 
 reach for the sky. But all in all it's a great little game, loads of fun, and easy to learn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-Gen
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:13 am PT
Review:  In 1997, Interplay released an action PC game which was aimed to be an ultimate multiplayer game. 
 So did it turn out to be? Well yes it did and at the time it was considered an extremely satisfying 
 multiplayer experience among many gamers. Atomic Bomberman certainly is a fun game to play and 
 the nostalgia of playing against my mates certainly presented that "fun" experience that everybody 
 hoped a multiplayer game to exhibit. The gameplay is pretty solid but many might not be interested 
 by its comical approach. It seems the game was meant to have a ton of humor which is either a good 
 thing or a bad thing depending on what sort of gamer you are. The constant taunts as someone gets 
 killed is pretty amusing and it seems everytime you collect a specific item they seem to say something 
 thats quite uneccessary but the amusement is there. At times these constant taunts and sayings 
 can become quite tedious and not really neccessary as such, but can also be quite funny at the 
 same time so it really depends on your approach. 
  
  The aim of the game is like any typical multiplayer Bomberman game, you must try and kill your 
 opponants using your bombs and the last one remaining wins. There are various items to collect 
 to upgrade your bombs whether it would be the power, the quantity you can have or other various 
 techniques to use them to your full advantage. These items are pretty handy if you want the ultimate 
 carnage battle, other items such as the skull for example gives you this virus or disease which 
 effects either you or your bombs. These diseases are varried and pretty funny to collect to find 
 outwhat exactly is wrong with you whether it would be constipation (meaning you cant use any bombs) 
 or the complete opposite where your uncontrollable and bombs pop out automatically and cause ultimate 
 destruction. There arent many levels but luckily a there is a scheme system you can alter so that 
 level you are playing has a different layout which certainly adds some replay value. There are 
 many options to check out which although may not be plentiful enough but still its pretty neat.
 
  
  Overall the game is really fun, but I would recommend this to people who just want to have some 
 fun blowing each other up. Its not the awesome multiplayer experience that many expected it to 
 bebut its still very good overall and should keep you coming back to play it for many long hours. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
