-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Attack on Pearl Harbor
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/attackonpearlharbor/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast-moving arcade combat.
 Nonrepetitive campaign structure.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very little depth.
 Overly aggressive artificial intelligence.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.6, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 149 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: 3D People
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Aug 6, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Forget about flight-sim physics and just enjoy this dumbed-down take on air combat over the Pacific 
 in World War II. 

  Want to single-handedly win World War II ? Then sign up with Attack on Pearl Harbor, a physics-less 
 shoot-'em-up where one Japanese Zero can sink the entire US Sixth Fleet. As you've probably guessed, 
 this Legendo Entertainment game is about as true to history as  Hot Shots  and a long way from 
 the usual hardcore PC flight sim geared to show you how punishing it was to get a P-40 Warhawk 
 into the air, let alone use it to shoot down enemy aircraft. Even though the game's arcade slant 
 may seem out of place on the PC, its engaging campaigns and fast-flowing action make for a nice, 
 violent snack.  

           Sinking US destroyers is thrilling at first, then a little dull once you realize how easy 
 it is to do.      

  Consider this an arcade flight sim by the numbers. You fly a handful of fighter planes from a third-person 
 perspective for either the Americans or the Japanese in the Pacific theater of WWII. There is a 
 quickie dogfight option where you set up mission parameters and take to the skies against enemies 
 either solo or in online multiplayer matches. There are also two separate campaigns where you fly 
 for the Stars and Stripes or the Rising Sun.  

  Of these game types, only the campaigns really stand out, especially since nobody seems to be playing 
 the online mode despite the game having been out in stores for a while. Missions are a bit formulaic, 
 with just about everything from straight-out dogfighting or dropping bombs on enemy bases to sinking 
 enemy shipping with torpedoes, though it's all so packed with nonstop shooting that it's tough 
 to get bored. All of your assignments branch in the old Wing Commander style too, so failure means 
 that you still move on rather than endlessly repeat missions until you get it right. Campaign missions 
 also begin and end with colorful comic book panels that perfectly match up with the arcade gameplay, 
 giving the game added flavor (even if the Japanese sequences are over the top when it comes to 
 Asian stereotyping) . Experience points earn you promotions as well, and shooting down enough enemy 
 planes unlocks new planes in your own hangar.  

  Everything is arcade-friendly, which means you use the spacebar to take off and never have to worry 
 about landing or stalling or any of the other foibles of flight-sim flying. You also have an unlimited 
 supply of ammo, bombs, and torpedoes. You can't collide with other aircraft in midflight either, 
 so you can wheel and turn with little regard for personal safety. This is actually a good thing 
 because the enemy artificial intelligence is extremely aggressive when it comes to dogfighting. 
 Once combat is joined, opposing fliers are on your tail until you either send them into the drink 
 or they down you. This certainly increases the overall tension, although at times, it seems extremely 
 unrealistic. Enemies lock on to you so unfailingly that it's as if you're taking automatic damage 
 unless you're constantly turning. There isn't any concept of flying sensibly or stalking a foe. 
 It's just nonstop scrambling and shooting, with the hope that you can get behind the bad guys long 
 enough to blow them to pieces.  

           Comic book mission introductions add color to the presentation.      

  The visual 
 engine keeps up with the pace, at least. The terrain is a bit odd-looking because of a focus effect 
 that makes islands, ships, and buildings at a distance a bit blurry. However, the frame rate flies 
 with all of the bells and whistles turned on, while the planes are quite attractive. The only drawback 
 is a fairly limited number of aircraft types. You never get beyond a handful or so of planes representing 
 each nation, and they all stick to the Zero/Warhawk style. Audio is what you'd expect, meaning 
 lots of rat-a-tat machine-gun sounds and bomb-dropping whistles. There isn't any radio chatter 
 though, which makes it seem like you're flying in a vacuum at times.  

  If you're looking for depth, look elsewhere. But if you're up for spending a few moments ripping 
 around the Pacific single-handedly winning WWII, Attack on Pearl Harbor is a good bet.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  =Preview=
  
  The game making based on world war II, between Japan and america in Pearl Harbour port, hawai. 
 pearl harbour was on one of success movie.
  
  =gameplay=
  
  in gameplay, u have a two choice in single player campaign, as a japaneese or american. with a 
 few mission map. there are a few ship who can u choose, such as p40 warhawk (america) , or mitsubishi 
 zero (japan)
  , but only a three ship can u take. and dogfight earn u to take down 5-20 enemy ships. control for 
 this game is familiar a 
  guess. iam not difficult for the movement, but u must shoot correctly with ur rockets. if u failed 
 at one mission map, u can next to other mission or repeat the mission to gain the point or reward. no 
 bug i find for this game. and not forget the enemy ai very strange at first u cannot win thie battle, 
 it's need experience to play it, but i really enjoy it.
  
  =graphics=
  
  good graphics for environment, ship details, and great explosion. but isn't the best. frame rate 
 slowdown in afew movement or attraction, u must ran this game in computer with mainstream component. 
 at least geforce 6600, 7300, 7950 or radeon 9500, x 1950, with minimum processor with pentium IV. 
 or AMD 1,6 GHZ. with 512mb RAM, it's enough. 
  
  =all performance=
  
  maybe u will bored to play with AOPH gameplay, or u will exciting to play this game. thta's depend 
 on ur style. if u fun to dogfight, and destroy the enmy without complicated campaign or gameplay. 
 i guess u will fun it. but u can bored if u like game with complicated gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  I thought this might be a clone to HOTP but I was wrong. That game was very frustrating because 
 you had to repeat missons over and over until you got it right but not here. You can move on no 
 matter if you pass or fail the mission which I think this feature needs to be in other similar 
 games to ease the frustration. GP: Even though there are numerous missions to play, and you can 
 play as the Japs or the Americans there doesn't seem to be much variety in them but I like the 
 fact you can play as either nation. Sound: Great decribes it. Explosions, machine gun fire and 
 plane engines roaring past you all sound like they should.
  
  Graphics: Surprisingly good for a budget game and detailed especially the water and sky. Land could 
 use more detail though.
  
  Replay value: Good. You can play each mission over especially if you failed it and simply moved 
 on but you want to retry it after finishing the game. In this catagory it excels because you can 
 play missions again to receive higher scores, enemy kills or just want to play the mission a second 
 time though.
  
  Overall: AOPH is a fun, arcade combat flight simulator to play and I recommend it if you like the 
 Pacific War theater or just want something to play that is fun and not serious. Attack on Pearl 
 Harbor will surely please you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judie1943
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Its about time someone made a game that doesn't require you to actually be a certified pilot to 
 fly the planes and zip around having fun. If you want a game with real true to life flight physics, 
 then this isn't the game for you. On the other hand, if you are like me and just want to be able 
 to fly anywhere, and do anything in the game, including sinking some of your own ships LOL. Sorry 
 guys, trigger got stuck . Oh well, we were going to put that Destroyer into mothballs next week 
 anyway. LOL I have several games I play, and when I feel like letting go, I just jump into my P40 
 Warhawk and shoot it if it moves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KabusTuccari
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 11, 2007 2:33 am PT
Review:  I am curious if the companies will ever stop making WWII games. No, I am happy, but sometimes it&amp;#8217; s 
 boring to play the battles everytime. But there are some magnificent games produced from the same 
 battles, Call Of Duty 1-2-3, Medal Of Honor series, Company of Heroes etc. I am happy to say that 
 Attack On Pearl Harbor can be classified as a good WWII game. When I saw the game at the store, 
 I wasn&amp;#8217; t interested. I thought this was another flying simulator, and passed it. After 
 I came home, I opened GameSpot to see if there any news, and searched for the game. I saw that 
 it wasn&amp;#8217; t a simulator and&amp;#8230; Here we are! You can start the game either as a 
 Japanese or an American pilot. I started as Japanese, and found it more fun than American campaign. 
 Maybe because the dramatic ending to the Japanese campaign, I don&amp;#8217; t know. The story takes 
 you to the various battles in the air. You can also choose the type of plane you want to fly, depending 
 on the mission. Of course, you have to select a Torpedo Bomber in a mission that consists of sinking 
 enemy battleships, but in some missions, you can select. I used Dive Bombers in Pearl Harbor, but 
 then got bored of it and started to select Fighter-class planes. It depends on your style. You 
 can also change the camouflage of the plane. The graphics are not brilliant, but it is enough. 
 It isn&amp;#8217; t terrible, but you shouldn&amp;#8217; t wait for a masterpiece. The bombing effects 
 aren&amp;#8217; t also brilliant, but it is enough too. Sounds are the worst place of the game, 
 if you play three or four missions you will realize that, when a new objective comes to the screen, 
 it is the same. Eventually you get bored of it. But the sound of bullets and explosions are OK. 
 They complete the atmosphere beautifully. The game is actually easy, and with a keyboard you can 
 easily control the plane without struggling. Believe me, I haven&amp;#8217; t played any flying 
 games before this one, and this is like one of the easiest game I have ever played. It is easy, 
 but it is also fun, and holds you in front of the screen. When you finish the American or Japanese 
 missions (they are both unlocked at the start) , you will probably go and finish the other one. 
 You control the plane on a third-person camera. You can&amp;#8217; t change the camera angle, but 
 third-person was enough for me, as I can easily see the enemy planes next to me, or below me. This 
 is against realism, I know, but the game doesn&amp;#8217; t intend and/or promise to be a realistic 
 combat simulator. Basically, Attack On Pearl Harbor is a good, fun game to play. It is a bit short, 
 but keeps you in front of the screen until you finish both campaigns. Then you can go play multiplayer. 
 Don&amp;#8217; t hesitate and buy this game if you are looking for an arcade combat experience! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WILDMAN61
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 10, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  THE GAME IS GOOD . GRAPHICS ARE GREAT. GOOD FLIGHT SIMULATOR, BEEN WAITING ON A GOOD FLIGHT SIM. 
 THIS IS THE ONE . MULTI PLAY IS OKAY. BE BETTER IF YOU HAD CO-OP MULITPLAY MISSIONS , OR MORE FOLKS 
 TO DOG FIGHT WITH.
  ALL ANS ALL IT IS A GREAT GAME FOR THE PRICE.
  GRAPHICS ARE GREAT, AND BLOWING UP THINGS IS FUN,
  TORPEDEO RUNS ARE COOL WHEN BOATS BLOW UP.
 
  ONLY THIG I DISLIKE IS THE WARNING BUZZER ON PLANE
  DAMAGE IF YOU COULD TURN IT OFF WOULD BE LESS ANNOYING
  THAT IS THE ONLY DOWN FALL IS HEAR.
 
  GREAT GAME!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
