-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Audiosurf
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/audiosurf/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gameplay is simple yet addictive.
 Provides an all-new way to enjoy your music.
 Online leaderboards give meaning to your high scores.
 Costs less than $10.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lacks different game modes.
 Has some technical issues.
 Tracks don't always match the songs very well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 14, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,215 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Invisible Handlebar
Developer: BestGameEver. com
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date:     Feb 15, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Audiosurf's addictive gameplay is a fun new way to experience your music collection. 

  You'd never know it by the millions of copies that Guitar Hero sells on an annual basis, but just 
 a few years ago rhythm and music games such as Frequency, Amplitude, and Vib Ribbon were part of 
 a fledgling genre that garnered plenty of critical attention but failed to sell very well. Audiosurf, 
 which at the time of this review is available only as a downloadable title via Steam for $9.95, 
 is a game that harks back to those days. You don't so much  play  the music stored on your computer 
 as you  experience  it. The gameplay is simple but addictive. And while you'll have the most fun 
 competing with friends for high scores, you can lose yourself in your music for extended periods 
 and have a great time, too.  

           Audiosurf analyzes your music to generate tracks.      

  Audiosurf can best be described 
 as a cross between the futuristic racer Wipeout and Harmonix's first music game, Frequency. Rather 
 than play a simulated instrument, you use either the keyboard or mouse to move a futuristic craft 
 left and right on a moving, floating track. Each track is unique because it's generated by analyzing 
 the music that you've chosen for that particular track. You can pick any MP3, M4A, or WMA file 
 (among a few other formats) that doesn't use digital rights management. Slow parts of songs go 
 uphill and the track moves slowly, while faster song segments go downhill and the track moves extremely 
 fast. There's no doubt that faster songs are the most exciting and the best for points, but part 
 of the fun with Audiosurf is to see what kind of track a particular song will generate, so slow 
 songs still have a place in the game.  

  The main objective of Audiosurf is to score lots and lots of points, which are earned by running 
 into the different colored blocks that fill the different lanes of the track. As you collect a 
 block, it falls into the 21-block, 3-by-7 board in front of your craft. If three or more of any 
 color blocks that you've collected touch one another they're considered a cluster and disappear. 
 The more blocks you have in a cluster, the more points that cluster is worth. You'll also earn 
 more points for clusters that are made up of "hot" colors such as red and yellow, which are worth 
 more than colors like blue and purple, but are also less plentiful.  

  The basics of Audiosurf are just that -- basic. Once you've watched the included tutorial you'll 
 have little difficulty getting all the way through songs and you might find yourself wondering 
 where the challenge is. The challenge will become apparent to you the first time you see your position 
 on the leaderboards for a popular song. If your score isn't at the bottom it's going to be near 
 the bottom, and you're going to need to employ some strategy to move up the leaderboards. There 
 are a number of ways to do this. For starters, there are 21 different characters that are divided 
 into three classes. Each character/vehicle has its own unique abilities; some can jump blocks, 
 others can grab a block and move it into a different lane. A few can shuffle blocks once you've 
 collected them, and some can make an entire color vanish. There's even a driver that uses two cars, 
 one of which is controlled via the keyboard while the other uses the mouse. Finding the character 
 that best suits your play style is an integral part of improving your scores.  

  Another key method of earning better scores is using the various power-ups that are sprinkled among 
 the blocks on the tracks. Storm power-ups throw several like-colored blocks onto your board; multiplier 
 power-ups make your next cluster worth several times its normal value; and paint power-ups can 
 turn all of the blocks in your board the same color, which results in huge clusters and higher 
 scores. Another way to earn big points is to finish a song with an empty board. This is known as 
 a clean finish and will net you a 25 percent bonus. At first, it may seem as though you'll never 
 be able to move up the leaderboards; but mastering just a few simple techniques will yield much 
 higher scores.  

  Audiosurf is a lot of fun, but it does have some problems and areas for improvement. We had a problem 
 where the game didn't recognize that we'd purchased it and insisted it was a locked demo. This 
 was quickly solved with a visit to the game's message board, but it's a well-known issue that should 
 have been fixed by now. The game also generated blank tracks and froze on several occasions. There 
 are a few design issues, too. Audiosurf analyzes your music to generate each track, but the blocks 
 don't always follow the beat very well, so you'll sometimes feel as if you're playing a randomly 
 generated track with a song you like in the background. Audiosurf is also a bit shallow. It's possible 
 to lose yourself in the music for extended periods of time if you're keen on setting high scores, 
 but if you're not a high-score maniac you might feel as if you've experienced everything the game 
 has to offer after just a few hours, as there are no alternate modes of play. Nor is there any 
 multiplayer outside of one character that lets a person control one ship with the keyboard while 
 a second person guides the other ship with a mouse. Though you may eventually tire of the gameplay, 
 there's never any shortage of tracks to play thanks to free weekly downloadable music courtesy 
 of Audiosurf radio and, of course, your own ability to add music to your PC.  

           Collect blocks by hitting them. Clear clusters by grouping like-colored blocks together. 

  The visual presentation in Audiosurf is simple, with tracks appearing as little more than wire 
 frames and sparsely populated backgrounds with minimal effects, but the uncomplicated visual design 
 gets the job done. Graphic detail, resolution, and antialiasing can all be bumped up to slightly 
 improve the graphics, but you'll need a pretty powerful machine to do so, or else the game's frame 
 rate will chug and stutter.  

  Audiosurf is a very good game that gives you an all-new way to enjoy your music. Granted, Audiosurf 
 does have some technical issues and the lack of alternate play modes is disappointing, but few 
 other rhythm/music games can provide so much entertainment for such a low price.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (58 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GG-raaaaiiiiiii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 2:29 pm PT
Review:  First off, I don't see how it is possible for Gamespot to only give Audiosurf a 7.5. How many games 
 are out there that add so much replay value, and come at the cheap price of $10?
  
  Audiosurf is the perfect game for when you find yourself unable to decide what to play. You may 
 just want to relax and listen to some chill music, or you may find yourself wanting to rave with 
 nobody around. Either way, Audiosurf will take your music tracks and your choice of difficulty, 
 and put them together to create a spectacular showcase.
  
  There are even multiple modes to play. My choice is always the Eraser on the hardest difficulty, 
 with ironmode on just to feel a bit more awesome about myself. The Eraser has the ability to erase 
 all of one colored block from your entire queue.
  
  The leaderboards make the game even more addicting. When you get an email telling you that someone 
 is better at Stay Don't Go by Spoon than you are, you find yourself instantly back on Audiosurf 
 trying to collect every last yellow and red block to shoot your score back on top.
  
  The innovation of this game is definitely underappreciated. Rockband and Guitar Hero bring you 
 a set list of songs that have tracks with them. Audiosurf on the other hand, can be any track you 
 want. It doesn't even have to be music if you don't want. Audiosurf can take that recorded Obama 
 speech and create a track highlighting all his speech highs and lows. The next step would be to 
 meld the two games together, and create on the fly instrument tracks for any song.
  
  Overall, Audiosurf has been one of the longest lasting PC games that I've ever played, and I'm 
 sure it will continue to be until the next one is created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2009 9:24 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - Being able to play your own songs is awesome
  - Fun gameplay, varied playable characters
  - Can compare scores online
  - Super fast load 
 times 
  - Most of the tracks fit right
  
  Negative
  - Disappointing lack of game modes
  - Frame-rate takes some bumps sometimes
  - Co-op could 
 have been better
  - Gets rather shallow after some time
  
  Audiosurf is the kind of the game that certain people have been waiting for. The music genre on 
 the PC isn't exactly sparkling with new ideas and games, but Audiosurf brings something new, something 
 not yet seen in a game and adds it with some engaging or more likely addictive gameplay.
  
  It's an easy game to pick up thanks to the tutorial and hints. The best thing about the game is 
 that you can play your own songs from iTunes, CDs and others. You just pick one; the game analysis's 
 it in a few seconds and creates the song. The course set up is different for each track; some are 
 uphill and some downhill, sometimes both. Uphill means slow and generally the music aren't hardcore. 
 Downhill means noisy ones and uphill and downhill together means a mixture of both. 
  
  You don't simply listen to a song though. You play. You have 3 rows with a future jet and you hit 
 the cars coming. The cars color varies. There are red, green, yellow and purple, black and white 
 as well. It is tough to hit them all, especially when the difficulty is tough. So all you need 
 to do is hit the colors you need. Under the ship there are columns which have to be filled to get 
 points. If you get 3 of the same color together you get points. 
  
  There are different playable characters which their own ships. This is where the difficulty comes 
 in. Easy mode is generally easy to pick up with only red, blue and green which always appear. Blue 
 is the most common and comes in the most part of the songs. Red and yellow appear in the most intense 
 part of the song. Then there is normal mode where the difficulty is more toughen. By the way when 
 the column is full and you hit another bar coming; on easy you lose points and on harder mode you 
 lose time because you will have to respawn. 
  
  Audiosurf generally loads fast. Takes a bit of time to load the song for the first time, but the 
 second time is faster. It is amazing that most of the tracks fit well, but obviously not all, it 
 isn't flawless. And this doesn't help change most songs. Songs which have very low sound are played 
 with the same volume which could have been changed and you can't decide you end a song which the 
 ending of it isn't exactly when the singer stops singing. 
  
  Lack of modes is the only real problem here. Due to it, most people will get bored after the first 
 day. You just press PLAY on the main menu, choose a song and play and that's about it. Though comparing 
 the scores online gives you meaning to play it and do your best. Repetition is very common in Audiosurf 
 and those who can sustain it get the best out of it. There isn't a specific multiplayer mode, though 
 when picking up characters you can choose Double Vision. This always you to play with someone else. 
 It is generally unremarkable and frustrating, since when a person does a mistake the lost points 
 don't always go to him and even scored points sometimes go to the wrong person. 
  
  While the graphics are exaggeratedly detailed, they are still sharp and very simply. Backgrounds 
 are always black or white. Plus the course looks nice and more importantly doesn't need a high 
 powered system to work finely. Sound effects can be chosen from the options. There are numerous 
 you can choose and you can turn them off. The game practically lets you customize the game by changing 
 colors and resolution. 
  
  The music genre on the PC isn't like the platform counter piece. This void that has been for years, 
 the lack of rhythm games on the PC is disappointing. Though Audiosurf is the best you can find 
 here. It is a unique, addictive but a game lacking in variety. Repetition is common in game which 
 lack in content, but still this comes with a bargain price, making it pass some shortcomings but 
 experiencing what most people have been waiting for. 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics = 8.3
  Very simply graphics but very attractive and don't hurt your eyes. Lacks a bit of depth despite 
 its simplicity.
  
  Sound = 9.2
  Been able to play your own songs sky rockets this score. Can change sound effect but the fact that 
 low pitch songs and those songs which don't end immediately are annoying.
  
  Presentation = 7.9
  Menus don't look awesome but the music is pleasant. Lack in game modes though. 
 It is very original. 
  
  Gameplay = 8.4
  Very simply again but surprisingly addictive. It's not for everyone. And it gets shallow after 
 some time. 
  
  Stability = 7.6
  Frame-rate takes some bumps sometimes and some slowdowns but very rarely. 
  
  Difficulty = 
 7.9
  Easy, Medium and Hard. There is that big gap between them and better for experts. 
  
  Story = N/A
  Don't come for the story because there is none
  
  Multiplayer = N/A
  Just 
 a co-op which could have been better.
  
  Camera = Ok 
  Nothing to complain here. 
  
  
  OVERALL = 8.2 / 10
  A very entertaining and unique game to play. Many people will get bored 
 with it quicker than others, but fortunately doesn't require a high powered system to run smoothly 
 and the budget price make the game easier to forgive for its shortcomings. Its doesn't grow on 
 you, but with a budget price Audiosurf is an easy game to recommand 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broken_bass_bin
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 16, 2009 5:33 pm PT
Review:  In a world where music games are dominated by the likes of Dance Dance Revolution and Guitar Hero, 
 largely involving pushing buttons in time to the music, it's refreshing to see a game like Audiosurf 
 taking a unique approach to tying the knot between music and gaming. Loading up a song of your 
 choice from your MP3 collection, the game detects characteristics of the music and creates a playable 
 level entirely from scratch. A great idea I'm sure you'll agree, but how well does it pull it off?
 
  
  The game itself can be described as the bastard lovechild result from a bizarre three-way between 
 Wipeout, Tetris and Guitar Hero. The player controls a futuristic hovering rocket car of sorts, 
 speeding along some futuristic highway floating within some endless void (like Wipeout, see?) . 
 The goal? To collect the multi-coloured bricks that hurtle towards you (like Guitar Hero, yeah?) , 
 arranging them in blocks of 3 or more, which then disappear and reward you with pointage (like 
 Tetris, get it?) . Try to avoid the colourless bricks, and try not to overfill your bank of collected 
 bricks or you will be locked out of play, costing you precious points.
  
  So what part does the music play? Using a bit of hocus-pocus and a little technical mumbo-jumbo, 
 the game analyses the music and detects interesting moments in the music - a killer guitar solo, 
 a pounding bass line, a tempo change etc - and creates the level accordingly. For example, loud 
 bits result in more bricks to collect, and quite predictably faster bits equates itself to faster 
 speed. It's all quite impressive, as the game seems to create the levels with a surprisingly excellent 
 level of accuracy and detail.
  
  Unfortunately, that novelty of this feature wears off very quickly, and what's left over is a very 
 unimpressive game. Short of offering different skill levels and a few different playable "characters" 
 (each one with their own abilities, such as picking up and rearranging bricks) , there's a woeful 
 lack of variety in the gameplay. Oh sure, you'll be having fun the first time you hurtle through 
 Ace Of Spades and Bohemian Rhapsody at breakneck speed, but after a handful of turns it all really 
 begins to wear thin. It really becomes apparent that underneath all the technical wizardry, Audiosurf 
 is a very one-dimensional game, and that all you are doing is moving your mouse to collect coloured 
 bricks and avoid the grey ones.
  
  Once you've finished the course laid out for you by the fruits of your music collection, you are 
 taken to a global scoreboard. With what is again quite a cool idea, this gives you the ability 
 to compare your final score with others who have played the game on that particular song. Chances 
 are after your first go, you're going to be at the bottom of the scoreboard. So then it's up to 
 you to try and knock your rivals off their high horses, which is not as easy as it seems and seemingly 
 adds some much needed longetivity to the proceedings. 
  
  But once again, this scoreboard system is not all sunshine and awesomeness. After going through 
 the chore of registering and creating a profile, the server rarely seemed accessible and barely 
 ever seemed to even recognise me as a registered user. With the one grace of being able to beat 
 people's high scores often left out of the equation, it almost makes the entire ordeal seem completely 
 worthless and takes away even more from the already very thin gameplay.
  
  On the whole, the technology the game is built upon is simply superb, with levels created with 
 a very impressive degree of detail from the source material. But that wow factor doesn't last long 
 enough to cover up the uninspiring and repetitive gameplay. Sure, it's more innovative than Guitar 
 Hero, but it's just not anywhere near as fun. In the end you'll probably have a better time just 
 watching the visualizations in Winamp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syourichi
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 7:25 pm PT
Review:  It's a wonderful game first time you play, very innovative and fun, you keep playing your songs 
 and magically they all fit perfectly with the game, on the first two or three days you may even 
 think it's one of the best games you ever played.
  
  After getting used to all that beautiful effects and shining cubes, you start thinking that the 
 game is boring and all that wonderful effects losses the initial "magic" of the game.
  
  It's a light game, great for people who don't have a good hardware or are just trying to find a 
 way to pass the time while you are downloading something, or such a great way of competing with 
 friends through a score battle.
  
  I think that this may be a boring game if you don't have a big collection of songs and you really 
 like them to play it almost every day.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arijit_2404
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2009 3:04 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. Start it, load a music - enjoy the ride! I generally stay miles away 
 from casual and racing type games. But after playing the demo, I bought the game from Steam within 
 30 minutes.
  
  Developer's name is 'BestGameEver' and it is the best game ever in casual genre. The game's idea 
 is simple but I was awe how they did a relatively simple concept into a fabulous masterpiece.
 
  
  The idea behind the game is: according to your chosen music track, this game will generate a track 
 with lots of colored-box (each with different values) . Then drive through the track with a small 
 spaceship (or car) and collect boxes, make clusters and get points. At the end of the track if your 
 scores came very high you can also submit it to the leader board. There are power-ups etc. to make 
 it more enjoyable. It is really engaging. 
  
  Pros: Cheap. Original concept. Simple yet addictive. Virtually unlimited number of racing tracks. 
 Best value for your money.
  
  Cons: Hmm... None! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  When Audiosurf first came out, it seemed like a great idea. Drive a little car/spaceship/samurai 
 robot thing to the speed and beat of your favorite songs. But after a while, Audiosurf becomes 
 extremeley boring and you will most likely never play it again. The graphics are nice and colorful 
 with the color changing on the song's mood. Your vehicle speeds down a hill when the song is going 
 fast, and climbs a hill when the song gets slow. And once the song ends, you slowly drive into 
 a cool looking tunnel. If you purchase the game off of Steam (which might be the only way to get 
 it) , you get the entire Orange Box Soundtrack completely free with it. It's fun to ride along with 
 "Still Alive" as well as some of Half Life 2's fast-paced techno beats. But the game WILL NOT recognize 
 iTunes music which drops this game's value by nearly 75%. You can play with iTunes music, but you 
 have to burn the songs to a disk and then insert the disc and play through the disc, but it's simply 
 too complicated. If the game ran iTunes strait out of the box, this game's value would nearly triple. 
 But that's the developer's fault. But if you download all of your music off of MP3. com or Limewire 
 or something, this game is definetly worth it. But if your like most people and/or are a loyal 
 iTunes customer, your better off with iTunes great built in visualizer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JellyJake
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I like this game, it turns your music into a race track that you play like an old school game and 
 watch racer. Its fun and it kills time. However once your done it doesn't make you feel like other 
 games. Like you have just done something great and fun with your time. Nah just killed some time.
 
  
  It takes some time for this feeling at times. Even now I still get hooked for about 30 minutes, 
 but unlike say Bullet Candy, its not for an hour or so. The graphics do the job on the tin. Basic- 
 but its very indie. The soundtrack is whatever you want it to be. I would say the Orange Box soundtrack 
 is a great play- if you have the game via STEAM.
  
  I do feel the game is too easy, nothing wrong with that I guess, but it doesn't help the games 
 long term play. I would say this would be a great IPod Wheel game, but EA has that hit with Phase...
 
  
  I'll leave you with this: Its fun and meh at the same time. -Evil Tree 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuraLine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Graphics are stunningly colorful and techy. It's a very attractive sight to see. It might 
 seem plain to you at first, but once the song starts, colors start flying everywhere that you'll 
 be dazzled by them. But these colors mean something very important. They're not just there to dazzle 
 you but to guide you as well. Basically, the cooler the color, the slower the song. The hotter 
 the color, the faster the song. If the song you've picked has both, expect a wide array of neon 
 lights flying across the screen. This game also lets you feel that you are truly riding your music. 
 The ships look very futuristic. Much like Wipeout but much more colorful because they too will 
 shift colors according to the tempo. A neat touch added to the ships is that their thrusters move 
 with the beat. The more bass, the bigger the thrusters but that's just aesthetic and doesn't affect 
 your ride.
  
  Gameplay: First of all, to move your ship along the track, just move your mouse to the left or 
 to the right or use the directional buttons. This being a rhythm game, you might think that the 
 objective is to collect all the blocks you see. That is a big no-no because the real objective 
 is to create color clusters. To make a color cluster, you need to put together 3 or more blocks 
 of the same color together. If done correctly, you will get a score. The score depends on the block 
 colors you have collected (purple being the lowest scorer and red being the highest) and how big 
 your cluster is. The bigger the cluster, the more points you get. Be careful though because you 
 might overfill a row. Overfill is to fill a row with different kinds of colors with no matches 
 from either the row itself or the row beside it. When you overfill, you lose valuable points and 
 your ship become a ghost for a period of time. When you're a ghost, you cannot collect any blocks. 
 When surfing a song, you might notice the bumps, uphill climbs or downhill descents. Bumps are 
 commonly found in Techno songs where the beat is always thumping. Uphill climbs mean that the section 
 of the song is slow and downhill descents mean that the song is fast. You get an overview of the 
 track before starting the song and it lets you know how crazy your song is. The more downhill descents, 
 the faster the song and vice-versa. The game has a global scoreboard that keeps track of scores 
 done in a song. The scoreboard is divided into three sections which are Easy, Medium and Elite. 
 If you play a ship from the Medium section, your score will only appear in the Medium section. 
 This also gives you a reason to be better because you'll be pumped with competitiveness just to 
 get your score up that board.
  
  There are many ships to choose from and they also determine the game mode. Mono ships (available 
 in every level) are one of the basic ships that you'll probably use often. The objective of this 
 ship is to dodge all the gray blocks and collect only colored ones. This is the only ship with 
 this kind of objective. These ships also have power-ups like spreading it's wings to collect blaocks 
 that are far from your reach. Pro Mono lets you jump over blocks and Ninja Mono lets you destroy 
 gray blocks that have landed on your cluster. Destroying blocks decreases your score though so 
 use it wisely.
  
  Eraser ships (available in Medium and Elite) let you erase colors from your cluster. To make this 
 work, you need to press the left mouse button and hit the desired color you want to disappear from 
 your cluster. This ship is the easiest color cluster ship to use and it also racks the points up 
 because of it's power-up.
  
  Pointman ships let you pick up a block and use it later. To use it, you just need to hold the left 
 mouse button to scoop up the block and right click to release it at the time you think that's best. 
 This is probably the most complicated ship to use.
  
  The Vegas ship (only available in Medium) is the funnest ship to use. This ship lets you shuffle 
 up your cluster to hopefully make some color clusters. To activate this, you need to stay in the 
 shoulder and wait for it to activate. This ship is pure fun and makes collecting all blocks needed 
 to possibly score big points.
  
  Pusher ships (available in Medium and Elite) let you push blocks to your left or to your right. 
 To move the block to the left, just hold the left button mouse at a block and vice-versa. This 
 ship requires a bit of strategy and is also tricky to use.
  
  Double Vision ships (available in all levels) as the name implies, lets you play two ships, either 
 with a friend or by yourself. This ship has no power-ups but is the most difficult to use alone. 
 Unlike the other ships, this ship has four lanes instead of three making scores stack up like crazy.
 
  
  Sound: This game lets you play any song that is available in your computer and CD. I'm rating it 
 an infinity because of that.
  
  Replay: With the tons of game modes, high score challenges and a playlist that is basically your 
 whole computer, this game will keep you occupied for months and months to come.
  
  Overall: One of the best rhythm-puzzle games out there. Get it ASAP. You will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentronentron
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is so unappreciated. If you are a music lover, or just someone who wants a game that 
 they can play for three minutes, or hours on end, this game is perfect. In short, anyone can play 
 it, no matter what age or how busy your schedule is.
  
  Audiosurf allows you to take your own music library, and race through a multicolor and multi-effect 
 track to the rhythm, beat, and speed of the music, and now it allows for custom modes and stuff, 
 which really add to the feel and enjoyment of the game. It is a game which will never get old because 
 you are not forced to use a game soundtrack which may contain songs that you find annoying. You 
 get to use your own music, so it is great even if you do not have much time. Just play a song, 
 or play your entire library. All your choice!
  
  The graphics and the effects in this game are just phenomenal, and surprisingly, the game does 
 not require extreme hardware or anything to run. Also it allows you to update your Last. fm profile 
 if you have one with the songs that you play as you play them! Plus it is available on STEAM for 
 only $9.99. It is still one of the best buys that I have made to date! Love this game, if only 
 it got the attention it deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaSoul
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  First off, nowdays all rhythm games are made with big instrumets, large prices and technical problems. Audiosurf 
 isnt one of them, Its a really fun game, but for only 9.99. And available thru steam. The gameplay 
 sucks you in and keeps you addicted. You can take any song you have on your pc and play it. But you 
 arent a band or anything, but you can choose from some spaceships that indicate gamemode. The Graphics 
 are great for a 9.99 game. It sounds kinda bizarre reading this, but i suggest you to download the 
 demmo. It doesnt have crazy system requirements and the extreme price of guitar hero 3, and it manages 
 to be exactly as fun. To wrap it up its a very cheap and fun game for people who are intrested in 
 the rhythm genre and cant afford guitar hero/rock band.
  If you like rhythm games, the this is a must buy!
  
  Real Score:9.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jinzirr
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  A new way in enjoying your music library. Simply unique, a game which you could be proud of calling 
 a masterpiece. Audiosurf provides us with a gaming experience that we've never seen. To surf your 
 audio. The design behind the game and theme of the game is superb, taking gaming to the next level 
 by opening different doors leading to different ideas. Audiosurf is a must have, entertaining and 
 fun game for all ages. It's rhythmic track patterns and block traffic will keep you smiling for 
 hours. The faster the song, the more complexed the track becomes. For amateur users, a slow song 
 is recommended in order to get to grips with the game.
  
  Overall, the unique gameplay of Audiosurf leaves it's players stunned. A beautiful, forever entertaining 
 game that simply keeps getting better and better the more you play it. Wonderful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truckingpete
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  A nice little game.... that's worth your money and your time!
  
  Audiosurf lets you surf your music... literally! It has different charecters at different levels. 
 Pick any song... ANY song.. and you can start surfing it right away! The more vocals, instruments, 
 etc. it had and the faster the beat... well let's just say good luck. It may hurt your eyes after 
 awhile... but you will get use to it.. which it probably not a good thing... lol..
  
  Anyway, if your bored this summer and need something to do to keep you occupied for a little while... or 
 want to listen to those tracks that you can't get into... try this little game... it''s pretty awesome! 
 It may be no Guitar Hero... but hey... it works. But still... ANY song... that's all you pretty much 
 need to know!
  
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 10
  Gameplay: 7
  Value: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzfreak
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Okay... okay, before I delve into this review, let me just say this game will either entertain you 
 to no end or do absolutely nothing for you. The main draw of this game is being able to plug in 
 your own music and go through a level constructed basically by your song choice. After you've loaded 
 a song, the game generates a highway for a vehicle you control to drive on. You don't control how 
 fast or how slow you go rather which lane your vehicle is in. The speed and the hills of the highway 
 are controlled by the beat of the song you choose. While cruising along this highway your music 
 has help setup, you have to line up colored blocks, the more blocks of one color you line up, the 
 more points you get. The color of the blocks you line up also affect your score. The beauty of 
 this is you control the difficulty some what by what song you choose. If you want an easy slow 
 ride, pick a slow paced song. If you want a more challenging ride, pick a fast paced song.
  
  Another great thing with this game is the fact that you don't have to devote hours to feel 
 like you accomplished something. You can just play a few songs then exit. This works great for 
 people like me, who have to work and have to take care of a lot of things. (Don't have as much 
 time for games, but need a quick fix every now and then.)
  
  A really neat thing with this game is the fact that the possibilities are pretty much endless, 
 you can load up any song and ride it. It's infinite possibilities. Feel like making a trance mix 
 and riding it on Audiosurf? You can do it. It adds a ton to the replayability.
  
  Speaking of replayability, there is plenty of reason to go back and replay songs. The reason being 
 is, because their is a scoreboard that shows what people across the globe have achieved on a song. 
 There is even a local scoreboard to see what people near you have scored.
  
  I have thoroughly enjoyed this game and I highly recommend if you like music and puzzle games, 
 then give this game a try. It's only $10 and it was definitely a pleasant surprise for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowyjoe
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Audio Surf is a game based fully on YOUR music on YOUR computer.
  Nothing is pre-made, everything is done on the spot from where you load your music to the time 
 where you finnish one of the songs.
  
  Audiosurf is a space ship racing game where you controle your space ship and collect colorful blocks. 
 
  By collecting points you can conpeat against other plays to see if your better than other people 
 on the song you just played.
  
  The best thing about Audio Surf is that nothing is built in, no builtin maps, no bulitin audio 
 music, everything is up to you.
  Just find a song you want to play, the audio surf creates a map for you and you can start playing.
 
  
  The colored blocks mentioned earlier is all on the beat, or some kind of instrument on based on 
 the song. 
  If it's rocky's eye of the tiger: then it's pause Red Red Red, pause Red Red Blue, and so on. 
 
  
  It gives you the feeling that you are inside your music. The faster the music, the faster the ride, 
 the slower the music the slower you ride.
  
  The only limitation is your collection of songs. You can try out many genre of songs to see what 
 kind of experiance it might bring. 
  
  If Guitar Hero and Dance Dance Revolution had this kind of game engine where you get to just important 
 your music and let the game create the dance steps or tabs for you, then it would be a awersome 
 game for sure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetroidPrimePwn
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Audiosurf is a game you at first won't expect much of. It's a $10.00 download off of Valve's Steam 
 service, and it's an indy game based on turning music into race tracks. But AudioSurf easily demolishes 
 those first impressions.
  
  As you probably know if you are reading this review, AudioSurf is a game that allows you to import 
 your favorite songs, and the game takes the songs various intensities and tempos and turns them 
 into tunnels and elevations which drastically effect the speed of your vehicle. While on the way 
 down, you must collect colored blocks in a way specific to the character that you have selected. 
 It's a fairly simple concept, but it quickly grows on you, and becomes easily the most addictive 
 rhythym game ever made.
  
  The gameplay can be pretty straightforward, or pretty difficult, depending on which character you 
 are. The basic game mechanic, however, is simple. You're trying to get at least four blocks of 
 the same colour to line up, and once they line up, they dissappear, and give you points. You get 
 more points for adding more blocks into the combos before they dissappear, and you get more points 
 for warm coloured combos than cold coloured ones. Stacking too many blocks without producing combos 
 causes that entire row to empty out, and causes a massive point loss. Some characters allow you 
 to manipulate how you gather the blocks, and the mono character makes it so there are only two 
 colours of blocks (Colour and grey, and you don't want to collect grey)
  
  Overall, the basic mechanic of the game is pretty fun, but the things that make or break a rhythym 
 game is how good the selection of songs is, and how interactive the game seems with the song. Song 
 selection is not a problem with AudioSurf, because you'll always be playing one of your favorite 
 songs. The game also comes with the soundtrack to The Orange Box, so it even gives you a few tunes 
 to play around with. 
  
  Overall, it's surprising how well the gameplay matches up with your choice of song. Songs with 
 more dynamic and changing tempos cause quite the challenges because the course becames faster and 
 slower and different points, which can make it very hard to pay attention to what colours you're 
 collecting. Songs with very intense moments produce tunnels, which can also distract you from your 
 playing. This makes the difficulty feel very natural, because the difficulty is made by the song, 
 not based on cheap note synthesizing or bad controls. 
  
  AudioSurf is not an incredibly complex game, but it is very fun and incredibly addicting. It can 
 be a smooth, relaxing ride, or an incredibly difficult one depending on your choice of song, and 
 that's a great thing to have in a rhythym game. It gives you absolute control over how you want 
 to play the game. But no matter how you play, you're almost sure to have fun experiencing your 
 favorite tunes in a way you've never played them before! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jogeoluz
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Independent games generally do not garner much attention. In 2008 Audiosurf, developed by programmer 
 Dylan Fitterer, becomes available exclusively on Steam as a downloadable independent game at a 
 price of $10. One might wonder why a game worth $10 would sell so well and receive so much attention. 
 Audiosurf is a puzzle/rhythm game that allows you to experience music with your eyes and ears, 
 a departure from the tradition of listening to music.
  When using Windows media player you listen and visualize the images on your computer screen. Audiosurf 
 allows you to listen and play the music by driving an avatar with your keyboard or mouse. The objective 
 of the game is very simple: move your avatar left or right on a race track to collect blocks in 
 order to create clusters of at least three. You are trying to score lots and lots of points. This 
 is much like videogames such as Wipeout and Klax. The environment has psychedelic visuals and you 
 collect single-colored blocks while avoiding gray blocks if your character is a Mono. There are 
 other avatar characters such as Pointman, Vegas, and Pusher that require you to collect blocks 
 of a particular color to create a cluster. The aforementioned characters require more strategy 
 than Mono since you do not score points only by creating clusters of one color, not by simply picking 
 up blocks. The three levels of difficulty for avatar characters are Casual, Pro, and Elite. The 
 change in difficulty from Casual to Pro or from Pro to Elite is quite noticeable. The existence 
 of the various avatar characters along with three different difficulty levels adds more replay 
 value to the game.
  The race tracks are configured in accordance with the song that you will play. You get a preview 
 of the race track before playing the song. Fast paced songs with a heavy bass will have race tracks 
 that will go downhill and contain more red blocks. Slow tempo songs have race tracks that will 
 go uphill and contain cool colored blocks like blue and purple. The fast paced songs have more 
 points available and are more entertaining on the race track. Each race track has 7 rectangles 
 in each of the 3 columns for you to fill with blocks. There are bonuses available during the song 
 such as a clean finish or avoiding all grays (stealth) . A clean finish occurs when you finish the 
 song with no blocks remaining on the board. Other bonuses would be included if you can fill a column 
 of the board with blocks of the same color or if you can fill the entire board with blocks of the 
 same color. There are also Steam achievements that you can find at the end of each song. 
  You can play any song you wish whether it is a CD, an MP3, or songs that are part of the game. 
 Songs that are part of the game generally come from Valve games like the Half-Life series and Portal. 
 There is also Audiosurf radio that periodically has different songs available for you to play. 
 Therefore, the possibilities in terms of what songs you can play are endless, causing replay value 
 to go through the roof.
  The end of each song will lead you to an online high score system to determine where you stand 
 for a particular song. While the high score system encourages competition, it does have shortcomings. 
 Two people can play the same song but the race track configurations are completely different. This 
 can make comparisons of scores impractical. One song play by two "audiosurfers" can have completely 
 different durations-one version may be 5 minutes long whereas the other version may be 15 minutes 
 long. I found this in one of Donna Summer's CD songs, I Feel Love. This high score system shortcoming 
 does not occur with songs that come with Audiosurf. 
  The graphics are okay for a low budget game, but the interface looks clunky. There are some occasional 
 problems such as the mouse pointer momentarily showing up during the song, then disappearing. Updates 
 have been issued to correct some of the technical glitches in the game, but some remain. Sometimes 
 one side of the race track can be momentarily n blurred, and then it becomes clear. I would think 
 that the standards should not be placed too high for an independent game.
  Audiosurf is a highly entertaining game in which the sky is the limit for replay value despite 
 the problems with the online high score system and the clunky interface. I find that the game is 
 more than simply trying to attain a high score. It is more about entertaining yourself with music 
 with your eyes, ears, and your hands without actually playing an instrument.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NsNsis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Audiosurf is anther new puzzle game that is based on timing, by using music and such. Today games 
 like Guitar Hero and Rock Band are very popular, and it was only a matter of time before a game 
 will try to do something with your favorite kind of music. Well, now, you can do what you always 
 wanted to, surf your music.
  
  Sure, at first place that sounds pretty dumb, but actually, its just like playing a nice puzzle, 
 that is fixable to the music that you like to listen to. You can play any MP3 song you want, and 
 the game will adjust the level to the music you choice. Although its a great, fun idea, it becomes 
 some what repetitive, and its hard to believe it will interest someone further then one week at 
 best.
  
  ------------
  Storyline |
  ------------ 
  Well, umm... There is no storyline actually, But thats not really a kind of game that needs one.
 
  
  
  --------------
  Gameplay |
  --------------
  As you surf the road, riding your music, many blocks will come on your way, on three lines [which 
 you can switch between driving your spaceship] . You need three blocks of each color in order to 
 "sent them away" , and by that getting more points. No matter how they are sorted, as long as they 
 are connected, it counts. Sounds simple? Not really. There are three levels of difficulty, many 
 different spaceships with different abilities, and many, many blocks coming to you at hard speed. 
 If you will take all block, and a row will fill up, it will explode resulting in losing points 
 and a need to wait until the row will cool down a bit. 
  
  You will need to think wisely what block you take, what spaceship you use, and what abilities to 
 use [and when] . This may sound simple now, but during your play time, its a lot of things to think 
 about which makes the game pretty uneasy. However, there is a lot of impact on what kind of music 
 you choice. If you take a simple "calm" music, it wont be that hard. But if you take something 
 like rock, well, it will rock your track with many high speed parts and blocks making it much harder.
 
  
  -------------
  Graphics |
  -------------
  Nothing to fancy about it here. Its pretty simple, any PC can handle it. The effects are colorfully 
 and the background and track adjust itself to the music, which in some parts gets really beautiful 
 but there isn't much to see here [even if it is really good-looking] .
  
  ----------
  Sound |
  ----------
  Well, basically, you select the kind of music you want to hear. This is 
 really interesting, the whole level will be build based on the music, the speed, the turns, the 
 hight, everything will be based on the music and the timing is just right. You will enjoy what 
 ever music you want, so there is not much surprise here really.
  
  ------------
  Lifespan |
  ------------
  Thu the tracks would always be different based on the music you select, 
 and the leadrboards and the basic local multilayer, there isn't much in this game. Most of you 
 will probably get tired a week or so. However, the game costs only 10$, so its reasonable.
  
  ****************
  Overall: 7.5/10*
  ****************
  The game offers some really new 
 puzzle gameplay, and do a great job with any song you throw at him, but sadly, it gets boring pretty 
 quickly. If you like music, and don't care to pay 10$ [which is really not that much] , then this 
 would be a nice addition. After all, there is a local multi player, three different difficulties, 
 leader boards, and many space craft to choice from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  This is one of the cheapest games out there, and it's brilliant. The game loads up you songs from 
 your hard-drive and let's you drive a spaceship and you have to hit some blocks to get some points. That's 
 basically it. These blocks are not randomly placed on a track with 3 lanes. Each block corresponds 
 to a note in the music or to a change of beat or tempo. The spaceship drives through these lanes 
 which have sometimes bumps when the song has bass or something. It goes slower when the melody is 
 slower, and faster when it's faster. The game does seem to tend to be a little like Guitar Hero but 
 it has more value for money. It costs less than 10 $ and it's quite addictive. And it's a game in 
 which you just have fun, cause basically that's what games are all about. I would recommend this 
 game to absolutely every single one out there who has a computer, because this game is just made 
 to make you relax and make you feel better and that's exactly what it does.
  
  My Score 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-hiro
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Basically, this game is great. It's innovative, good looking, addictive and makes use of your - 
 repeat, your - music library. I personally (and with me many others) have a huge music library 
 and love to just sit down and listen to some tunes. All this time, I never had anything to do but 
 listen to the music. Not that theres anything wrong with that, but sometimes it got a little boring.
 
  
  With this game, that changed completely. Often running in windowed mode, it's perfect to just do 
 whenever. I use it when chatting on MSN, downloading something and have to wait, or when I just 
 feel like listening to some music. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are nice enough. The effects are really cool and colorful and the cars/characters 
 look nice enough. It's all good enough because you won't have a lot of time to look around anyway.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay of this game is like no game before it. The idea is that you choose a song from your 
 computers library. based on the song a racetrack is generated, on this track you collect blocks 
 and try to make as much combo's as you can. All while listening to the chosen song! 
  Different characters with different abilities make for different kind of gameplay experiences, 
 which is nice. Chances are there is a character just right for you.
  There is multiplayer, but not online. Also, it's always co-op. This may sound boring but it's real 
 fun and makes for a nice change of pace from the singleplayer experience. 
  
  Sound:
  Well, you decide the sound with this game! I did find out that some songs aren't done that well, 
 sometimes it feels like the track is wrong for the song. But that are only parts and few songs.
 
  
  Recap:
  Audiosurf is a fun and addictive game that's absolutely worth the $10. 
  It's also plays really well if you have 2 or more screens 'cause that makes it even more suited 
 for playing while doing something else (since the loading times are really short) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grall23
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  audiosurf lets you play your music tracks along a virtual highway with a "hovercraft". you collect 
 the blocks to form combos and earn points. it is basically a rhythm game but with a twist. unlike 
 other games, where you mash buttons when the notes come, audiosurf lets you control the hovercraft 
 with you mouse or your keyboard, moving it along the 4 lanes to collect the blocks. furthermore, 
 it lets you use your own music tracks, although there are preloaded ones. i'm not saying that preloaded 
 tracks aren't good, but games that let you play your fave music is new. its got an appropriate 
 slogan, namely "Audiosurf - Ride your Music".
  the gameplay is smooth, and the visuals are good. the song is on a virtual highway, with slow tempo 
 songs going uphill, and fast songs going downhill. some songs have a mix, and will be like a rollercoaster 
 ride.
  audiosurf is a new game and is so fun that it receives a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  ... its 10$ from STEAM ... what can you ask more ... the graphics are nice & inutitive , it loads 
 quick dosen't take many resources & the most funnest part of it was the competition board for each 
 melody ... + the 3 diffrent classes of difficulty each adding more funt starting from simple tasks 
 like dodging blox ... to combine them or to push them side by side .... the harder & lowder the 
 molody the harder it gets ... ROCK your life :D is the hardest part of the game .... when you put 
 in it hard you just have to a be a machine or something to succsed or else ... boom :D ! The competition 
 can start evan in your home trying to hit the highest score with your firends ! ENJOY IT .... no 
 ROCK BAND or GUITAR HERO can provide the option to make a racing track out of any melody! ... its 
 a family & entertaingning game that only tryies to cheer you up in bad momments ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboybebop990
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  There isnt a whole lot to say about this game you basically use keyboard or mouse to control a 
 little ship riding down this very nice looking highway thingy trying to collect little boxes to 
 get points. Yea been there done that but here is the catch you can use any song on your computer.
 
  
  The game maps out the song so you get a road that will go along with the song. It does this by 
 making hills for example if you are playing a slow song you will be going uphill a faster one you 
 will be going down. Overall it works great sometimes the road doesnt really fit the song and the 
 beats are a little off but thats forgivable because it was ten bucks. 
  
  The graphics were nice there was plenty going on and it all looked good. Although you can mess 
 with the screen a bit by giving it different screen effects (negative, paint, rust, etc.)
  
  Gameplay was fluid and it worked nothing out of the ordinary you just use your mouse or keyboard. 
 Where it gets interesting is in your choice of characters. All of the characters have different 
 traits such as being able to delete blocks or holding onto them and choosing where they go.
  
  Overall this is a fast or slow paced time killing game 100% worth the ten dollars and you will 
 probably find yourself playing it a lot more then you think. Especially finding bands or songs 
 that work really well with the system and making it a really awsome experiance.
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xerxys_81
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Modern games are having to shift their focus away from old gameplay concepts to gain attention 
 these days, and it's been doing this in several key areas, with well-known gaming and development 
 dynasties heralding these new frontiers. Creativity is one; being able to take what the developer 
 gives you, and then add, subtract or change whatever you like. The Sims and The Elder Scrolls series 
 are pioneers in placing faith in the gamers to alter their games to their own individual requirements, 
 and the results have shown that not only can creating custom content be even more absorbing than 
 the game itself - both series boast large ranks of content creators who haven't actually played 
 the games proper for a long time, but that they can come up with some stuff that can exceed even 
 what the developers gave us. Another area is the intimate multiplayer setting... rather than gaming 
 alongside hundreds of strangers on a network, the new multiplayer of choice is the party mode; 
 you, a few mates and lots of action both on the screen and in the living room. The Wii is leading 
 the way, but anything from SingStar to those dancing games with the mats is getting this subgenre 
 serious recognition.
  
  So, why am I telling you about things you probably know, and have very little to do with a game 
 I haven't yet told you about? Because the game itself is as simple as games can be. If you have 
 read the official GameSpot review, then you know everything you need to about the gameplay... Tetris 
 meets Wipeout with you in charge of the choons. But what makes this game special is that you can 
 see the multitudes of possibilities that are there, just waiting for some big name developer to 
 tease out (or ruthlessly hammer out, if you happen to be the biggest developer) . Graphics, track 
 customization, play modes, group play, vehicle customization... it's all possible, and this game, 
 despite the lack of all these features thus far, can still keep you playing for hours on its simple 
 merits alone. And when you have a great idea to start with that can only get better, then you can't 
 wait for the sequels... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahwa
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  Best 10 euros I have spent. This game happens to be too addictive for me:)
  Who wouldn't want play his/her favourite songs in addictive way?
  
  Though new guys and girls 
 who are new to this kind a games probably at first, can't get into a highscore lists. But after 
 spending some time with this you will find your name there. It is really rewarding feeling if you 
 are highscore maniac;) Also if you play same songs with your friends, it takes lots of time to 
 play same song again and again to beat your friend:)
  
  For those who have short temperament, I would say not to play mono "character", it really get my 
 nervers if I somehow accidentally take gray block in the end of the song^^;;
  
  If you have tons of music in your computer, I advice you to try many different music genre songs. 
 It is really fun to see and play different type tracks.
  
  Concerning highscore list, I would like too that different "characters" would have their own highscore 
 list, since I'm pretty sure you can't score same amount, or higher score with mono that you can 
 score with eraser example.
  
  Iron mode, ninja mono for the win 8) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlzDuntBanMe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is a very simple affair. It is as intense or as gentle as your music collection 
 permits and has serious longevity due to the three difficulty levels and various modes of play.
 
  
  The quality of the presentation is nothing to write home about about all the menus are easy to 
 use and the main thing is the music itself. For the first time ever, your music collection IS the 
 game. If you love a particular track OWN IT on the scoreboards. I'm systematically going through 
 all of my favourites and have achieved Number 1 status (for now) on some of my favourites (prodigy) .
 
  
  Graphically AudioSurf is very clean. With various colour choices and texture filtering options, 
 the game runs well and looks good. It does have that 5 game charm, but it's by no means crappy 
 at all. For starters, the visulisation sensitivity is near perfect. All sorts of artifacts are 
 reacting to the music as you play - and reacting as you would expect (hint hint Microsoft) .
  
  Control wise.. The game is perfect! At first i thought it a bit qwerky, but now I'm truely 
 impressed. The mouse works perfectly with the game.. The keyboard works perfectly with the game... 
 The 360 controller works perfectly with the game. It really does not matter at all which control 
 method you use, they are all just responsive and have bonuses to using each method. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HairyBeast87
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Audiosurf is a simple game that consists of you controlling a space vehicle that flies on a track, 
 collecting different colored blocks to achieve a high score. The thing that makes this game stand 
 out is how you are able to rummage through your music folders and use your favorite songs as the 
 music for the track. The way that it works is that the game will load up the song that you have 
 chosen and customize the track to the rhythm of the music. Then, you guide the vehicle along the 
 track and try to match up 3 of the same color blocks in order for them to break and give you points.
 
  
  The controls are so simple that anyone can easily hop in and have fun. There are two ways to control 
 the vehicle and they are either the left and right arrow keys, or the mouse movements left and 
 right. The mouse seems to be the more favorable control method because it allows the vehicle to 
 dodge the "bad" colors, that are found in the later difficulties, much easier. From children to 
 adults, anyone can easily jump into the world of Audiosurf.
  
  The graphics in this game are pretty good. It won't take the latest PC hardware to run this game 
 well, which is great. The vehicle moving from slow to fast, depending on the song of your choice, 
 along the track while it pulsates to the beat will keep you entertained and on your toes as it 
 tends to keep you from seeing what is coming out from in front of you. The game looks good, even 
 with a simple scenery.
  
  The most important piece of this review is the music. The sound in this game is perfect because 
 it is what you choose to listen to while you go for a high score. Every song that is played has 
 an online scoreboard that will encourage you to keep playing your favorite songs to achieve the 
 #1 spot. No matter what your music taste is, you will be able to enjoy this game without complaining 
 about there being a crappy soundtrack.
  
  To put it simply, Audiosurf is a fun game that anyone will be able to enjoy. The controls are so 
 simple and the graphics are good enough to allow most gamers, without a high end machine, to run 
 it pretty smoothly. The music, that you choose, is what makes the game come alive and if you complain 
 that the sound is bad, there is something seriously wrong here. If you have $10 laying around somewhere, 
 Audiosurf is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallyllama1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  My evenings run on a frighteningly consistent schedule: everyone else goes to sleep, I check news 
 and email, then play videogames until I go to bed. It's a sad, nerdy bit of clockwork but it serves 
 me well and is rarely interrupted. Last week, after the purchase of a new computer, I was browsing 
 through Steam while re-downloading Trackmania and came across Audiosurf. Having never heard of 
 it I downloaded the demo. In five minutes my wallet was out. Two hours later I came out of a trance, 
 eyes dry and legs cramped from not moving. I had no idea what time it was and it did not matter; 
 there was only the mantra of "one more song."
  
  As a game Audiosurf is not very deep. The player controls one of a stable of ships, flies down 
 a roller coaster like track while collecting (and avoiding) blocks of different colors. The puzzle 
 solving is light, the controls serviceable, and there are enough different kinds of ships to provide 
 for a wide variety of difficulties and abilities. The strength here is not the game itself. Put 
 a score on anything and people will play it in attempt to better someone else's record. No, what 
 makes Audiosurf special is that the entire experience is created dynamically by music of the player's 
 choosing. 
  
  After selecting a ship and difficulty the player is free to choose any song in just about any format 
 on his computer. Audiosurf chews on the track for a few seconds, then creates a level based entirely 
 on what is happening in the music. The busier the song, the more there is to collect or avoid. 
 When the song is loud and going fast the track is heading downhill, turns brighter colors and generally 
 gets harder, then heads back uphill when the song slows down again. The track will ripple in synch 
 with the beat, scrolling faster or slower as the music demands. I have no idea how any of this 
 actually works but the effect is almost hallucinatory. I had never seen 'Stairway to Heaven' or 
 'Aenima' before, but riding the song on an undulating river of light in time to the beat is enough 
 to create (wonderful) flashbacks akin to drugs that I swear I never touched in college. Really. 
 The levels themselves, while different in design, can be very similar in style. This is not Rez, 
 there is no overarching narrative or story, only the player riding his music down a neon waterslide 
 that is defferent every time the soundtrack changes.
  
  When a song is finished the player is subtly reminded that is still is just a game by having their 
 score uploaded and compared to everyone else that has played the same song. It almost feels like 
 the game is making a concession to its more mundane progeny. I would play Audiosurf if there was 
 no score at all, but a small sense of competition does add to the replay value and community aspects 
 even if it is unnecessary. 'Just one more song' is what keeps pulling me back, digging deeper into 
 my music collection, unearthing songs that I had forgotten that I owned. Remember when Mighty Mighty 
 Bosstones were cool? Me neither, but I do wonder it looks like.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepdreamer256
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  The single philosophical question Audiosurf poses is this, what would your favourite songs look 
 like if they were rollercoasters? Audiosurf is parts Rez, Guitar Hero, and Amplitude. Don't let 
 it's stylings fool you into thinking it's a rip-off of the latter though, because the Audiosurf 
 experience is truly unlike anything before it.
  
  The Audiosurf title screen sums up the experience in three simple words, 'ride your music', it's 
 music, you're riding it, and most importantly it is YOUR music. It's not a limited collection of 
 tracks selected by the designers of the game, the entire soundtrack is selected entirely by you. 
 Simply select any mp3 stored on your hard-drive; the game will run the track through a set of mathematics 
 that transforms it into a rollercoaster, with rises and dips that reflect the tempo of the music. 
 Essentially, the music makes the game.
  
  I would have liked to avoid using the term rollercoasters, but that's the best I could describe 
 the courses in this game, their really more like one-way motorways in spirit; 'virtual highways' 
 if you like. After all, you are not simply riding your music to gawp at the stunning Rez-like scenery, 
 (unless you opt to, of course) as you also have to cotend with the gameplay, which is essentially 
 a puzzle game. At random 'lanes' on the track created from your music, coloured blocks called 'cars' 
 are placed at points where the most significant notes in the song are played. You control a spacecraft 
 which can only move left and right that has to make these blocks disappear by matching groups of 
 three or more like-coloured ones in your grid, which scores points. It can't really be considered 
 a rhythm game, because the entire point is to hit the correct blocks to score points. This is easier 
 said than done because the game doesn't relent from increasing the difficulty to fit more intense 
 music.
  
  If you wish, you can opt out of the puzzling element altogether by selecting a character called 
 'Mono'. When playing as Mono there is only one colour that has has to to be matched up, including 
 greys which don't do anything and take ages to go away; it adds to a more relaxing experience though. 
 You can also select other characters like 'Eraser' and 'Pusher' that don't make drastic changes 
 to the gameplay but have special powers that can be utilised. Building strategies for these characters 
 is fun and adds a little variety to the experience, although having a few more would be nice. You 
 can choose to use the mouse or keyboard to guide your craft, but ultimately the mouse is faster 
 and much less unwieldy.
  
  Apart from it's gameplay Audiosurf is just a spectacular audiovisual experience. You can't go wrong 
 with your own music of course, but the game's sound effects are used to commend good actions and 
 are pleasing to the ear. Audiosurf visual style definitely resemble's Rez more than anything else, 
 in a kind of vibrant, minimalist way, although unlike Rez the visuals don't change to accompany 
 the music. Sometimes Audiosurf can be just downright thrilling, especially when the track slopes 
 downwards to accompany faster music and cars fly at you like bullets. The only thing incomplete 
 about it's sense of speed is the lack of motion blur, the visuals are spectacular anyway though.
 
  
  Pay $10 for Audiosurf and it's unlikely you will ever regret it, it's a thrilling, unique, and 
 beautiful-looking music game that never really gets boring or stale. All it needs is a steady stream 
 of extra features to make it's appeal continue into the forseable future. This came get's the DeepDreamer 
 seal of approval, hell yeah!
  
  8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  Audiosurf developed by Best Game Ever Studios and found on the Steam download service is a visually 
 enthralling game that will send your mind into chaos. Audiosurf combines rhythm and puzzle games 
 into a hybrid that is fun and addicting. The premise is to pilot one of many spaceships' and crash 
 into colored blocks to make color combos. The more blocks you can string together the bigger the 
 combo and more points will be accumulated. Audiosurf takes any music track on your computer and 
 analyzes it into a set track where the environment changes with the beats of the music. It sounds 
 simple and for the most part it is simple. The game takes your selected song and turns it into 
 a set roller coaster path, and if the song is intense enough the track will twist and turn all 
 over the place. The first time this happened I sat there and said out loud, "Holy **** Audiosurf 
 gives the player hundreds of options from different characters to different variations of play. 
 The game features more than 12 characters divided into three levels of play: beginner, pro, and 
 elite. There is also an ironmode that ramps up the difficulty even further. The game can be as 
 easy or difficult as the player wants, but even when the levels are difficult the game remains 
 a blast to play. With different characters come different types of play. The mono characters have 
 to crash into the color blocks while avoiding the grey blocks. The other characters have to match 
 different colors together to match three or more blocks. The mono characters were the most fun 
 to play because of their simplicity; the other characters can become frustrating due to trying 
 to match three of the same color. As you get into elite and ironmode the number of colors increase 
 from 3 possible matches to 6 different colors. The game grades your performance and you can achieve 
 bronze, silver, and gold medals. Also after every song the score the player gets is uploaded and 
 you can instantly see how you stack up against players from the world, your country, and even your 
 state. Audiosurf is one of the best looking games of the year. The crazy colors and the way the 
 backgrounds pulsate will cause your eyes to go numb from pure pleasure. Even on my crappy laptop 
 computer the visuals were stunning and breathtaking. I cannot stress enough how visually pleasing 
 Audiosurf is, and it is a new way to listen to your favorite music. Audiosurf automatically imports 
 all of the music files on your computer and in five seconds you can have your song selected and 
 ready to go. The user interface is easy to use and the load times are nothing even though the engine 
 analyzes the song to create the track. With all of the modes of play, unique characters, and depending 
 on the amount of music you have on your computer you could be playing Audiosurf for months if not 
 years. The game also comes with the complete Orange Box soundtrack by Valve and the songs on the 
 soundtrack are all great to play with Audiosurf, especially "Still Alive" from Portal. WOW! Audiosurf 
 only costs 9.95$ and comes with a soundtrack that could easily retail for 30$. Audiosurf is a fantastic 
 buy and its low price and high levels of stimulation and replayability will keep any consumer happy. 
 Stop reading this and go buy this game NOW! (It can be bought off of Steam) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: N/A - N/A
  
  Graphics/Physics: 9 - Beautiful Graphics, Graphics don't change much but who can complain when 
 they look as good as it does.
  
  Sound: 10 - Who can seriously compain with picking your own music.
  
  Environment/Maps: 10 
 - Enviornment and maps are completely dependent with the beat and speed of the music the user chooses.
 
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 8.5 - No bugs other than some songs can't be played due to their length.
 
  
  Interface: 9 - Unless you can't use a mouse than there shouldn't be complaining, unless your using 
 a laptop with out a mouse...... this games worth buying a mouse.
  
  Menu: 9 - Many many options that are user dependant on how one feels. Want to relax? Play slower 
 based. Feeling energetic? Play a faster based. Feel like your on crack? THEY HAVE THAT TOO!
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 9.5 - Most Innovative and Inspired 
 game of 2008 to date. Completely unexpected outcome and WAY under hyped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfGames4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Audiosurf is a game of ship with music that is innovative in the way it is played ...
  You control a nave that follows a route, which goes in line with the pace of the music. And what 
 is more you can choose any music to play, since it has in MP3. If the music for the slow journey 
 will be calm, with few deviations. Now, if the music is fast, the course will be very fast and 
 with ripples and loops. You choose which music either, like you have.
  The game also features various types of Arrangements, as the pointman mode, where you hits the 
 colors to accumulate and earn more points, the mode One, where you hits the colorful and diverts 
 from the rubble, and several other modes.
  The Good of the game: Can choose to put any music, You will not stop play.
  The Poor of the game: 
 Assemble getting bad.
  
  Audiosurf is recommended!
  
  Review By King Of Games  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  When I read the description of Audiosurf on a Steam Update; I was intrigued enough to pre-order 
 the game. What the hey, it was only $8 at the time. Even at the $10 normal price it wouldn't be 
 a heartbreak if the game sucked. What a pleasant surprise. This is a game that gives your hands 
 something to do while you listen to music. I've discovered some music, I didn't even know I had. 
 My MP3 library is over 50 GB, but Audiosurf plays music from a pretty good variety of audio formats 
 (although I recommend ripping CDs to HD for performance) .
  
  The game earns it's paltry asking price in the fact that you get a customized track to ride based 
 on YOUR music. Whether you want a lazy ride to a slow paced tune or rip down the highway to Lynard 
 Skynard's Freebird, it's all here. Now add online scoreboards and a friend with a competitive spirit, 
 you've got more fun when the email comes in to inform you that your buddy has just beaten you on 
 three songs. Time to go play those again. Between this CoD 4, and Tiberium Wars, I have no time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simsfreak14
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks! Your first impression was probably a guitar hero knock off, but sadly it's not! 
 It's Better! You can add your own music! Customize so many options, and so many game modes! Colorful 
 backround really makes the game a whole lot better. Drum and Bass Music work best, so does techno 
 or any other genere that has beats and stuff. Only 10 bucks on steam, which isn't that bad. Online 
 scoring is a cool feature which allows you to rank up on a song and compete against the world. 
 The game dosn't really go with the song like the beats or the rythme. This game will gave you hooked. 
 Another great reason to love your music. if you don't have alot of songs then don't get this game. 
 If you do then you will just be playing the same songs over and over. The game supports a long 
 list of Music formats such as Mp3, WMA, Itunes, and more!
  
  I will be playing this game for a Long time..............
  
  
  ~ Simsfreak 14 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  So I saw the ad for it pop up on Steam one day, and was caught by the interesting name "Audiosurf". 
 Now, I'm a HUGE music lover, whether we're talking about musicals like "Wicked", movie soundtracks 
 like "Pirates of the Caribbean", hard rock like "Scorpions" or Metal like "Kamelot". I don't have 
 the largest collection in the world, but I have enough to keep me listening throughout the day 
 at work. I'm also a big fan of the rhythm music genre of games like DDR and Guitar Hero series 
 for the PS2. After reading the previews and reviews of this strange new $10 game, I thought it 
 sounded a bit like a combination of the two things I love.
  
  Loading up the Steam games, I clicked on the add, and happily noticed the game came with a demo, 
 so I quickly installed it. The Steam interface, as always, took care of downloading and installing 
 the game and I was soon launching the demo and watching the tutorial. I soon found out it was more 
 than just a combination of "choose your own music" and rhythm games, it also had a bit of Tetris 
 and Pole Position sprinkled in there. The demo did a good job of getting me started, and I was 
 soon running a track with one of my four demo songs. Needless to say, after running through my 
 demo four, I quickly purchased the game so I could try some more (for $10, it was an easy choice) .
 
  
  The game itself is incredibly simple in concept. You choose the character you want to race, such 
 as "Mono", "Double" or others, and then you pick a song from any of your music files, whether on 
 a CD, in MP3, WAV, MWA, OGG, etc., and the game analyzes the game, creates the track and starts 
 the music! At first, the stylized graphics made me think it was all wireframe, but it's much more 
 than that. Strange looking palm trees floating out in space sway and pulse to the music, bubbles 
 explode and shapes flow as you hit different combinations of blocks, and the track swerves through 
 the whole thing seamlessly.
  
  Your ship is a little flying vehicle who's engines pulse to the beat of the music, and as you fly 
 along the track, you steer your ship over colored blocks in three (or more) different lanes. Underneath 
 your ship, you have a grid with a certain number of empty block slots to fill as you try to combine 
 the right colors together for three in a row or more. In a way, it's like the falling bricks in 
 Tetris, but your grid only fills up when you run over the bricks. As you collect different power 
 ups, you may paint all your stored blocks one color or add a few extras, but your objective is 
 to get a high score by making large block combinations, especially combos of the "hot" colors, 
 like red and yellow. These hot blocks show up during the more intense parts of the song, and if 
 you get those stacked up for combos, you really get some good points. Navigating the tracks is 
 fairly easy, but making those combos while watching the track ahead can be tricky, especially during 
 a particularly fast moving song.
  
  The greatest thing about the game though is the unique way it portrays each song. Every game is 
 different, unless of course, you run the same song over, but even then, the block combinations 
 may change. As a song builds from slower to faster, you climb uphill until the tempo increases, 
 after which you zoom downhill as the blocks come faster and faster. The track even has small bumps 
 for very pronounced beats in some songs, and it's fun just to watch your ship hop up and down to 
 the music. There's even a double mode, where you can control two ships on more lanes or have someone 
 else control a second ship with the keyboard. My only disappointment with this mode is the game 
 didn't recognize my two XBox 360 controllers for double play, so we always had to use the keyboard 
 for player two.
  
  The only other technical glitches I found were after registering the full version, I couldn't get 
 out of demo mode until I restarted the Steam service completely, not just the game. In order to 
 figure that out, I had to troll the forums for a few minutes to find the solution. Still, this 
 is a small gripe for such an inexpensive and exhilarating game. For all the customizations in the 
 UI, the endless supply of gaming material (your music library) and the different and varied play 
 modes, this is well worth a lot more than $10, and I'm glad I got in to the game before the sellers 
 realize this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  I don't like the term casual and Hardcore but what I mean by Casual game here is that you can pick 
 it up and play Audiosurf for 5 mins and then put it down. If you play it for hour son end then 
 it'll get boring fast, so really it' a game for when you only have a moments spare time or you 
 want to see how a song plays. What got me addicted to Audiosurf though was the fact theres scoreboards 
 for each song and you can spend ages trying to break the high score. This is where some of the 
 problems come through though, people can have a song named the same but it can be a totally different 
 track, so it's like they're cheating. I've come across this sooo many times when their version 
 of the song is like 8 mins longer and much faster, so basically you wont beat their top score with 
 your proper version of the song. However you can report people but I havn't seen any action taken 
 so far, hope they do something about it in a patch soon though.
  
  Another problem i've come across is that some tracks wont really play like they should do and you'd 
 think it would be a fast paced song but you're sitting on a slow hill the whole time, it can really 
 ruin songs and make it not fun to play. I wish they did something more to make slower songs fun 
 and wish they'd fix some stuff to make other songs play properly.
  
  
  The graphics are nice to watch and great and the sounds are great, obviously this mostly depends 
 on your song though because that's all you will be hearing for most of the game. The menus are 
 all great and everything controls really well and found it weird that you use your mouse rather 
 than the keyboard but it makes sense when you're playing because the reaction time when using the 
 mouse is much much faster.
  
  
  So yeah for $10 Audiosurf is a great little casual game purchase and you wont regret buying it, 
 quite weird how this style game could be sooo fun but that's just more props to the developers 
 for making this game. Turns a simple idea into something sooo addictive and fun.... I just hope 
 some of the little annoying bugs are ironed out soon and they carry on adding features, though 
 for $10 it's hard to imagine they'll add much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightymare
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic ... download it now if you have steam, its only $10 and i've played it longer 
 than some full price games i have bought recently. The technology behind the game is top knotch, 
 it creates tracks to your music with split second perfection to each note, and its just a great 
 game to play. 
  
  I've got this game on steam and it keeps a record of every single music track, and every score 
 that has ever been acomplished on the track, this is a great addition and makes the game even more 
 replayable, the game even e-mail's you when your score is knocked off the top spot ( if your good 
 enough to get a top score ) . If you have friends, it tells you if they have beaten you on a track, 
 i've been back to beat my friends many times and the day after i get an email saying that he has 
 beaten me again, it just makes you want to waste time and get back into the game.
  
  The visuals are good too, they arn't the best, futuristic crysis style graphics, but they do what 
 is needed, everytime you hit a note it creates a nice little firework-like effect that adds just 
 a little more to the game.
  
  Just a final sentence for this review will be BUY THIS GAME, its only $10... thats 5 and thats 
 just pocket money, you won't miss it and you definatly wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  Aside from Step Mania and a few other DDR and Guitar Hero emulations it seems like PC is seriously 
 lacking in the rhythm genre. There is good news though, Audio Surf might be all you need.
  
  Audio Surf will keep you entertained for hours or short 20 minute bursts. There are 3 levels 
 of difficulty with different characters that have special abilities. Each character and difficulty 
 are designed to fit your playing style. You can take a more strategic approach with a character 
 like Pointman or take a simple approach with Mono.
  
  I'm not going to dance around the good points anymore so here they are: price, the developer, the 
 music.
  
  This game is only $10 and has unlimited replay value. There are even online leaderboards to show 
 your standing among the other people who have played the songs you have played.
  
  Now you're probably wondering why I said the developer. Well it's because it's an indie dev. The 
 pioneers of the gaming world. Support indie games!
  
  Now the music. You play whatever songs you have in your library of music on your PC or you can 
 play whatever is on Audio Surf Radio. How awesome is that? Honestly playing anything you want from 
 speed metal to J-jazz.
  
  Now I know you're probably asking "what sets audio surf apart from other rhythm games?" Well it's 
 not a conventional rhythm game where you focus on hitting all the notes and building a combo. It's 
 actually the opposite, you collect different colors in 3 different columns while surfing down a 
 generated track with your character. Connecting colors, for example: 3 vertical red notes, earns 
 you points. You don't have unlimited space in your columns though and overfilling your columns 
 has different consequences on different difficulty levels.
  
  I forgot to mention that this game will run on almost any PC. A huge plus for many people.
  
 
  There is the bad part though. The game can be weird depending on your PC. On one of my PCs it 
 loads up and then closes out after 30 seconds (on this PC it runs fine though) . There also can 
 be different driver and hardware conflicts, go to audio-surf. com and check out some of bug trouble 
 shooting guides if you're having a problem.
  
  All in all, Audio Surf is one of many great titles already out for PC so far this year and is worth 
 more than it's $10 price. You can pick it up via Steam or off of the site. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saysmark
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Audiosurf is barely a game. It's basically an interactive version of a Winamp visualization with 
 points. The more fast-paced the song is, the more fast-paced the game is and this is both the biggest 
 drawback and most versatile feature. On the one hand, the faster songs can be quite challenging 
 and intense but the slower songs become boring and too easy. The playing experience varies far 
 too much from track to track. Unlike a game like Guitar Hero where the songs are picked in advance 
 so that you know which ones will be more challenging, this game puts that burden on you. This is 
 also the best feature because it gives you full control over how your game experience will be. 
 If someone preferred to play slowly, they can. They don't have to try to conform to the standards 
 that someone else sets. And if you combine with this with a choice of difficulty levels in the 
 game, which makes any track harder or easier to manage, this game really offers something for any 
 level of gamer. As long as you love music and like to waste time, you should enjoy this game (at 
 least for an hour or so) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKaREO
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Audiosurf is just way too much for words, yet so simple in design. It becomes instantly addictive, 
 the flashing lights, the rollercoaster effects. Everything about it screams new age, fun and innovative. 
 If you haven't picked up Audiosurf on Steam yet, you better muster up the measly ten bucks and 
 buy a copy!
  
  There are many different game types available, some get progressively harder, depending on the 
 music you listen to. And that's what makes Audiosurf so great: it goes at the pace of music you 
 enjoy, so there's really something for everyone.
  
  What really makes this game deserve a 9.0 is how you get to actually "play" your music. The tempo, 
 the sound effects, everything makes each track a new experience. Congrats go to Dylan Fitterer, 
 the indie developer on this title, and big props to Valve for their digital distribution platform, 
 Steam! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion_great
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  ah yes, well guitar hero was one of the most successful games out there, but heres another game 
 which basically has the same idea as guitar hero, but theres more thinking involved rather then 
 just trying to get all the notes.
  
  Gameplay: well if you know what guitar hero is, its basically like that but the difference is that 
 you can play any of your music that you have. another thing i liked is that you can post your score 
 and try to get to the top. now your probably thinking "oh its gonna take me an hour to sign up 
 and post my scores" well no your wrong, its takes literately 10 sec to sign up, and your scores 
 get added automatically right away. they have 3 difficulties (easy, medium, hard) and each one 
 includes different gameplay modes that you can play. so its a real challenge. another thing i liked 
 here, is that its got this puzzle feeling where it actually makes you think what notes you should 
 hit and where you should put them. this game has achievements as well just as the orange box, which 
 are pretty challenging. but why should you get this game? well for 1 big reason, you can be playing 
 this game for as long as you want. because this ain't like any other music game where you have 
 couple of choices of music and your done. here you can play endlessly and it really gets you addicted. 
 
  
  Graphics: i really liked the visuals here, nothing next gen like but it really doesn't matter for 
 this game. unfortunately theres only 3 background colors that you can choose from. and really not 
 a lot of options to change the visuals, i kinda wish more stuff was going on in the background, 
 but overall it looked really nice.
  
  Sound: Now heres the best thing about this game which i have already mentioned, the fact that you 
 can play any of your music which you have on your computer. but it gets even better, you get the 
 orange box soundtrack for free with this game!
  
  well there you go, if you want a game that you will never get tired of, this is the one you need 
 to pick up. and for such a low price, its a done deal. try out the demo today and see for yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  If you have a highly developed and varied taste in music, then Audiosurf just might be the perfect 
 game for you. The small, web-based indie developer "BestGameEver", despite having one of the worst 
 and most clichd company names ever, have managed to craft something which is psychedelically unique 
 in its own special way. For a mere $10 (or just over 5 including tax) across Steam, you get a 
 game which has a practically infinite number of variations to play through, and coupled with this 
 massive replayability, relatively tiny software specifications, and a moreover amazingly addictive 
 experience.
  
  Whilst some might call Audiosurf a racing game, it isn't like any other racing game I know and 
 honestly, it isn't. First, you can play within the game practically any piece of music you own, 
 as it supports MP3, OGG, WMA and iTunes, amongst a couple of other formats. The idea is that you 
 actually 'surf' along your own music, using a variety of different ships (which are essentially 
 just hover-cars) that have a similar design and look to those in the 1995 game Wipeout. Each ship 
 has a slightly different design, along with a special power, which specifies the distinct game 
 type. While racing along your music, you will pass various differently coloured blocks, and the 
 goal is to make collections of blocks larger than three in a 3x7 grid which moves along with your 
 vehicle on down the track. In that way alone, this aspect of the game is slightly like Connect 
 Four, only with three, and diagonals not counting. The racing aspect comes from the track itself, 
 which again has a similar Wipeout or F-Zero look, and is intricately connected to whatever song 
 you are playing. When the tempo speeds up, the speed of your car increases. Heavy drums and bass 
 will create hills and dips; quiet instrumentation slows and steepens the uphill grade, whilst fast 
 periods of the song will create smooth downward stretches. For example, if you were to play "Yesterday" 
 by The Beatles, the track would be a smooth a slow uphill climb, with only a few bumps here and 
 there. However, playing something like "Communication Breakdown" by Led Zeppelin creates a much 
 faster, and potentially higher scoring, downhill run. On uphill periods, the coloured blocks will 
 be cooler, and less valuable, whilst downhill will have warmer colours worth more points. It really 
 does allow you to "live your music" in a way that you never thought possible.
  
  There is quite a wide variety of varying modes to play. At the casual level, you can play Mono, 
 where the object is to dodge grey blocks and hit the coloured ones. There is also Pointman, where 
 you are given a spectrum of colours to match into place and the ability to store a block to use 
 later, using various powerups (such as paint all blocks a particular colour, or sort all blocks) , 
 along with Double Vision, where you could theoretically play with a friend as the track is divided 
 between two ships. On the moderate and hard levels, all three of these modes repeat with slightly 
 more difficult variations, at the same time introducing the Vegas (randomly shuffles all blocks) , 
 Pusher (pushes blocks left and right) and Eraser (deletes all blocks of a certain colour) game 
 types. What with all of these slightly different styles of gameplay, the replay value for wanting 
 to go back just one more time (and then maybe another) explodes through the roof.
  
  This fusion of puzzle and racing game aspects gives Audiosurf its unique edge. However, the lasting 
 attraction will come from the simple fact of being able to play every piece of music you own, and 
 so naturally giving the game (potentially) the best soundtrack ever, by definition of whatever 
 you hold to be great music. Your high scores for each song are recorded within online leader-boards, 
 divided into three different classes, depending upon which race type you selected. Email updates 
 can inform you if you have been "dethroned" at a particular song, so as to encourage you to get 
 back and reclaim your title. Along with your own music, the game comes with the entire Orange Box 
 soundtrack (so you can now play Portal's "Still Alive" to your hearts content) , and also Audiosurf 
 Radio, which gives free music designed to allow for the most competitive to play for a coveted 
 position on the scoreboard. It is important to remember however that, on the other hand, if you 
 don't own much music, you aren't going to get a whole lot out of Audiosurf. The various sound effects 
 interspersed here and there are altogether decent, while the only bad piece of music is the repetitive 
 techno beat which plays over the menus.
  
  Graphically, the game is perfectly sufficient to look at, and actually can appear extremely cool 
 at many points. Whilst the game menus are rather bland, when playing the game itself the colour 
 scheme varies and alters in time with the music, and its approach appears to be coolly minimalistic 
 at first. However, hitting blocks causes stars and circles to explode in the sky with a soft hiss, 
 almost like fireworks. You can also have a dark or light background, the dark one especially lending 
 itself to the psychedelic experience. When flying down a tunnel of drum rolls and electric guitar, 
 you really get a fabulous sense of speed. It is possible to have three different settings of graphical 
 quality, though even the best computers will suffer a slowing of the frame rate at premium, as 
 they do take up a massive amount of processing power. However, the enhanced graphics are more than 
 adequate.
  
  Currently, the popularity of Audiosurf is significantly slowing the server which stores the song 
 leader-boards, meaning that it can often take a little while for your song time to be recorded. 
 However, the game is being frequently updated, and no doubt these few remaining niggling problems 
 will be smoothed out. Audiosurf is a simple, but astoundingly accessible game for all types of 
 gamer. Whether you just want to casually surf down Electric Light Orchestra's "Mr. Blue Sky", or 
 obsessively compete for the top score at Eagles "Hotel California", Audiosurf will let you do it 
 all at your desired pace and difficulty. Go out and get it, and fully experience what The Who meant 
 when they sang, "I'm getting in tune to the straight and narrow". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  See my full score breakdown at: http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2331,0. html
  
  The gaming public focuses so much on high-quality, big-budget releases that independent games are 
 often swept to the side and ignored or shunned. These games often offer a bunch of innovation and 
 fun... at a fraction of the cost of a regular video game. Music-based Audiosurf is an example of 
 this exciting part of the gaming industry...
  
  Audiosurf's premise is the ability to import any song you wish into the game. After this, you pick 
 a difficulty level by selecting between several futuristic racing cars with different abilities 
 and objectives. Audiosurf then takes the song and creates a race track based on it. Scattered around 
 the race track are different colored blocks depending on your choice. The blocks often correspond 
 to bass echoecs, guitar strums, and other parts of songs. Your goal is to ride along the track 
 and snag these blocks, which are then stored in columns underneath your ship. If you match three 
 or more, the blocks disappear and grant you points. In essence, Audiosurf turns your song into 
 a puzzle game, requiring twitch skills to hop between the game's three lines of blocks and snag 
 the right colors and power-ups to create combos with the highest point yield. The speed of the 
 movement depends on the type and tempo of the song.
  
  The best type of song to start Audiosurf off with is a rap or similar song with a slow, steady 
 beat. You can then try some faster songs with varying beats and tempos to really get into the game. 
 It's hypnotic to play, as I eventually found myself moving my ship to the beat of songs unconsciously. 
 It really provides an incentive to go and buy new music, just to race on them and reach new high 
 scores in order to reach higher and higher spots on the game's surprisingly comprehensive leaderboards. 
 The only problem with these is the multiple ID3 tags a single song can have, meaning it can be 
 incredibly hard to find other people who played the same song as you since the leaderboards are 
 built off of these tags.
  
  Audiosurf is an amazing, budget title. While its fun and varied gameplay is a refreshing premise, 
 its the amount of customization and ability to build tracks off your own library of songs that 
 makes it truly a gem. Plus, its only $10. What are you waiting for, hardcore and casual gamers 
 alike, GET IT!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  I'd never heard of this game until I noticed someone talking in the forums about it, I downloaded 
 the demo from Steam and before I knew it the demo had expired. I knew I just had to get this game, 
 so I did!
  
  Good points:
  
  Highly addictive.
  Tracks are only limited to the amount of music you have.
  Lots of game modes.
  High score table.
 
  Great graphics.
  Developer is actively supporting and updating the game.
  
  Bad points:
  
  Errrr...... I can't think of any (there's not many games I can say that about) .
 
  
  Audiosurfs simple concept is to get as many points as possible by collecting blocks and joining 
 them into clusters (3 or more of the same colour are required and the bigger the cluster the more 
 points) . Watch out for the grey ones though they can stop you making a cluster. This incredibly 
 simple concept is highly addictive, i've lost hours to this game.
  
  One of the great things about this game is the replaybility of it. There are a seemingly unlimited 
 number of tracks that is really only limited to your music collection. Of course all the tracks 
 are different because all songs are different.
  
  There are loads of modes available and three difficulty settings (casual, pro and elite) . For example 
 there is mono mode that is just a case of avoiding the grey blocks while collecting the other colour 
 blocks available. Other modes include pointman, pusher, ninja, eraser, vegas etc etc. Double vision 
 mode allows you to control two cars so you can have a local multiplayer if you wish.
  
  Each song has three high score tables, one for each difficulty setting. High score tables in games 
 always keep me replaying something to get the high score (maybe it's just me) .
  
  Now what can I say about the graphics, crisp, clean and very colourful spring to mind straight 
 away. The game allows you to change the colour scheme, I personally like the inverted one.
  
  I'm a great believer in developers supporting their games by releasing patches to fix bugs/glitches 
 but also by improving the game by adding new features. BestGameEver (the developer) has released 
 five updates this months that fixed things and added new features. I'd be hard pressed to find 
 another developer that had done that.
  
  Overall Audiosurf is a addictive puzzle/rhythm game that is well worth the small price, in fact 
 it's worth a full game price tag. Anyone who loves puzzle games or rhythm games will love this 
 game. Anyone who is looking for something a little bit different should love the game as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rattyocaster
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this, my reaction was "Hmm... What an odd concept, could be a laugh though" so 
 I decided to sling it into my basket and then started looking into the concept. I don't quite know 
 how it works, but you pick a song, anything you want from your own music collection whether its 
 CD or MP3, the game then analyses the song, down to notes and down to intensity and then it generates 
 what I can describe as a 3 lane motorway with hills and twists and turns. Then you have to hit 
 the other "cars" on this "motorway" to collect them and get a set of 3 or more. I don't think I 
 can describe this very well.
  So, it's a puzzle game. There are multiple "characters" which you can be and they all have different 
 game play styles, such as "Mono" only has one colour of cars to aim for while others may re-arrange 
 the cars as they hit them or even a 2 player 4 lane affair. 
  After each level you get given a score based on how well you do and you get bonuses for various 
 things such as making a set of more than 7 cars rather than just 3, on top of this, you can compare 
 your scores with the scores of others who've been playing the game with the same songs, you can 
 also configure this scoreboard to either people from your country or even just your friends.
  All in all, I think this is a really clever concept for a game as I haven't seen it put a foot 
 wrong with the level creation (all the cars appear either on beats or notes) and graphically it's 
 fairly special too. One thing which does bother me is this, for the past few days after playing 
 it I've been able to close my eyes and see it, this includes one day where I didn't play the game. 
 It's fantastic but it really does get into your brain!
  Available on Steam for $9.95 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMTrooper
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely stunning. Works with all music and even works with itunes. (I haven't figured out how 
 yet but i soon will) . A very addictive "puzzle" game where you combine matching colors to score 
 points. Easy to pick up and play and about 12 different modes (with different characters) . A very 
 nice looking game that is full customizable. The online service works well and gets pretty competitive. 
 The game does an amazing job of analyzing the song then telling you the most intense and easiest 
 parts of the song. The goal is to get 3 blocks touching one another. Red is worth the most (but 
 you can change the color to your liking) . Polished in every way with a solid tutorial that will 
 get you playing immediately. 
  Very addictive and "immersible". I would recommend this game to anyone with a computer and $10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlairFan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Terrificly entertaining game. You'll sit down expecting to spend 10-15 minutes, then finally stand 
 up again in about 1-2 hours! Take some chances on obscure songs (even from your own collection) . 
 Electronica and speed metal aren't the only genres enjoyable. Yes (Yes Album, Going for theOne, 
 etc.) is great fun. Lot's of "character". I also enjoy the community scoreboards. Especially with 
 songs not on the "most popular" list. I mean, really... in high school I never wanted to listen 
 to the "most popular" stuff!!! Great to find a handful of folks who compete in semi-obscurity. 
 I've already been "Dethroned!" on a song that I was the only one on the list for a week or two! 
 And you cannot (in good conscience) complain about the price! Steam already serving updates! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tangerine123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Easy to get used to, simple to play, lots of fun, available co-op game play, fast pace action. 
 The game where you can PLAY WITH your favorite music. And It's cheap. What more you want from a 
 game, especially if you're not a hardcore gamer. Most of the time I played Audiosurf with my girlfriend 
 in co-op mode and she's even not into games, but we had a lot of fun. The gaming is simple - you 
 choose your favorite song, the game makes race track from it and the more intense and advanced 
 the song is the more intense and advanced your racing track will be. And racing consists of going 
 down the track and collecting the colored squares in combinations to match at least three, after 
 that they disappear. Best thing to keep you playing is good online feature, which shows you the 
 score you and other people had, playing the same song. So you have a motivation to compete and 
 make the charts. Maybe interface and in game file explorer are little bit clumsy but the game is 
 very good overall. Hope for more features to come in game updates. And it's definitely worth the 
 money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vash47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Well, Audiosurf it's a pretty nice game, from the indie developer : "Best game ever", I think that 
 title is quite cheesy, and quite accurate. After getting my hands on lots of games for the past 
 months, believe me, I have tried almost everything on the PC, but I just couldn't find something 
 that got me hooked, like my good ol' dasy in gaming, so I decided to give Audiosurf a try, and 
 I'm really pleased with the results. I can see myself playing this game hours and hours a day. 
 So here it goes a part-by-part analysis like the old GS :P :
  
  Gameplay 10/10: Yes, the gameplay is just superb, part of this is the fact that the game is only 
 played the way you want it.
  
  The game is played with the mouse, and if you want for the 2-player modes, you can hook and xbox 
 360 controller or play with the KB. The main goal of the game is to score as many points as possible, 
 catching blocks and joining them into clusters (a minimum of 3 blocks of the same color are needed 
 to form a cluster and score points) . Want some really fast paced ride? Play with a really wicked 
 rock song! A bit tired? Put some nice and calm music.
  
  The game has nice gameplay modes (characters) , and there are three levels of difficult: casual, 
 pro and elite. Casual is for starters. There's the the "mono", which consists in dodging grey blocks 
 and catching the color ones. There's the pointman (my favorite) , which has 3 types of color, and 
 you can also store one block for later use, and lots of other modes like the pusher, etc. Though 
 the othre difficult are pretty punishing :S
  
  Graphics 10/10: The graphics are just fine and run on almost any modern PC, I managed to run the 
 game on my other PC (geforce fx 5200, 256 RAM, 1.7 Ghz) . The game is extremely colorful and when 
 you are riding in a fast song, with lots of colors, it just looks crazy and perfect, because the 
 graphic effects (like explosions in the background) go also according the song beats. It also takes 
 advantage of PS 3.0 effects, the game also supports widescreen resolutions.
  
  Sound 10/10: Well, what can I say, the sound is only made by you, there are sound effects, but 
 they are minimal. It's awesome when you are in the middle of your favorite song, collecting blocks, 
 it just sounds and feels right.
  
  Value 10/10: Yep, the replay value is only made by you, and I don't remember playing a game so 
 many hours. The main appeal, is that you create an account which tracks the scores you get with 
 every song (so far I'm topping my favorite songs :P) and is compared against the other players 
 who palyed the same song, and it gives you an incentive to beat other players in your favorite 
 song! (note: the game tracks according the difficult so you can't be cheated, also there's some 
 feature that lets you see the graphic and time of the song, so if some guy is playing another song 
 with another name, you can report him) .
  
  Tilt 9/10: Now, you may think why not a 10? Well, I've had some crashes, I don't know if it is 
 only me, but nothing really serious (kinda 4 crashes) . But don't let this to stop you from one 
 of the best experiences you'll have. Also, the game is not guitar hero, you don't have to press 
 buttons in the same sequence or anything, it's just about scoring points managing your blocks, 
 and creating monstrous combos.
  
  NOTE: I've know some people who doesn't listen much music, and don't find the game appealing. Obviously 
 if you don't love music, it's really hard to aprecciate the game.
  
  BTW, my username is vash47 :P! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drugstein
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Eu estava navegando aki pelo site
  dae eu vi este download... resolvi baixar. pronto, me apaixonei pelo jogo
  ainda mais curtindo 
 uma musica !!!
  
  Som,... nem precisa falar. vc eh quem faz o som nessa musica !
  
  Graficos, quem se importa com isso ! eles saum bons, todo o ritmo com que a tela se mexe conforme 
 a musica,  muito ShoW !!
  
  jogabilidae... no mouse fica mais facil, mas o teclado tambem eh uma otima opo...
  
  dependendo 
 da musica, voce comeca a descer uma ladera... bem intensa... particularmente axo muito boa o ninja 
 do nivel 3
  muito bom mesmo !
  
  Qualquer musica que vc colocar, o programa vai analizar com fidelidade... vai ficar certinho com 
 o ritmo da musica...
  
  Me agradou muito e tenhu certeza que vai agradar a muita gente, sem falar no ranking online, do 
 jogo ! curti muito esse jogo, os desenvolvedores estao de parabens... AUDIO SURF - Ande na sua 
 msica !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KabusTuccari
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Audiosurf is a racing game which is basically collecting the colored boxes on a track which is 
 created according to the song you have chosen.
  
  The game is so simple to understand  your aim is to make clusters from the boxes you have 
 collected. The clusters can be in any style, it doesnt matter, but it has to include 3 or 
 more boxes. There are some characters to select, and your selection changes the whole game. In 
 Mono characters, you try to avoid the gray boxes. On the track, there is only one 
 type of box (The color changes according to the tempo) and you try to collect them. If you are 
 not playing in mono mode, there are more colors on the track, but no grays to avoid. In Eraser 
 characters, you can select a color and dont use it. In Pointman characters, 
 you get to queue up boxes you collect and use them later to make a strategic move. These three 
 characters are the ones which you can play on all difficulties, and their abilities change on the 
 difficulty. In Pro difficulty with a Mono character, you can jump on the track, and 
 on the Elite difficulty, you get to do a Ninja Shuriken move. There are various other 
 characters to play, but Mono characters are the best ones.
  
  The track you race on is automatically made by the game, according to the instruments in the song. 
 On the slow moments, the track goes uphill and you face blue & purple boxes. When it gets intense, 
 its straight downhill and you generally see red boxes. So, the song selection is important. 
 Rap and R&B songs dont really go along with Audiosurf, you generally get a slow ride with 
 those songs. For some intense action, Rock and Metal songs are recommended.
  
  The game doesnt have any special graphic effects, but its enough as Audiosurf sucks 
 you in with its gameplay. While playing through the intense moments of the song, you get 
 to see some scenery (which is consisted of some flashlights etc.) Also, when the instruments bang, 
 a circle pops up on the top of the track so itd look like a tunnel. Sound effects are nothing 
 special  not like they are needed. It consists of a small POP effect when 
 you collect a box and a boring in-menu music.
  
  Songs, weve said. Its easy to find some songs to play with, the game comes with The 
 Orange Box Soundtrack, so there are plenty of songs to ride. After, you can check Audiosurf 
 Radio, there are few songs there, but people are sure to be racing on those. And who doesnt 
 have any music on their computer? Audiosurf can read MP3, OGG, M4A etc. all popular audio formats, 
 so you wont have a format problem.
  
  If you ever happen to play this, dont forget to play The Killers  For Reasons 
 Unknown. Why? Because me, Marquez, Im the World No.1 on Pro difficulty 
 at the time of reviewing  
  
  Without hesitating, you should buy this game. Its 10USD. If trailers arent enough 
 to persuade you to buy this game, try the Beta Demo. Dont judge this one from screens, they 
 dont mean anything.
  
  Have a good day (:
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Story: Get to the end of your favorite songs as you listen and race to the beat!
  
  Missions: Collect corresponding blocks in sync with your picked songs.
  
  Controls: Mouse or 
 Keyboard.
  
  Features: Awesome color scheme and near perfect sync with songs. Increases in speed as the beat 
 does. Intense.
  
  A. I.: Grey blocks. Don't hit them or you will lose points and fail.
  
  Loading Times: Little to none.
  
  Graphics: Awesome looking, trippy, pretty.
  
  Audio: 
 That's what it is all about. You pick.
  
  Multiplayer: Leaderboards and local play.
  
  Requirements: Low.
  
  The Good: This game is so addictive!
  
  The Bad: Nothing really. 
 Could get boring after a while. At least try the demo on Steam.
  
  The Ugly: Games with lots of bass are INSANE.
  
  Replay Ability: High.
  
  The Bottom Line: 
 If you like music and games. Get this game on Steam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ukillwegrill
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Whoa, this game is amazing, its what Guitar Hero and RockBand aspire to be.
  It brings together wo of lifes best things Games and Music, if only there were scantly clad girls....................
 
  The more music you have the more you will get out of this game, its also good to have a nice variety 
 of music.
  
  
  
  Now to use 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  Also it may be hard to find this game but ep trying its great, dont go to the....... erm, less "reputable" 
 sites to download the game, its made my a small and upcoming Dev team that could use the support, and 
 i sed so 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Izul-
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  I just got done playing it for an hour and a half but it felt like 20 minutes. The most basic game 
 I have ever seen. Spent $10 on it and I would have spent $50.
  
  Very simple idea. Pick a sled, pick a song and go. Collect the colored blocks for points and see 
 how you rate vs other players.
  
  I found myself not even caring about the blocks some times so my scores sucked on a few games but 
 I don't even care, the effects in the game can not be described. Its kinda scary what has been 
 done with this game. Be ready to get lost in another world and never want to leave. This game is 
 on my perma-play list...
  
  The only drawback is there is not enough time in the day to keep playing this. Some may think that 
 only being able to get it on Steam is a drawback. I have been using Steam for a long while and 
 its been good to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Audiosurf is an indie-game with a unique twist to a basic formula. The game may look like a colorful 
 F-Zero rip-off at first glance, but when you play the game and discover the unique premise of its 
 gameplay, you'll see by how much Audiosurf seperates itself from similar games. Granted- the value 
 of the game will vary heavily depending on your taste for music, but if you have alot of music 
 on your PC, Audiosurf is a great find.
  
  The basic gameplay of audiosurf has you racing down a track that is uniquely molded depending on 
 what music your playing to. Your goal is to grab the colored blocks on the track to make clusters 
 of at least three blocks of the same color on your board. The hotter the color of the block, the 
 more points you'll get from a cluster of that same color. (So red blocks give you the most points, 
 blue blocks give you the least) You have to be careful though- if you grab too many blocks without 
 making clusters, you'll end up overfilling your board, which at best- results in you just loosing 
 points... And at worst- prevents you from grabbing any more blocks for an agonizingly long period 
 of time.
  
  It sounds pretty simple right? But Audiosurf throws in a number of complications and interesting 
 strategies to spice things up. The game offers a small ammount of different ships for you to use, 
 and each one has a slightly different play style. Some examples: The Pointman ship can grab blocks 
 and then toss them down on a different part of your board. Then there's Vegas- which can randomly 
 shuffle its board if it waits at the shoulder of the track for a set period of time.
  
  The game's main draw is the fact that the number of tracks the game has is set by how much music 
 you have stored on your PC. Audiosurf is capable of making a unique track for each piece of music, 
 so if you have alot of music available- Audiosurf is gonna have alot of value for you. If you don't 
 have that much music on your PC, then the game won't be quite as fun. Audio surf does come with 
 the Orange Box's soundtrack, but in all reality, that alone won't last for too long.
  
  Graphically, Audiosurf looks very cool and smooth in motion. The geometry surrounding the tracks 
 are quite nice to look at, though you'll probably be too busy staring at the track to notice them. 
 Not that the tracks themselves aren't bad to look at either. The ships also look great in motion. 
 Sound wise, the game basically sounds as good as whatever music your using is. Enough said.
  
  In the end, Audiosurf is a surprisingly good find. Its available for bargain price- only 10 
 bucks- and will offer a good time to anyone with a passion for music, and those who have lots of 
 music stored on their PC.
  
  Pros: The number of tracks matches how much music you've got on your PC- which can mean a LOT. 
 Simple and effective gameplay mechanics. Fresh graphics.
  
  Cons: Value is completely dependant on how much music you have on your PC and your passion for 
 music.
  
  Recommendable for: Audiosurf is a great find if you've got alot of music on your PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game has a simple premise. Collect blocks on a race track.
  
  Sounds simple doesn't it. Sounds like it lacks depth or enough variety to keep you going.
  
 
  Well if that's what you are thinking then you are sadly mistaken. This has to be the most addictive 
 and enjoyable gaming experiences I've had in years. This is a great way to listen to your favorite 
 music, as it turns it into a truly involving experience. 
  
  This game uses the music you play to map your course, which depending on the size and variety of 
 your record collection can be eclectic. 
  
  Using the rhythm, beats and various other facets of the song it draws the the camber, speed and 
 traffic of your course.
  
  There are a number of game modes and high scores can be posted to see how you rank in the world. 
 Although most people tend to play this game to see how there favorite music will look like on a 
 race course.
  
  This is true innovation that puts bigger budget games producers to shame, and for less than a tenner 
 is without doubt THE absolute must buy game of 2008!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroXDelta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  That's really all it is.
  It's probably the funnest game I've played. There's a bunch of cars you can choose from. It gets 
 really fast at times depending on the song that you chose, any song can be imported and the game 
 engine creates a track for it, that's why it's so fun, you can choose a new song or keep trying 
 to get a high score on the same one.
  The online High score board makes it even better, trying to outdo everyone on your favorite song 
 is very entertaining. I've bought many of those 5 or 10 dollar games off Steam, but this one is 
 probably the best I've bought.
  The fact that the song you choose gets turned into a racing track style thing is what makes it 
 the best, it's not like one of those games with pre-made tracks. The best I can describe it from 
 games I've played is Guitar Hero meets Bust-A-Move meets F-Zero, or if you're using one of the 
 mono cars it's guitar hero meets f-zero meets tetris where the gray squares are the holes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhungry
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  This is a fairly simplistic looking game on the surface, but it can range in it's difficulty from 
 simple and relaxing to hardcore fast fun- all based on the tunes you choose to play with. I found 
 the beats to generally be right on, though occasionally the track slowed down a bit too much on 
 a few parts of some songs that the engine interpreted to be slower that weren't really slow, just 
 lyrical. It didn't detract that much though.
  
  I liked the differing responses of the input devices- the keyboard can be snappy and extremely 
 reactive, while the mouse tends to be smooth and glider-like. The colors are nice and highly customizable, 
 allowing those who prefer white backgrounds to have them, and those of us who prefer black to do 
 that instead; along with many other color choices.
  
  A nicely reactive game, and a fun way to relax and blow off some steam from the evil PUG you just 
 had in WoW! :P I will be playing this for awhile yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyran_nyak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Audiosurf is an extremely addictive game which visualises your own music into playable tracks.
 
  
  It mainly involves 3 tracks in which you drop colored blocks who when connected get you points. 
 Much like the ancient Klax, but blended with a Whipeout overhaul and some nifty pickups that include 
 turning your entire collection into one color, dropping 6 blocks of a certain color or sorting 
 your mess out instantly.
  
  There are a stack of different modes to play with, a few examples:
  - Pointman, a mode in which 
 you can pick up and drop blocks where you want
  - Vegas, which enables you to shuffle your collected stacks, at random
  - Pusher, much like pointman, 
 but here you push the blocks left or right
  - Eraser, allowing you do erase all blocks in your stacks of a certain color
  - Mono, Dodge grey 
 blocks, collect colored ones.
  
  The difficulty in this game is divided in 3 sections. But its really up to you how hard you want 
 to make it on yourself. Choose a slow and soothing song for an easy ride, or go all out on the 
 most brutal grindcore track ever conceived.
  All music is preloaded and thus spot-on once you're playing
  
  Audiosurf encourages competitive 
 play trough online scoreboards, which are divided into global, country based and among friends. 
 And pushes this further with sending you an e-mail when you've been kicked from #1 (emails can 
 be disabled might they bother you)
  It also keeps track of personal highscores for those like me, who arnt really interrested in competing 
 with the world but like improving your own scores more.
  
  I got it via steam, which included a copy of all music in the orange box (yes including the portal 
 song, "still alive") and sports achievements of which some are terribly hard to get (Snowstorm) .
 
  
  In a few words, i'd describe Audiosurf as a solid, fun and highly addictive game thats going to 
 keep me happy for a LONG time to come.
  Be sure to check out the demo, i highly recommend it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
