-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Aura: Fate of the Ages
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/aurafateoftheages/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 15, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 6.2, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 135 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Streko-Graphics
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jun 29, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Aura fails miserably as an adventure game, but it often succeeds admirably as a puzzle game, challenging 
 you with one fiendish brain-twister after another. 

  If you want a good adventure game, don't play Aura: Fate of the Ages. It's not that this so-called 
 adventure game is bad; in fact, in some ways it's pretty good. It's just that it lacks most of 
 the vital hallmarks of the adventure genre. From the early Infocom text adventures to modern classics 
 like The Longest Journey and Syberia, the genre at its best has focused on gripping stories, memorable 
 characters, and richly imagined worlds. Above all, the best adventure games have provided a true 
 sense of  adventure , making you feel like your in-game avatar is really doing something unique 
 and vital and exciting. Aura makes the big mistake of merely giving lip service to those elements, 
 while instead focusing almost entirely on an arbitrary collection of elaborate, tough puzzles. 
 When taken strictly as a puzzle game, though, Aura often succeeds admirably, challenging you with 
 one fiendish brain-twister after another.  

          The boring 'hero' of the game.     

  Aura is a Myst III clone that has you hopping between linked fantasy worlds that each has its 
 own look and feel. Unlike Myst III, Aura's story and characters are forgettable, amateurish fluff 
 that seems to have been cobbled together as an afterthought. It's a bit of muddled, woefully underdeveloped 
 nonsense about a group of "Keepers" who guard a set of sacred rings and can cross through parallel 
 realities. Combining the rings can grant enormous power, and one of the Keepers has rebelled to 
 seek ultimate power for himself.  

  You play as Umang, a bright student of the Clan of Keepers. You only see the forgettable Umang 
 during a few boring, tacked-on cutscenes. The game itself is played strictly from a first-person 
 perspective, and you rarely meet other characters during gameplay. The ones you do meet are simple 
 cardboard cutouts with no sense of personality or realistic motivation.  

  As such, playing Aura doesn't give any feeling that you're an adventurer thwarting a grave threat 
 to existence. Rather, you're simply plopped down into alien landscapes and have to solve a bunch 
 of arbitrary Rube Goldberg puzzles that are strewn about. Aura will likely send adventure game 
 novices -- and veteran fans who appreciate story, character, and ambience over puzzle work -- running 
 for the hills as soon as it starts. During the opening segment, the only thing resembling a story 
 or character comes in the form of a little note you pick up -- and an uninteresting one at that. 
 Otherwise, you're just left on your own to figure out a bunch of complex, interrelated alien machines 
 scattered in and around a house.  

  There's no motivation to solve these puzzles other than the simple fact that they're there. Good 
 adventure games give you deeper, additional motivations to solve puzzles; they reveal exciting 
 new areas to explore, help uncover part of a mystery, provide insight into characters, or simply 
 offer a few good laughs. Aura's puzzles don't provide these things in any real substantial way. 
 On the bright side, Aura's puzzles are admirably elaborate and challenging. If you want to give 
 your synapses a workout, this is your game, with puzzles ranging from hard to downright brutal. 
 You'll need to find and properly employ inventory items, carefully analyze alien symbols and patterns, 
 complete baroque, jigsawlike puzzles, match snippets of music and compare relative pitches, and 
 more. Unfortunately, Aura suffers from a few "pixel hunts" for easily overlooked objects or machine 
 controls. Also, figuring out the clues in Umang's notebook can be a frustrating challenge in itself. 

          Strange machinery abounds in Aura.     

  Aura's puzzles are thrown into a few different environments, like a set of catwalks and platforms 
 suspended high in the mists of a mountain chain or a landscape of verdant valley paths flanked 
 by primitive statues. The environments and puzzle machinery look nice enough on a technical level, 
 but you never get a strong sense of exploring magical realms of the imagination. The game tries 
 to ape Myst III's look and feel, but it captures none of that game's subtle artistry and sense 
 of wonder. It feels as if Aura's environments were designed solely as receptacles to house the 
 puzzles. The cutscenes and animations likewise leave little lasting impression, outside of the 
 stiffness of the characters, particularly your bland alter ego, Umang. Generic music, generic sound 
 effects, and woefully stilted voice-overs add nothing to the experience.  

  Aura: Fate of the Ages fails as an adventure game, offering no emotional resonance at all. It mostly 
 succeeds well as a puzzle game, though. The developers clearly put a lot of thought into the game's 
 brain-twisters, and you'll certainly have to put a lot of thought into figuring them out. While 
 you never feel like Aura's puzzles are there for any good reason, you should feel a real sense 
 of satisfaction when -- and if -- you solve them.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Switched
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 8, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  So... what a painful 2 days it has been accompanied by a disgrace of adventure games, was it not?
 
  
  In short:
  
  Dialogues: Hated it!
  Graphics quality: Somewhat ok-ish
  Character design: ololol, the guys had boobs!!!!!!!!!!!!!1 (no they were not muscles)
  Feeling: 
 Cheated, bored to death
  Puzzles: Only part that kept me playing
  Storyline: can I give minus points?
  
  To those who didn't think the short summary was sufficient 
 and would care to read any further:
  
  I've no idea where to begin, this whole game was a huge mess. But lets start from somewhere. 
 
  I'm a huge fan on fantasy, HOWEVER this one here failed miserably in bringing on the atmosphere. 
 To summarize the environment it consisted of lianas, sparkles, metallic details and poor attempt 
 to mix it all with middle age elements (WHY?!?!?!?) . The whole game starting from the environment 
 ending with dialogue (oh god, I'll get down to that in a minute) formed a BIIIIIIG cliche (if you 
 can call it that) . Why do designers think lianas are an essential part of a fantasy world??? Don't 
 get me wrong, I'm not saying they're all wrong but they were exactly that in that game. 
  It's not important what you do but HOW you do it. So, dear game creators, pay attention to that 
 part as well next time you decide to make another game. Time is money and I've non to waste on 
 the Sacred Rings, the sequel of this game. Aura: Fate of the Ages was enough to convince me that 
 I do not wish to see where this path leads. 
  Anyway, the graphics were pretty ok. I kind of set the expectations bar a lot lower after hearing 
 the first sentence in that game. Compared to everything else, the graphics quality was almost heavenly 
 (on the other hand, compared to other games from that date I wouldn't be so sure...) .
  We mentioned dialogues above. I guess it's all right to critique them with the plot. The guys who 
 decided to make that game probably knew how to work with 3D and such so one day they thought how 
 marvelous idea it would be to practice those skills and put together that contained quite a few 
 game-play hours worth of 3D. What they forgot was the story behind it. Tbqh I didn't really catch 
 the big point in that game other than that Umang was supposed to find some guy and bring him some 
 object. Describing what a failure all that was is beyond words (you can give it a try if you feel 
 so bold) .
  As for puzzles, the essential part of an adventure game, this was certainly the most decent part. 
 They were difficult enough (some more, some less... but still, quite decent) ... BUT (and this is 
 a big "but") the idea behind solving them was lost to me most of the time. I mean I kept doing 
 things just to see if I can do anything with it. That's apparently because the story itself was 
 practically non-existent. Without a proper story I found myself in the scene in the middle of huge 
 gears and stuff to pick up or to click on. 
  
  Enough is enough. I'm prolly forgetting something, but believe me it wouldn't get any better, so 
 you're not missing anything if you keep thinking along the lines I've been leading you so far.
 
  
  I rest my case.
  
  
  PS - the time spent on playing is prolly wrong, all I know I played it for 2 days (but how many 
 hours a day remains a mystery) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javanniekerk
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  ( (Apologies for the lack of line breaks; I simply can't get them to take in this review for some 
 reason!) )
  
  Sometimes, you read a lukewarm review but ignore most of what you read in it anyway. That's what 
 I did with Aura: Fate of the Ages. I read the reviews, weighed the complaints, and decided that 
 it was worth a try anyway. Well, here's one case where the reviewer can thumb his nose at me and 
 say, I told you so! 
  
  Myst Clone is a term that gets bandied about in adventure game reviews quite a bit. No surprise, 
 considering Myst set the bar for all the games that came after it, and serves as an excellent benchmark. 
 However, while most games simply imitate Myst's navigation style or basic approach, Aura felt like 
 nothing more than a hurried attempt to cobble together some of the best features of games in the 
 Myst series.
  
  The story line is paper thin. This isn't usually an issue for me if the gameplay itself is rewarding, 
 but a good story really is the essence of a great adventure game. Unfortunately, Aura gives the 
 impression that a series of puzzles were thrown together, with slivers of story crammed into crevices. 
 Throughout the game, I had no idea what I was actually trying to achieve in the long run. From 
 beginning to end, the story was simply useless, and might as well have been left out altogether. 
 Further weakening the emotional value of the game was the acting. Simplistic writing that could 
 have been crafted by a 10 year old (no offense to 10 year olds) was delivered in stilted, cheesy 
 dialogue. It's telling that the most emotionally resonant performance was that of an apathetic 
 worker who was more interested in solving his jigsaw puzzle than in being of any real help to you. 
 Coupled with some ludicrous moments, such as the hero freeing a prisoner without so much as a pause 
 to consider whether there was some reason he was behind bars in the first place, and you have a 
 laughable mess.
  
  Graphically, all I could think was, Gee, where have I seen this before? Buildings look like they 
 were ripped right out of the Myst series, and mostly lifeless scenery does a better job of frustrating 
 than leaving you awed. There was absolutely nothing new to see here - if you've played Myst, you've 
 seen it all before. So with a weak story, poor writing, and uninspiring graphics, the only hope 
 left is in the puzzle play. This is where the game leaves the most to be desired. Some of the puzzles 
 made a modicum of sense, but others had solutions that were frustrating or silly, or gave so little 
 indication of actual success that you end up wandering around, trying to figure out what else there 
 is to do. In one area, I did an action as required, and nothing happened. After searching the area, 
 looking for hotspots, I simply couldn't figure out what I hadn't done. It was only after reading 
 a walkthrough that I realized I needed to leave the room and re-enter to complete the puzzle. For 
 no apparent reason. Simply walk out, walk back in. Similarly, I solved one puzzle without realizing 
 it. The task: get a bird to sing. After completing a bunch of meaningless tasks, I stared at the 
 bird, trying to figure out what to do to actually get it to sing. The characters in the location 
 didn't react or respond; the bird continued doing what it had done all along, everything looked 
 the same. Again, I was forced to turn to a walkthrough that explained that I had actually solved 
 the puzzle, and that if I listed very very carefully during the cutscene, I could hear the bird 
 sing a few notes. Puzzle play is further complicated by a clunky navigation system. You have to 
 find the exact right area in the screen (and it's not the same every time) where your cursor turns 
 into an arrow, or you'll miss an area that you can explore. This is extremely easy to do - I was 
 stumped in the first area of the game simply because I'd never happened upon a corner of a desk 
 that I could visit. Once again, it was only after consulting the walkthrough that I realized I 
 needed to fine-comb the screen with the cursor, looking for the all-important hotspot. In other 
 instances, navigation was just clumsy. When you see a path directly in front of you, you expect 
 to be able to click, say, in front of you to advance. Instead, the path apparently takes an invisible 
 turn, requiring you to move your mouse to the side instead. Coupled with puzzles that require you 
 to traipse back and forth, and the fact that even long, straight passages with absolutely nothing 
 to see require you to click several times to reach the end, and navigation is just another exercise 
 in frustration. I kept a very open mind about Aura: The Fate of the Ages, and hoped that what the 
 story lacked in story would be compensated in rewarding puzzle play. Instead, I was rewarded with 
 almost constant frustration, and continuous visits to a walk through, not to find a solution, but 
 to figure out what the hell had just happened.
  
  Whether you need a strong story or good puzzle play, Aura is unlikely to give you anything but 
 a headache. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_eggus
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 11, 2004 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Aura: Fate of the Ages is a game made up of beautiful graphics, some interesting puzzles, and not 
 much else. Aura is an exploration/puzzle game in the same vein as the Myst series. I would like 
 to give you the details of the plot, but the plot was so insignificant that I cant remember the 
 details. You play a young student chosen to collect the sacred rings and items throughout the lands 
 to keep them safe from the hands of an invading enemy force. After this small revelation, the plot 
 is never expanded upon, and until the very end of the game, it never develops either. You continually 
 find yourself in a new area with no explanation of what you are looking for and you must use trial 
 and error to try and figure out what to do next.
  
  The areas that you are given to explore are graphically stunning. The creators used some very nice 
 drawings and very beautiful backgrounds to bring Aura to life. And sprinkled over this beautiful 
 backdrop are a variety of puzzles (most of them graphical in nature) to be solved. The puzzles 
 while intriguing, lack definition beyond being a puzzle for the user to solve. I found myself attempting 
 to solve puzzles, not because I knew what I was trying to achieve, but because there was nowhere 
 else to go and I hoped the solution would somehow allow me to advance. Very seldom did I know before 
 the puzzle was completed what benefit I would gain by solving that particular puzzle.
  
  Aura also fell into a trap that until now the Myst series has been able to avoid, contact with 
 other characters. There are many people that you will speak to as you travel through the land of 
 Aura, many of whom will ask you to perform tasks for them, or give you some information. Unfortunately 
 the characters come off as being very unrealistic as none of them will tell you how to do anything. 
 For example one character wants to help you so he tells you that you must change the Seed of Life 
 into the Sands of Stars, and he tells you that you need to use the machines in his house to do 
 it, but then he tells you to figure out how to do it on your own. This makes absolutely no sense 
 because we are never given a valid reason why he would not help you by describing the process.
 
  
  On the whole, as a devout Myst fan, I found this game to be lacking in many ways, including length. 
 While it was a nice diversion between Myst releases I do not believe I would play this game again.
 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
