-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Austerlitz: Napoleon's Greatest Victory
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/austerlitznapoleonsgv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 29, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 7.7, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 19 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Shrapnel Games
Developer: BreakAway Games
Genre: Real-Time Wargame
Date:     Jul 10, 2002

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As far as Napoleonic warfare goes, you'd be hard pressed to find a game as visceral and polished 
 as Austerlitz: Napoleon's Greatest Victory. 

 BreakAway Games has made a name for itself using other developers' game engines. It created the 
 Paradise Island expansion for PopTop's Tropico and the Cleopatra and Emperor: Rise of the Middle 
 Kingdom games for Impressions' city-building series. But the developer cut its teeth on the engine 
 Firaxis used for Sid Meier's Gettysburg, using it to make Sid Meier's Antietam. From there, BreakAway 
 Games adapted the engine to the pageantry of Napoleonic warfare and created Waterloo: Napoleon's 
 Last Battle. Now the company has polished it up even more for Austerlitz: Napoleon's Greatest Victory. 
 The result is a testament to BreakAway's facility with the engine, as well as the brilliance of 
 Sid Meier's basic design.           Using muskets requires getting up close and personal.    

 
  As far as Napoleon's battles go, Austerlitz isn't as well known as Waterloo, his famous last stand 
 against the English. However, for a number of reasons, it is an ideal subject for a wargame. The 
 battle at Austerlitz was a bold tactical victory in which Napoleon outmaneuvered and outsmarted 
 the emperors of Austria and Russia. It was also a decisive strategic victory that cleared one of 
 the last obstacles to France's hegemony over Europe, making it a historical linchpin. "Roll up 
 the map of Europe," said England's prime minister, William Pitt, after the battle. "We shall not 
 need it these seven years." Finally, it featured the armies of three nations on one battlefield, 
 as France faced the combined armies of Austria and Russia. Austerlitz offers tactical flexibility, 
 historical significance, and variety. It's not surprising that this is the fourth wargame to feature 
 this battle in the last year.   

  The Gettysburg engine does a superlative job of simulating the warfare of the period, which is 
 more like colliding parades than the mechanized massacres we call war these days. There's something 
 at once quaint and spectacular about troops in gaudy uniforms, neatly lined up under big colorful 
 banners. The gameplay comes down to moving vast numbers of men in orderly formations, subjecting 
 them to the extreme stress of shooting at guys who are shooting back at them, and then hoping they 
 don't break and run before the other guys. It's a classic instance of order slowly collapsing into 
 chaos, a fitting metaphor for war itself and a much more visceral and visual approach than anything 
 turn-based.           The morning fog divides the battlefield into two halves.    

  The engine makes it easy to control your troops and understand the mechanics at work. It's a simple 
 matter to march whole divisions into position, wheel lines around to face a threat, and reinforce 
 weak spots when troops take heavy fire. It's easy to see how marauding cavalry can terrorize a 
 battlefield, how artillery can shred even the most orderly lines, and how much more deadly muskets 
 are at 100 yards than at 200 yards. What's more, the engine always makes it clear why things are 
 happening, which is a real accomplishment considering that it runs in real time. You'll never feel 
 that there's some sort of unreliable random-number generator at work under the hood. You can tell 
 exactly how close your regiments are to breaking and being routed. You can see how cavalry sneaking 
 through woods will need to regroup before charging across a field. You can see the effect nearby 
 leaders have and how certain terrain gives you cover from enemy fire. And there's never a sense 
 that you're being rushed, as the game speed is flexible. You can even pause and give orders at 
 any time.   

  The interface is sensibly laid out, with thorough in-game info available by right-clicking on a 
 button. For instance, if you don't know what a mixed-order formation is or why you'd want to use 
 it, right-clicking brings up a helpful box that answers these very questions. All commands can 
 be issued with clearly labeled buttons or hotkeys. There are also helpful screens listing orders 
 of battle, a log of all warning messages, and a breakdown of the current state of the battle. You 
 can lay a grid over the map to gauge distances or check lines of sight. A setting to exaggerate 
 elevation information makes it easy to see the high ground you'll want to occupy. When a battle 
 is over, you get the same sort of thorough debriefings that breathed so much personality into Gettysburg. 
 In addition to the excellent replay feature, there are detailed statistics on casualties and scoring. 
 There are even the equivalent of MVP awards for each side's best units. Like Gettysburg, Austerlitz 
 does a masterful job of offering all the information you need, and then some, without overwhelming 
 you.    

 Although the animation isn't as choppy as it was in the Waterloo game, the game's graphics look 
 chintzy next to state-of-the-art games like Creative Assembly's picturesque Shogun: Total War. 
 Austerlitz's terrain is simple, and the bitmapped troops look awfully busy with all the color and 
 detail used to re-create their distinctive uniforms and standards. There are times that Austerlitz 
 seems like it might dissolve into visual soup if it weren't for various display filters. But if 
 you're playing Austerlitz for the graphics, you're not just in the wrong game, you're probably 
 in the wrong genre. As far as wargaming goes, Austerlitz looks great. It also sounds great, with 
 the effects of shuffling men, clomping and whinnying horses, the rustle of equipment-laden soldiers, 
 the crack of musket fire, and the boom of artillery, all varying in volume and intensity. Even 
 the occasional shouts, including your officers responding to whatever buttons you're pressing, 
 are convincingly dramatic and varied.           Distinct landmarks lend the battlefield historical 
 flavor.    

  The most significant addition to the evolving Gettysburg engine is the ability to let the AI manage 
 your troops without completely giving up control. Although you can only give the AI leaders general 
 orders for how aggressively to attack or defend, this makes the larger scenarios much more manageable 
 without restricting your input to one corner of the battle. In fact, this comes close to approximating 
 one of the series' strongest features: cooperative multiplayer support. The games based on the 
 Gettysburg engine have been ideal for multiplayer matches, but not just for going head-to-head. 
 You can also set up a battle against the AI with you and other players dividing control of friendly 
 troops among yourselves. Playing alongside friendly AI-controlled troops with the ability to give 
 them general guidelines is almost like having bots in a team-based first-person shooter. When you 
 take into account the random battles you can set up, as well as the historical variants, Austerlitz 
 has almost unprecedented replay value for a game centered on a single battle.           Order descends 
 into chaos.    

  There are historical nuances that make the three sides distinct, but these aren't clear until you've 
 played quite a bit. The French have the most powerful troops, since they represent Napoleon's army 
 in its prime. Austria's Grenz brigades are crackerjack skirmishers, as opposed to the unruly mobs 
 of Cossacks that the Russian allies used as cavalry. But by and large, you're always playing with 
 the three-way dynamic between infantry, cavalry, and artillery. Most of the uniqueness of Austerlitz 
 comes out in the map, which features landmarks like the famous Pratzen Heights that dominated the 
 center of the battle and the Sokolnitz Pheasantry, a wooded hunting preserve that served as a sort 
 of anchor for the Russian/Austrian lines. Also prominent is the Goldbach Stream, which ran along 
 a depression that was filled with fog during the early hours of the battle. The fog, which served 
 as a temporary curtain dividing the battlefield into east and west, is fully modeled in the game 
 as a type of terrain that gradually burns off as the sun rises.   

  Finally, BreakAway Games has included a set of comprehensive tutorials and a thorough manual to 
 acquaint new players with the game engine. The manual includes a detailed and dramatic account 
 of the battle, as well as descriptions of the warfare of the period. This sort of documentation 
 is just another example of how BreakAway Games has taken pains to put together a complete package. 
 As far as Napoleonic warfare goes, you'd be hard-pressed to find a game as visceral and polished 
 as Austerlitz: Napoleon's Greatest Victory.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: qorda
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 22, 2005 11:05 am PT
Review:  If you like games of the age of horse and musket warfare then you wont find a more well balanced 
 game as this. It is the true king and the real thing. Many games about that era are hex based and 
 take ages to play and not so pleasing to the eyes. Others are eye candies but so unrealistic that 
 a battle is concluded in five minutes and you find a dozen AI errors during that time. This game 
 is a real balance. Average graphics for its time but with real time action. No hexes, no turns. 
 Smooth handling and easy ordering system. 
  It is a pure battle game. No resources, no buildings needed. From the start you are in the thick 
 of the battle.
  You can choose to be a French, Russian or Austrian General and command troops in a scripted scenario 
 or one of thousands of PC generated unhistorical scenarios in the locale of Austerltz, one of the 
 greatest victories of Napoleon; news of which broke the heart of Pitt, the British prime minister.
 
  Game has nice but scanty music and dialogue delivery that is limited to corporals barking orders 
 or troops shouting at the rout of enemy regiments. This in one way is bad but on the other hand 
 re-inforces the grim atmosphere of the battle. 
  AI is very clever and attacks you at you weak points soon after these become apparent. I think 
 it is nearly compatible to playing with an average human opponent. 
  Game play is excellent and this is the war game that took the longest of my PC gaming time.
  
 Surely three cheers for it! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
