-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Auto Assault
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/autoassault/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting setting for an MMO.
 Combat is more interesting than typical MMO combat.
 Features low-riding thugz that use bass as a weapon.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lack of players makes forming groups tough.
 Lack of a death penalty means never having to care if you're going to live or die.
 Cookie-cutter quest design gets old fast.
 Technical glitches really get in the way.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 27, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.2, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 569 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NCsoft
Developer: NetDevil
Genre: Sci-Fi Online...
Date:     Apr 13, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Auto Assault has potential, but that potential is buried under layers and layers of problems.

  On the surface, Auto Assault seems like an entirely different type of massively multiplayer online 
 role-playing game. Instead of running around with swords or laser pistols, you're a postapocalyptic 
 car, armed to the teeth and armored for protection from all sorts of mutants, scavengers, rogue 
 militiamen, and so on. As you get deeper into it, though, Auto Assault reveals itself as a pretty 
 standard MMORPG. Like most games in the genre, it's addictive. And the tweaks and the setting itself 
 help make it feel different. But it also has a series of problems that really hold it back.  

 
          Auto Assault is a slightly different take on the MMORPG genre.     

  The biggest change that Auto Assault makes to the genre's typical formula is its combat. Rather 
 than just press an attack button and watch the fun while firing off the occasional spell or special 
 skill, Auto Assault makes you think more about your car's position while you're fighting. That's 
 because your main methods of attack are a front-mounted weapon and a turret that rotates atop your 
 vehicle. And you don't just hit an attack button and watch the shots fly back and forth. Instead, 
 you actually hold down a fire button to start firing your weapons. The game draws a few arcs on 
 the screen that represent the range of your weapons, and when you get an enemy in those arcs and 
 hold down the fire button, the game starts rolling a ton of theoretical dice against your stats 
 to determine if your shots miss or hit, and how much damage is done. There's a bit of skill involved 
 in keeping your enemies in front of you when you're engaging in direct combat, though not all of 
 the classes in the game specialize in such direct methods.  

  There are three different races here. The humans have only recently resurfaced onto the contamination-covered 
 planet after locking themselves in massive arks and bombarding the planet in an attempt to cleanse 
 it. The mutant race is very spiritual about things, and it uses the contamination to heal itself. 
 The biomeks were once the human race's front line of combat against the mutants, but after all 
 the pure humans locked themselves away and left these cyborgs to die, the two factions don't really 
 get along very well. That leads to player-versus-player conflict in the middle of the world map, 
 but you don't really get to see that until you've reached the upper end of the level cap.  

  Each of the three races has four classes. They all have different names, but the four classes 
 fill similar roles for each group. There's a warrior-style class designed for direct frontal combat. 
 You tend to have a ton of hit points and plenty of skills focused on dealing damage, as well as 
 skills focused on taunting enemies to attack you instead of any weaker allies in your convoy. The 
 engineer (or constructor or shaman, depending on your race) class serves as a healer and is also 
 able to resurrect broken vehicles. The mastermind (or archon or lieutenant) class is your pet-handling 
 class that engages in combat indirectly by sending various robots or creatures out to do battle. 
 The fourth class is a stealth class. As you might expect, all of the various classes have their 
 ups and downs, and some of them seem better suited to survive than others, though survival isn't 
 actually too important in the grand scheme of things.  

          Why buy a mount? Auto Assault gives you a car right at level one.     

  There's no 
 real death penalty in Auto Assault. When you run out of hit points, your car blasts apart and you 
 can either wait to be healed by another player or get an airlift back to the last repair station 
 you visited in that zone, which more often than not, isn't really very far. This encourages exploration, 
 but at the same time, you never really feel any tension from the battles. Win or lose, it almost 
 doesn't matter. If you have enough hit points, you can complete many quests by driving into a cluster 
 of enemies, ignoring all of them except for the ones you need to eliminate for the quest, and killing 
 them until you die yourself. Then just get an airlift out, repair for free at any of the healing 
 pads placed around the repair stations, and drive back out there to kill a few more, if you have 
 to. We spent most of our time as a human commando and rarely had any trouble taking care of quests 
 without help from other players. Only a few of the game's boss-type characters required some extra 
 help.     

  Even though there are some benefits to be had from teamwork, it's a good thing that you don't always 
 have to rely on help from others in Auto Assault, because the servers really aren't very populated. 
 The game's four servers are usually listed as "very low" population, though one of them occasionally 
 gets up to "low." Even still, outside of the main low-level city area where people are always trying 
 to sell crafting materials, seeing other players can be something of a rarity, which helps to give 
 the game its barren, postapocalyptic feel. In fact, each one of the zones is instanced to prevent 
 any one of them from getting overpopulated. But considering how little of the game feels "massive" 
 or "multiplayer," the monthly fee to continue playing beyond your first 30 days seems awfully hard 
 to justify. Save for the large player-versus-player area that you can get into after grinding your 
 way to the top, this game could have easily worked under the Guild Wars model of strictly instanced 
 areas and no monthly fee.  

          Overlapping quest goals means that you might have two or three quests at the same time 
 that ask you to kill the same type of enemy.     

  The quest design doesn't help shake this feeling too much. While you'll encounter handfuls of different 
 factions out there to fight against, almost every quest seems to boil down to killing a specific 
 number of a certain type of enemy, killing specific enemies until they drop a specific number of 
 items, driving around a series of waypoints, or running around town to deliver items. The towns 
 in the game are awfully dull, and you're taken out of your car when you're there. Since you don't 
 really customize the look of your player after creation, all of the players look roughly the same 
 in town, and they don't look very good. Aside from going there to get quests or craft items at 
 a crafting station, there's very little reason to remain in a town for very long. But since questing 
 is still the best way to earn experience points (despite a few spots where there didn't seem to 
 be many quests available for players of our level) , you'll quest like crazy.  

  You'll often get rewards for completing quests. The most common reward is money, but there's also 
 equipment to earn. You outfit your vehicle with a handful of different items. In addition to the 
 turret and front weapons, you can also get a rear weapon, like an oil slick or a land-mine dropper. 
 Armor protects you and raises your defense. Your power plant determines how much power you'll have 
 for your skills and how much heat your weapons can take before they overheat and stop firing. An 
 ornament slot acts much like a slot for an enchanted necklace would in a fantasy-themed RPG. Tires 
 determine your handling on different surfaces. And your hazard kit is used at higher levels as 
 a sort of super-move that's different for every race.  

  Though much of Auto Assault puts you in a car, this game doesn't really control like a driving 
 game. You'll use the typical set of MMO game controls to drive around, and they work well for controlling 
 the action. The car movement is good enough, but it's not very exciting on its own. The cars bounce 
 around, some of them flip over more frequently than others, and so on. But you're never going to 
 mistake the driving in this game for the control you'd get in an actual driving game. The physics 
 in the game are reasonably good, and you'll spend a lot of time blowing apart abandoned buildings 
 and watching parts of them fall as you scavenge for crafting materials.  

  The crafting in Auto Assault is interesting, though it also seems like it's awfully extraneous 
 through much of the game, as you're constantly earning and finding new and better equipment as 
 you quest. Instead of actually making items from scratch, crafting starts with you repairing broken 
 equipment using items like duct tape, polymers, rubber, radioactive material, and tons of other 
 salvaged material that drops off of enemies or pops out when you shoot up abandoned buildings. 
 When you fix an item, you have a chance to memorize that item, which lets you make another dozen 
 or so of them before you "forget" how to build them from scratch. It's not very intuitive, but 
 once you get the hang of it, it's pretty easy. You'll have to choose which crafting disciplines 
 to become proficient in and work your way down a crafting tree until you choose a master discipline. 
 Other aspects of the crafting let you improve the items you create via experiementation, and if 
 you can't find the proper broken items to fix, well, you can break the items you have with the 
 reverse engineering skill. The crafting seems like the sort of side project that would become more 
 useful in the end-game, but along the way it doesn't come off as a very key part of the game.  
 

  The game also has its share of technical glitches that impact its looks. This is unfortunate, because 
 the car models and the environments generally look great. Granted, it's mostly a series of postapocalyptic 
 areas with a lot of burned-out buildings, but they all look great, especially in higher resolutions 
 with antialiasing enabled. Unfortunately, the game seems to have some sort of memory-leak issue 
 that causes frame rates to sink over time. If you spend a long time playing the game in one sitting, 
 it seems like your frame rate eventually sinks into single digits, making the game barely playable 
 until you quit and restart to fix it. Things like weapon effects and explosions are all done pretty 
 well, but with the problematic frame rate, the whole game is a little hard to look at.  

          With some extra time spent on fixing its technical issues and providing more varied quests, 
 Auto Assault could have been much more.     

  The sound has similar problems. Sometimes sound effects seem to randomly cut out or just not play 
 at all. Motor noises are extremely subdued, and you never really get a good sound of your tires 
 driving on different surfaces, so there aren't any squealing tires, loud skids, or anything like 
 that. Also, the game would have definitely benefited from a little speech. Without it, your time 
 spent in the towns is practically silent. Just some sort of "oh, hello there" when you activate 
 a quest-giver would have really gone a long way to giving the towns a little more personality. 
 Also, the music in the game is often quite good.  

  Auto Assault certainly has a lot of potential. But in its current form, that potential is squandered 
 with repetitive quests, technical glitches, and a complete lack of challenge from most of the environment. 
 It still has the same addictive nature that most good MMOs have, though, so if you're an MMO player 
 looking for something new that you'll only really need to play during the first free month before 
 moving on to something else, Auto Assault will scratch your itch.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (50 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dustout
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 13, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I picked up auto assault for cheap at EBgames, and very much enjoyed my time playing. Then my time 
 ended and i just didnt feel like it was worth paying $15 every month, i would much sooner play 
 WoW for that much money. Ultimately i think that if they lowered the price to $5 a month then i 
 would be willing to continue my membership... but definatly not $15 a month.
  
  Ascide from that i had no issues with anything about the game, i had many good times killing bosses 
 and such. Ohh and you should become an enginner if your a clan person, and if your more of an independant 
 type of person then i'd reccamend going for commando. Those are both human race classes, but they 
 should have similar names in the other races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grinch123456
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 14, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  ==Synopsis==
  The very first thing I thought when I first heard about this game is The MMO people are running 
 out of ideas. This can't possibly good. Boy was I wrong!
  
  The graphics are quite good. The gameplay is very fun. The music in the game is some of the best 
 I've ever heard. However, the game should not be 15 dollars a month (officially) . Luckily, it's 
 being pennied out (price cut, essentially) across the nation. The collector's edition is roughly 
 10 dollars depending on where you look (Best Buy I believe has it for around that price) . 2 month 
 timecards are also hovering around 15 in retail stores. All in all, an extremely fun game that's 
 certainly worth the price in regular brick-and-mortar stores.
  
  ==Gameplay==
  Gameplay is a extremely similar to Interstate 76 and 82 (much older games from the 90's) . Race 
 around, fire your weapons, boom. You have several mounting points: A Front Weapon, a Turret Weapon, 
 a Rear Weapon (mine droppers, etc) , a Melee Weapon (blades to ram with) , a Power Plant, Ignition 
 (the keys to your car) , Armor, and an Ornament (hood thing, like on Jaguars except gives buffs) . 
 It's mostly point, click, and hold down the firing button. Simple, but suprisingly fun.
  
  You can buy new cars as time progresses, from motorcycles to buggies to vans to semis and even 
 tanks, this game has tons of chasses (cars) . Cars can furthermore be tricked out with glowing scoops 
 and spoilers so you can rice your tank if need be. All in all, what can be customized has a great 
 depth to it.
  
  Skills are things that, once used, can damage your enemy, heal/buff you, or passively buff you. 
 They are gained with levels.
  
  ==Graphics==
  Graphics are simplistic but effective. A moderately powerful computer is needed to run this game 
 (9800 Pro/GeForce 6600 or better) . The only problem is the inclusion of PhysX. It absolutely demolishes 
 lower end computers. Havoc Physics would have been a much better choice.
  
  ==Sound==
  Absolutely stunning. The music is one of the greatest scores ever crafted. The sounds of the machine 
 clanking away are meaty and crisp. Absolutely stunning.
  
  ==Value==
  Auto Assault is a fine game, but surely not worth the 15 dollars per month NCSoft wants for it. 
 Luckily, retail stores have it for pennies on the dollar. I would go there and pick up lots of 
 timecards while still possible. The Collector's edition is roughly 10-15 dollars and comes with 
 a fine headset and some other things. A great buy for something that was once 80 dollars.
  
  ==Conclusion==
  One of the best MMO's I've played, Auto Assault is surely worth your hard 
 earned cash. Addicting but entertaining, you never once feel like you're grinding to level 80. 
 It's all fun all the way through.
  Maybe I'll see you there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usshaddon
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 29, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This is actually a good mmorpg, its that after playing it for hours you will kinda of get tired 
 of driving. Now im a big fan of mmorpgs, but not really much into racing games, so thats why i 
 gave this game a semi-bad review for it. The graphics are pretty good just like the sound quality 
 that it has too. The gameplay is fun, but not too adictive like a regular mmorpg. This is a good 
 game to buy because its really cheap, lol, you can buy it at bestbuy for at least 10 dollars, at 
 gamestop it might be like 20 or 30 though. This is a good mmorpg, but if you don't like driving 
 cars around for long periods of time then this game isn't for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_GundamRX78
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  While leveling from 1-80 Auto Assault is a blast. Truely Auto Assault continues to deliver through 
 each and every quest. The game is a ton of fun. Up until level 80, that is. Once you hit level 
 80 the fun of this game comes to a crashing hault. Now you no longer have anything to do. You can 
 PvP constantly, but that gets boring after awhile and if you're like me and hate PvP in pretty 
 much every MMO then you have absolutely nothing at all to do. I played AA for over a year in beta 
 and over six months after launch. I had a ton of fun leveling up, there's no doubt about that, 
 but then I hit level 80... and I had nothing left to do. When I did log on I simply drove around 
 and shot at a few random NPCs that logged off again shortly after. Soon I stopped logging in altogether, 
 and soon after that I simply quit. I've been reading the coming updates for AA but I have yet to 
 see any worthwhile level 80 PvE content added into the game. I truely want to get back into this 
 game, I truely want to enjoy it again, but it's just not possible... There's nothing to enjoy past 
 level 80.
  
  AA is one of those few games that's actually a blast to level up through. Through that point the 
 game is amazing, truely a masterpiece. But once you hit level 80, well, you may as well quit the 
 game. There is truely an end game here because once you hit level 80 that's it; there's no more. 
 No more fun to be had, no more adventures, no more danger or action. Nothing. I truely hope that 
 AA has some wonderful level 80 PvE content added into it to make this game great. There's no doubt 
 that, with a little work, this game could be one of the best MMORPGs on the market. It just needs 
 work. But I don't see the Devs willing to do this work. They really don't seem to know what to 
 do anymore. They clearly had big dreams, but those dreams fell through and now they're lost. If 
 you want a change of pace from the normal MMO Auto Assault is a great game, it's totally unique 
 from any other MMO that I've played combat-wise, and even leveling-wise. But don't expect to be 
 able to play this game for a long time, AA has no long-term gameplay value. I'm afraid it doesn't 
 have much of a long lifespan at all.
  This game needs help desperately if it's going to survive to see its first birthday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torq2112
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up thinking it would be so-so. I figured I would get about 20-30 hours of fun 
 out of it. Boy was i wrong! I've been playing this game for over 4 months now and I find it very 
 addictive. Not WOW or Everquest addictive, but fun nonetheless. The only gripe I have is that yu 
 seem to plateau around level 20-25 and again at 40-45. seems to take a loooong time to get to level 
 30 from 20. nearly twice as long as 10 to 20. But overall a good game. I wish ncsoft would drop 
 the monthly to $10 instead of $15. But that's just my opinion.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartmanstein
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 2, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  My hopes were once high for autoassault. Over the last 2 years, the game always looked like it 
 could grow into something amazing, for this is actually an MMO thats not an RPG. Sadly, the makers 
 of this game takes all that potential that I thought it once had, and was overlooked and kinda 
 broke it in half I guess. Both the super-duper action combat and the RPG elements manage to very 
 mediocre, and theres just not really a whole lot that compelled me to this game. Autoassault is 
 built almost exactly as an MMORPG, except you spend most of the time in your car. You'll accept 
 quests from miscellaneous NPCs, hunt for enemies to gain EXP points and various loot in the wilderness, 
 and get new skittles and powers when you lvl up. Whats makes this game unique is that instead of 
 riding a mount or some dat medieval crap, you're in a car. About damn time somebody did somthing 
 wit cars that didn't suck COMPLETELY. Even though it SOUNDS pretty cool, (who wouldn't want to 
 play an MMO version of Twisted Metal?) the doesn't really draw the gamer anywhere close to the 
 ZONE, which is when you haven't seen daylight for a LONG time because of games. The thing with 
 the action side of this is that the whole strategy is targeting an enemy and holding down right-click 
 to keep on firing while using yer skittles to keep on truckin. I know what alls yalls be thinkin. 
 "This is the same goddamn thing that MMORPGs use!" Well, unlike most MMORPGs, it gets very very 
 very very very very very boring after about an hour. There is a customizable character option, 
 but thats kinda pointless cause your in your car the whole friggin time. Certain areas and encounters 
 look pretty darn good if you have a decent graphics system on your computer. The whole RPG side 
 is perfection with a fairly coolass crafting system and extensive playa vs playa framework. On 
 the bad side, you won't be able to stop and talk with your friends cause your always gonna be moving 
 or doin sh! t. If you stop to flirt with some chick playa, than your gonna be an easy target, and 
 people will kill you before you have the chance to ask her out. Sooooooooooo when somebody kills 
 you, a helicopter comes by to pick you up to take you to the garage to get you fixed. Even still, 
 theres nothing actually broken about Autoassault, it just gets boring at times. Although what really 
 turned me off to this game was that there was none to play with!!!!!!!! Except of course higher 
 lvl people than me that I can never beat, so I can never lvl up. Overall, its okay its just not 
 worth $15 bucks a month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebelILL
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  This game is NOT the same as your typical MMO! If your into games like Guild Wars where the action 
 is slowed down and you sit and watch it this is not your game. But if you like a bit of RPG flavor 
 and fast-paced intense action this game will take your soul
  
  Difficulty: Due to the lack of a death penalty it really does not matter if you die or not because 
 a plane will come and drop you off at a repair facility. It does suck however when your so involved 
 in combat that you dont realize that your are about to die and then a popup appears saying that 
 you crashed! Also when your almost dead and you use health power ups that SUCK! Seriously who needs 
 a 5% health increase that takes two minutes to use?
  
  Learning Curve: The driving controls take a while to get used to, and the game has a complicated 
 craft system that takes a while to get used to
  
  Gameplay: Imagine if you will the game Mercenaries in its level of chaos, Twisted Metal in controls 
 and weapons, and Diablo 2 in the number of enemies huddled up into towns. This game plays amazingly 
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics look bad when you start playing but as you play, you start to get used to 
 the look and feel of the game
  
  Sound: The music is o. k for a MMO but Auto Assault lacks in this department. The sound effects 
 tend to be weaker than what you would have wanted them to be and NPCs have no voices. This makes 
 the towns feel barren, but thats ok thanks to the games post-apocalyptic setting
  
  Value: This is a great game yes but, a monthly fee!? If this game was in the field of World of 
 War Craft that would be ok
  
  Overall I give this game a 9.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEBUDDHAMAN
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw Auto Assault, I thought, wow a car combat mmorpg. And I decided then and there 
 I was going to buy it. Now, I just got it 2 days ago because funding was off, but wow am i suprised. 
 After all the terrible reviews I read about it, i thought about not getting it. But I did and i 
 love it. I love the combat, and the fact that the havok physics engine is used. I'm using a weapon 
 now that is basically a flak cannon from unreal tournament. I absolutetly reccommend this game 
 to anyone whose tired of all the regular mmorpgs out there and want something different. Anyways, 
 go get this game if you like combat, plus most of the bugs have been fixed thanks to daily patches 
 and updates to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoelHH
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 13, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that caught my eye when I saw auto assault was being able to drive around in cars 
 and shoot stuff. This puts together two of my favorite gaming genres: Racing & Shooters. So I decided 
 to give this game a go.
  
  Getting into the game takes some time. Having played games with stellar graphics and superb menus, 
 it took awhile before I was fully use to the layout of the game. Once that was overcome, it was 
 still hard to fully enjoy this game. The driving was pretty good, but there was no real sense of 
 amazing speeds and some of the jumps were a little too unrealistic. The sounds that the vehicles 
 make are pretty weak as well.
  
  Something that was entertaining was the amount of enemies that would spawn. In any given location, 
 there would usually be tons of enemies to attack. This made the game fun, but sometimes this was 
 a little too overwhelming and it made it too hard to know where everything is.
  
  The quests in the game were, for the most part, simple shoot 'em up style quests. When you talk 
 to someone, they would normally want you to go and take something out or to go talk to someone 
 else about something. These sorts of quests were fun at first, but start to lose their flair once 
 you've done around 100 of these.
  
  There is also content where you can exit you vehicle in towns. The graphics here aren't that great, 
 and are especially awful on the character running animations. Even trying to move the character 
 is somewhat of a chore since the character does not always seem to more in a flowing sort of motion. 
 If done properly, this aspect could have really added to the gaming experience.
  
  Auto Assault looked like a good game from the box cover, but once you sit down and play it there 
 really isn't much to it. It could have been put together so much better and made it at least worth 
 the monthly fee. If you like cars and you enjoy blowing stuff up your satisfaction will not be 
 quenched by this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ministerpaul
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 11, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately a sucker is born everyday and surely one was born on March 5th, 1971 after purchasing 
 Auto Assault. Having not played Auto Assault yet I question the deceptive packaging which fails 
 to notify the buyer just how expensive playing this game would be. The idea of pay per play does 
 not fancy most gamers who already pay enormous fees for high speed internet among other monthly 
 bills.
  
  Hearing that there is few players is now surprise as I read the dissapointing reviews pointing 
 out the many bugs in this game. Auto Assault should rethink the expensive fees it charges monthly 
 for player to simply play the subpar game. I would understand if this game was in the same arena 
 as World of Warcraft. But this game has been an Assault on my intelligence and all serious gamers 
 on a budget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mutly
Rating: 4
Date: May 28, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Okay, when i first stumbled onto the Auto Assualt website in a drunken stupor i looked at all the 
 details and thought "wow! thats gonna be a brilliant game"..... deary dear me.....
  
  So, a while later (once more in a drunken stupor) i stumbled onto the website and thought "Aha! 
 a free trial" much rubbing of hands in a gleeful manner and all that. logged on, created my rather 
 ininspiring character (having played CoH, this wasn't the best i'd ever seen) and jumped straight 
 into the training area. Now, bearing in mind its a DRIVING game, you'd think there'd be at least 
 a half decent control system right? wrong. It was very clunky and felt, to be perfectly honest, 
 like one of miniclip's latest games. 
  
  The sound fares no better, and even with the full graphics pack downloaded and installed, the graphics 
 are uninspiring to say the least. 
  Please, if you have a holiday or a weekend with nothing to do, download the free trial and have 
 a bit of fun bashing a car around at a high speed, but don't pay for the game. It could of been 
 great, and maybe some major changes to the whole **** will make it the good game it could be but 
 when will developers stop doing a lucasarts with their games ?
  
  Aaah well, it was a fun few hours, but thats all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coronatus
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 25, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Auto Assault can be pretty much described as City of Heroes in fast, pimped out cars. Basically 
 you race through a devastated landscape shooting everything you encounter along the way or just 
 try to escape it by driving as fast as you can if you don't feel like fighting. However, in most 
 cases you will fight since the game does a good job at teasing that blood thirsty little beast 
 dwelling inside of each of us.
  
  You progress through the game the same way you do in World of Warcraft, by solving missions. In 
 fact, that will be your one and only way of gaining experience at all. The XP dished out as mission 
 awards is huge compared to the puny XP you get for killing. However, as I already said, the game 
 does a good job at teasing your inner blood hound, so you'll just find yourself rampaging through 
 outcast trash settlements just for the sake of it more often than you think.
  
  The roleplaying part suffers though. Roleplaying while sitting in a car is dorky at best, plus 
 the game is far too fast paced to give people even a chance to put any thinking into deploying 
 roleplaying speech. There are towns which you explore as your avatar, outside of your vehicle, 
 but due to a complete and utter lack of /emotes you'll find it hard to roleplay there.
  
  The servers are quite empty and a /who * rarely shows a number consisting of three digits. Perhaps 
 wait some more time until you join. However on the other hand people who sign up for a longer time 
 period by subscribing using a 6 month recurring payment method automatically get rewarded by better 
 item drop chances.
  
  All in all Auto Assault is a nice game for people who like it fast, furious and don't care about 
 a story or reading at all that much. Login, destroy everything you see, maybe solve a few missions, 
 then logout again with your thirst for destruction quenched. That's what Auto Assault does... nothing 
 less. And nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snackdaddy
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 18, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  I played beta MANY MANY months ago and I couldn't stand it. I was hoping, as it got closer to gold, 
 it would prove to be far less buggy. Sadly retail appears to be just as problematic. The game felt 
 chunky overall graphical issues also plagued my ATI card. I was looking for something special, 
 something with a nice new edge and some innovation. All this title did was fall short, very short.
 
  Maybe NC Soft can score with Tabula Rasa. Auto Assault was a BIG miss for me. Don't buy it; I'd 
 even skip over in the used game bin. Bad NCSoft bad!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joblinger
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 6, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  I spent my first night reading the fictional backstory posted on the autoassault website -- totally 
 got into it and went out and bought the game the next day. I love the post-apocalyptic setting, 
 role-playing and drving around in a car blowing everything up with my machine gun. Just love that 
 idea.
  
  On the other hand, I didn't particularly like that you could never run out of fuel or ammo (in 
 most cases) . The explanation was brief -- in the future, nobody needs fossil fuels any more. It 
 feels like I'm missing out on all the Road Warrior-type quests that this could have created in 
 the game. 
  
  In addition, a lot of the vehicles do not look like what would be left after an apocalypse. It 
 feels like some of the rust, grittiness and similiar look to today's vehicles is missing. I guess 
 I'm just fixated on the idea of Mad Max and "... the last of the V8-Interceptor's." To be fair though, 
 once I actually started trying a few out, they did have the sound, look and controls that felt 
 right.
  
  In a slight bit of a tangent, one area of puzzlement is where exactly, in what's left of the United 
 States, is the setting. Perhaps that is revealed later in the game, but it would've been more immersive 
 I think to get a sense of that from the battered street signs or rusted billboards.
  
  Other than that I had an absolute blast blowing through some derelict town and cutting down some 
 Pike rebels, upgrading my vehicle and just discovering all the areas in the game. I'm now 10-12 
 hours into it, and I think I'll probably being playing for another month; beyond that I'm not sure 
 the game will keep me hooked via a monthly subscription fee.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darcius
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 6, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  I didnt have the pleasure of playing the full beta or paying to join the beta. 
  but i did get a chance to join in on the weekend event they held which was a total of about 4 or 
 so days.
  
  i fould the story line quite catching and enjoyable. and the game it self fun . but thats all i 
 really enjoyed. 
  
  for a game that boasts about being one of the best mmogs due out, its suprising lacking in many 
 areas 
  
  the few i did find are. the graphics are justplain bad. for a game using newer graphics it was 
 like loading up a game from the early 1990s the textures sucked. and there are many little bugs 
 still in the game. 
  
  as well for a game which puts you in a car about 99.9% of the time there is no ingame music. no 
 radios to blare while driving or anything, just the wind rushing by and the sounds of weapons going 
 off
  
  though the map (s) are very large and inticing they lack really any ambiant the trees dont move 
 "when you find some non-mutated trees" as well the monsters dont really make any noise or idle 
 action besides walking around
  
  i had hoped for more customizations on cars and people, but there is really not alot to do. you 
 can paint your car fancy colours and put metal plates on it but they dont do any thing. 
  
  you would think having tire gaurds and tail fins your car would get more speed or defence but it 
 doesnt
  
  over all its not that bad. if you like a grinder with meh graphics
  
  the monthly cost seems alittle steep for it though, but thats just my opionon
  
  if you didnt 
 like CoH/CoV your not going to like this one. as its a clone of CoV only altered to be cars instead 
 of super heros.
  
  all i can say this game has going for it. is the 80% totally destroyable terran and the fact you 
 get to speed around in wicked looking cars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexWade
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 5, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Was Tina Turner the only thing you didn't like in Mad Max? Ever wanted to blow stuff up? Ever wanted 
 a MMORPG where you never had to worry about dying, just worried about having fun? Ever wanted to 
 ram your car into a building just to watch it fall down? Then Auto Assault is for you.
  
  Of all the MMORPG's that I've played (not many) , AA is the most fun. Some MMORPG's are long and 
 drawn out, hard to level, and worse emphasize not dying over having fun. Really, I could spend 
 all day just driving through the neighborhood running over stuff and blowing it up. Since it always 
 respawns, you can do it again and again. If you die, well you had fun and that is all that matters!
 
  
  AA does have its glitches. When travel to a new area on the map, the whole scene changes and there 
 is ALWAYS a delay. Unless you seriously dial down the graphics. For that, my graphics score is 
 very low.
  
  It is a little hard to get in, but that isn't too bad as it makes the reward more worth it. It 
 has a lot of depth overall, though the mission and story lines are shallow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostyGoat
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 4, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to take some time to actually make the Gamespot review a bit more accurate, along with 
 a few of my own thoughts.
  
  [QUOTE="Jeff Gerstmann"] The Good: Interesting setting for an MMO; combat is more interesting than 
 typical mmo combat; features low-riding thugz that use bass as a weapon. [/QUOTE]
  
  Wheres the metion of a prettty dang deep crafting system most MMORPG's dont offer? Wheres the thought 
 of the fact that this game has some of the if not the best written storylines (Humans are the exception 
 needing some work not much though) .
  
  [QUOTE="Jeff Gerstmann"] Each of the three races has four classes. They all have different names, 
 but the four classes fill similar roles for each group. [/QUOTE]
  
  Basically it sounds alot like to me that he says they are all the same thing basically. Or at least 
 he dosn't state the fact that they aren't. Sure each race may have a Healer type class, thing is 
 they all play fairly different. Sure all of them get three different pets, and a few other skills 
 that are similar to others. However they will all play alot differently, as alot of skills aren't 
 like the other races.
  
  [QUOTE="Jeff Gerstmann"] Win or lose, it almost doesn't matter. [/QUOTE]
  
  Here Jeff was talking 
 about the DP (Death penalty) . Reason for this being is because the game isn't meant to feel like 
 a grind. Which is what happens when you get XP Debt in like City of Heroes & Villains. Or in WoW 
 how you are weakened and alot of times cant some close to killing guys you were before you died.
 
  
  [QUOTE="Jeff Gerstmann"] almost every quest seems to boil down to killing a specific number of a 
 certain type of enemy, killing specific enemies until they drop a specific number of items, driving 
 around a series of waypoints, or running around town to deliver items. [/QUOTE]
  
  What freaking MMORPG isn't like that!?! Thats basically all the others have. However there are 
 Escort missions also, and one or two not in other games. Also the funny thing is, if you "Read" 
 the quests they are interseting and typically make them fun to do. The Biomeks and the Mutants 
 have very superbly written out quests you will find, and even better are the Story Arcs.
  
  [QUOTE="Jeff Gerstmann"] The crafting in Auto Assault is interesting, though it also seems like 
 it's awfully extraneous through much of the game, as you're constantly earning and finding new 
 and better equipment as you quest. (Goes on to more about it till concluding with this. "The crafting 
 seems like the sort of side project that would become more useful in the end-game, but along the 
 way it doesn't come off as a very key part of the game. " [/QUOTE] 
  
  This here shows how little time he spent trying this. The crafting is the deepest you will find 
 in just about any MMORPG. The fact that its not all useless like in WoW when I was playing that, 
 its better. Unlike WoW how you can't make anything usefull for yourself, thats not true here. If 
 you spend a decent amount of time tinkering around with building your craft, and repairing broken 
 items, you will find yourself with very usefull armor. The fact that you can also break your stuff 
 down and add enchaments/and or gadets (gadgets come with the item or they dont) allows you the chance 
 to make it even better. Though Jeff at least knew this bit. Simply put the crafting rules.
  
  [QUOTE="Jeff Gerstmann"] We spent most of our time as a human commando [/QUOTE] 
  
  If he 
 actually went out and played with the other factions a whee bit more then he did, assuming he did 
 try the others even a slight bit he outta know half the stuff he dosn't. Also if you bother checking 
 out the forums or just talking to others on the game you would know that basically everyone else 
 knows Humans are basically the newbie class. They are the easiest, and the race most lacking in 
 gameplay from the others. The terrian is all the same basically, not that entertaining storys, 
 etc. Not saying they suck or anything however.
  
  ------------------------
  
  Anyways at the current time being yes the population is really low. You won't find much more then 
 80ish to a hundred tops guys on a server during high times, except Breakdown who gets a little 
 more and will read as "low" population. However those that do play the game are all very helpful 
 for the most part and a great deal of fun to convoy (term for teams) with. Being in a good clan 
 however is key to really enjoying this game I feel. Clans add alot of fun and X number of buddys 
 whom will all have your back. I've seen this in every clan I tried out.
  
  Graphics and the havoc engine rules! If Jeff thinks the graphics and sound are choppy, he needs 
 a dang new laptop/computer. I don't get any of that stuff here, sorry pal. 
  
  Another key point of this game is PvP, which may be a little rough but its also very addicating 
 and fun. Well from what I hear all the newbie humans own Ground Zero (the middle place of the map 
 where factions fight in the open) , however there are the OCD guys in town whom you speak to, to 
 use a arena. Here you can randomly join a match or a tournament. Head on head, or teams it your 
 pick. PvP here even lets you face those on different servers, not just your own. 
  
  The game is a very new and fresh hold on the MMORPG genre. Ya sure it may be like any other MMORPG 
 at the core, but its crust is done in some very fun and unquie new ways. Most notiacble is the 
 combat system. This acutally requires skill and a bit of thinking if you want to prevail to the 
 top. The medals you can earn for doing crazy stuff like getting so much air/hang time off jumps 
 is sweet, and theres alot! of medals to get. Killing 100 to 1000 or more certain type of enemys, 
 completing story arcs, etc.
  
  The only thing this game needs is the Auction house and Respecs we should be getting by the end 
 of May. Some of the bugs in it to be ironed out too would help. The bugs are nothing more then 
 little annoying, nothing game altering by any means. the Devs have let us know there are alot of 
 features coming out trailing in behind the finish line that didn't make it to launch. However as 
 they get some bugs ironed out we will be seeing alot of new context, and this game shall shine 
 brighter then it did before. Its also a very smooth launch game, as I've been playing it since 
 two days after launch. Alot of MMORPGs were unplayable with daily long roll backs for a month or 
 two after launch.
  
  Strap on that seat belt, and hit those roads mofo!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turbo2076
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  I'm gonna keep this short and sweet. This game is very good, and VERY addtictive!
  
  I have to disagree with the GS review about it not being a big deal if you die because there is 
 no death penalty. It IS a pain in the butt when you are in the middle of trying to kill a certain 
 NPC to finish a mission and you die and have to go back to the last repair station that you used. 
 And if that happens to be on the otherside of the map, then you have to hike it ALL the way back 
 to the mission area!
  
  Other than that, the game is a real blast ( no pun intended) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZafoPL
Rating: 5
Date: May 3, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  I gat excited at this game first hoping to get "Twisted Metal" MMORPG style.
  After painful installation (i had to have 10 gig of free space when game takes only 5) i got to 
 creating character.3 races to choose but only difference is how they look and name of the classes 
 rest is pretymuch the same. There ar 4 standard classes: typical fighter , typical crafter , typical 
 mage and typical stealth type guy. Look of the chars is one off the ugliest i ever seen in mmo 
 so i just chose random (car design ar nice thou) and went to game play. After short tutorial (short 
 is good) i started to kill thigs which was fun for first hour then i went to look for some quests.90% 
 of them ar "go there and kill 10 of those" type wich is not to exiting. Only thing i liked about 
 that game is that half of battle depends on your aim and driving skills so you can take on enemys 
 whit higher lvl if you feal up for it.
  Point for originality for this game but to bad the good ide was so horribly wasted After Guild 
 Wars and Lineage 2 i was expecting much more from NC soft.
  Waste of money and time if you ask me , ther ar beter games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garanz
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 2, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Definate change from the same old dragons and goblin mmo, which is sooo played out. game runs great, graphics 
 are excellent. my opinion people are turned off by this game is because it is NOT a dragons and 
 goblin smashing game. the game has sum issues but it was just released. in my opinion this game has 
 huge potential and if they stick with it and add new content regularly, patches etc. it has the chance 
 to be a great game, also i beleive people are turned off by this game because they cant get used 
 to being in a vehicle and not seeing your character often like so many other mmos do, but i give 
 NCsoft props for always jumping in and trying sumin totally different then the same old thing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkshp1
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 2, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  I played this for a while and have to agree with that other guy, the missions got old thying to 
 complete an area, and having to do missions way under powered so you dont have to go back was not 
 good. The grafix were a bit glichy and I have a wicked machine. Over all some of the space type 
 mmo's are way more advanced in game setup, and there should almost be some trade involved so when 
 you are cookin across country you can earn some more cash. Most of the stuff you pick up is worthless 
 and then the stuff you build isnt much better. But driving around causing total carnage is always 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eaglesoft
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 30, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Yeah call me sick and disturbed, like many other posts on this forum, I went into the game saying 
 I am going to regret it, I wanted to say to the people out there in mmorpg. com, dont waste your 
 time on this one (hell I even bought the collectors edition so I could get really pissed at myself) .
 
  
  Guess What?
  
  I Like It I cant believe it!!!?!?!?!
  
  There must be something wrong with me to like this game. It goes to show you, you can never tell 
 till you try. In the 1st 15 minutes of the game, I said, yep, this game sucks, but for some reason 
 I kept pressing on and found out, I started liking it. 
  
  Anyways, just thought I share my results as well.
  
  My mmorpgs now consists of DAoC, Anarchy 
 Online, Eve and now Auto Assault! LOL
  
  I still cant believe I like this game... ROFL
  
  This game might noy be for everyone, but if your skeptical about the game. Find a friend with 
 a Trial Key. Then you will know.
  
  PS. Running over NPC Mobs and smacking them into buildings is excellent, especially when you hit 
 a NPC Character (not vechicle) they go flying in the air. Buildings collapsing and vechicles on 
 fire.. ROFL woohoo.. ok.. enuff of that.. nvm
  
  Blood and all sorts of **** all over the place, no wonder why it got a TEEN rating.
  
  Reminds 
 me of Grand Theft Auto Online. I still havent figured out the crafting, so I got a **** load of 
 upgrades and cant even figure how to equip them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zethcarn22
Rating: 2.8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  NCSoft rushes another project for a quick cash-in. They have proven time and again that they care 
 more about bringing in loads of cash then providing a high quality game. This company is utter 
 crap!! 
  
  The game is fun for about 2 hours then it's the same mission-crap that maybe 3% of the people will 
 bother to read over and over and over again, just like City of Heroes. This game is actually a 
 great idea but HORRIBLY executed. I was hoping it would be the next Eve Online... but what a joke. 
 
  It's really like you are playing and paying for a beta, this game is so unfinished. 
  
  If people keep buying this crap they will keep making it, unfortunately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishisluv7
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  
  Rank: 60/100 Rank: 60/100 Rank: 60/100 Rank: 60/100 Rank: 60/100
  
  Registered: 1/08/06
  Posts: 55
  
  I said to heck with it and went to the store and bought 
 AA. I loaded it up ready to be dissappointed, since I've been jaded, and felt ripped off by all 
 but a few MMOs in my day.
  
  Let me tell you, AA is the first MMO I have actually had FUN playing. I mean real fun. The physics 
 are great, the cars and graphics are nice (as long as you have anti-aliasing) , and g-dammit, this 
 is just plain ol blast 'em, blow stuff up fun!
  
  I unlike some, really like the no death penalty set up, since some classes would be screwed with 
 an xp loss. I made a bounty hunter (my fav) , a Commando, and a Constructor so far. All are really 
 fun. i died many times on my non-warrior type toons, but like I said, no biggie, you heal up, and 
 head back out.
  
  The controls are great, very intuitive.
  I like how you have so many options on how to be set up. for example, you can choose emphisis on 
 speed, defence, or offence. Then you can also choose between three settings like faster firing/less 
 accuracy, vice versa, or more defense, greater crits.
  
  Lots of huge, and I mean, huge jumps, variety of mobs, and weapons.
  
  The loot; My god the 
 loot! This game is a crafters dream. It does have a pretty high learning curve as far as crafting 
 goes, I was completely lost for a while (still not 100% sure) . But its really fun to learn.
  
  I know I haven't gone in much depth for some who may be considering AA, but as a jaded MMO'er (I'm 
 looking at you DDO, thats right, hang your head in shame Turbine) , this is just a good time, fun 
 as hell. Explosions, gunfire, 100MPH speeds, jumps, super deep crafting, heat shimmers, I could 
 go on..
  
  If you are on the fence, my advice is buy this game, and spread the word. NCSoft has done a crummy 
 job advertising it, because the population is low. But AA blows many current games out of the water 
 fun-wise, and I want this game to make it. Buy it, love it, blow sh1t up, and have a blast!
  
  7 Thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  This game is growing on me, but it does have a load of technical issues that to this day I cant 
 see how developers of these games leave out
  
  First off, the chat and party interface is circa 1997. No options to move the windows apart, set 
 colors for incoming messages, change the fade in and fade out of the boxes. Its terrible and this 
 goes back to most NC Soft games where they spend little time on the interface.
  
  Right click hold down is shooting, so in order to rotate the camera you have to use the middle 
 mouse button. 
  
  Thank god the game auto aims
  
  The graphics are sub par, but thats ok. Movement and combat is clunky, but its passable. 
  
 
  The quests are alright, but the worst think about this game is the lack of community. The towns 
 are instanced, and it would have been better to be able to leave your vehicle in OUTDOOR towns 
 to talk to people and trade.
  
  Housing is grossly unexplained, and much the game still feels like a beta test. Crafting is a mess, 
 but can be learned if you go online to read about it.
  
  Still it has a draw to it much like Earth and Beyond did. But hte loot itemization and the way 
 drops work is really too random and makes no sense. The sound in this game is TERRIBLE. Some sounds 
 are too muted, others are too loud. Very clunky. Weapons are sub par and boring to listen to
  
  many people have come here to inflate the review and honestly have an agenda because they either 
 hate other MMORPG's or they havent played that many to compare. But this game is a very run of 
 the mill quest game that you have to pay a monthly fee for with very little payback. Guild Wars 
 Factions has much more to offer right now if you want a new NC Soft title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reidn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  I was a beta-tester for AA, and this review is based on my experience of the beta just before release.
 
  
  Basically, this game is the anti-WoW. WoW is about social interaction, long drawn out fights, and 
 basically just running around in a pretty world while chatting with your buddies. This is fine 
 if this is what you want. Personally, I found the whole experience extremely tedious.
  
  Enter AA. 
  No travel times between cities: Just click a button and you are there.
  Fast movement 
 outside of cities: I never spent more than 5 or 10 minutes trying to get anywhere.
  Diablo-style item system: Some ex-Diablo designers worked on this game, and it shows. If you liked 
 the item system (which was castrated in WoW) , you will love the item system in AA.
  Deep and interesting crafting system: The crafting system works in part because the item system 
 is so great. This is the best crafting system I've seen in a game yet.
  Deep and interesting fast-paced combat: Enough said.
  
  So basically, this is an MMO that is 
 all about the gameplay. I've been waiting for a diablo-style MMO for a while, and this is the closest 
 thing I've found yet. If you want a game that is more about interesting combat and character customization 
 and less about tedium and forced social interaction, this game deserves a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zankine
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  This MMO has is one of victims of the large selection of games out there. It is a fabulous game 
 that is one of the smoothest games I have played this close to release. 
  
  I'm not into cars, but this game is good enough to make that unimportant, it's great to customise 
 your vehicle so that you can run over people better, and shoot at a greater distance. The game 
 is smooth, the graphics are phenominal. There are some bugs that have yet to be worked out. if 
 you pick it up and like playing with other people keep an eye open for a more populated server. 
 
  
  I give this game my highest recommendation. It's worth playing. As a wise man once told me, "if 
 it gets old after a month of game-play that's still better than most of the console games I'd buy 
 this month." So definitely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddt
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I know that a lot of people don't like the game, and have issues with the gameplay and lots of 
 other things. Don't get me wrong, it does have problems and glitches and bugs that need fixing 
 - I can't imagine any game that has ever been released that didn't have those things. But looking 
 beyond that, once in a blue moon a game will effect you, as a player, and will infect you to keep 
 playing it. For me, this is that game.
  
  It's a lot like a really stupid movie that, despite your better judgement, and despite what everyone 
 else says, you really like. And so you will continue to watch it on your director's cut DVD, regardless 
 of how many of your friends think you're a dork for doing so. For me, that movie is "Krull", and 
 the game that fits into the model is AutoAssault. 
  
  It's just FUN. I like driving around and blasting the crap out of the environment and mobs. I like 
 getting missions to drive around and blast the crap out of specific things for some semblance of 
 "purpose". I like the complicated crafting. 
  
  This game just feels good when I rub it on my limbic brain. I am hardwired to play it, always have 
 been. So I will do so until they switch off the last server and call it quits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smurth
Rating: 4.2
Date: Apr 26, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Like any recent MMORPG, Auto Assault seems to be about kill, kill, kill and then get better equipment, 
 repeat. There is no death penalty so dying is just an easy way to get back to HQ. Unlike most MMORPG, 
 the combat requires you to constantly attempt to aim and shoot .. this gets pretty frustrating. 
 I did not see any point in grouping, nor did I easily see a way to even do so. However, I am not 
 a FPS fan and do like EQ2, so this may just not be the game for me. I am sure there are fans of 
 worlds set in post-apocolyptic times that love to immerse themselves in the Mad Max world that 
 may like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zzyn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 26, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Great new taste for an MMORPG! Many things to do, deep creafting system, TONS of quests, blowing 
 things up, PvP.. Its all there. There are a number of features that didn't make it right at release, 
 but based on the posts from the devs many great things are on the way. It completely normal for 
 an MMORPG to release with a number of features still 'in the pipe' and I look forward to seeing 
 them!
  
  The loot drops are extremely varied. You never what what you'll get, and even better, you always 
 know that there is very little chance that anyone else will ever have the exact same thing. The 
 loot variance alone makes this a keeper for those that love that kind of thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayman291
Rating: 2.9
Date: Apr 25, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing new or revolutionary about this game, just a bunch of old and tired concepts thrown 
 together in a crappy MMO. The graphics are nothing new and very blah. The UI is very awkward and 
 combat is just awful (not even close to Twisted Metal if you were expecting that) . Sound bugs reminiscent 
 of the MxO helicopter sound bug (remember how annoying that was?) and the overall sound and music 
 is just plain terrible. There's pretty much no character/car customization. The car designs are 
 boring and bland. I think that's about it. If you like this game, umm why? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost777
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 26, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  This game is one of those conundrums for me. As a MMORPG it is not very good. The content and feature 
 set are not rich enough to warrant spending 15 a month and yet I have no problems doing so. As 
 a player that has played this genre since UO came out I have come to expect certain things in modern 
 games. WoW specifically has blown it for me in terms of what I look for in a modern MMorpg. 
  
  First lets tackle my two main gripes one of which has been confirmed to be in the works. There 
 are no auction houses in the game but this will be implemented or so I heard. That isn't that big 
 of an issue for me. My main true gripe is no way to mule in the game save trusting someone big 
 time or getting a second account set up as your transferee or mule in general. There is no way 
 to mail your alts any money or items. Some may say that is good as some view twinking as an evil 
 deed. I'll concede to your point on twinking in general but a lack of mailbox also prevents you 
 from sending a friend an item they can use. 
  
  A good example that I agreed with on their forums was a guy that found an item and had to go on 
 vacation. His buddy was not on at the time of his last outing so he was never able to send him 
 the item. When he got back his friend had outgrown the item but could have really used it. It would 
 have saved his buddy an hour or so of game time because of faster kills do to greater accuracy 
 and higher dps.
  
  Those are in terms of me wanting to play very minor gripes. Even though I do not want to if they 
 never implement a mailing system I may just plop down for another account. Thankfully I can afford 
 it but alot of people are not as privileged as me. I am currently spending a hundred bucks a month 
 to game with friends when they log into their appropriate MMorpg. My actual time is split between 
 Dual Boxing Wow and AA. When friends log on I'll start up my Stormreach, EQ2, SWG or RF Online 
 account but those only get played maybe 10 hours a month at most. It's a small price to pay though 
 if it lets me chat with friends and have fun when they are halfway across the world or on the other 
 side of the states. I'm in Cali btw.
  
  Now for why I can't stop playing this game. It's one of my favorite movies of all time in game 
 form. MAD MAX BABY YEAH!!!!!!
  
  No other game allows such wanton destruction. Drive around, run people over, blow up buildings, 
 ram cars it does not get more fun. Add on top of the giddy factor a rich and deep profession structure 
 and you have what can be a very good game. Unfortunately what is there seems more akin to a single 
 player / LAN capable game than a mmorpg. This game is Interstate 76 for the modern masses. Unfortunately 
 for this game comparison wise, 76 was a single player game with multiplayer capabilities. And even 
 as mmorpg lite as it is I still don't mind paying for 6 month lots of game time. Grrrr what gives 
 is there mind control beams coming out of my monitor for this game?
  
  Another great aspect of this game is its loot. I love the loot in this game. The loot is what brings 
 me back to my original gripes. You WILL get loot you cannot use on the current chassis/class. The 
 only way to sell it to others is to go to each major hub and spam its sale or just vendor it for 
 far less money. Unless you get lucky and sell it quick you actually make more clink faster by playing 
 not by selling to other players. Also there will be times you have multiple toons just to try each 
 class/race out. They are all fun when played the way they are supposed to be played with some minor 
 variances. You can play any class like a warrior class but they will no be as effective.
  
  Well I gotta get my AA fix in. Dang this game. I do not want to play but I love it at the same 
 time. This is one of those games that truly does grow on you. Unfortunately there are no free trials 
 and the beta is over. Unless you can play on a friends account I really don't know if I can recommend 
 this. If you don't mind gambling 50 bucks then please try this out. If you do plop down for the 
 LE and find a presell box. COMPUSA is selling them for 20 cents I think it was. EB may be handing 
 em out and Bestbuy sells it for 10 bucks but then you can just use that 10 bucks towards actual 
 purchase of the game.
  
  This game has a lot of potential but I know not all can afford a gamble on if they like it or not. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yongja
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 25, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  The games setting makes it stand out of the recent mmo games, with the post apocalyptic world reminding 
 me of Mad Max. The gameplay is fast paced, enjoyable and relatively easy to pick up. It seems to 
 be geared much more to the casual gamer rather than the hardcore ones and so far there has been 
 little need to team with any other plays at all. 
  
  Whether there is enough content to hold a player's long term interest remains to be seen. Several 
 key elements seem to be missing, such as a way to sell items to other players in an organised way. 
 Which is a great loss considering how involved the crafting system actually is. There also seems 
 to be gaps in content and bugs that stop players from completing certain quests. Luckily as an 
 online game most of these can be sorted out. How quickly these fixes and extra content appears 
 will decide whether this game goes down as a great game or one that had great potential but went 
 no where 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paraclete
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 24, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  As you can see from the other reviews, this is one that hits the heights or depending on your personality 
 the rocks pretty quickly. If you are the type of person who wants a Solo friendly game, one that 
 has fast driving skills and also a very in depth crafting system this is the game for you.
  
  I'm the WOW type who enjoys the PVE environment and Auto Assault deliverers an outstanding 
 mission based solo playing experience. Not to say you can't group, because you can. You can also 
 though take on PVP if you so inclined as well.
  
  The crafting experience is great fun, allowing you to customize your vehicle to suit your personality. 
 Frankly the game so far has all the right "fun" things that the great MMORPG's have. I couldn't 
 help but to reflect back to my first experience with DAOC, it feels the same. You can chart your 
 own path, customize as you like, explore some fairly big zones and it passes the fun test. It's 
 one of those games that you think about at work. :)
  
  If you're expecting just a twich shoot, fire and forget game you probably won't like it, but give 
 time to get adjusted to I think you'll have this on your hard drive for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emoslayer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Recently I contracted a virus which causes me to become obssessed with MMORPGs. This was given 
 to me through WoW. When I bought, installed, and played Auto Assault, it got even worse! 
  
  Cheesiness aside, Auto Assault is a joy from the start. Graphics are better than expected from 
 an MMORPG, and the sound is superb. Gameplay is great, especially with friends. The greatest addition 
 to the MMORPG genre is Auto Assault's built-in voice chat. It makes communtication a lot easier, 
 as typing can become a bore. *yawn*
  
  Overall, Auto Assault is a great game, and if anyone says it sucks, they can go play Guild Wars! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g0dsd3vil
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 23, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Auto Assault is the newest MMO on the list, and is supposedly the "fastest and most destrcutive 
 MMO ever". Fortunately this is the fastes MMO ever played as well as the most destructive. However, 
 at its current state, there are a LOT of minor bugs that need to be repaired, but as we can see 
 from experience, all MMOs start off with many bugs that eventually get patched up. The graphics, 
 are astounding if you have a very high end video card and Motherboard/CPU. The car detail is amazing 
 as well as rag-doll effect and shading/lighting makes this the most visually advanced MMO up to 
 date. The sound, is perhaps the weakest point in the game. The starting theme of the game is rather 
 dull and boring. The menu sounds fit in nicely, but the lack of depth in weapons sound and the 
 like bring the overall sound quality of the game. 
  
  Lets start off with gameplay. As we know Auto Assault is an Massive Multiplayer Online game. However, 
 this is the first game to take a different approach and actually use cars as your main form of 
 combat in the game. Presumabely, first timer games usually ... well they usually suck. However, 
 this game actually brings in the grim twisted car combat of Twisted Metal, and mixes it with its 
 own MMO quests and cities etc, to bring you one f**cking hell of a game. Right when you begin the 
 game you are given fun quests to drive around and kill mobs etc. The firing and whatnot are simplified 
 to let even MMO newbies work things out on their own accord. In fact, the most difficult thing 
 about Auto Assault is the crafting. 
  Crafting is the process of taking broken items (armor, weapons) and using raw material to fix them 
 to use on your car. Most items you will obtain will be broken, and crafting is a necessity. At 
 first, you will be creating low level items, mostly repair kits et cetera and after levelling your 
 crafting, you will soon be able to experiment by adding unique parts to your weapons that would 
 help you in PVP. Crafting may sound difficult at first but, sooner or later everyone will get the 
 hang of it
  Next comes the levelling. Each time you level (which is not as often as most MMOs) , you will be 
 given attribute points and skill points. There are four attributes you can upgrade: Combat, Tech, 
 Theory, and Perception. Each will help you in a specific area. Skill points are basically used 
 for helping you achieve what you need. For example, some skills improve your accuracy et cetera. 
 
  There are three races and 4 classes for each race in Auto Assault. Biomek, Mutants and Humans are 
 the three races. Each race consists of a tanker, a buffer/debuffer, a stealth and a PET. 
  And now, is where the problems begin. Firstly, the quests are usually too easy for anyone to think 
 of making a group to quest together. That is a problem because that takes the whole multiplayer 
 portion from an MMO. However, eventually quests do start to get difficult, but even then it seems 
 to take a while before finding a suitable convoy (group) to quest with. Most people will be busy 
 playing in the PVP arenas where all the races fight to death.
  Overall the gameplay is extremely fun, but many bugs and the lack of having a buddy to help you 
 on quests, knocks it back.
  
  Next is the graphics. This is the first MMO to use dynamic shadowing as well as lighting. As well 
 as the car detail and the destructible environments are dazzling. You can literally run and blow 
 down buildings and cars just for pure entertainment purposes. Ofcourse to be able to achieve the 
 best visual standards, your graphics card must be extremely high end. Fortunately the developers 
 of the game let even people with decent computers run the game on low/medium settings. Therefore 
 even us who have rather crappy computers will be able to run it fine on a lower setting. Overall 
 graphics are top-notch
  
  Sound is the least attractive of the 3 with some really good pros, but also some cons. Firstly, 
 the ambience is a turn down as it can get boring as well as repetitive. The weapon sounds are amazing, 
 but the lack of variety makes it seem boring after a while. The actual driving and destructive 
 sounds are the best in the game, and just having the feeling of hearing a building being blown 
 to pieces by your slug cannon can make your day. Sound is good, but can be impoved on by far. Sometimes 
 you may realize that sounds are mssing in places.
  
  In conclusion, Auto Assault is a great game with tons of fun to be had. For 59.99 (canadian) as 
 well at 14.99 per month, (first month free) it is hard not to pick this one up and just give it 
 a try. Definately worth you rmoney if you would like to have a great mix between an MMO and a driving/shooting 
 game like Twisted Metal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this since the first beta a year and a bit ago. It made a very nice change 
 from the normal 'fantasy' themed MMO's that have been around since EQ started.
  
  The first thing that grabs you when you start to play is that the enitre world is destructable. 
 You can damage and destroy absolutely anything and everything. It does make the whole experience 
 a lot more realistic.
  
  The look and feel of the game is very nice. Turn up the detail and it all looks lovely and is very 
 pleasing on the eye. The sound is atmospheric as well and helps a lot with the overall ambience 
 of the game.
  
  From here on though this is just another MMO where you have to work your way through missions, 
 killing and collecting stuff all the while levelling up and buying better stuff for your car.
 
  
  There is a nice break from the driving around and bashing stuff, you can go to the town areas and 
 meet and chat and buy and sell stuff etc in a FP view where you wander around on your own tow feet.
 
  
  So in closing, this is nothing extra-ordinary that is going to blow you away but if you like playing 
 MMO's and want a refreshing change from the norm then it could be well worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DimitreusX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -Fun to drive the vehicles around. Great physics engine helps with that.
  -Environments are nice enough looking for the designed pacing of the game. Things being destructable 
 helps make travelling more fun.
  -The ability to change where you place your 'power.' You can choose a portion of speed, defense, 
 or offense depending on your situation.
  
  Cons:
  -There is a distinct lack of customizability to the weapons and armor. There are only 3 weapons 
 slots along with a few slots for wheels, armor, and such. It just feels like there could have been 
 more customizability, particularly in weapons.
  -All the pros get old after about a week of playing
  -The crafting doesn't have anything particularly 
 interesting about it. It's desirable to do only because it allows you to get weapons and armor 
 you can't normally get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mada_Nniuq
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Lots of vehicle and character customization options
  Many weapons and upgrades
  No penalty for death other than going to a repair station
  3 Races and 4 Classes to choose from
 
  Fast-paced MMO with surprisingly no lag
  Reliable Server Status, unlike WoW
  Clans
  Well-designed characters, vehicles, and plot
  Good vehicle control, isn't too arcady but it isnt 
 Forza Motorsport either.
  Battles are fun, keep you entertained
  Decent PvP system (similar to City of Heroes/Villains but a little better, more people go to the 
 Arenas and PvP areas)
  
  
  Cons:
  Complicated Crafting System
  Many technical problems, but you can get past those
  $15 a month
  First levels and areas are 
 boring
  Not a whole lot of players unless you're on the Human race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow-Phax
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  I played Auto Assault and it is fun for a couple of weeks. Maybe it can entertain for a month. 
 I mean it's just driving and shooting. I can do that in GTA: San Andreas plus I can get out of 
 the car and do a lot of things. It's a major disappointment.
  
  When you do get out of the vehicle, theres a limited amount you can do. You can buy, sell, train 
 and modify hardware with tech skills. You can get lessons on these skills at different garages. 
 Thats all well and good but its pretty boring after a while. 
  
  Another boring thing is there is no single player campaign. What the developers call single player 
 isnt really single player. They say single player is not joining a group or interacting with other 
 online players. But there is no true single player. You have to be logged in to play the game in 
 the first place. Thats a pure rip off. 
  
  They could have made a better game if you didnt have to log in to play the single player mode. 
 They could have simply let the player get the game and go against the games AI opponents. But 
 no they want their monthly fee. Its a major rip-off for an action game. Most action games have 
 single player as the main component and optional online play.
  
  Recently Ive been playing GTA San Andreas and it shows that a single player game can give you 
 so much to do, you dont need multiplayer.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krow_xxvii
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I beta tested this game for quite a while. I really enjoyed the first 15-20 hours that I played 
 it. It's a good feeling when you have a weapon turret on top of your car and you drive around blowing 
 stuff up. Was really fun.
  
  The basis of this game: you are stuck in a vehicle during nearly the whole duration of the game. 
 Almost every quest you do you are inside your vehicle.
  
  I like the story-line and enjoyed a lot of the things I did in the game. After the 10 levels, though, 
 I got sick of questing. I got bored. The only motivation to continue playing the game was to get 
 enough "clink" to buy a new vehicle, and even then, after I did get a new vehicle, I was bored 
 immediately afterwards.
  
  I must say that I felt this game was a welcomed change from FFXi and WoW, but I ran into the same 
 problem in Auto Assault that I ran into with WoW.... too much questing for my taste.
  
  When you get a little ways into the game and you get to your first city, as soon as you enter the 
 city, you notice a very ugly character model with sticky and limited movement. Reminded me of old-school 
 2D games. Bad camera movement in city.
  
  The graphics outside of the cities are acceptional to great, and the sound effects are pretty good.
 
  
  This game offers something that I have never experienced in other MMOs: I get to drive a car and 
 blow stuff up. So if you enjoy questing and driving a cool looking car that packs a punch, then 
 give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaladon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  Auto Assault is for the individual who wants to come home from a hard days work, and feels like 
 letting his/her agression out, yet still wants the feel of developing a character (or in this case 
 a car) from the very humbling beginnings to a very exciting endgame.
  
  Auto Assault has many things going for it, and few against. In the world of post World of Warcraft, 
 it is very difficult for an MMO game developer to compete. The inevitable comparisons arise, but 
 lack because people do not realise games are different. 
  
  This is no exception with Auto Assault. This game takes the MMO and breaks it! With the emphasis 
 on car combat, this game breathes new life into the market. Now the alternate for Fantasy MMO's 
 isnt just sci-fi gun shooting games. The market now has one more choice. 
  
  This game is just a blast to play. Despite the ordinary bugs every launch mmo has, this game is 
 surprisingly solid. Most MMO games dont even allow you to play the first few days because of issues. 
 The game steady increases in fun as you play. the first 9 lvls are somewhat of a bore, but after 
 ten, more of the game opens up, and more options become available to your car. I think people should 
 give more time to this game, and give it a chance. after getting into a clan, and grouping with 
 voice chat, the game is very entertaining.
  
  All in all i really hope this game takes off and survives. I feel after a month or two the inital 
 small issues will be worked out, and then they can consentrate on the things really needed. Like 
 a auction house! ;)
  
  So if you in the mood for something different and/or just want a game where you can start out fresh 
 and be involved with something new really give this a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silpherx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  THis game is fun and addictive. The gameplay is original. unlike other mmorpgs, you actually have 
 to move around and aim for combat. storyline is soso- but there are many quests to do and little 
 to no grinding involved (unlike L2, RFO, etc) . If you're looking for a mmorpg that involves more 
 than a few clicks here and there for combat, auto assault is for you. Anyone remember interstate 
 76? this is the updated version, online style. Some things like arena and pvp needs more work, 
 but they should be better by the time people top out levels. CHeck this game out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sastra1978
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  What a rush! Just played through a 3 hour session of AA. 
  
  A very refreshing change to a stagnant stable of MMOGs... I started to hear about this game last 
 year. I was little worried with feedback from the beta testing. But after playing the game for 
 the past 2 days, I can say that I am glad I bought it.
  
  Fully destructive environments, deep crafting, skill based systems are some of the features of 
 the game. That coupled with a weather generation system, great graphics and the Mad Max experience 
 I could not ask for more.
  
  After playing many MMOGs this game is actually fun. The learning curve is about 30-60 minutes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Margulis_
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Its fun for about 2 weeks then you'll find the gameplay will get way to repetitive even for an 
 MMoRPG. If you thought other MMorpgs where repetitive stop reading here because this thing basically 
 is the same from level 1-80 with a few changes to gameplay. About level 5 you get a front weapon 
 which will make you aim the front of the car towards the bad guys and about level 12 you can get 
 a melee weapon which you can use to ram bad guys with, also there are rear weapons that you'll 
 probly never use. Whats supposed to be the big carrot is the level 40 hazard mode but it takes 
 so long to charge you probly won't use it often inless you just want to pwn a boss or kill some 
 one quickly in the arena. Thats about the only diffrences from level 1-80 besides that you can 
 pick from fast firing or slow firing, multi shot or single shot guns only thing is is that everyone 
 knows fast firing multi shot weapons are the best. Questing is probably the most repetitive aspect 
 of the game since basicaly there is only 1 type of mission which is the "kill this many and collect 
 this many from them and deliver them to that guy" kind of missions and since they developed the 
 game so that questing was the fastest way to level it gets boring fast, plus all the quest text 
 is about the same anyway so if your looking for a good story just go to the AA website and read 
 the Lore because none of its in the game.
  
  Crafting is pretty deep but there is no in game economy yet so your pretty much crafting for yourself 
 or your clan, plus crafting is very time consuming and isn't something stays about equal to your 
 level so alot of the time you find your self crafting things lower than your level. Random loot 
 generation is about the only addictive aspect of the game, its pretty fun to find the same guns 
 but with diffrent stats (just not fun enough to stick around) . Car and character customization 
 is near zero (you will look like everyone else from you class you just might be blue and they'll 
 be red) , plus cars look about the equivalent of hotwheels. The hazok 2 physics engine could have 
 been used better, cars drive like they where taken from some budget racer for little kids, Ragdolls 
 just slump instead of flying way or getting stuck on the front of your car when you run over infantry 
 (mostly because when you hit them it doesn't register as a hit and they just phantom threw your 
 car) , and you can't even smash threw buildings if you try to your cars just going to bounce off 
 in less you fire at a building and drive thew it as its falling.
  
  Plus this games so easy its mindless, there's absolutely zero challenge here. You can get from 
 level 1-80 with very little to no challenge. Combats basicaly pushing 1 button on your mouse and 
 keeping the bad guys within range and in your sights and maybe hitting a skill or 2, its not very 
 hard and requires no skill sometimes it gets frusterating. You can solo all the way up and experience 
 about 99% of the content without grouping (which isn't exactly a bad thing) .
  
  Basicaly its something diffrent with a few good ideas but thats about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DismasX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 15, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  Ive been looking forward to this release more than any other so far this year and so far the game 
 looks and feels great. The controls prove to be a steep but short learning curve and the game soon 
 feels smooth and fast.
  
  The destructible environment adds something extra to the game offering a certain satisfaction when 
 the structure before you crumbles to reveal an item drop.
  
  After only a few hours play, I have already bolted on air scoops, spoilers, rocket launchers and 
 more to my car giving it a really personal feel.
  
  BUT and this is the major problem, I have an ATI X600 graphics card and although the game looks 
 great and is fast and smooth, the game appears to cause the latest driver to crash with alarming 
 regularity. Tech support is looking at the problem but based on the forums, Im not the only one 
 with this issue which appears to be linked to ATI cards.
  
  So in summary potentially an excellent game (if you dont have an ATI X600 graphics card)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodreaverSlut
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Auto Assault is new kind of MMORPG. It's based in a post-apocalyptic world where just wandering 
 around is no longer possible due certain circumstances. The solution to the problem? Vehicles!
 
  
  Auto Assault (AA) is a MMORPG you've never played. Some major differences compared to the traditional 
 MMORPG:
  - Vehicle Combat
  - Destroyable world
  - Use of Physics on all most everything
  - Unique gameplay
  
  It might sound boring: cruising 
 around in a armored vehicle and shooting everything you find. But the opposite is true: AA is a 
 challenging and fun MMORPG, set in a never before shown world with unique gameplay.
  
  The gameplay:
  In AA your vehicle has "hard points" basicly spots on your car where you can put 
 equipment in. You can have a maximum of 4 weapons on your car: front weapon, turret weapon, rear 
 weapon and melee weapon. Other hard points on your car differ from species, but i played as Human 
 and it had the following: Hazard kit, ornament, tires, armor, power plant and key.
  Items to put in those slots can be found and bought almost everywhere and there tons (and I mean 
 tons) of items for you to find.
  The combat system is also something really different, there is no such thing as auto-attack. In 
 AA YOU must aim your weapons (for best result, auto targeting is possible but less effective) , 
 steer your vehicle and use skills. The only way to be effective is by lining up your weapons, which 
 means turret weapon, front weapon and melee weapon all attack the target. This means you will have 
 to drive up to the enemy, lining up your front and turret weapon, then smashing into the enemy 
 using the melee weapon to deal great amounts of damage. Ofcourse this is not always possible, so 
 just driving around might turn a good result as well, depending on how strong you are compared 
 to the enemy.
  
  The combat is intense, you shoot, drive, smash and destroy all at the same time. Stuff around you 
 blows up as you hit them (with either guns or your vehicle) . It looks awesome and gives the game 
 the perfect feeling.
  
  The graphics:
  The graphics are pretty good, though you will need a high-end system to fully enjoy everything. 
 With the destructable environment and shadows, it might cause some slowing down in framerate, but 
 usually it's stable. Also low-end PC's can play this game, since textures can be set REALLY low 
 and all shadow can be turned off.
  Recommended for this game is atleast having 1GB of memory, because i play it with 512 and it causes 
 some annoying freezing during heavy combat or entering new areas.
  
  The Sound:
  is awesome! Every gun has his own sound, hundred of environment sounds, combined with good music 
 gives the game a great feel.
  
  Value:
  The game will keep you going for quite some times, there are literaly 1000s of missions (quests) 
 for you to do PER RACE. You'll spend lots of hours doing them and all of them are fun to do.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone that likes MMO's, like driving and shooting or just 
 blowing stuff sky high, but still enjoy a very solid RPG.
  
  - Bloodreaver 
::::::

::::::
UserName: autumnsun1
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing AA since beta and Ive seen it grow in unique ways but unfortunately, the game 
 is still plagued by numerous bugs and requires some serious tinkering. In the one day since the 
 game went live, I re-recorded over 80 issues that any player will encounter in the game. This issues 
 plus hundreds more have been given to the dev team many times but they are havent given us the 
 slightest sign that they are aware of the issues or are going to address them.
  
  Like other players that Ive talked to, they are also disappointed with the performance of the 
 game and the frequent lag that youll experience while driving and especially in any town. I will 
 continue to play the game for the first month as its free but after that, if theres no improvement 
 then my friends and I are leaving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VirginFingers
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 19, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  This game was a pretty original idea, and a risky idea. I'm impressed with this game thus far, 
 I got the pre-order and have played since the 9th. I missed out on the beta because I didn't even 
 know about it. A guy I work with at gamestop handed me the free pre-order package that all employees 
 where getting, so I took it home and tested it out.
  
  The game is just very good overall. There's alot to learn at first, it may be confusing. It was 
 for me because I had no manual. But once you get the basic idea it all seems alot clearer. There 
 are so many skills, it's very impressive. You can pick your stats to put up, something all MMO's 
 are missing mostly, yet this is a fundamental part of character building.
  
  There's alot of items, and the crafting system is very very deep and interesting. Not only that, 
 but it's actually useful, unlike in WoW, the early stages of any trade was pretty much useless. 
 This game you can buy a weapon like a rocket launcher, that is broken for very cheap. Then you 
 can refine the components to make it and end up having a weapon that you could not afford buying 
 from an NPC.
  
  The enhancements also are great, the same with gadgets. Overall the item system is a Diablo2 type 
 more than the average MMO type. Items make a huge difference on you your character is, and the 
 items can be enhanced alot. Items don't bind when you pick them up, but do bind when you equip 
 them. So quest reward items you get but don't need, you can trade away.
  
  You can have multiple vehicles, I have found one chassis so far. The quests mainly involve killing 
 stuff to collect mission loot. It's pretty easy using the arrow pointer in the screen, or blue 
 dots on the map. The quest rewards are useful for a change, unlike alot of games. You also level 
 up fast if you stay on track with missions.
  
  Destroying stuff gives you lots of crafting commodity items, which are useful if you intend to 
 make items. There's just a tun of options on this game for how you want to play. My mutant champion 
 can put up his offense by 20% but lose defense and speed, and then turn on siege mode and just 
 plow through stuff. Or he can put of defense and then go into the mode that boosts defense.
  
  The camera is changeable, use the middle moue button or wheel to do so. You can zoom in and 
 out, or rotate the camera and view from above or side, etc.
  
  Overall it's just an awesome game I'd really suggest looking into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JephirDromulus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Auto Assault in the beta for quite a while now. I must say I am very impressed. 
 Auto Assault features a lot of new game ideas, like fully destructible environments and global 
 PvP ladder rankings. But what really makes this game shine is that they pull it off perfectly, 
 creating a special game that's worth playing.
  
  The idea in the game is that aliens sent some sort of biological "contamination" down to Earth, 
 mutating thousands of people and creating war between the pure Humans and the Mutants. The Humans 
 create the Biomeks - near perfect soldiers that are designed to fight the Mutants. However, war 
 goes on, with neither side taking the lead. The Humans, now branded together in the Hestia Company, 
 build massive underground Arks to hide in. They try to cleanse the planet by unleashing massive 
 biological/chemical/nuclear weapons on the surface of the Earth, creating a wasteland out of what 
 used to be a great civilization.
  
  As the name says, Auto Assault is a car combat game. You start out customizing every inch of your 
 character and your car. After a brief but fun tutorial, you are able to explore the Auto Assault 
 universe, traveling between Highways and completing missions. The nice thing is that you never 
 have to "grind" to get XP. There are thousands of different missions, with different objectives, 
 and they give much more XP then if you would be grinding.
  
  The fully-destructible environment is a very nice feature. Everything from the buildings to the 
 cars can be destroyed. The physics engine is amazing, and the graphics are pretty good too. What 
 I really like is the music - it fits the Auto Assault universe perfectly. 
  
  There are only a few problems with the game, mostly with balance issues since the game is just 
 released today. The interface doesn't feel very "snappy" and sometimes gets in your way in combat. 
 Unfortunately, most other reviewers might give a low score because they didn't play the game very 
 long. Believe me, the game starts out pretty boring, but as you near the end-game content, it is 
 the best experience you could ever get. Don't believe people who give a bad score unless they have 
 played for a long time.
  
  Overall, Auto Assault stacks up among one of the top games. With new features and redefined concepts, 
 Auto Assault is the game to get. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
