-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: A Vampyre Story
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/avampyrestory/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Saturday-morning visuals and attitude.
 Challenging, traditional point-and-click puzzles.
 Loads of voice-acting samples and great music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too many puns.
 One amazingly annoying lead character.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 12, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 226 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Crimson Cow
Developer: Autumn Moon
Genre: Adventure
Date:     May 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Cartoony bloodsuckers make A Vampyre Story a cheesy good time. 

  Backgrounds that could have been taken from old Hanna-Barbera cartoons and a bad guy who looks 
 like he just stepped off a Count Chocula cereal box make A Vampyre Story one of the most distinctive 
 adventures released this year. This point-and-click romp through a gothic carnival is more successful 
 for its striking appearance than its gameplay, however. A punny sense of humor generates more groans 
 than laughs, while the traditional puzzle design and a new twist to inventory management can make 
 for obtuse mysteries. Still, the game has enough charm to get it over these rough patches.  

           Mona, the vampire in denial.      

  A Vampyre Story is pretty much an interactive 
 Saturday-morning cartoon. You play as Mona De Lafitte, a ditzy opera wannabe who was turned into 
 a toothy creature of the night by Baron Shrowdy Von Kiefer, who has such a huge pointy head and 
 buckteeth that he could be mistaken for the aforementioned cereal mascot's long-lost twin brother. 
 Mona doesn't much like being a vampire, so she wants to escape the baron's Castle Warg in Draxsylvania 
 and resume her singing career in Paris. Hijinks ensue as the vamp-in-denial tries to get away from 
 bloodsucker central, although this is just the first chapter in a series of episodes. You'll need 
 to do the "same bat-time, same bat-channel" thing and come back for the sequel to see if Mona gets 
 back to France or accepts her undead ways and starts chomping down on villagers.  

  Characters and plot blend modern Disney animated movie conventions with the nonstop puns that weighed 
 down cartoons that the big three TV networks walloped kids with in the 1970s. So you've got the 
 requisite smart-mouthed animal sidekick, in this case a bat named Froderick, alongside punny jokes 
 about everything from the Internet to Ozzy Osbourne to Harry Potter to a pack of rats named Frankie, 
 Dean, Sammy, and Joey. The story is one big groan punctuated by the odd chuckle. OK, that doesn't 
 sound very appealing. And it occasionally isn't, although the biggest culprit here is actually 
 the voice actor who decided to give Mona the squeak of a Gallic version of Jennifer Tilly. While 
 Mona herself may grate on your nerves, A Vampyre Story's general shtick never gets annoying because 
 all the liberal dollops of cheese seem to be in their natural environment here. In front of skewed 
 backdrops reminiscent of cornball cartoon escapades like  Scooby-Doo , puns and broad double entendres 
 are pretty much expected.  

  The structure of the gameplay is less ambitious than the art design. Developer Autumn Moon Entertainment 
 follows the pick-everything-up formula that dates back to the days when Sierra adventures like 
 King's Quest and Leisure Suit Larry ruled the world. The third-person camera tracks a 3D Mona as 
 she wanders from one set-piece 2D location to another, where you need to scour the terrain for 
 any object that can be tossed into her coffin inventory. At least you don't have to scoop up everything 
 in sight as if you're on a scavenger hunt, though. Many useful items can't be acquired when first 
 noticed. If Mona spots, say, a heavy mace that might come in handy down the road, she'll say so 
 when you attempt to take it, and it gets placed in your inventory as a ghost object. Later on, 
 when the mace needs to be used, you drag it into place on the main screen just like any object 
 that you're physically carrying. This triggers an animated sequence where Mona poofs back to where 
 the medieval weapon was hanging on the wall, scarfs it up, and then teleports back to where she 
 started. This new twist on inventory management isn't a total success, though. While this mechanism 
 is a great way of getting your mind off the monotonous "pick it all up, yes even that dog doo" 
 mind-set that afflicts traditional point-and-click adventures, it mainly just forces you to collect 
 objects twice. The second go-round is automated, but it's still annoying to have to watch Mona 
 go back and grab the real version of the ghost object that you placed in your inventory a while 
 back.  

           Meet Baron Shrowdy, Count Chocula's long-lost twin.      

  Most of the puzzles deal with straightforward common sense, at least. Just about every situation 
 in the game is dealt with by simply observing your surroundings and talking with dozens of non-player 
 characters to gain clues. A lot of problems are solved with you-scratch-my-back errands, although 
 these assignments are embroidered with lots of voice acting that gives the people that you meet 
 a lot of character. In the end, you're still doing things like taking out a cat to gain the help 
 of a bunch of rats, or delivering a lost key to a woman in exchange for a horse, but the sheer 
 number of conversations available covers all this up and makes the game livelier than you might 
 expect. It seems like you're actually helping people out, not just filling in the blanks in an 
 old-school adventure game. Most of the voice acting is very good, as well, with the only noteworthy 
 exception being nails-on-a-blackboard Mona. A lot of atmosphere is further added by the musical 
 score. It moves subtly between bouncy and eerie depending on your current surroundings, and it 
 often takes off on flights of fancy like a great remix of what sounds like sections of "Danse Macabre." 

  Even though A Vampyre Story may be too corny for its own good at times, it packs enough character 
 into the moments between the puns that you can't be upset with it for very long. Just about anyone 
 with fond memories of being a cartoon-watching kid will enjoy what this slice of gothic goofiness 
 brings to the embalming table.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: newtos_3d
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2009 10:33 am PT
Review:  I haven't played a good adventure game in quite some time, so i must say that this game really 
 came along just fine. "A Vampyre Story" let's you play the role of Mona, a young opera singer, 
 in her quest to return to Paris. Mona has been trapped by Shrowdy von Kieffer, and turned into 
 a vampire. The journey of a thousand miles starts with the first step, so in order to reach Paris, 
 first, our leading lady must escape from Shrowdy's Castle.
  
  The story takes place in Draxylvania, which is a cartooney version of the real Transylvania. The 
 place really is appealing. Personally i thought the scenes were very captivating, nicely colored, 
 and they really keep you in touch with the story. The interface is easy to use, it's a simple point 
 and click game, and it makes it very accessible.
  
  The puzzles are mostly of common sense. If you're a fan of the genre, you'll ease through the most 
 part of the game. Though there are a couple of puzzles that got me a bit stuck, it's nothing to 
 harsh, so all and all it's an average difficulty game.
  
  The characters that you get to interact with vary quite a bit from gargoyles and horses to witches 
 and ghosts. They are not to well defined, but still they make a good impression. 
  
  The story.... the story in my opinion was great. It really kept me in front of my computer for a 
 while... but the end... i certainly didn't see that one coming. It really feels like the story has 
 a big gap, and it definitely needs to be continued.
  
  All and all i thought the game was quite good, but the ending really pissed me off. (that's why 
 i only gave it 8) . Hope you'll enjoy playing it
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpiritG
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2009 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  1. Beautiful coloring
  2. Excellent artistry
  3. Puzzles that aren't too complicated or way too simple
  4. Plenty of tongue-in-cheek references 
 to modern day
  5. A 'Save Game' feature which allows you to save with one click
  6. A 'Load Game' feature which doesn't force you to scroll to the end of the line for your last 
 saved game, since the most recently saved game is first in line
  7. Interesting cut-scenes 
  8. Separate adjustable volume levels for music, voices, and atmosphere
 
  11. Almost no puzzles where one must hit the right sequence at the exact right time. This is great 
 for those of us with no rhythm or those who are terrible at timing things. The one I recall, actually 
 just involves one click at the right time and the character keeps trying until she gets it so a 
 few minutes of persistence was all that was necessary. (and perhaps a hint from a walkthrough)
 
  11. An overall fun game to play!
  
  
  Cons:
  1. Jokes are constant but tend to fall short of being funny.
  2. Load time between scenes isn't 
 too long but juuuuust long enough to be the tiniest bit annoying.
  3. Characters' lines can overlap, making conversations sound strange. Also, when this happens, 
 the subtitles will also overlap, making them difficult to read.
  4. Sometimes, the characters or objects they interact with will be placed wrong. Such as, when 
 the bat, Froderick, (not Fredrick) , is supposed to be sitting on Mona's shoulder, at one point 
 in the game, he is about a foot behind her, hovering in the air, though still clearly sitting and 
 interacting. This doesn't -seem- hurt the game but it's annoying.
  5. Character physical reactions and interactions don't often seem to be appropriate or sync up 
 quite right. Object usage can also look unnatural in how something flows or moves.
  6. When characters are interacting with other characters or objects, several times the scene will 
 freeze for a few seconds but the scene continues on in the game and in the voice-acting. When the 
 scene unfreezes, it may have skipped ahead to catch up. This also happened at least once to me 
 in the cut-scenes.
  7. Sometimes, the game would freeze without warning for a few seconds and I would worry that it'd 
 crash.
  8. It is tedious to have four choices of interaction available at all times and to have to click 
 on all of them to make sure each item or person can't be used in any way. I think only the possible 
 interactions should be available. 
  9. To unclick an item your pointer is holding, you need to right-click the mouse. Unfortunately, 
 if you do this while the pointer is hovering over a place where Mona can go into a new scene, this 
 takes you out of the scene you were in as well. Very annoying having to remember never to have 
 the mouse hovering in the wrong place during a right-click.
  10. I thought the game would go from the castle all the way back to Paris before it ended. Apparently, 
 it's a game where you have to buy the second (or more?) installment to continue the storyline since 
 the game is finished with her still in 'Draxsylvania'. I hated being mislead.
  
  
  
  Although the game has many faults and flaws, it was still enjoyable to play, however the graphics 
 problems were a pain-in-the-butt.
  
  My favorite parts (and actually funny to me) :
  
  1. When the harlot and the band leader start throwing slurs back and forth. The number of names 
 seemed endless and pretty creative at some points. It took quite a while for them to start repeating 
 themselves.
  
  2. When Froderick says he used to play the slide-whistle at camp and then echoes the famous half-line 
 "This one time at band camp" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2009 6:29 pm PT
Review:  As a long-time PC adventure gamer (in fact, rolling back to the early 80's playing Pirate Adventure 
 on the TI-99/4A) , I love 'em all, for the most part. When Vampyre Story was announced in 2004, 
 then canceled in 2005, then born again to be released this year, I was extremely excited. Now that 
 I've played it, it was worth the wait, but wasn't quite the full-on "LucasArts" experience I was 
 hoping for.
  
  The story is very simplistic, and introduced whole-hog from the get-go before you even start interacting. 
 There isn't much (any?) story development -- the game is really about the characters, dialog, and 
 puzzles.
  
  That said, the puzzles are pretty good. They range from straight forward "key in lock" type, to 
 convoluted (I'll avoid a spoiler here) , to some that are teases (seem straight forward, then they 
 throw in an unexpected wrinkle) . All-in-all, I enjoyed the puzzles in the game. There isn't too 
 much backtracking, and the map is relatively small enough that when you do backtrack to retrieve 
 something, it's not bad. Also, holding the tab key will show all interactive items, which prevents 
 needless pixel-hunting. 
  
  The characters and dialog fall into the "good but not great" category. The visuals of the characters 
 look fantastic -- everyone is well animated, colorful, and very artistically done. The voice acting 
 is pretty corny, but playfully so, and it works. The characters, themselves, are basically undeveloped, 
 though. You don't learn much about them, other than knowing their basic current mood, and you get 
 a bit of back story on Mona, the main protagonist. I would've loved to hear more about "Shroudy", 
 the comical and inept main bad-guy. Your side kick gets a bit grating with his endless cheesy one-liners, 
 but still, it's a welcome change over a lot of solo work done in recent adventure games.
  
  All of the backgrounds and ancillary characters are well drawn, colorful, well animated, and generally 
 great-looking. As I mentioned, there isn't a huge number of locales, but enough to keep it interesting 
 and prevent massive backtracking.
  
  Overall, A Vampyre Story is well worth the trip. I definitely wanted a story with more development, 
 and a little bit deeper characters. But if you've been itching for another Monkey Island, this 
 should keep you going for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: channell
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2009 7:23 am PT
Review:  
  I was annoyed when the traditional adventure games seemed to be dead, and I applaud their resurrection. 
 However, the disturbing trend seems to be to leave room for a sequel by simply ending the game 
 somewhere in the middle. 
  
  A Vampyre Story is a great point and click adventure with a feel reminiscent of LucasArts at it's 
 prime. The puzzles are generally a little too straight-forward to me, making it very easy to run 
 through the game in a relatively short period of time, but it's still a very entertaining game.
 
  
  My complaint is the same that I've had with several of these games over the last few years (Syberia, 
 Runaway: Dream of the Turtle) : the game seems to end only half-way through the story, presumably 
 to set it up for a sequel.
  
  In "A Vampyre Story," the premise is simple: help Mona escape her captor and return to Paris where 
 she can realize her dream of being an opera singer. The problem is that when the game ends, Mona 
 is still in Draxsylvania and headed into a new trap by Baron Shroudy. The game even sets you up 
 for the expectation that there is more. When you try to read sections 2 or 3 of the "Vampires for 
 Dummkopfs" book, Mona responds that she will read them when she gets more experience, but she never 
 does...
  
  In all, A Vampyre Story is a very good adventure that could have been a great one had the developers 
 simply finished it. I'm sure there is a decent marketing reason to make two good games rather than 
 one great one, and I'll almost certainly buy the inevitable sequel, but the ending came out of 
 nowhere and was big letdown.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stan42
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  Many people have been praising this game as the glorious return of the old school Lucas Arts games.
 
  While this nostalgia bomb certainly does deliver, it doesn't quite compare to the Lucas Arts games.
 
  
  Graphically the game is simply superb. The screenshots speak for themselves. There are some slight 
 annoyances, like the 3D models sometimes contrasting the painted backgrounds and the highly repetitive 
 animations, especially during conversations, but overall, it's really like playing a cartoon.
 
  
  The puzzles are well done and should be just right for adventure veterans.
  
  Then there's the characters and their voiceacting. I guess this is simply something you like or 
 don't like. I thought Mona and Froderick made a great duo and were both cute and sympathetic. Actually 
 I liked the load of puns. But obviously Gamespot disagrees.
  
  Now there's the story. This is sadly the game's weakness. The plot doesn't present much mystery, 
 character development, etc. In fact the story can be summed up in one sentance: Girl escapes vampiric 
 abduction.
  One may argue that it's all about how she manages to do this, but one can certainly not argue about 
 how short it is. Sure, it's the first part of a series and it's supposed to be in an episodic format, 
 but then this should also have an episodic price tag.
  
  Bottom Line:
  If you're into the old school adventure games, pick this one up. If not, you might want to wait 
 for the price to come down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arasharash
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  If you like the old-school cartoon style adventure games, like Monkey Island you will love A Vampyre 
 Story. 
  With the powerful background, specially hand-work paintings, and funny conversations, you will 
 find some humerus hours to rest and relaxing, specially among the recent FPS games.
  The backgrounds are incredible (although the character design could be much more better) , the voice 
 acting is good (I did not feel strange for the Mona voice as many did) and the puzzles are just 
 alright. although there are some glitches in the graphics and character animations, but if you 
 consider this game as a low budget project and remembering the problems of finding a publisher 
 in the recent years, you will forget about these glitches and even dont wait for a patch to come. 
 
  It is obvious that the length of the game is not satisfying but still you will never regret of 
 buying this game and waiting for the AVS2! which I believe will be released soon. 
  Among the recent games, AVS is one of the most memorable adventure experiences that you will remember 
 for a while, just like Indigo Prophecy and DreamFall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mosE_D
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  "A vampyre story" nice game!
  Word of advice: Pack a Big Bag of Patience.
  I mean it! Well designed game, great story, funhilarious, but if you haven't done this beforegood 
 luck! It goes like this: 
  "It is a beautiful story about a beautiful young girl that was held against her will by a mean 
 vampire"mm neah' I'm sounding like a girl... actually I'm playing a girl so I guess it's ok! Anyway 
 you'll have fun playing this game believe me, some brainstorming required indeed and lots of walking 
 around but eventually you'll find yourself at the end in no time probably craving for some more!
 
  
  
  
  
  There is one thing though that you should do! You might want to call your best pal over so he will 
 be there to help when you'll start losing your mind! :) Don't get me wrong but ... well you'll know 
 what I mean! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandango_Letho
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  I've been interested in this game since quite a while. From the very first artwork/screenshot I've 
 discovered on gamespot. com, about two years ago, it's been sitting on my '' tagged games '' list, 
 waiting for updates.
  
  The game was finally released on november 21th, and I finally got to unravel the mysteries of the 
 game. How did it turned out ? Read on.
  
  First and foremost, this game's not for everyone. Those who played Monkey Island series, the ingenious 
 Grim Fandango and Full Throttle have been granted another of those amazing adventures, and it took 
 about ten years to get one.
  
  The game pits you in the shoes of a French opera singer, Mona de Lafitte, who got transformed into 
 a vampire. Your journey is fairly simple ; get out of Castle Warg, and get ouf ot Draxsylvania. 
 But seriously, I don't even want to leave that place ; it's so cleverly designed and about every 
 single of the background palettes you'll be seing are jaw-dropping gorgeous, especially if you're 
 into tim burton's morbid and funny halloween-esque atmospheres.
  
  The game is divided into two '' sections '', and both features lots of things to do. You'll have 
 to find your way out of an haunted ( or not so haunted ) vampiric castle and then try to flee Draxsylvania. 
 Every puzzle you'll have to solve is pretty logic and everytime you'll manage to do something, 
 you'll feel good about it, because it'll never go into the '' non-sense '' side of things. Well, 
 maybe once or twice, but due to Mona's vampireness and comical atmosphere.
  
  Still, if you take your time, you shouldn't have any problems getting through any situations, and 
 yet, it'll still ask you to think. So don't worry, it's not the '' must-have-walkthrough- type 
 of game like Runaway or Myst series. It can be done.
  
  The graphics are a mixed bag. The scenaries are amazingly detailed, and you'll probably want to 
 just stare at it for a while. The animations can be well done ( picking an object and using it 
 ) but the BINK-video cutscenes are grainy and blurry, wich is bad.
  
  The sound and voice actors provide an excellent performance here, and even Mona who'se voice was 
 slighlty annoying at first ( heavy french accent ) finally got me to like her. There's ton of jokes, 
 references hidden everywhere in the world of A Vampyre Story, so be sure to speak, examine and 
 use everything you find and meet.
  
  The game isn't, unfortunatly, lenghty. It can be beaten in 7 to 9 hours, depending on your ability 
 to unmystify the puzzles you'll encounter. By the end of the game, I was left in a '' woah, thats 
 just IT ?! '' mood, because Mona's adventure is clearly NOT over. It could have been just the next 
 set of places you'll uncover, but no, it shows '' end of chapter 1 '' in book closing animation. 
 I'm all for sequels, but i'd like to have a nice feeling of closure with the game, wich isnt provided 
 here, and thats too bad.
  
  Games like this are often a hit or miss ; because what really captured the greatness of the Monkey 
 Island series were the countless laughters you'll drown yourself into and the amazing characters 
 you'll encounter. Most point and click ( or adventure games ) we've had in the past decade simply 
 didn't have any, or lacked something crucial. I've tried to like Runaway and some other adventure 
 games, but I always found myself taking my dusted copy of Monkey Island 3 and 4, and Grim Fandango 
 out of my shelf and play through them once again. Luckily for us, A Vampyre Story is a superb achievement 
 of grand laughters, clever puzzles and hillarious pop-culture references.
  
  Now lets hope that Bill Tiler will actually get us part 2, because I , for sure, am waiting for 
 it. Even while playing big titles like Gears 2, Fallout 3 and such, I still have time for a good 
 old adventure game, and i'm raising my thumb at Bill Tiller's team for brining back good memories 
 to a 22 years old dude who loved playing Monkey Island and Full Throttle, ten years ago.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  sorry couldn't resist a title like that because this about sums up this game properly!
  
  it's a great game but what elevated this above and beyond everything else is the incredible "humour", 
 the creators of Monkey Island were involved so no wonder, i was ROFL more than once (the rats acting 
 like the Godfather i nearly broke a rib when i fell from the chair) LOL!
  
  Graphics: they're very "Curse Of Monkey Island", they are very colourful and the animations are 
 quite nice but some of them could've been better however since it's an adventure game it doesn't 
 really matter, it's all done quite well honestly.
  
  Sound: the music and about 90% of characters are fantastic, my main problem is your Vampyre character, 
 her voice is so f*** annoying and whiny it sort gets on your nerves real quick, other than that 
 it's all good.
  
  Gameplay: old-skool point n click with an innovative inventory style where you don't pick up absolutely 
 everything but some items are "remembered" which is cool, obviously you can combine items, the 
 story is excellent but most of all the humour is insane with some of the best jokes ever, if your 
 tears don't start falling from the laughter then you need to see a shrink, like REALLY! impossible 
 to resist. :-D
  
  Conclusion?
  
  usually i hate playing games as a female character, infact i rarely play them, but i picked this 
 one up out of curiousity and realized that i would've missed on one of the best adventure games 
 since Sam & Max episodes, top notch.
  
  Highly Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marius_thq
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  A very addictive and enjoyable game, only took me about hmm... lets say 20-30 hours to finish it, if 
 this would have been a 3d person adventure game, It would have been awesome but i guess point and 
 click works well too, the puzzles are so intriguing and fascinating that they require serious brains 
 to complete them, i just hope the next one is a 3rd person adventure so you can look around better!
 
  The game lacks a bit on the control side, as I am used to playing only games like Fallout 3, TES 
 IV: Oblivion, Spore and the likes, i do find this an issue, but in the end it is an awesome game worth 
 playing, gets your brain movin' seriously!
  The cut-scenes should have been more worked on, but they go well with the in-game graphics, I cannot 
 stop suggesting that this should have been a 3rd/1st person adventure... cardboard lookin' environment 
 but heck at leased the player would have got a good look around, being locked down in the grave-keeper's 
 house in the middle of the cemetery gave me an idea... would have been great if you actually could 
 move this game in Fable 2's area, owning and buying stuff like a house, being able to write some 
 personal notes in an in-game journal or just any scrap of paper would develop the game a whole 
 lot, thus reaching a higher depth level, ove-course that is SCI-FI for now for such point and click 
 adventure games but you never know...!
  
  Awesome Game to play, i recommend it to every1, Sheer Fun, Amazing, Grows on You, and one more quality 
 to finish it off... It's Just Plain Guilty Pleasure! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
