-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Avencast: Rise of the Mage
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/avencastriseofthemage/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Innovative blend of traditional and action-oriented RPG subgenres.
 Arcade-tinged combat mechanics.
 Lots of puzzles liven up the storyline.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat can get a little monotonous in spots.
 A few minor problems with the interface and camera.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 22, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 216 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Lighthouse Interactive
Developer: ClockStone
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 8, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Avencast balances the action-oriented and traditional RPG genres better than you might expect.

  Describing Avencast: Rise of the Mage is a bit tricky. This role-player relies on WASD controls, 
 but it doesn't have the nonstop action of a typical action role-playing game. Quests feature standard 
 go-fetch objectives, although they're often jazzed up with adventure game puzzles. And while the 
 plot strays into world-saving Dungeons &amp; Dragons clichs, it begins with a bored teen mage 
 doing the Hogwarts thing. With so much cross-genre experimentation, it's difficult to figure out 
 what the developer was trying to get at, although the one thing you can say is that this grab bag 
 of RPG styles comes together remarkably well.  

  The look and feel of Avencast are pretty similar to that of the original Neverwinter Nights. ClockStone 
 started developing the game four years ago, so it has something of an old-school vibe. This is 
 most notable in the visuals, which are a bit chunky for a modern game. Character and monster models 
 are burdened with boxy features, the animations are just a touch robotic, and most quests take 
 place in run-of-the-mill dungeon corridors. Nothing here is particularly ugly, just uninspired. 
 Outstanding colored lighting at least gives most scenes an eerie glow, a mood enhanced by the often 
 creepy musical score.  

           It may look and feel a bit like a Neverwinter Nights retread, but Avencast is one unique 
 RPG.      

  Story is par for the course for a traditional role-playing game. You play a young wizard studying 
 at the magical academy of Avencast, sort of a Hogwarts rip-off set in the usual D&amp; D-style fantasy 
 world. There is very little in the way of initial character creation. You just type in a name and 
 go at it, later using skill points from leveling up to augment traits and select spells. The Harry 
 Potter atmosphere is limited to the opening chapter of the game, too. The tale slides headfirst 
 into derivative territory about saving the world from demons right after you prove your wizardry 
 skills by clearing out a crypt and run errands for a few select professors. At least the voice 
 acting is adept for a non-English game (ClockStone is based in Austria) , and considerable storytelling 
 flair has been added through the dramatic, sepia-toned artwork used in cutscenes.  

  Given all of the above, you would expect Avencast to play like the usual dungeon crawl. But here's 
 where the game takes a little walk on the wild side. For starters, combat has been enhanced with 
 dodge maneuvers. Instead of click-killing all of the skeletons, ghosts, giant crabs, golems, and 
 other beasties that the game throws at your humble mage, you roll and tumble through battles with 
 double-presses of the WASD keys. Most enemies have ranged attacks, too, and do a lot of damage 
 in short order during melee combat, which prevents you from playing Conan and hacking your way 
 through the monstrous mobs. Instead, you generally bounce around like an acrobat, avoiding projectiles 
 like flaming skulls and boulders while ripping off magical bolts of your own with the right mouse 
 button.  

  Your arsenal is augmented with spells from three magical schools. Blood, soul, and summoning spells 
 can be bought with the skill points earned each time you level up, and then employed in battle 
 through the use of key combos. Some of these combinations are pretty tricky, although the less 
 arcade-inclined can skip the whole procedure and just map specific spells to single keys. No matter 
 how you choose to cast them, spells in the main blood and soul categories don't differ all that 
 much. Blood magic is more down and dirty, with spells that force you into melee-style combat, and 
 soul magic is more about killing from long-range, but most of the spell effects are the same. Also, 
 you're a mage, not a warrior, so staying out of harm's way and avoiding heavy melee combat is a 
 necessity for much of the game no matter which magical ability you select.  

  Combat can be a bit on the tedious side even with all the leaping about. Monsters are generally 
 pretty tough to kill unless you take big risks and get close enough to hammer them with a melee 
 weapon (generally a magical staff of some sort, depending on where you are in the game) , so it's 
 easiest to stay away and snipe at baddies with the rather wimpy right-mouse attack. Ensuring victory 
 comes at a cost of really slowing the game down, though. Killing many creatures in the game takes 
 a good two dozen clicks with the right mouse button. Even the more powerful spells have to be cast 
 many, many times before most beasties die. Some compensation is made for this through a reduction 
 in overall enemy numbers, as you don't battle anywhere near the number of monsters you face in 
 action RPGs like Diablo and Titan Quest. Still, getting bogged down in one lengthy battle after 
 another really kills the momentum of quests at times.  

  Odd interface issues don't help much, either. Walls and landscape features frequently block your 
 view during combat. The camera can be moved pretty easily, or set to automatically follow your 
 back, although battles are so fast-paced that it sometimes feels like you're duking it out with 
 the camera instead of dungeon denizens. Movement with the WASD keys is also an acquired taste, 
 as your character always faces in the direction of the mouse cursor. Once you get used to this 
 idea, you can really whip your mage around in battles. But it's awfully annoying for the first 
 couple of hours, as no other RPG combines the mouse and keyboard functions in quite this fashion. 
 Slight hesitations also get in the way of combat maneuvers. You can't immediately go from firing 
 a right-mouse-button bolt to a drop and roll, so you have to account for a brief pause when going 
 from attacking to dodging. Again, this isn't a big deal once you get used to it, but it can get 
 in the way of conducting fluid battles at first.  

           You'd have to go back a long time to find another RPG with this many riddles.      

 
  Heavy reliance on riddles helps lift this minor monotony. Every dungeon in Avencast is loaded 
 with brainteasers both big and small, so it feels like you're engaged in a more momentous task 
 even when you're really just playing delivery boy or killing a boss monster. You gather the runes 
 needed to complete the inscription on a shrine; tread carefully across platforms labeled with letters 
 and symbols that must be activated in a specific pattern; weaken invulnerable creatures with beams 
 activated by manipulating telescopes. Many dungeons have an adventure game-lite vibe. None of the 
 puzzles are all that difficult, although each requires just enough thinking that you can't sink 
 into the typical action RPG stupor that resembles something akin to a hypnotic state. You're not 
 handed solutions, either, which means you often have to experiment with levers and the like instead 
 of just reading books and scrolls as in so many other RPGs. If anything, the many riddles serve 
 to more thoroughly immerse you in the gameworld and make the game feel like more of a traditional 
 RPG epic than a hack-and-slash, despite the arcade-oriented combat.  

  Although Avencast: Rise of the Mage hit stores with barely a whimper last fall, it deserves more 
 attention. Some of the combat and interface problems keep the game from reaching classic status, 
 but it's still an entertaining and often innovative take on RPG subgenres that will reward any 
 role-playing fan who seeks it out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: magusat999
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 18, 2009 9:40 am PT
Review:  Avencast is a story about a young mage who is separated from his father and grows up under a hermit 
 who teaches him magic. He is then sent to a magic academy and for his final exam must go through 
 amagic trial, which is sort of a quest. At the end of the trial he is immediately thrown into a 
 conflict and then is forced towards endgame.
  
  Avencast barely qualifies as an RPG. It is very heavily story driven and there is virtually no 
 exploration apart from what you can do during quests / goals. while you are doing goals you can 
 go about here and there, as long as it is in a specified area - but free exploration is virtually 
 non-existant, especially after about the mid-point in the game. The little freedom you get is basically 
 transparent - as it is just meant for you to find someone who will give you a task. There is no 
 "open this secret chest and find a powerful item" outside of the quests. You just go about talking 
 to people and they will give you a task.
  
  NPC interaction is clinical, as described above - but world interaction is even more so. The hero 
 doesn't open drawers or cabinets; there are no secret paths; there is no contextual information; 
 there are objects like weapon racks but you cannot take or steal the objects. The world is just 
 a picture and sometimes it is irritating to see these things and not be able to interact with them 
 outside of a specific quest.
  
  Item management is minimal at best. You can call up a merchant with a special scroll to sell of 
 extra items, but it would have been nice to be able to carry more than the space you are given. 
 Every time you call him, BTW, it cost you more and more. The last time I called him, just near 
 the end of the game it went to almost 4000 gold (or whatever unit they used in the game) . I typically 
 only had as much as 57,000 gold, so that isn't chump change by any means.
  
  It's virtually impossible to gett to max level in one playthrough. You can, however, use the same 
 character again in a new game. Too bad the game is little too boring to play twice. The only variation 
 in the game is your choice of the Blood path or the Soul Path (close up magic or distance magic 
 respectively) which impacts the gameplay but not the story. Since there's no variation in the story, 
 why would anyone want to play twice?
  
  The hero character is designed wimpish. You can look at your character with his current clothing 
 in the character sheet dialog. Nothing special there. He looks anorexic and he's bent over like 
 he has cramps. He movs too slow for my taste, even when he is running and his costume looks hstupid. 
 You cannot customize your character, by the way - your stuck with this max Payne / wizard wannabe 
 looking dude. What a goof.
  
  If you choose the Soul Path, btw - which is what I did - prepare for some agonizing battles. Your 
 staff is rarely powerful enough to kill in a strike. It typically takes 20-50 strikes to kill and 
 enemy by hitting it, no matter how powerful your staff's physical attribute is. With the Soul Path, 
 you should have spell that keep the enemy away from you, but they tend to just keep coming right 
 through your push-backs. The spells are "as is" and do not get more powerful (or at least they 
 do not seem to) . There are unbalanced areas where mobs of creatures will descend upon you and unless 
 you find a restrictive place where they cannot all gang-rush you, you are looking at game over. 
 The spells can take way too long to cast to be effective, and way too weak to save you tooshie.
 
  
  I have to make an admission here - I turned on God mode a the end... there's no way I could beat 
 this game with the character I ended up with at the end of the game. The progression of the character 
 skills and attributes were way out of sync with the games difficulty level - and don't get me started 
 on the end boss! There are attacks that you cannot avoid coming at you by the end boss and there's 
 no way I could see of surviving them! Additionally, there is a finite amount of monsters in the 
 game, once you kill them they do not respawn - so you can only gain as many levels as the game 
 is designed for you to gain. This means that you can't go - "I'm not strong enough so let me go 
 back and build my character up first" - your just stuck.
  
  Storywise, the game starts out okay, but you soon find out that your going to spend most of the 
 game riding a rollercoaster to the end. You go from the academy to a dungeon and never come back 
 Ithink they should have taken another year and fleshed out some more gameplay - it looks rushed. 
 I felt trapped in a story that just wanted to force me to endgame. It would have been nice to see 
 some transitions, like from the academy to exploring the world - but no such dumb luck. The plot 
 had a nice little twist in it, albeit predictable. I'll save the end for you to find out.
  
  The graphics were okay but not spectacular. The music was bland and repetitive. There were puzzles, 
 mainly very easy to figure out. Overall it as a so-so experience.
  
  It was more of a low-budget Titan's Quest than a full blown RPG. You can play it and get some degree 
 of fun out of it, but don't expect much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khangengis
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I play Avencast until the end only because i dont have another game to play, as i said before, 
 in the first hours you will get some fun, so if you wants something to pass the time try it.
  
  The good in Avencast is the gameplay in a so simply system, because of this, the game will 
 runs in a pc with low configuration.
  
  I really love games like Avencast, so, if you are like me, maybe you will play until the end, but 
 dont expect too much of it, you will be very disappointed mainly by a lack of creativity of scenaries 
 and equipment.
  
  The scenaries have few colors (predominates gray and blue, green nearby the end of game)
  
 
  The equipment is a strange amount of things, you cannot see (in a first look, what each thing 
 is) , and there is little variety of equipment.
  
  Well if you really dont wish waste your time dont try it, but if you want a fast game in the 
 gender give a chance ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mccre
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  Combat = Great
  Story = Woeful
  Environment = Boring
  Enemies = Average
  Character Customization = O. k.
  Voice acting = Atrocious
  Items = Confusing
  Sub-quests = 
 Minimal, short
  Main-quests = Under developed, a tad boring
  Overall = Fun for a while then becomes boring. Lack of story, customization, and variety in game 
 play make this fun for a very limited time with no real replay value. The combat however is a great 
 fun using combination's of buttons to execute spells. I found this game quite fun to play at the 
 beginning but as I progressed it became so repetitive that I often considered giving up and leaving 
 it to gather dust. In the end this game gave no real satisfaction other than not having to play 
 it ever again. With a decent storyline and a little variation this game may have been great. Or 
 maybe not. 5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrednajasobaka
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has one of the most innovative and unique plots I have ever encountered. Imagine that 
 you are student in a school of mages when it gets overrun by hordes of demons. And you are selected 
 to save the world from destruction and STD outbreak!
  
  Jokes aside, there's very little that sets Avencast apart from countless single player hack and 
 slash predecessors. If the riddles in the beginning of the game gave you impression that this game 
 is going to be something unique, you are soon pulled back to reality by having to clear from monster 
 room after room. Which doesn't have to be a bad thing. I found myself interested in the game enough 
 that I played it until the end. 
  
  Bottom line is, if you are looking for something new you won't find it in Avencast. However, if 
 you are single player RPG junkie like I am, you'll play this one anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GroverXPv2
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 14, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  As interesting as the game looked from the gamespot review, even just starting it up I had issues 
 with the game. It seems that every time I start Avencast it tries to auto-adjust my monitors resolution, 
 which wouldn't
  be such a bad thing if the game could manage to get it right. It sets it
  to a resolution just enough above my monitors optimal, that the entire
  screen ends up shifted 
 to the right about two inches. And since it checks
  and readjusts every time the game starts, I ended up manually setting the resolution every time 
 I started the game.
  
  Although some of the bugs have been fixed by the 1.02 patch, quite a few still remain, some will 
 even prevent you from finishing quests, thus stopping your progress in the game. But on a good 
 note, contrary to what gamespot and other reviewers might say, I never really had any issues with 
 the interface or the camera.
  
  The gameplay itself is unfortunately also somewhat of a letdown, melee combat is almost entirely 
 out of the question. Since most of the mobs in the
  game will gank you quite fast once you get close enough. Which really makes the majority of the 
 blood magic spells/skills useless, oh boy, one of the games spell trees shot out of the sky already, 
 great.
  
  Not to mention that most boss fights result in you summoning a minion
  and sitting back and firing weak little staff shots at the boss for twenty minutes until it dies. 
 One good thing though, is alot of the puzzles in the game are quite fun and a breath of fresh air 
 from randomly killing mobs. Unfortunately the puzzles almost entirely disappear later in the game.
 
  
  Graphically the game isn't all that bad, alot of the spell effects look quite nice, and some of 
 the armor you can get is also rather good looking. The game environment itself is average to slightly 
 underdeveloped but it doesn't show that badly.
  
  All and all, the games decent graphics and spell effects, and enjoyable puzzles can't save the 
 game from being the buggy and boring mess that it is.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Storyline: 8 - Very solid storyline, gets a little patchy at times but still great.
  
  Graphics: 7 - for a 3rd person view style game, this one sets a pretty decent standard for graphics. 
 There is some certain room for improvement.
  
  Sound: 8.5 - Great sound, very realistic. Especially good when it comes to the environment.
  
 
  Environment/Maps: 8 - Very detailed maps. Many user friendly events or objects. I definitely like 
 the usable toilet.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 5 - Obvious glitches and bugs before you even get into the game. Menu is 
 glichy and quite a few times do your enemies disappear and the quests will say there is still something 
 to kill.
  
  Interface: 4 - Annoying interface, all 3 view-modes have problems. Item and spell hot-key or way 
 of using them just outright blows. Made fighting rather hard even on the easy mode. The rest of 
 the interface is mediocre to good.
  
  Menu: 5 - Menu is pretty simple and very pretty looking. It seems to lag or have glitches though. 
 All video and other options are done out side of the game which is very annoying when something 
 needs to be changed.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall: 6.5 - Would of been better if didn't have so many bugs, glitches, and just out right annoyances. 
 Still worth playing or at least checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineDream
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  I liked this one.. Its kind of Diablo meets Harry potter. A funny thing is that you have to press 
 combos to do magic, it makes it a bit more interesting and more difficult.
  Its like diablo but not at the same time. You havent got all the worlds and that stuff but in some 
 way it reminds of it
  
  Easy story, save everyone... But sometimes a whole bunch of enemies at the same time to kill.
 
  
  Do quests, level up and be greater.
  
  Some quests are harder than other, i came to one that i didnt understand, you where supposed to 
 go across a series of letters if you went wrong you toke dammage, the thing is that there wasnt 
 any info on what it was supposed to spell hehehe. think think...
  Overall its a fun, interesting, sometimes hard and just great game.
  
  well i think its absolutely 
 playable if you like these types of games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moodflow
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  I was looking for a new great RPG to come along, and hoped I had found what I searched for in Avencast: 
 Rise of a Mage. It seems I didn't, even though the expectations weren't high.
  Note: I played on normal difficulty. 
  
  
  Avencast starts off with our hero's, a young apprentice 
 magician's, admittance at a magic school. You totally get a Harry Potter feeling at once. I am 
 referring to the classes in alchemy and magic, but also to the school in general. Personally, I 
 liked the beginning as it involved a lot of riddle-solving and put the game as a mainly adventure/riddle-solving 
 game. However the game falls out of that category after the action part takes over. This happens 
 when the school is attacked and a lot of monsters appear and you will have to save the school 
 and the world. 
  
  
  Your hero will have four stats to augment: stamina, mana, blood and soul magic. Blood magic is 
 close-range magic, whereas soul magic is range-based. You will also be able to summon. It seems 
 that it is in your best interests to be an all-around player in this game, as you will be taking 
 on many monsters with different skills and behaviour at the same time. Patience is a keyword. It 
 pays off to lure enemies out and taking them out one by one, which isn't always possible. The spell 
 system is good, but doesn't offer anything new. You'll have to learn some spells to unlock others, 
 so you'll have to think it over a little. Spells can be set to 4 shortcuts. If not, the spells 
 are all possible to cast be clicking combinations of the movement keys (default: "AWSD") and clicking 
 left mouse for soul magic, or right mouse for blood magic; a good solution. 
  
  
  The riddles in the game are quite interesting and enjoyable. There are more of them in the beginning, 
 but become fewer later on. These puzzles are indispensable for the flow of the game, as it will 
 soon turn very repetitive and action-based. The action system is quite good and you'll have to 
 combine the different types of spells (close/ranged/summon) with dodging and covering. Dodging 
 is performed as a side-, front- or backroll depending on which movement key you double-click, and 
 raises the possibility to avoid spells and missiles thrown by the enemy. This creates a very dynamic 
 and entertaining fight. However you'll learn to trust only a few spells after a while, and only 
 use them. Therefore, the game becomes repetitive, then boring. 
  
  
  There are three different camera types, but this doesn't change the fact that you'll at some point 
 have trouble with it, even with the "follow-camera" which is by far the best. Zooming in and out 
 is also possible, even if you will keep it at distant view almost all the time. The main problem 
 is the fact that the camera doesn't allow you to see enough of what is in front of you. The camera 
 is centred too much over your head to allow you to see everything in front of you, which can be 
 troublesome. Don't get me wrong, you will see what's in front of you, but not enough to my taste. 
 
  
  
  The story is actually quite bad, and includes a lot of clichs. Some of them are so terrible I 
 want to write them, but I wish to make this spoiler-free. The dialogues between characters is bizarre, 
 sounds like teenagers wrote the script. Personally, I ended up skipping them. You will have the 
 choice to answer different things in conversations, but it will not alter anything; except in a 
 small number of subquests. On the other side, the cut-scenes are still 2D pictures with a great 
 narrative voice, which looks good. The number of NPCs is satisfying, but there are too few that 
 give you something back for interacting with them. 
  
  
  The graphics are pleasing, and you will be walking around big halls, temples and planet crust with 
 great decorations. The characters are as satisfying. What really stand out though, are the spell 
 visuals. The more powerful spells send out lightening and explosions that will astonish you the 
 first time you cast it. 
  
  
  There will be various equipment to pick up, even though you'll find mostly money while looting. 
 Money will not be a problem if you sell everything you find. In the beginning of the game, you 
 will be given a scroll that conjures a clone of the one and only merchant in the game, at any time 
 you want, against a sum of money. So after a while I was able to get a hold on a lot of money, 
 bought all of the best potions; and was more or less capable to charge any room while continually 
 casting the most powerful spells and emptying potion after potion of both types (mana and health) . 
 The map is good ok, but all the quest goals are marked out exactly on it. There were subquests, 
 but they were almost all to be done while doing the main quest, which turned the game linear.
 
  
  
  Conclusion: I was hoping for more from Avencast. It is a mainly action-based RPG with intensity, 
 dynamic movement and great spell visuals; but also includes riddles in-between that adds a little 
 fluidity. The dialogues and story are terrible; and there is some minor trouble with the camera. 
 The difficulty is hard, until you get a lot of money. Avencast includes a lot of clichs from the 
 RPG genre and RPG stories, and becomes too repetitive in length as to me almost not completing 
 it, if I wasn't in need of a pass-time activity. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
