-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Axis and Allies (1998)
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/axisandallies/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 11, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.1, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 298 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hasbro Interactive
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The result of all of Hasbro's diligent faithfulness to the source is a great version of a classic 
 board game. 

 You would think that with all the excellent World War II strategy games that have come out for the 
 PC, that Hasbro's release of the classic board game Axis &amp; Allies would be met with lackluster 
 praise. But the truth be told, if you're looking for a lasting, well-balanced strategic wargame 
 of the Second World War, this game is a great choice.  

 Axis &amp; Allies features a global view of the war beginning in the spring of 1942. In this situation, 
 Germany and Japan are somewhat mediocre economically, but they are militarily strong. The Allies, 
 on the other hand, have yet to bring the full force of their economic potential into production 
 for wartime and as a result lack some adequate defenses. During the game, each player assumes the 
 role of the commanding officer of one of the five major nations involved. You purchase and deploy 
 units, give combat directives on a strategic scale, and even plan some research and development. 
 As the game progresses, the tide of war can easily turn. In the standard game, the Allies' victory 
 condition requires them to capture two Axis capitals: the nation of Germany and the island of Honshu. 
 Meanwhile, the Axis powers have two options for victory. They can either establish an economic 
 victory by achieving a certain production level or capture two of the three capitals of the main 
 Allied powers (USA, UK, USSR) .  

 In each turn, you decide what to purchase and research, initiate combat, move units, and deploy 
 new units. The economic system of the game is governed by how you spend the IPCs (Industrial Production 
 Certificates) between such units as infantry, tanks, submarines, battleships, bombers, and fighters. 
 Each unit has a certain number of spaces it can move a turn whether before or after combat. The 
 final outcome of battles is determined by electronic dice that are rolled for each unit to see 
 if they score a hit against the defender. The combat values for each unit, which are usually different 
 for attack and defense, are representative of how well the unit performs in that role. Bombers 
 do well for offensive strikes, but against a blitz of tanks, they can hardly operate at full effectiveness. 
 However, infantry, which do a meager job when attacking, perform much better when on defense due 
 to their ability to entrench themselves. Overall, this formula has worked well, and Hasbro has 
 done a tremendous job in making the PC version both true to the original and easy to learn.  

 
 Hasbro's faithfulness to the original is the most important factor in how well this game has turned 
 out. In fact, the game is so true to the original, that this is one of those rare cases where the 
 computer game is actually preferable to the board game. The game's standard rules are those of 
 a newly revised third edition, allowing for some options not available when playing a board game. 
 Although the new rules change the classic experience, the additions are actually impressively thought 
 out. But, if you're a stickler for the traditional, you can turn those off. Surprisingly, other 
 optional rules for the game that were mentioned in the board game rulebook are also available in 
 the PC version. This simple detail provides a great deal more gameplay than could be asked for. 
 Combine this with a full unit editor in which you can set the stats for each unit to your own desire, 
 and you have the making of an endlessly replayable WWII strategic game.  

 However, there's one thing that Hasbro has added that changes the original to such a degree as to 
 give the whole game experience a much-deserved breath of life. As you play the game, the "Time 
 Machine" allows you to go backwards (or forwards if you're already in the past) to any point in 
 the game to change your strategy and see how things would work differently. This utility not only 
 allows you to try different strategies, but can also give you an edge if you decide to cheat and 
 just have to get those heavy bombers from the research table. Just keep taking the time machine 
 back to where you took a chance on research and keep going back until the dice favor you.  

 As for the other aspects, the results speak for themselves. Simple improvements such as the multiplayer 
 capability, a tutorial for newcomers, and animated cutscenes for victory and defeat are graciously 
 welcomed. The graphics, while they aren't stellar landscaped 3D renditions of the terrain, preserve 
 the bright, accurately depicted colors from the original board. In order to conserve memory requirements, 
 Hasbro eliminated the unique look of individual units from the different sides. Apart from the 
 different colors, the original pieces of the board game had different model tanks and poses of 
 infantrymen for the units. However, if you manage to get jet power from the research table, the 
 look of your planes converts to the more aerodynamic models of the late '40s/early '50s.  

 The main drawback to the game is a lack of good multiplayer support. There's no option for e-mail 
 games, and the gameplay on some of the online services isn't always up to par. This is a very sad 
 fact when a game like this almost demands human opponents. The AI is adequate in providing a challenge, 
 but the early game can tend to repeat if you don't try new moves of your own.  

 The result of all of Hasbro's diligent faithfulness to the source is a great version of a classic 
 board game. Often, the intricacies of multimedia games leave out some of the tactile feel of the 
 cardboard and plastic. Here, the resulting product goes to show that an electronic game of Axis 
 &amp; Allies is just as much fun as sitting around the gaming table on a rainy Saturday afternoon. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  Axis and allies is a 10 year old game with no real sparkle to it then and the same dim shine now. 
 Back then it was worse than Risk 1 and right now it is worst than most things out there. But no 
 matter i will perservere.
  
  Right, you start off in 1942 war time as either the evil Axis (Germany and Japan) or the lovely 
 allies (Russia, Great Britain or USA) . Nice and simple. Your objective will be to wipe out the 
 enemy alliance again nice and simple. Where this becomes interesting though is combat. It is really 
 good. It is an early sort of version of advance wars, with land, air and sea battles with some 
 interwining. You need to develop your stratergies to the core to win.
  
  Well actually you don't, as the enemy ai and your allied one for that matter are sodding useless. 
 It is no challenge to win this game no matter who you are and moving round the world is pretty 
 easy. You never really feel connected to anything as a result and the game only really gets interesting 
 when your with a few mates, but then you have to explain the game to them and they all end up hating 
 you. 
  
  So now you have no friends and only this game. What now? Well nothing. The game has worn itself 
 out. There is nothing left to do. Sure you can fiddle with the units and make some stereotypes, 
 not that this needs any as the game folllows them all nicely. America are useless to the end where 
 they suddenly declare victory. England have a hard time getting into mainland Europe, Russia lose 
 lots of men and Japan slowly collapse like a flan.
  
  Sure you can fiddle with the units abilities but thats about it.
  
  It's not a bad game, per 
 say. It is a good game for it's time and a game I would respect in 1998. However, it does need 
 a go over and some major look into the units and rules. For instance, you can't go all v all. Maybe 
 a bit of tinkering here and there would have helped but oh hey. If you love the board game, play 
 the board game. If you hate your friends, get this game. All else, I can't really see what this 
 is good for and I know have the urge to play alot of risk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illinoissooner
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game but due to bugs that kept hanging the game and an AI that left 
 me frustrated I am giving up and will be playing something that I can enjoy more. I am a big fan 
 of WW2 and Turn Based Strategy games but this game just didn't click for me. In this computer version 
 of the classic A&amp; A board game, you get to choose to play as either one of the Axis powers (Germany 
 or Japan) or one of the Allies (USA, England or Russia) . During each round you get a chance to 
 invest money in better weaponry, purchase new units, engage in battle, move units that were not 
 involved in the battle and finally place your newly purchased units. I am not sure if the rounds 
 are always in this order but in my game (playing as the Russians) the order was Russia, Germany, 
 England, Japan and USA.
  
  One of my 2 biggest problems with the game is that on more than one occasion the game came to a 
 grinding halt during one of the AI turns. The other problem is that I felt like I was playing a 
 game against the Axis powers without any help from my Allies . As Russia I was trying to fend off 
 Germany on one side and Japan on the other and it felt like the USA and England AI players were 
 simply building up forces and moving them around the map without ever engaging the Axis powers. 
 Each turn after I had just fought to either hold or reclaim land from Japan I would see both England 
 and USA blow through their Battle phase without doing anything. Finally after I had had enough 
 of this, the game hit the grinding halt bug one time too many. It gave me a convenient excuse for 
 jumping ship and moving on to some other game that will provide more fun than frustration.
  
  This is a 9 year old game that I purchased new in 2007 for a small price. I upgraded the game 
 to the latest available patch available at this time but the problems that I had were on top of 
 this latest patch .
  
  I am sure the game is great for some people but alas not for me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Playing board games can be a fun thing if you can find some other friends and if you have six hours 
 to kill. Unfortunately, not everyone has that many friends to come over for one night and enough 
 time to blow to do that. Hasbro interactive has alleviated those issues in a virtual version on 
 the PC.
  
  Assuming you're an avid board games aficionado, you've heard of Axis and Allies. First made in 
 1984, it seems to be the epitome of turn based World War Two gaming. What the virtual version has 
 done has put all the initial setup to ease. You can play from one to five players just like the 
 board game. You can choose either the Americans, British or the Russians versus the Germans and 
 the Japanese. The game starts off with Germany on the ridge of Russia's walls with the Japanese 
 flanking on the other side while the Allies are more spaced out but have more economic power.
 
  
  There are various units in the game from tanks, infantry, battleships and fighter planes. Each 
 have their own unique skills and you can even play with some unique modifiers such two hit battleships 
 and no technology. This allows you to play with some house rules if you so wish. Unfortunately, 
 the game doesn't have online multiplayer and the single player mode against the computer is extremely 
 frustrating. Though you can save games at any time and you can quicken combat, the dice rolls are 
 horribly inaccurate. Everyone rolls so many ones, it's completely ridiculous at times. Another 
 issue is the fact that the computer is completely brain dead. They will make fighters instead of 
 infantry when infantry would be better. The game came out a long time ago and there are no updates 
 since 1999 so what is out now is what you have. I'm not aware of any mods that add new units like 
 artillery or fix the dice rolling problems so that is too bad.
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty simple but it is clear what units are where and who owns what 
 territory. Too bad the sounds are mucked up with some sub-standard music but if you can ignore 
 it for a while, it's tolerable.
  
  The game cost me about ten bucks so at that price, it was worth it. If it was thirty dollars, I'd 
 cringe a lot more. If you wanna see a virtual representation of Axis and Allies, you can give this 
 game a try but don't expect a challenge from the computer and the dice rolling make combat really 
 annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mullga
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 28, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  Axis and Allies is a board game developed by Hasbro Interactive. It was released in mid 1998. This 
 game, developed for the P. C. was really good at its time and it's even better now. The game play 
 in this game is very simple, choose a super power, (U. S., U. K., U. S. S. R., Germany, or Japan) , and 
 wage war in a WWII board game. The graphics are simple. But, the graphics set the tone of the game 
 and make the game better. The sound changes with the different countries turns pass. This game 
 can be found for around ten dollars at Walmart or Target. It is worth the price, lots of gameplay 
 and different countries gives it a high replay value. It's amazing that these use to pass as great 
 graphics, a short eight years ago. Never the less, this is one of the best fun and simple game 
 on the market currently and from almost a decade ago. Overall, this game is a classic board game 
 that can be placed in the record books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Kaliaver
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 7, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  Axis & Allies made by Hasbro Interactive released in 1998 is a Turn-Based WWII is the computer 
 video game version of the acclaimed board game many know and love. Axis & Allies holds nothing 
 back and comes out being a game that will make you love turn-based strategy all over again.
  
  When you first think Axis & Allies you think World War II and then you think. first person 
 shooter, but you will find out that this game surpasses many of the World War II shooters with 
 flying colors.
  
  Axis & Allies takes place during World War II and is fought through five grand nations. The Axis 
 is made up of German and Japan. The other side of the war known as the Allies is made up of Russia, 
 Great Britain, and the United States. You can play as any of these five nations and your goal is 
 to defeat either the Axis or Allies (matters who you choose to be) and win the war.
  
  When you start playing Axis & Allies you may choose out of those five nations and you can customize 
 the game to your satisfaction. You may either choose no newspaper at the end of rounds or two hit 
 battleships or maybe even no paratroopers. Along with the minor changes you can make to the game 
 you can choose your enemies and allies difficulties and how to win the game as in an IPC race (most 
 money wins) , Domination (defeat all enemies) , or even take two capitols (only effects Axis unless 
 you do IPC race) . Then you engage in a full out WAR! As you enter the battlefield you will notice 
 there is no story that is somewhat of a disappointment, but the rest of the game makes up for it. 
 Then it reaches your turn and you can choose spend 5 IPCs to get an upgraded development or skip 
 it and just buy your troops. Then you move your troops for combat you can either move by land with 
 tanks or infantry to capture territories and gain IPCs from them. If you dont trust your ground 
 units them you can either move by sky or sea. You can command bombers and small fighters in the 
 sky or turn and move your battleships, carriers, submarines, or transport ships through naval combat.
 
  
  Now the battle begins once you move all troops into place. Since Axis & Allies runs as a board 
 game (with movement and combat) you roll dice and each unit has a figure from 1-6 to hit an enemy 
 with its own dice. The combat is turn-based as isnt extremely intense, but if you get bored of 
 the monotonous dice rolling you can change it to fast roll in the options so you will just see 
 units die instead of the dice rolling. Of course you get to choose which unit dies once your enemy 
 gets a dice to hit which will also form a new type of strategy. After the battle if all over and 
 done you can move non-combat units (really just move any unit that can just you cant move them 
 into enemy territory) . If you do gain a territory and you have airplanes on it you MUST move them 
 to a previously owned territory and hope they dont run out of gas or they are gone. Now you get 
 to place the units you bought and collect your IPCs. After this you have to wait for your turn 
 again which can get a little boring since you get to see EVERY unit move. To pass the time I would 
 say draw out your next move and hope the enemy doesnt mess up your plan.
  
  You will find a bit of customization in Axis & Allies. From customizing the difficulty of enemies 
 to small effects in the game to how to win or even change your own army. The customization of your 
 own army isnt the best and is really a major cheat. You cant choose new clothes; you can only 
 make their damage, defense, and movement better or worse. Oh yes and dont forget out making them 
 cost one IPC so you can buy 50 of them. With the almost worthless units editor you may think this 
 is were Axis & Allies just keeps going downhill or just stops, but you are mistaken.
  
  Axis & Allies jumps from playing single-player to multiplayer via Internet or just from one PC. 
 This difference makes you create new strategies and usually evens out the playing field. You can 
 have 1-5 people in game and you all can control separate nations. You may never finish a game (start 
 watching TV when your round is over and stop playing eventually) , but you can formulate strategies 
 against your opponents and swarm their capitol with friends.
  
  For the sound in Axis & Allies it may not be considered the greatest out there, yet you will still 
 be pleased with it. For every nation there is a different theme that plays (repeats if your turn 
 lasts long enough) and there is a theme to the game. Now those are the ONLY songs in the whole 
 game, but there is still more sounds. When you engage in battle your infantry will shoot guns and 
 you will hear the same gun noise over and over again, but it doesnt get bothersome. Every unit 
 has their own combat noises and there are also videos in the game that have actual recorded sounds 
 and music that took place during the video.
  
  To get away from the lameness of the sound we move to the graphics. The graphics are nothing to 
 be memorized by but remember the game was made in 1998, and back then they looked good. They still 
 look decent and they go with the flow of being a board game port, and it will make you feel like 
 your playing a board game just without breaking or losing the pieces. Besides the decent overall 
 graphics there are absolutely no animations besides the flags and the actual video footage.
  
  All in all this game upholds a lot to do in such a small capacity. Now even to people who dont 
 like turn-based games you will find something to like in this World War II game. Plus now that 
 is older you can get it for about $10 dollars so it is a must buy and everyone should give this 
 game a chance.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: larry58
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  one of my favorites of all time, I have played alot of games and this is one of the very best especially 
 for the time!!!! I wish they would come out with a new version of the game closer to this one the 
 one they came out whith last year was a joke it wasn`t worth the time or the money they spent on 
 making it. I tried it and it was awful not worth my money or yours. hope nobody else bought that 
 thing it was terrible. If they would put the time and money they put in to the last game and use 
 it to make one with a new 3D engine with gameplay closer to the first game I would buy it in a 
 heartbeat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UBCS1967
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  This game with it's high loyalty to the board game makes it the Axis and Allies game to play if 
 you want an almost original experience without the half an hour of setting up the game. The game 
 is fun and can take up around 3-10 hours depending on how many players there are and how good you 
 are. The game is fun but some of the AI in cases can become repetitive and dirty, such as the enemy 
 will always attack the weaker adjoining territory and will always attack the territory with industry 
 in it. Besides that this game is a good time burner and you should buy it if you can find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smidmike
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  I totally love this game. i'm not sure if many people have actually played the board game that 
 this was based off of. Well, it was a huge time intensive, yet totally awesome board game. Having 
 it on computer definatly makes it 100x better. No more need to set up the pieces or find people 
 to play against. Granted, they didn't spend too much time working on the graphics that we commonly 
 see these days, but the gameplay more then makes up for it. Its fun to try different stratagies, 
 changes sides, rules and a list of other aspects that can add to the re-playability of this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battousai188
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 20, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  If you have ever played Axis and Allies on board game the PC version is just as fun without having 
 to keep track of all the pieces. Unlike most board game themed games this one takes the cake, good 
 AI, fun multi-player game. Only draw back is it does get a bit repetative, and the online play 
 can take a very long long time. So be warned only play if you have the time to spare. This game 
 was worth the money when it first came out and is a deffinate pick up for a few bucks if you feel 
 like challenging your strategy on this engaging computer revised board game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkymonkey4710
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 15, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  This game is way better then it's newer counterpart. This game really makes playing WWII fun beacause 
 you don't have too worry about resources like many other stratgy war games out there. It is played 
 as though it really was a baord game by rolling the dice and seeing who is killed. The map also 
 is very nice and original because it isn't stuffed full of the names of the countries and when 
 you do turn on the text the map is still very organized. The videos are refreshing, but do get 
 a little annoying after a while and the winning movie is still very repettive. Still though this 
 game is worth the buy if you love Axis and Allies alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TraxDragon
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 29, 2005 5:31 pm PT
Review:  This Game is great for an hour or so of entertainment. It's a rather small program, so you can 
 put it on just about any computer, or (like I do) you can install it on your laptop and play it 
 between classes or on breaks. This game will save at any time and does not require your complete 
 attention making it a good game to play while doing other things around you. however, the program 
 dose not run in a window, so you cannot multi-task while playing. There are enough options to change 
 and teams to play to keep this game interesting, you can have hundreds of variation every games 
 and it feels completly different. plus being able to play as Russians, Germans, Brittians, Japaniese, 
 or Americans makes this a great game to play. Great Replay Value, Fun Gameplay, 8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutch50002005
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 10:44 am PT
Review:  Now this game i was exposed to in my Air Force Junior Reserved Officer Training Center (AFJROTC) 
 as a study tool and let me tell you this is a blast when playing against other smart military infatuated 
 people. ive seen just about every different outcome on that game and i swear its just addictive. 
 Now the problem with it is it takes along time and the turn based is kind of bland and cheap if 
 ur certain contries. But all in all its a pretty good game and i would recomend it to any military 
 buff or even some1 who's interested in WWII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eytch
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2005 12:20 am PT
Review:  The Axis and Allies PC game is THE game for the World War 2 aficionado. Originally release as a 
 board game, the PC version is almost an exact duplicate. Axis and Allies is all about one thing: 
 Strategy. If you are looking for state-of-the-art graphics, sound and game-play look elsewhere. 
 That being said the graphics, sound and game play are clean and easy to follow (make sure you install 
 the latest patch) . The really nice thing is that it is relatively easy to track all of the units 
 in the game. (Unlike other games like Age of Empires where it soon becomes almost impossible 
 to manage all your units)
  For those of you that remember and appreciate RISK youll want to give this a try.
  Work your 
 way through the training sessions and youll be well on your way to conquering the World. As the 
 saying goes, Those who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CapitalistPride
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 18, 2005 2:49 am PT
Review:  Wanna know how you can make a WWII game without putting a SINGLE swastika in it? Look at Axis and 
 Allies. The game, of course, features Nazi Germany, but does not feature a single swastika or the 
 word Nazi. Yeah, this game really is that absurd.
  
  Gameplay wise it's not that great. It could have been a lot better. Why you can't take over neutral 
 WWII coutries is beyond me. The continet of Africa has some pretty crappy gameplay. When you start 
 the game there's only British and Nazi units there, and not many, so the 'blitzkreig' feature really 
 just makes fighting on Africa a cat and mouse game which is very repetetive and boring. Overall 
 it's just pretty boring. Sure, the five different playable countries give you some replay value, 
 but unless you're playing as Japan, the game is extremely difficult to play as any other country, 
 which leaves you not wanting to get yourself frustrated over replaying this game. There's also 
 really nothing unique to the gameplay. Everything gameplay wise has already been done before, and 
 with the small exception of the 'blitzkreig' feature, there is nothing gameplay wise that really 
 sets it out from any other game much. Even the blitzkreig feature isn't well thought out. It goes 
 like this, if you have a tank (a unit that can move two spaces) , and invade a territory with no 
 units on it, you can invade another territory. This is an interesting technique, but really only 
 works in Africa, and as I said earlier, it fails.
  
  Graphic wise, the game is what you'd expect from a Risk type game from 1998. Which is to say it's 
 average. It has some decent cutscenes, but these cutscenes rarely appear and one could go the whole 
 game without seeing one because he doesn't know they're there. You have to turn them on in the 
 options menu, and I could see how one could easily oversee the cutscene option.
  
  Sound wise this game is below average. The backround music is pretty plain, and the sound effects 
 are very lame. Instead of a fierce bombing or tank fight, it sounds like firecrackers going off. 
 In fact, the whole sound experience is so bad, that the rare times I do play this game I put on 
 my headphones and listen to Pink Floyd instead of listening to this game.
  
  With that being said, Axis and Allies is a horrible game that will only provide you with two or 
 three hours of entertainment, and there really isn't any reason to play this with all the better 
 Risk type games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Three_Banditos
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jan 13, 2005 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Hasbro has adapted many familiar board games and game shows into video games with mixed results, 
 but perhaps the weakest of these is Axis & Allies. Buggy gameplay, laughably predictable AI, and 
 virtually non-existent sound make what could have been a great Risk-esque game into a nightmare 
 of mediocrity.
  
  For starters, the game will randomly crash for no good reason. Replicating the conditions of a 
 crash does no good, because it never seems to happen the same way twice. It certainly demonstrates 
 the need for an autosave (which, thankfully, the game comes with, although you have to manually 
 activate it) . Then, sometimes it will hang for a minute but come back, and for the rest of the 
 game, you won't be able to move units individually -- it's all or nothing for any given type, even 
 if you only want to move one or two.
  
  Then there's the issue of the AI. Regardless of what you do, it will pretty much follow the same 
 handful of patterns the whole game, with the only altering factor being the dice rolls. This makes 
 is to that after a handful of games, you can utterly paste the computer without even trying because 
 you already know what, approximately, they're going to do/try. This is where multiplayer comes 
 in and, thankfully, saves the show. Because the core A&A gameplay is there (and fairly customizable) , 
 multiplayer is relatively enjoyable, so long as the aforementioned bugs don't crop up.
  
  Multiplayer is the only saving grace of the game, though. Replay value outside that is pathetic, 
 the sound effect (note the singular) and music are painfully repetitive, and the three or four 
 video clips thrown in when you capture/liberate a capital or initiate a bombing run add absolutely 
 nothing, and only serve to annoy after the fifteenth repetition. If you want a good game of Axis 
 & Allies, break out the board, because this most definitely is not it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jstarzyk
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2004 3:43 am PT
Review:  For those of you who have never played the board game of Axis and Allies, or any derivitives of 
 the original, it is a game that pits the Axis powers (Germany and Japan) against the Allied powers 
 (U. S. S. R., United Kingdom, and the United States) in a 'recreation' of the latter years of World 
 War II. The major difference is that you control the outcome of the war as the commander in cheif 
 of one (or several) country's assets.
  
  The only problem that I have with this game is that some of the rules do not always work. The computer 
 game has some glitches in it , that cause problems relating to fighters and aircraft carriers. 
 Also, while playing online I found the game to be somewhat unstable.
  
  Nonetheless, Axis and Allies is the most complete, intriguing, thought provoking, and entertaining 
 piece of gaming I have ever played. I first encountered the board game version, and I am quite 
 pleased with the computer adaptation. The board appears exactly the same on the screen as it does 
 in the original board game.
  
  One neat addition is the extra rules that they have put in. My friends and I almost alway play 
 with "Russia Restricted", just to even the odds a little bit and keep the game interesting. Additional 
 rules, however, can keep you entertained for hours.
  
  All in all, Axis and Allies is the best board game ever produced and Hasbro has managed to successfully 
 capture it in a great computer game. If you find it, buy it. It is definitely worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2004 12:48 pm PT
Review:  .. from what game to the next with you being able to choose different set of rules. You can select 
 other options like one or two hits for battleships, as well as even being able to modify individual 
 units for any side, or just yours.
  
  Axis & Allies is a turn based strategy game, most games like this go on for a long time, but this 
 one goes on for enough time so you don't think it went to quick, and doesn't take so long you get 
 bored or annoyed.
  
  The graphics are nothing special, but then it's turn based and a game like this your playing for 
 gameplay, which is great. You can play each major power of WWII, including Germany, Russia, USA, 
 UK and Japan. 
  
  It may be a 6 year old game, but it still is fun to play still. And whats great is the ability 
 to play with up to 5 players on the same machine. Of course there are still multiplayer options 
 to play like over LAN, but being able to play on the one machine is awesome. And the way it's done 
 is perfect.
  
  For any fan of WWII turn based games, this is a must. Although it doesn't have as many statistics 
 as a lot of the hard core turn based strategists are used to and love, so this might be more of 
 a game for those curious about turn based games. It's pretty basic, but it's a lot of fun and definatly 
 worth checking out. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
