-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Axis & Allies
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/axisalliesrts/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Multiplayer games can be fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terrible AI.
 Weak campaign.
 World War II mode is a pushover.
 Balance issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  2, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.7, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 844 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: TimeGate Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 2, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Incompetent artificial intelligence and some weak gameplay mechanics hamper what could have been 
 an interesting real-time strategy take on the popular board game. 

  In addition to being a new real-time strategy game, Axis &amp; Allies is a cult classic board game 
 that pits the Axis powers against the Allied powers at the height of World War II. The new computer 
 game is not the game of old, however. Developer TimeGate Studios, which recently produced the great 
 Kohan II: Kings of War, has put a different spin on the concept so that battles are resolved in 
 real-time skirmishes rather than with rolls of dice. Unfortunately, this different spin doesn't 
 equate to a refreshing change. Incompetent artificial intelligence and some weak gameplay mechanics 
 hamper what could have been an interesting take on the popular board game.  

          A huge Japanese army can't seem to take China.     

  Axis &amp; Allies uses the Kohan 
 II engine, so it plays very similarly to the fantasy strategy game released a little more than 
 a month ago. You don't harvest resources in Axis &amp; Allies; instead, you have a constant income 
 of money, ammo, and oil. Ammo and oil are not hoarded. Rather, you have a positive or negative 
 flow of these resources. You gain an increased rate of income by building ammo and oil depots, 
 while a negative inflow of these two resources penalizes your money income. Meanwhile, money accumulates 
 if you have a positive income, and you'll use this money to construct buildings, research technologies, 
 and build military units. When you have no money and a negative income, then your units will begin 
 to lose health until you overcome the deficit. All this actually makes it worthwhile to strike 
 at your opponent's resource buildings to simultaneously cripple his or her economy and army.  

 
  Your military is also handled similarly to Kohan II. Instead of recruiting individual units, you'll 
 recruit companies. Companies comprise squads of multiple units that act as single units. Injured 
 companies are replenished automatically in supply zones generated by both your buildings and cities. 
 As in Kohan II, this helps minimize the need for micromanaging a bunch of little infantrymen, tanks, 
 and other units. In Axis &amp; Allies, a company must be attached to a headquarters to be supplied. 
 So if you build three armor companies from an infantry headquarters, those units will be supplied 
 as long as the headquarters survives.  

  There are four modes of play in Axis &amp; Allies: World War II, campaign, skirmish, and multiplayer 
 over LAN or Internet. World War II mode is the one that's most similar to the board game. You pick 
 one of the five world powers (Great Britain, Germany, Russia, Japan, or the USA) and then choose 
 a general for that faction. This turn-based mode is played on a world map divided into territories 
 that are each worth a given amount of income. You'll use cash on your turn to research technologies 
 and purchase armies, which are used to attack and capture territories under enemy control. The 
 goal of both the Axis and the Allies is to capture two opposing capitals.  

  This is where the similarities to the board game end. Your three army types -- infantry, mechanized, 
 and armor -- can only move one space (there are no mechanized units in the board game, and armor 
 could move two spaces) . There are no naval or air units, and you can't build factories, so moving 
 new armies from your capital one space at a time can be tedious. The most interesting and potentially 
 fun aspect of this mode is how conflicts are resolved. Instead of rolling dice, you can fight battles 
 in the RTS mode. Armies on the map determine which types of buildings you can make in the RTS mode 
 and how much money you start with. For example, a mechanized army means you can build infantry 
 and mechanized units in the battle, but you can't build armor units. Unfortunately, the potential 
 for fun is lost, because the computer AI simply isn't very good. So if you're a reasonably experienced 
 RTS player, you'll be able to pull off victories even against overwhelming odds. You can also have 
 the computer automatically resolve conflicts, but that's a simulation of bad AI versus bad AI, 
 so you probably won't like the results... unless the odds are heavily in your favor.  

          The computer will attack the town, but it doesn't know how to hold it.     

  The strategic 
 AI on the world map isn't very bright either. It will spend too much money on technologies early 
 on rather than spending this money on armies. As the US, we were able to push back Japan with only 
 infantry, yet Japan spent its money on antitank technology rather than recruiting armies to stop 
 us. The AI also can't comprehend that you can pull off miracle victories (thanks to the stupidity 
 of the AI in RTS battles) . It would continue attempting to take our territories (calculating, say, 
 that it had an 86 percent chance to win) , even though we'd just keep repelling the AI's attack 
 every turn. There are also fundamental flaws in how the map is set up, such as how Germany is able 
 to take Russia's capital in two turns with ease. You can beat the World War II mode in only a few 
 hours, even with multiple RTS battles. The flawed AI and broken map make this mode a disappointment. 

  The two campaigns in Axis &amp; Allies follow each side's road to victory. The Allied campaign 
 features some of the most well-known battles in World War II, including Kursk, D-Day, and Iwo Jima. 
 The Axis campaign is more of a what-if scenario. For example, when you defeat Montgomery at El 
 Alamein, Rommel takes the Suez Canal and meets with German forces at Stalingrad. There isn't much 
 cohesion between missions. In fact, the ordering of the missions is confusing, at first. The Allied 
 campaign starts with a cutscene in Russia, yet the first and second missions take place in El Alamein 
 and Guadalcanal, respectively, without any sort of bridge to connect the missions. Only those knowledgeable 
 in WWII history will realize that the missions take place chronologically, since nowhere in the 
 campaign are you given any actual context for when they take place. The hodgepodge assortment of 
 missions doesn't do much to make you care for any particular side, faction, unit, or leader. And, 
 as mentioned, the artificial intelligence isn't going to put up much of a fight.     

  In all three modes in which you battle the computer AI, you'll probably be severely disappointed 
 at how poorly it plays the game. The computer does a good job of directing its forces to attack 
 different locations, but when it comes down to strategy, the computer fails miserably. You can 
 tell that it has rigid build orders and attack priorities. For example, you can have a single infantry 
 group attack an enemy base from one direction. This draws the entire defending force to attack 
 that one group, even if the defending force had just been fighting a huge force on the other side 
 of its base not too long ago. The computer should know that you have a massive force ready to pounce, 
 yet it leaves you to demolish its base. As a result, matches don't even have to last that long. 
 In the World War II battles and skirmishes, you can rush the enemy with a handful of infantry and 
 come away with a victory pretty much every time, because the computer doesn't build defenses right 
 away.  

          Mass infantry raids dominate the field.     

  Rushing with infantry is how you can get miracle victories against the odds, and doing so also 
 exposes a fundamental weakness in the game's build order. To construct mechanized and armor buildings, 
 you have to erect an infantry building. Before you can produce engineers that construct defensive 
 structures, though, you have to fabricate an infantry building and an engineer brigade. While you're 
 saving up money to construct these buildings, the opponent can buy cheap infantry and attack you 
 before you can even have units... unless you choose the same strategy. There has always been a decision 
 to be made as to whether to rush early (militarily) or move up the technology tree in real-time 
 strategy games, but Axis &amp; Allies has made this decision a no-brainer: You  have  to build 
 infantry. Not only can you attack and defend your base in the beginning of the game with infantry, 
 but also you can use them to capture cities to increase your income. Again, the problem is that 
  the computer  doesn't actually do this. It will slowly produce a couple of infantry units before 
 saving up to build a mechanized building, thus leaving itself wide open to attack.  

  There are other times when the AI is downright sloppy. The most glaring glitch occurs when capturing 
 cities. Basically, if two opposing forces are in a town's vicinity, then the town is contested. 
 If a town is under your possession and you have a unit in the vicinity, the computer's unit will 
 often just sit in the center of town instead of flushing you out. The result is that the city will 
 remain contested indefinitely. Also, you can bombard enemy positions with artillery, and oftentimes 
 the enemy will sit there and do nothing. You can even build defensive bunkers in the enemy's line 
 of sight, just outside of firing range, and the enemy won't try to stop you. You can then lure 
 the enemy units into the bunker's firing range and decimate the force.  

  There just isn't much strategy in the single-player portion of Axis &amp; Allies, even without 
 these AI problems. Since companies get resupplied quickly, it's hard to overcome an opposing computer 
 army if you're evenly matched. The computer is able to manage its forces so they effectively survive 
 to receive healing. Therefore, you usually want a vastly superior force. As a result, the game 
 boils down to sheer numbers. Attack with more guys than the computer and you win. It doesn't matter 
 if you have infantry or tanks. As long as you swarm the enemy, you can win. In fact, you can plow 
 through anything with 20 antitank infantry (20 is the maximum unit count) . As mentioned before, 
 the computer can't come up with a counter to mass infantry.  

  There really isn't much of a counter to it anyway, beyond spamming 20 infantry of your own. Getting 
 enough vehicles to fight 20 infantry would be very expensive, and it would take a long time. Bombers 
 can do some damage, but, again, airfields are far down the tech tree, and bombing runs cost money. 
 Infantry are cheap and fast to build, and they're very effective. It's disappointing that the game 
 essentially discourages the use of diverse fighting forces.  

  In a nod to Command &amp; Conquer: Generals, your general has four powers that you can use throughout 
 a match -- once you've collected enough experience. Each general has different powers, although each 
 general does have "corps reorganization," which summons a new corps HQ when his is destroyed. Powers 
 range from temporary economic bonuses to the devastating atom bomb. The area-of-effect powers tend 
 to be more useful, because your units will naturally tend to clump together. The atom bomb can 
 completely wipe out most companies in its blast, clearing the path for your armies to advance. 
 The game attempts to balance this by making it the most expensive ability, but one clear path is 
 all you need to decimate a base in this game.  

  Multiplayer can be a better gaming experience, because human players will be more adept at countering 
 the various strategies that can easily overcome the AI. Humans can plan ambushes, trap fleeing 
 units, and effectively use general powers. You can pick between random maps and custom scenarios 
 in both multiplayer and skirmish modes. Expect multiplayer games to last much longer than single-player 
 skirmishes when facing opponents of equal skill. The Internet in-game browser is adequate, and 
 it lists both available games to join and players who are online.  

          When units clump together, it becomes difficult to tell what's going on.     

  Axis 
 &amp; Allies isn't the greatest game to look at. The graphics are acceptable, but there isn't much 
 to please the eye. Buildings look similar, even across the various nations. Infantry and vehicle 
 models aren't very distinguishable or detailed, either. Explosions don't pack much of a visual 
 punch. Only nuclear explosions look devastating, yet they still seem weak because of the game's 
 rather bland audio. The music fits well, but the various accents you'll hear as part of the voice 
 acting seem forced and fake.  

  While the game's multiplayer portion can be enjoyable, it's hard to recommend Axis &amp; Allies 
 based on that aspect alone, especially since the real-time strategy genre is filled with so many 
 excellent, well-rounded games. The single-player portions of the game are ridiculously easy, even 
 on the hard settings. Only a few campaign missions are remotely challenging, and even these cases 
 are due to poor AI with Allied forces. Simply put, there are much better World War II games on 
 the market, and Axis &amp; Allies board game fans are encouraged to steer clear.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (32 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Axis 7 Allies is a very popular board game which now rushes its way into Windows: but there are 
 many problems to be noticed and that makes the overall experience a letdown.
  
  First of all, the game tries very hard to balance both sides of the war, but it fails, as the Allies 
 will march in almost every battle, no matter which side you play with.
  
  There are campaigns which are really well-designed, and it is very positive, but in the end they 
 turn out to be a bit weak and not deep enough. World War is now a simple task for the allies, in 
 every mode of the game, every time you play. But it is very good that the multiplayer mode is not 
 that stump-dumb, just because there is no AI. It is the best part of the game.
  
  This happens mainly because of the poor AI of this game. The computers often acts very stupidly, 
 giving you the chance to beat the game in almost ten minutes. 
  
  The graphics of the game are based on the classic recipe of visualisation, which make this part 
 of the game quite impressve. Furthermore, there are good sounds and music which offers a great 
 experience. But it is too bad that there are some camera issues in the game which do not help.
 
  
  Axis & Allies is quite easy. But you should have a try with it before you can judge yourself. Maybe 
 the demo will help you find out what is really happening with Axis & Allies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darsona
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Axis and Allies is a fairly solid title, and, although it's an older game, I still play it from 
 time to time. The gameplay is straight forward and easy to master, but the AI is... none too bright. 
 The game has some nice features; the regiment system I'm pretty sure is a first, and the WWII mode 
 is fun, albeit somewhat repetitive. The Instant Action "Custom Battle" Mode is what gives the game 
 it's legs, since it allows you to play random maps against multiple AIs, as well as test out your 
 custom maps that you can make using the Editor. The Editor, though, is one of the game's two major 
 drawbacks. It's really clunky and is very hard to master; I've had the game for about a year and 
 a half, and I still haven't mastered the Editor. My version of the game came from Best Buy for 
 $10, so I may be missing instructions, but the PDF on the disk lacks the instructions for this 
 feature. Still, once you master it, you can use it to make full campaign missions complete with 
 cutscences. Now, campaign is the game's second major draw-back; it's incredibly short, with only 
 20 missions; 10 Allied and 10 Axis. Some kind of Expansion Pack would have gone a long way, although 
 the campaign does make up for being short by getting really hard really fast. Multiplayer requires 
 the Gamespy Arcade, included on the disk, and is also fun, as long as you stay connected to the 
 game's online server. One last thing that would have made the game better is more civilizations, 
 although the game does feature the board game's 5 nations, which allows each nation to have unique 
 looking weapons. All in all, the game is fun and easy to pick up, but the AI may be a major RTS 
 players. Still, I like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlasherJ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  This game was suprisingly good, the campaign and multiplayer action were great, although the graphics 
 did lack. I thought that the WW2 singleplayer game was a nice game to relax and not have to wait 
 for money to get an artillery brigade for a assult infantry instead you can just buy it from the 
 map, the campaigns were exciting and not that challenging. This is a good game thats really a great 
 game to buy, the people you can be are the WW2 countrys: Russia, England, Japan, Germany, and USA. 
 The campaigns were involving and exciting. The custom maps were pretty good too. Overall its a 
 good game and definitely a buy. I think that gamespot underrated it alot, the AL is suprisingly 
 good at fighting. Not like other games. Word of advise, Dont let Japan get banzai charge, Germany 
 Blitzkeig, or Russia Communist zeal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssbg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Atari have made very good games. Axis and Allies is my favorite from this game studio. This game 
 has very simple gameplay (you'll understand it for 30 minutes) , very good Second World War map (but 
 again: You can move your army from Europe to North America for one turn) , good voices, new idea 
 like Special Operations, graphics and so, and so....
  There are some minuses about it. Yes, some of Gamespot users said that AI is very bad. They are 
 right. In WW2 map you can't increase or decrease AI level. Second: graphic isn't like GRID but no 
 one can compare new with old (old- Axis&Allies) . And the third- you can't build docks so you can't 
 build ships :|. And last-in all games for WW2 there are't some nations which can't miss because 
 without them WW2 would be really different
  I have played this game about 60 hours and it still perfect for me :) There is no better RTS for 
 WW2 (I think) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, many complaints have come out of this game. Some saying this game is a peice of crap, while 
 others complain that the campaign is weak. Well, I have other opinions on this game. The campaigns 
 are pretty neat. For the Allied side you basiclly fight World War 2 as it was fought. However, 
 in the Axis side you fight some pretty exciting mission like the siege of Moscow, the invasion 
 of Australia, the battle for Hawaii, and much more. If the campaign gets boring you can make maps 
 or even you own campaign with the map maker too. Another powerful feature is a TBS mode called 
 "World War II" mode, whichs allows the player the fight against the enemy in good sized battles. 
 I was impressed with the World War II mode. Research options are aviable and so much more. The 
 all time best feature of this game is the multiplayer. Playing online is very fun. With your allies 
 you'll fight city to city to land with the enemy.
  
  However, this game is far from perfect. The graphics in this game are not very good. And the AI 
 here is pretty bad. Some battles I found myself just bombing the hell out of the enemy without 
 them bombin' me back. Other time I'd just have a couple guys defending a town and the enemy would 
 attack me with a crappy strategy and crappy units. Though this game has some major work that needs 
 to be done, I still think it's a pretty nice World War II game. I suggest this game to any player 
 who doesn't have a good graphics card because or just like WW2 strategy games.
  
  -Helloiseeu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WaterDragon33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the first real-time strategy games that I actually grew addicted to playing. 
 I was instantly hooked on the demo once I learned how to play and went online, not knowing that 
 I would be learning a huge quantity of gameplay tactics passed on to me from a variety of experienced 
 veterans that were playing online. I played the demo for over two years, mainly due to the exhilarating 
 strategy-filled online gameplay that I experienced during those years, and I also give kudos to 
 the online community.
  
  I later went and purchased the full retail version of the game when the demo multiplayer community 
 had significantly diminished in numbers. It was here that I got totally immersed in this game, 
 and I regretted not buying the game much earlier. The music (for each of the five factions) sounded 
 superb and suspenseful / war-like, campaigns were totally awesome and uniquely built, the map editor 
 proved to be a great asset to the game, the WWII mode was pretty engaging, and to top it all off, 
 the multiplayer mode just blew me away. Multiplayer seems to be the best feature of the game, where 
 players can interact and share their strategies and gameplay tactics with each other and cooperatively 
 work together to fight as a team.
  
  Overall, the only bad quality that the game has is the aforementioned 'incompetent AI'. The AI 
 is pretty weak in an intellectual perspective - it can't effectively take cities, it can't maneuver 
 its armies in any strategic manner (except for rare occasions) , and most of its forces are spent 
 in an unrealistic and ineffective manner.
  
  Apart from this setback though, this game is one of the most influential and exhilarating games 
 that I have ever played in my entire life. I also now play other games, such as Battlefield 1942, 
 Battlefield 2, and Company of Heroes, but Axis &amp; Allies has got to be the most overlooked and 
 underappreciated of the games with players undermining its great value in the areas of gameplay 
 and content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capt_Galacticus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 15, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  The only real let down here is the AI but I recommend it to those of you out there looking for 
 a different approach to the WW2 game Genre. AI is rather predictable. However, instead of smashing 
 your opponents army, the aim to destroy supplies. Board game is better money for value in my opinion, 
 got it for 50p from a car boot.
  
  Missions are interesting as well as the campaign. The tactics you should adopt is similar to those 
 who play Imperial Guard in DoW.
  
  I think its been over critised but I think it offers a refreshing break from games like CoH and 
 Sudden Strike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mibu_wolf
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 13, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played this game very much, but because I got dissapointed as soon as a tried it out. 
 One of the things I noticed, and might not do it on your system, is that the scrolling is kinda 
 chopy and sticky. I have well over the required but it seems its just part of the game? The squad 
 thing seems like a good idea... but it prevents you from being tatical. Like you cant sneek up on 
 the guys with a whole squad of 6 tanks! One of the things I HATED was the fact that you could use 
 your special general powers practically any time in the game. Like for instance when you try to 
 be japanese, the bot just dropped an atomic bomb right on your base 5 minutes into the game. Theres 
 no bomber that comes by, no sound, just all of a sudden atomic explosion. People say the bots sucked, 
 but I could not beat them. Maybe because Im just not good. Another downfall is objects arent preporsioned 
 right. The planes are tiny, the tanks are big, the infantry is bigger than the planes. The carrying 
 ship that gets men onto a beach is like half the size of the ship it comes from. Really unpreportioned. 
 I would say the graphics are pretty swell. Some effects were good like the sand rolling across 
 the desert. Explosions are pretty good and I especially liked the flames and fire. Its really not 
 worth buying if you expect something like or better than Command and Conquer.
  
  I recommend Command and Conquer zero hour or a WWII rts, Blitzkrieg. (although this game is slightly 
 different than normal rts, read the review) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skigamer
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I found Axis and Allies a lot of fun to play. You can play in Campaign (RTS) mode or WW2 mode. 
 The campaign mode is where the game shines. You take part in 24 missions (12 for Axis and 12 for 
 Allies) which cover the whole of the WW2 period. Some of the missions are easy and some are very 
 difficult (particularly the last Allied missions to capture Japanese territory) . Basically you 
 have to act quickly building bases and generating tanks before the enemy has a chance to overwhelm 
 you with their own armour. Aircraft are an essential part of the offensive force as well. The game 
 does involve carriers and battleships but their use and functionality is pretty limited. Generally 
 winning on offense in this game requires tanks and aircraft. Artillery and infantry units are available 
 but are no match up for tank and aircraft units (although entrenched infantry can be used for defensive 
 purposes) . You also get to a different general to run each mission. Each one has special weapons 
 available at their disposal. I found the German V1 rocket attack to be the most useful. Using these 
 weapons is critical to success in some of the harder missions. You do get access to the Atomic 
 Bomb in the Allies missions but its power is not what you might expect. All in all this game is 
 good value and should be very enjoyable for those that like fast paced RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 3.7
Date: Dec 12, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying; I am a die hard Axis &amp; Allies fan.
  
  This game is hopelessly tries to be innovative by blending the action battle sequences with the 
 turn based battle system. Some might say that they have achieved some success. But i say no. First, 
 battles are frustrating. You have to be quick, you have to act fast. I dont like to be hurried 
 but this game does it pretty effectively (!) . Now every battle lasts for hours and there are tons 
 of battles to be fought ahead. This demoralizes the player for sure.
  
  In the box version, battles lasted for a couple of minutes. Say, 3 mins. But it bores me to death 
 as i get my troops for an assault again and again and again and they are all easily dead, and i 
 assault again. I found myself building units and gathering them and asaulting for the 85% of the 
 game.
  
  This in fact is an RTS game just uses the name of Axis&amp; Allies. And there is a turn based map 
 screen just for the formality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbest67
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 23, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Take Risk. Add an economy. Unit control the battles for occupied territories. That is the game 
 in general.
  The campaign map could SERIOUSLY use a zoom out function, but it works.
  I like the economic side. You don't get troops, you get money, and you must purchase them, or you 
 can buy technology. Different units and technology cost different amounts, so you must choose your 
 path.
  The combat screen is a bit clunky, IMO it tries to do too much. In addition, they need some basic 
 automation for some troops (Engineers to be specific) Ya gotta watch out, or the enemy will bomb 
 your base into nothing.
  All in all, a good try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 13, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  This game might sound good from the start because of the popularity of the board game Axis and 
 Allies but the game sucks! The AI is bad in singleplayer and some of the voice accencts sound silly. 
 Also the armies are also very similar and most of the generals powers suck (except the atomic bomb 
 drop) . Also in order to activate a power you have to wait for these stupid pointsn to come up and 
 those take a very long time compared to the good C&C system of powers coming back on a timer. I 
 haven't played it on multiplayer so I don't know if it's better there or not. The sounds are ok 
 but the grahics suck. My advice is not to be fooled by ther name of this game and to buy better 
 RTS games out there (like Star Wars Empire At War) and not waste your money on this crappy game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terial1901
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 28, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  It is true that this game does not have excellent Graphics as many think, but the value of the 
 actual game itself makes up for it entirely.
  The fact that you can Play as anybody from WWII with a wide selection of Army Commanders, makes 
 it so you have a good sense of satisfaction in the game.
  It applies a Good, easy to see combination between The Classic Game Of Risk, and an RTS Interface.
 
  It is those types of things that make it an extremely enjoyable experience to be involved with 
 while you are playing.
  So if you enjoy a good combination between the good classics, and Modern Time gaming, then you 
 should love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie345
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  his game could have been like revoultionary in my eyes but it just some minor defects in the game 
 that mde it from what could of een to a hasbeen game that never was and the gameplay was a good 
 rts and was good how you commanded everting from you little computer sorta like a real but some 
 times they did notlisten to you at all and the graphics i tohught was rushed and though it look 
 kinds good could of been alot better now and the sound was good because of the guns sounds and 
 how everything oved and stuff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmb0163
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I think that Atari should come out with an expanison. (like Axis And Allies 2: Return Of War or something 
 like that) I think that this is like Empire Earth I and its expanison. If you wanna check out Empire 
 Earth, search Empire Earth. Also, AA has a good variety of tanks. (i. e. Sherman, T-34, Tiger, Panzer) 
 A lot of good units (Flamethrower is my fav) Not just good units and tanks, it also has a great 
 WWII base. 
  
  Some other things are missions that actually happend in WWII. Such as D-Day, Stalingrad, ElAmien, 
 and more. If you have any questions, just search Axis And Allies or go to www. atari. com/axisandallies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jims-Kid
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't as bad as the reviews and the people say. I mean it's no the greatest game, but 
 with some adjustments, and add ons, this game could be an 8.0. It's cool choosing generals, all 
 the different unit types, but the sad thing is that the squad fighting is lame. (Yes they recruit 
 in squads) . The airstrikes are cool, the paratroopers are good, but they are much stronger than 
 regular soldiers, (why i don't know) . The upgrades or abilities, are cool, like blitzkrieg, (increasing 
 speed attack and defense for a short time) , carpet bombing, napalm, and supply drops are cool, 
 but the graphics are !@#$%^&*. (pretty bad) . IT takes for ever to kill any kind of squad too. If 
 you are really into WW2 games, i would try this one, but if your just looking to have fun, i don't 
 recommend this game. Oh and the create your own maps are pretty sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAeroV
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The games main menu is very awsome when your starting, now you have a choice of either Tutorial, 
 Historical Battles, and Random Battles. The Tutorials are easy and very understanding if you pay 
 attention, the Historical Battles (Story Line) are great and also very, very short and sometimes 
 easy to pass without even trying, but the random battles can be very exiting since you can be either 
 be axis or an ally and have more then one companion on your side or make many enemies. The vechicles, 
 regiment orders, and city capturings are great, but it also has it's down falls. The ability to 
 call a couple of aircrafts and just telling them to attack a point is very frustrating since your 
 regiments could be getting killed and running away isn't very helpful. Also I like naval combat 
 and I though when it came there was going to be some naval action, but I was wrong, all that the 
 ships do is create regiments and HQ with the help of Air Support (Carriers) and of course attack 
 the shore lines. They could have made the game a little better like putting in more vehicle types, 
 diffrent resorces, more regiment and building population (I hated this so much since I wanted to 
 blow the hell out of them) and maybe some railway system because I know they used them everytime 
 especially Germany with there 21cm Kanone 12 and morter Cannons. Well the game is great and it's 
 good to have it around, but try it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 15, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  The game had start of great but recently i finaly realised why people are complaining because of 
 its graphics well it might because they might have bad graphics or slow computer well that might 
 be the problem because for me im writing a good review because if u see som of the gameplay videos 
 like "gameplay movie1,9,6 and more that their gameplay are"thats how i played it at my computer 
 but what is great is the way all the dynamics like explosion, bombs guns they give a feeling adsive 
 ure really in the battle 
  
  What dissapoints the game is the way they fight in battle its like the units will easily run after 
 a few hits from its enemy which may get a little frustrating stil it didnt really bring down because 
 the game had good campains and WW2 which it had seem to be found interesting and its great to do 
 carpet bombing ,sending nuclear bomb, secreat agents and so on so fourt but the game is still a 
 great game i am still curious why in the world gamespot didnt like the game but still what is also 
 great is the way the tanks move the units reaction i mean their movement their speed their defenses 
 and all it was very realistic i mean the light tanks will move fast but they dont really do that 
 much damage and the medium tanks will move a bit slower than the light tanks but do more damage, the 
 heavy tanks will do almost the most damage but it will be the slowest, the units will be move fast 
 but they dont barely do the much damage but its very weak with fighting medium tanks and heavy 
 tanks i mean the infantry will just go on flying then falling into the ground but if you have a 
 haevy bunch of infantry surounding 
  your medium tanks its a whole different story but if its a heavy tank it might be the infantry 
 of the tank 
  
  The sound is great as it may be a bit originaland sometimes to say... well 
  its not that frustrating 
 just ... annoying but still its good its good but the sound dosent even fell like its realistic 
 or something well youll only encounter this expression at certain times when the tank explodes 
 it somtimes dosent to the way it explodes but the air planes does a great sound like the way the 
 fall onto the ground and explode or when the your plane fights with the enemys its quite realistic 
 especially when you are allowed to use a kamikaze like the same plane which crashed at USA it think 
 the code num's called...911 yeah it the same mathode the japanse could do, the infantry die well... they 
 shout "AGHHHHH"like there being murdered which isnt really that realistic 
  but still the is yet worth while overall
  
  
  still overall its a worth playing game and 
 will amaze RTS fans and 'dont believe what the dissapointment gamespot nor the other users say 
 the other user say this maybe because they dont have fast Giga Byt and the latest graphics of today' 
 so if you wanna play it at its best remmember you must have the latest graphics of today and 512MB 
 to play as good as how you see in those gameplay vedios
  
  for me my sytmem works like this
  
  speed:1Giga Byte
  total com space:120mb
  Graphics:"theater 
 650 PRO" [latest!!!] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valdarez
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Axis & Allies RTS delivers great game play but not a great game. The gaming engine, developed by 
 TimeGate, borrows heavily from the engine used in their Kohan series. Morale, Supply Zones, and 
 a simplistic tech tree allow players to focus on fighting rather than micro-management of resources 
 as found in the majority of other RTS games on the market. While a few balancing issues exist, 
 they are not egregious enough to detract from the overall gaming experience. The sound effects 
 are excellent and the musical score fits well with the battles. The game itself is comprised of 
 three unique modes: a Single Player Mode, a Multi-Player Mode, and a World War II Mode.
  
  The Single Player Mode provides two campaigns (Axis and Allies) comprised of twelve battles, each 
 with its own unique map. Great care was taken to reflect the towns and the terrain of actual historical 
 battles, yet there is no explanation as to why the battles are being fought. Why is D-Day so important 
 for the Allies (Operation Overlord) ? Whats gained from victory or lost from defeat? Sadly, the 
 game never attempts to address these types of questions or to develop any form of a storyline. 
 Instead, a player is taken from one battle to the next, given a set of objects, but never has any 
 idea why.
  
  The Multi-Player Mode allows players to play through GameSpy or via a point to point connection 
 over the Internet. The GameSpy service provides various game formats from free for alls to team 
 based games and while GameSpy tracks a players record, there is no ladder system. To make matters 
 worse, GameSpy fails to count disconnects, resulting in many players disconnecting intentionally 
 in order to preserve their win percentage. Without a ladder, and without any way to track a valid 
 win %, there is no way to truly judge a player's ability. With the stats system aside, the online 
 gaming itself is fairly stable. Players can join nearly every game, and they rarely drop from a 
 game once it has launched. Human players provide a more challenging experience than the AI. The 
 human aspect lends itself to intense team based play and provides the best gaming experience of 
 all the available modes.
  
  The World War II Mode presents a turn based game where players can move units into a territory 
 and then engage in an RTS battle for control of the territory. This mode attempts to provide an 
 experience close to that of the turn based board game that bears the same name. Not all of the 
 units from the board game are available in the World War II mode, and the AI in the RTS battles 
 is far too easy to defeat. To make matters worse, the World War II mode caused confusion with fans 
 who thought they were getting the classic board game.
  
  "Axis & Allies" is a classic strategy turn based board game set during World War II where two teams 
 comprised of the Axis (German and Japan) and the Allies (UK, Soviet Union, and USA) wage war in 
 the hopes of gaining enough territories to obtain victory. "Axis & Allies RTS" capitalizes on the 
 brand name recognition of the board game. In doing so, the makers of the game found new fans and 
 in turn disenfranchised old ones. The RTS game was released with the simple tile of Axis & Allies 
 on the front cover of the game box. A marketing blunder resulted in the absence of the RTS portion 
 of the title. This unfortunate event resulted in many fans of the board game purchasing the RTS 
 game with the hopes of playing a PC version of the turn based board game, which they later found 
 out it did not contain. This glaring omission resulted in a profound sense of betrayal for those 
 who purchased the title expecting the board game. Buyer beware! If you plan on buying the "Axis 
 & Allies RTS" game, do so with the knowledge that it is not an incarnation of the beloved board 
 game.
  
  By providing great game play, but failing to provide a decent single player experience, a multi-player 
 ladder system, or a complete World War II mode, Axis & Allies RTS manages to win the battle, but 
 loses the war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juliecms
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 23, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  My mom can't stop me from playing this ( I'm only 12!!) . The World War II section could be better. 
 The campaigns are challenging enough. The axis campaign is very wierd. It should be about the real 
 axis victories not what could have happened. The custom maps are quite fun. If they made a sequel 
 the graphics should be better. They scored the lowest. Someone write a good review. I love this 
 game. The allies campaign is very addictive. It is also historically accurate. The "Road to Rome" 
 is messed up. It has the British fighting at Monte' Casino, not the Americans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkymonkey4710
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  All in all this game gets very boring, very fast. The Graphics are very nice, but the gameplay 
 is slower then a sloth. The game also tends to skip a lot because one minute it will be Germany's 
 turn and the next you will see yourself playing when you are 3 turns ahead of Germany's. This can 
 get very annoying. The Sounds are alright, but the RTS battle sections of the game seem very out 
 of place and really don't fit in at all for an Axis and Allies game. The mechanics of the RTS sections 
 are sooooo stupid because it seems that you and the computer have no clue what you are doing till 
 you are thrown into combat and then when you are actually in combat, all it is is 9 troops on each 
 side shooting each other till the other side retreats, then you do this about 90 times and you've 
 got just one of the many very long battles in Axis and Allies. The Quick Battle option is flawed 
 too because it seems that the whole random dice throw concept is thrown out and it seems that the 
 biggest army always wins, sometimes. Well too some it up the new Axis and Allies game isn't as 
 good as the first, but is fun if you realllly love Axis and Allies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulletbuster676
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:46 am PT
Review:  Axis and Allies is a fun game. It really brings out the meaning of war. When you play with Allies 
 it helps because the computer always attacks you in like 5 minutes of the start of the game. You 
 have to choose exactly what to do in that 5 minutes or else you lose almost right away. But its 
 highly addictive and really fun. The sound isn't the best but its alright and the graphics are 
 good for a game like this. It's real time battle and the Germans really do piss you off but like 
 I said, it is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebelcommando
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 7:22 am PT
Review:  Axis and Allies for the PC was one of those games that just never got what it deserved. You play 
 as American, British, Russian, German, or Japanese forces in World War II. There are two game modes 
 in this game. Campaign and WWII mode. In campaign you control your troops through battles that 
 occurred through out WWII. In WWII you can forget all about the RTS game play in campaign mode. 
 You play one of four generals of the American, British, Russian, German, of Japanese forces. This 
 is where the game really shines. This mode is really cool because you can change the course of 
 WWII. What if Germany won? What if the British Desert Rats failed in North Africa against Mussolini's 
 Africa Korps? You get to decide! Now on to graphics, though they ar'nt the best, there kinda acceptable. 
 Though they look a little pixlish and the characters look mutated even if every setting is on high. 
 The sound is great though! The sound of the explosions of mortars and tanks. The impressive sound 
 of the battlefield. The game play is pretty cool. It is fun to control your troops to into and 
 out of battle. Overall, this game gets a 8.3 out of 10. GREAT.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joecavazos88
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 4:34 am PT
Review:  I my self love real time strategies. I played this on my uncle's computer and I thought it was 
 raTHER COOL. I havn't usually played WW2 strategies before but this was a cool experiance for me. 
 The graphics a pretty decent in comparing to rome total war, and the game mechanics are pretty 
 well implemented. I found it fun to take over check points on the map for real time battles, and 
 when I want a quck game I can choose a quick resolve. Overall I thought it was a pretty cool game 
 that anyone who likes WW2 and or military strategy games I would reccomend this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nazi100
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2005 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually pretty good. I don't know why people say it sucks. It has cool gameplay. 
 It's like command and conquer but better. cdasbcjgadvcgvadcvhad chad c hgad chbasd ch agvchasd cbdvb 
 cghdcbhgd cgh d cgda cgd c dah cgud cg dgc gad cha cug adgc hasd chgads cuga djgc adhgc hgad chbvfhb 
 vchsd vhus vuh swvuh suh vuhs vuh sdhu vuhsd vhu dshuv husdf vuhjds huv hsd vjhsd dvhu shuo vuhsf 
 vuhsf vuh fshv sf vuhf. fbuhwedbvuwbdfrd hedw fhcu dwhuc h ch u wcuhwd cuhqwe cuhwe cuh adhu chud 
 chu dhu cuihwd cuhwed huc dwhc uhwds csd cujh sdhuc usdh cuhsd cuds c sdhc usd cd cobjd cjed cjd 
 cuj sdjc uhosd chjo dhojc dh cjd c dhc ojd cjod jc jd cojd jc jds cojsd cjbd jc . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemasta456456
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 6, 2005 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good and underappriciated. This game is much like the Command and conquer generals 
 series but with a WWII twist.
  For single player you can play as ethier the axis or allies. When you play as the axis you go tru 
 a campaign against the Americans, British, and Russians as the Japanese or Germans. And with the 
 allies it is the opposite. You play real battles that happened like D-day, Stalingrad, and 
  El Alemien. Here is some pros and cons
  
  + The Graphics are good
  + The campaign can be 
 suprisingly fun (on most games the multiplayer shines) .
  + The veriety of units that were used during WWII (real life)
  + The multiplayer is ok (for an 
 RTS game)
  + Having regiments is organized
  + The WWII is the coolest thing in the game (its like the board game, risk)
  
  - You have a 
 limit on wat u build (Hqs and units)
  - Not enough missions (this is a very short game)
  
  When u finish the game go multiplayer....
  And if u dont like RTS dont play this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is a game that you should pass unless you want to spend hours and hours on one battle.
 
  
  The gameplay on this game is horrible. The skirmishes take forever. You have to capture every single 
 town in order to win, which takes forever because you have to go through enemy lines and capture 
 it. Then you have to kill everyone which also takes forever and gets boring quickly.
  
  The graphics on this game are decent. They are not as good as LOTR: Battle for Middle Earth though. 
 The weapons look pretty good. You can tell what type of weapon the soldiers are holding which is 
 a relief. If the graphics wern't good this game would be a total waste of time for anyone. Even 
 the people who wan't to spend alot of time on it.
  
  The sound is ok. The guns good, the plane sounds good, everything is good except for the people 
 who talk when you click on a unit. The airborne one is the worst. That ruins all of the sound in 
 this game which makes it even worse.
  
  Overall, this game is not worth buying and anyone who wants to have some fun should pass this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 14, 2005 3:34 am PT
Review:  At first glance, this is another WWII RTS that really could have had a lot of potential, but by 
 today's standards the game doesn't really offer anything new to the RTS genre.
  
  Combined with pretty poor graphics by today's standards, not to mention that awful looking interface 
 even in high resolution modes, this game is somewhat of a disappointment to me, if not for my seven 
 year old son.
  
  The developers could also have spent a bit more time in terms of historical accuracy of units used 
 by various sides in the game instead of mostly copying the same armoured vehicles and basic infantry 
 units across the board.
  
  Those vehicles making some funny sharp u-turns all over the map really look awkward even though 
 the developers tried their best to build in little things like trees falling over, footsteps, tracks 
 and such, not that this really makes much difference to the game play anyway.
  
  The Campaign mode also doesn't really provide anything new to the turn-based genre and is a far 
 cry from anything the Total War series has to offer not that one likes to directly compare the 
 two.
  
  In short, as a WWII RTS this doesn't come close to the look and feel or historical accuracy of 
 the Sudden Strike or Blitzkrieg games and as a turn-based game it doesn't introduce anything new. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 29, 2005 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is simple the simplest RTS as it gets. Play conquer the world mode move your pieces across 
 a map and defeat the enemy with either your intellect or quick battle and lets math %'s take over 
 and cast the die to see who wins threw probability. The skirmish is simpe and fun you build units 
 you move units into a town to get you more money you send your units to town to defend it and of 
 course since there in the town they get a defense bonus. And basically technology just increases 
 as you play and get enough money to buy them they increase units attack power and speed and etc. 
 This is basically a game for people who just like simple RTS that they can have fun with that they 
 have fun messsing around defending towns and keep production going. Everyone really overlooked 
 this game mainly I think cause of its low graphic quality. Its not so much as low as it is once 
 again just simple heh. But if your looking for a new high graphiced action packed explosion nuke 
 bombing RTS this might not be it though they do have explosions, actions, and nukes. Just really 
 depends on the person me personally enjoyed this game very much and I thought it was overlooked 
 as one of the finer RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 1, 2004 3:19 am PT
Review:  I have no taste or talent for real-time, mouse-and-keyboard frenzy : simply said, I am an incompetent 
 RTS battlefield commander. My review of A&A will consequently limit itself, mostly, to the turn-based 
 geostrategic mode of the game.
  
  Well, then, it is a very simple review to compose : the geostrategic A. I. is horrendously incompetent 
 and/or crazy, to the point that it rapidly leads to aberrant absurdities (such as : the German 
 losing his capital, early on, to a strong Russian while he is rushing & conquering the British 
 mainland) and to fatally flawed games because of erratic geostrategic imbalances.
  
  It looks like the programmers coded such an aggressive priority to the capture of an enemy capital 
 that the defense of the A. I.'s homeland seems to be very secondary. Another example. Each time 
 I play Japan, I must endure the sorry spectacle of watching my Nazi ally lose France & Germany 
 to the British (or the Russian) because he remains obsessed by his invasion army which is piled 
 up and glued into coastal Northern France. If Great Britain is well defended, that invasion army 
 refuses to move, while the rest of Europe behind it (Germany included) falls to British or Russian 
 troops. The German A. I. is the worse : it is so incompetent & unbalanced that it spoils the game 
 (unless the human player takes over the Nazi side) . The German often captures Moscow, but since 
 he neglects the defense of his homeland, it leads to a weird situation : almost half of the Germans 
 remain stuck in Northern France, while the other half remains parked at Moscow. The capture of 
 capitals is executed much sooner than in the previous A&A title, but it rapidly leads to an absurd 
 geostrategic stalemate.
  
  The quick-resolve odds indicator is often misleading. You sometimes lose battles that you should 
 win 2 out of 3 times, and if you reload the saved file again and again, you will always lose at 
 those odds. Perhaps the odds indicator does not take into account technological differences. But 
 I have seen, even in A. I. vs A. I. quick-resolve battles, very weird defeats inflicted to the side 
 who should have won : repeatedly reloading the saved file did not change anything. 
  
  I have watched (at 400% speed) some A. I. vs A. I. battles. The landscape & military graphics are 
 clear, clean & crisp : but simply watching rapidly becomes boring. I am not a competent RTS battlefield 
 manager so I cannot evaluate that important aspect of the game, but I say to myself, if someone 
 wants to play a WWII RTS of that genre, he is going to play at Command & Conquer Generals. Axis 
 & Allies' RTS mode doesn't have much to offer compared to C&C. Players who are veterans of Red 
 Alert, StarCraft and WarCraft III will not remain fascinated and challenged very long. 
  
  And since the turn-based, geostrategic mode has a fatally flawed A. I., there is nothing left. I 
 really wanted to love that game : it seems to have been expedited by developers & programmers who 
 invested most of their time & energy into their excellent Kohan series. Axis & Allies appears to 
 have been a sideshow contract. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BryanR73
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 18, 2004 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This game has aspects that you will love and some you will hate. First the WWII Axis & Allies board 
 game RTS. The AI does not seem very good in this portion of the game. It exibits no strategy whatsoever 
 on the map, only in the RTS battles. The worst part is that you can only attack one territory per 
 turn! What is that all about? Anyone who has played the board game and was beaten by inferior forces 
 because of the roll of the dice will like being able to resolve battles in RTS. But you will be 
 disappointed by the limitations. The campaigns are much better. The game offers both Allied "historical", 
 and Axis "what if" campaigns with 12 missions each. The AI in the missions is inconsistent. Some 
 missions you can totally dominate from the beginning, others the AI keeps you on the ropes and 
 you are barely able to hold onto your base. In my overall opinion the game fails in the true A&A 
 experience, but succeeds in the RTS arena with the campaigns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizeguy525
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2004 8:51 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the orignal board game, and like RTS games such as Rise Of Nations then this might 
 be the game for you. I absolutely loved the orignal board game, and the 1st axis and allies pc 
 game that was released a few years ago wasn't all that bad. This newer version cators to the RTS 
 gamer and is an "OK" attempt. I wouldn't get my hopes all that much though, but if you can get 
 it on sale and like I said are an avid fan of this era or the Orignal Board game, then try it out. 
 Rise of nations is a comparable game the comes to mind and it still blows this game away in terms 
 of scalability, dificulty, and depth. Even Dawn of Empires is better then this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
