-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Azrael's Tear
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/azraelstear/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 8.1, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 21 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Mindscape
Developer: Intelligent Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Sep 30, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can get past the interface, you can easily get lost in the underground setting of the Knights 
 Templars. 

 In the world of the future, archaeologists don't get their hands dirty by excavating dusty tombs 
 in the hot sun. Instead, they grab a gun, don their MS-2 helmets, and haul ass through dinosaur-filled 
 catacombs. This is the world of Azrael's Tear.  

 Azrael's Tear is a first-person perspective adventure game that combines elements of fast-paced 
 shooters, role-playing adventures, and Myst-type mind-benders. You assume the role of a futuristic 
 archeologist/thief who scavenges antiquities and sells them to the highest bidder. The ultimate 
 prize in Azrael's Tear is the Holy Grail, which should fetch a handsome price since it is possibly 
 the only thing that can save a doomed earth from complete annihilation.  

 The virtual world builders at Intelligent Games definitely worked overtime on this one. Although 
 a bit pixelated, the texture-mapped graphics in Azrael's Tear are detailed and beautiful. Set in 
 a subterranean world, the game is steeped in shadow that hides a subtle richness; it may take several 
 game sessions for you to truly appreciate the brilliant artistic design included. The sound work 
 in Azrael's Tear is some of the best I've ever experienced, complete with ecclesiastical background 
 music that sets an eerie tone for the game, and volume that increases as you draw nearer to the 
 appropriate event, adding to the realism. The extra attention to detail really immerses you in 
 the world of the Knights Templars.  

 The designers also did a good job of incorporating the puzzle aspects of Azrael's Tear into the 
 storyline. The bane of many of the games in this genre is that the puzzles break the flow of the 
 story, adding little to the overall ambiance of the game. In Azrael's Tear, the puzzles generally 
 actually affect the game world, so they fit into the plot well.  

 It's too bad that, after combining beautiful graphics, mind-blowing sound, and an entertaining story, 
 the design team didn't put more thought into the interface. This baby is clunkier than a pair of 
 Doc Martens on a four-year-old. None of the buttons are labeled and the controls are definitely 
 not intuitive. Positioning yourself in the correct spot to perform some actions can be frustrating 
 in the extreme. Azrael's Tear is creative, intriguing, entertaining, perplexing, and a bit violent... 
 all elements you would expect in a good game. If you can get past the interface, and I encourage 
 you to give it a few game sessions, you can easily get lost in the underground setting of the Knights 
 Templars.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Genia
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2009 8:33 am PT
Review:  Key points:
  
  Visual style and graphics: Superb graphics for the time. Although terribly blocky and pixelated 
 these days they still convey the atmosphere of the world very effectively. Visual style, although 
 not exceptionally varied, is superbly atmospheric and fitting. 7.5/10
  
  Environment and puzzle design: Very unique and well-designed environments with some innovative 
 and satisfyingly interactive puzzles. Puzzles are challenging and appropriate to the game progression. 
 9/10
  
  Interface design: The most major fault in the game. The interface is clunky, obstructive and un-intuitive. 
 With experience the interface becomes much easier to use, however more intricate navigation and 
 puzzle solving remains frustrating. 4/10
  
  Sound effects and music: Truly exceptional and immersive. A constant background of appropriate 
 and dynamic effects and subtle eerie music adds considerably to this game's ability to immerse 
 you in a fantastic world. 9.5/10
  Story and writing quality: Basic game premise is relatively simple and not exceptionally original, 
 however the background and sub-plots are unique and very intriguing. 8/10
  
  Bugs and stability: No bugs or stability issues at the time. However this is a very old DOS game 
 that is apparently fully supported by DOSBox. N/A
  
  Atmosphere/Immersion value: As with my Doom3 review I feel this game deserves a unique category 
 for its most notable feature. This is its ability to immerse you in its world and to have a beautifully 
 realised atmosphere (visually, sonically, thematically etc) like no other. 9.5/10
  
  Total score: 8.0/10
  (Genia's previous number of reviews: 1)
  
  
  This is a game I played 
 and greatly enjoyed long ago but it has remained surprisingly clear in my mind. Therefore I have 
 decided to briefly revisit it and review this little known gem in the hopes that it will inspire 
 someone to lose themselves in its wonderfully designed, immersive and lonely world. 
  
  The game's opening cinematic sets up the game story (futuristic archaeologist on the hunt for the 
 Holy Grail to save the world from a plague) and drops you, quite literally, into the unique world 
 of The Knights Templar. Your first experience of this crazy underground dungeon is a dark, wet 
 cave. This may seem terribly anti-climatic but somehow it isn't. The dark, wet, creepy cave feels, 
 sounds and looks an awful lot like a dark, wet, creepy cave, complete with echoed dripping water 
 and various other unidentifiable and shudder inducing sounds that you'll encounter the source of 
 later. After the cave the environments become more intricate and varied but the beautifully realised 
 atmosphere remains a constant companion while you explore the rich world you find yourself in. 
 
  
  The game instantly bombards you with expertly crafted sensory delight. The graphics at the time 
 were truly something to behold, and even today manage to convey the dark and oppressive nature 
 of that world incredibly effectively. The sounds however are even better. Every environment has 
 a variety of very fitting background effects that vary in volume as you approach their source. 
 The creepy sound track is subtle but also adds a great deal to an already stifling, in a good way, 
 atmosphere. The game has a unique way of making you feel truly trapped in a dark and dangerous 
 world with just your wits and your hi-tech suit to protect you and guide you.
  
  As you explore you will encounter a great many puzzles presented to you in a large variety of ways 
 but almost all are very satisfyingly interactive in a way that most first person games at the time, 
 and for many years after, weren't. Your actions, such as pulling levers, often have an affect on 
 the 3D world around you that is very visible, audible and animated in a very detailed real-time 
 way making the world seem all the more interactive and realistic. The puzzles are also very well 
 structured and appropriate, fitting perfectly into the world and never feeling like a puzzle for 
 the sake of a puzzle. Another notable feature of these is their difficulty and solving them often 
 involves a great eye for detail and bucket loads of logical thinking. The difficulty level of the 
 game is overall very high, especially to an inexperienced adventure gamer.
  
  On top of the puzzles you also encounter a handful of very unique characters and creatures. Although 
 your contact with them is relatively small, though significant, they each come across as independent 
 entities with their own strange lives and agendas. As you search for the grail the game's sub-story 
 revolves around the history and subtle politics of these characters, some of whom you meet, and 
 some you don't, and it is a very intriguing world indeed. Various characters and creatures you 
 meet are hostile, but there are only a handful of opportunities for "combat" and it is mostly optional 
 leading to the game taking subtly different directions depending on if you chose to fight or not. 
 The combat itself is very clunky and adventure game oriented and this is by no means an action 
 first person shooter. Anyone interested in running around shooting things simply wont find that 
 here. This is through and through an adventure game. 
  
  Unfortunately the combat is not the only thing that is clunky. It is impossible to ignore the one 
 serious fault of this game; the interface. Your view of the game is first person through the helmet 
 of your "Raptor" suit. Although this leads to an extra element of immersion it is also difficult 
 to use. The actual view is obstructed and small and the HUD is not intuitive. This does lead to 
 some frustration when exploring or trying to solve the more intricate puzzles. This unfortunately 
 adds another level of difficulty, though a negative one, to an already challenging game. The game 
 also involves a great deal of backtracking through loading screens that can get quite frustrating, 
 especially when you will inevitably get stuck and end up searching for something you have missed 
 to let you progress. 
  
  Overall though this game is a treasure trove of unique design and is full of terribly effective 
 atmosphere that makes exploring this game a fulfilling experience like no other. This game is a 
 spiritual predecessor, though by no means a primitive one, to the atmospheric, physics based first 
 person adventure games recently popularised by the likes of Penumbra. Although not a game for the 
 faint hearted, requiring a great deal dedication to the challenging puzzles and interface, it will 
 reward those who dare with a unique and rich experience that in my time as a gamer has barely been 
 equalled since. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
