-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: B-17 Flying Fortress: The Mighty 8th
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/b17flyingfortressthem8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 19, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.6, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 212 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Wayward Simulation
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Dec 13, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This ambitious game actually isn't so much a flight simulation as it is a role-playing game that 
 takes place aboard a bomber. 

 You wouldn't know it from the title, but B-17 Flying Fortress: The Mighty 8th is a sequel. More 
 than eight years ago, MicroProse released one of the all-time greatest flight simulations, which 
 was about the legendary Flying Fortress bomber. Fans have eagerly anticipated a sequel ever since, 
 and, needless to say, it's been a long time in the making. Unfortunately, the single most-desired 
 feature in the new edition of the game - a cooperative multiplayer mode - was dropped when B-17 
 II became a single-player-only game in order to meet its production deadlines. The "II" in the 
 title was dropped as well, but the spirit of the original lives on - even after all these years, 
 the sequel is still every bit as ambitious as its predecessor.   

  B-17 is a simulation of the same four-engine workhorse from the original game. Ten crew positions 
 are re-created in lavish detail, including the pilot, copilot, navigator, bombardier, engineer, 
 ball gunner, radio operator, waist gunner, and tail gunner stations. Each crewmember has different 
 skills and proficiencies; you'll soon find that a good bombardier or navigator isn't easily replaceable. 
 You'll learn to cherish each crewmember's individual contributions as you play through the missions 
 in the game.   

  B-17 has gorgeous graphics, and it is certainly one of the best-looking World War II sims to date, 
 along with Microsoft's recent Combat Flight Simulator 2. The terrain is excellent (although you 
 might notice some seams between the ground-texture maps) , and the cloud effects look outstanding. 
 The aircraft look great, too. Unfortunately, running the game at maximum detail requires powerful 
 hardware, so you might experience sluggish frame rates even if you exceed the game's recommended 
 system requirements. Otherwise, though the sounds in the game can occasionally get repetitive, 
 they generally help establish a realistic atmosphere, from the roar of the B-17's engines to the 
 voices of your crew. You might find that they even get a little too real when you hear the cries 
 of your injured crewmembers.   

  In addition to the B-17 itself, the game features six fighter aircraft: the American P-38, P-47, 
 and P-51, as well as the German Me-109, Me-262, and F-190. The fighters look quite good, and the 
 cockpits are especially impressive. However, the thing that's most important about simulating a 
 fighter is in getting its flight model just right - but unfortunately, the flight models in B-17 
 are consistently lacking.   

  For a game that's ostensibly a flight simulator, the actual simulation of flight turns out to be 
 one of the weakest points of B-17. The flight models for all the aircraft seem far more relaxed 
 and forgiving than in a good fighter sim. For instance, the B-17 itself can perform some surprisingly 
 deft maneuvers, like loops, without much trouble. Real B-17s had a difficult time just getting 
 airborne with a full payload of bombs; it took a skilled pilot to avoid crashing such a bomber 
 on takeoff. But pilots in B-17 Flying Fortress will encounter no such problems. Also, the fighters 
 on both sides are generally overpowered, and they don't seem realistic as a result of the same 
 overly forgiving physics model that also makes the bombers seem less difficult to maneuver than 
 they should be.   

  In a fighter-oriented game, this lack of realism in the flight models would be a huge problem. 
 Luckily, it's not as big of a deal in B-17 since this ambitious game actually isn't so much a flight 
 simulation as it is a role-playing game that takes place aboard a bomber. The bomber isn't just 
 a plane you control, but rather a setting for your crew to carry out its individual tasks and for 
 you to join them as you try to survive 25 scripted missions over occupied Europe. There really 
 isn't much actual aerial maneuvering to do in the game, since most of the flying is in formation 
 or is done in conjunction with a computer-controlled navigator. B-17 actually lets you take control 
 of any crew position in the plane at any time; you're not strictly responsible for steering the 
 plane along its course. So, while you can perform loops in the bomber (thanks to problems with 
 the flight model) or even shoot down your wingmen without any real consequence (they'll start shouting 
 that there are enemy fighters around, even if there aren't any) , there's no point in actually doing 
 so because it's contrary to the nature of the role-playing experience. The realism problems in 
 B-17 don't have nearly the detrimental effect on the game that you might expect, since the game's 
 convincing and authentic atmosphere inspires you to try to suspend your disbelief despite these 
 things.   

  B-17 succeeds in suspending your disbelief not only because of its graphics and sound, but also 
 because of its depth, which is obvious from the detail at each crew position. Simply starting the 
 B-17's four engines is an incredible 30-step process. There are three different brakes you have 
 to release in order to taxi your bomber down the runway. As the bombardier, using the Norden bombsight 
 properly is an arcane skill that you'll learn only through repeated trial and error. You also have 
 to calculate the wind drift, which is similarly challenging. Fortunately, the computer can handle 
 all this if you're not up to it.    

 It's disappointing that the manual doesn't spend much time describing the proper use of some of 
 the instruments, given their complexity. There is a fair amount of background material on the war, 
 which is nice, but it's a shame that the 148-page manual contains so little actual information 
 that pertains to flight. This is worsened by the fact that the game's training missions have no 
 voice-overs, so you need to follow along in the manual instead of listening to audible tips. As 
 a matter of fact, the game's documentation overall could have been much better written and organized. 
 In many cases, the plane's instruments are given only a cursory description. So you'll just have 
 to fiddle with your plane to find out more about it.   

  Because you can't reliably resort to the documentation for assistance with flying, the saving grace 
 of B-17 is that you don't have to manually control every crew position. In fact, since you're only 
 one person and there are ten crewmen working the plane, you can be in only one place at a time. 
 B-17 lets you take control of any station while letting the computer take care of the others - 
 or you can even let the computer control the entire aircraft while you monitor its progress. As 
 a result, B-17 can often seem like more of a bomber management simulation than an actual simulation 
 of the bomber's flight: For instance, when your crewmen are wounded (or panicking) , you'll have 
 to reassign duties, have members perform first aid, and lend a hand yourself. You'll fight fires, 
 feather propellers on damaged engines, and play gunner while fending off German fighters. There's 
 even a squadron commander option in which you manage the crew, bomber, and target assignments for 
 a squadron of planes, though that's not the main point of the game. B-17 is more about re-creating 
 the unique experience of a small, closely knit crew aboard a single aircraft. The game really does 
 try to cover everything about this experience.   

  What's so remarkable about B-17 is that it manages to be even more immersive for the player than 
 even the most sophisticated dynamic-campaign-driven single-seater flight simulation. You'll really 
 start to identify with your crewmembers and get a sense of the conflict. After several successful 
 runs, you'll really start sweating through the missions as the stakes get higher. It's ironic that 
 the game's most intense moments aren't necessarily in the middle of battle, but rather in the aftermath, 
 when you're watching and waiting as your pilot coaxes the shot-up bomber the last 100 kilometers 
 back to base, in hopes of saving the life of a wounded crewmember in time. If you're defeated in 
 a mission, the terrified screams of your crew as your ship breaks up can be unnerving - it may 
 even cause you to put the game away for a while before restarting with a new bomber. In fact, the 
 effect of hearing your tail gunner scream that there's a fire in his compartment and plead for 
 help might be rather more intense an experience than you're used to in other simulations or in 
 other types of games in general.   

  Unfortunately, as with many flight sims, B-17 is a very temperamental program that crashes often 
 and hard, which can detract from your experience with the game even more so than if you're disappointed 
 with the flight models or the linear sequence of the missions. The game's installation lists a 
 graphics cache file as optional, but without it, you'll have a hard time running the game at all. 
 As a matter of fact, the bigger the swap file the game uses, the better the game works. The game's 
 recommended system specs are probably closer to what are actually minimum requirements, as running 
 the game in high resolution with the detail turned up will tax even the latest computer hardware 
 to the utmost. The multiplayer option was pulled from the game a number of months ago when it became 
 clear that there was no way the game could be completed in a timely manner and could still resolve 
 all the technical issues necessary for making this mode stable - but even after this shortcut, 
 the game still shipped before it was thoroughly tested.   

  More than two years ago, MicroProse released its highly anticipated combat flight simulation Falcon 
 4.0, which, despite its numerous bugs and stability problems, was generally recognized and commended 
 for the scope of its ambition. B-17 is a flight simulation in the tradition of Falcon 4.0: Instead 
 of just refining and building on conventional flight sim elements, it attempts to take the genre 
 farther than it has ever gone before. Falcon 4.0 did this with its dynamic campaign, which essentially 
 played out like a real war. But where Falcon had a very technical approach, B-17 takes an even 
 more ambitious angle of trying to make a detailed flight simulation seem very believable from the 
 crew's perspective, without sacrificing technical detail. And even with the flawed flight model, 
 the crash bugs, and the sluggish frame rate, B-17 still almost succeeds. If these significant problems 
 had been addressed, and if a working multiplayer mode were included, B-17 Flying Fortress would 
 have been a masterpiece. As it stands, it's a really serious effort that should've been given even 
 more time.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ballintinius
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Even though it's not a new, brimming with the latest 3D features, kind of game, B-17 Flying Fortress 
 has by all accounts the best interaction in its genre. Yes it does. Why? Because it's truly the 
 only one of it's kind. Of all the flight sim action real time games, B-17 Flying Fortress is the 
 only game I know of that allows you to play any position in the aircraft and actually experience 
 the entire mission in REAL time. Yes and a four hour mission can actually take four hours to fly 
 through. Now, can it get boring sitting there watching nothing happen for 45 minutes? Sure it can. 
 But when you get the word that bandits are in bound, you get a realistic pucker factor too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lan784
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  
  B-17 Flying Fortress has and still is the best B-17 simulator out there... released in Late 2000 
 this game sold quickly and became a huge success right off the bat and is still somewhat popular. 
 If you look around you can still find this game, although you may have to resort to Ebay or video 
 stores that sell old games.
  
  The Game Itself:
  
  This game was the real first airwar simulator on this level, i mean huge open maps, hundreds of 
 targets, thousands of enemies, and above all a real simulator of the horrors of what the real men 
 went through during the European Bombing Campaigns over Eastern Europe. At first glance of this 
 game you may just pass this one up but try it out for a few hours and you will be sucked in to 
 play more and more. The main focus of this game is you play a role of a B-17 crewmember, being 
 the pilot, co-pilot, top turret gunner, ball gunner, radio operator, navigator, bombadier/nose 
 gunner, both left and right waist gunners, or the tail gunner. WOW... thats right you can play as 
 all 10 roles on the B-17, each one detailed in itself... like for example the navigator has a map 
 display and you correct course headings when your bomber gets lost (more on that later) keep track 
 of how far you need to go and ect. Gameplay: The gameplay is very good even still to this day compared 
 to other games, you just dont see this type of gameplay now days. Your goal in this game is to 
 get to your target, bomb it, and go home... sounds easy enough eh? well your dead wrong, the moment 
 that first peice of flak cloud explodes you know the enemy knows your there and they send up all 
 the fighters they can throw at you. From that point on the fight just gets more and more intense 
 by the minute, as your gunners start dieing and ammo is running out, your plane is being shot to 
 swiss cheese and yet they still keep comming at you without stopping until you cross that english 
 channel to go home. But dont worry your not the only b-17 out there, you are in a formation of 
 a total of 12 b-17s, so this helps tremedously on defending the formation. Each gunner is AI controlled 
 unless you take over, the AI is well made in this game, they will act alone and for the better... most 
 games AI these days are just complete dummies, doing stuff that has no value in doing. These AI 
 gunners will shoot at the enemy planes from all the bombers in the formation, and they are historicaly 
 accurate on how many times they hit a enemy fighter and the enemy fighters themselves are not stupid, 
 if they get shot up during a attack they will stop and find the nearest airfield and land. Speaking 
 of enemy fighters you can also jump into a Luftwaffe Fighter and attack your own formation of B-17s 
 and try to shoot them down... this kinda gives out the frustration in ya if your bombing run fails 
 and you want to get back at the lead bomber :P. But if you do this be careful of escort fighters 
 cause, yep there can be P-47s, P-51s, and P-38s, escorting the formation so watch out for those 
 guys. Oh and you can also jump into a escort fighter and escort the formation and protect them 
 from Fw-190s, Bf-109s, and Me-262s. The enemy fighters fly through the formations at high speed 
 only giving 2-5 seconds worth of bursts to the formations and at times they pull up too late or 
 going to fast and they run into bombers in the formation, sometimes too much given the fact there 
 are only 12 bombers. Now lets move onto the bombers, each gunner position and the bomber itself 
 is very detailed, from the plane shining in the sun to the ammo in the ammo box running down as 
 you fire your gun. The tail gunner and the ball gunner will get the most action since most of the 
 AI attack from behind and below but every once in a while you will have one come at you from the 
 Front and above, so the nose gunner and top turret gunner will be used from time to time... the 
 waist gunners will get some action as well but these are the hardest positions to gun because your 
 shooting perpendicular from the bomber so you have to adjust your aiming a bit cause the bomber 
 is moving at around 150MPH and also the waist gunners have the shortest amount of time to shoot 
 cause the fighters dont stay in their view too long. The damage modeling is the best i have seen 
 for a AirWar game, where ever you shoot the damage will show, like you shoot up and down the bomber 
 you will see each individual hole where each bullet hit and this is very cool (if your the Luftwaffe) 
 if you shoot the right places you can hit the Crew Members and possiably kill them. If this happens 
 then the gun can be manned by another crew member, for me i usually get the navigator, radio operator, 
 and the co-pilot to take over these guns, and i have at least one free to give first-aid to wounded 
 gunners. If your plane starts going down you can have them bail out before the plane crashes. After 
 all this IF you make it to your target, you can be the bombadier and after a few times at practicing 
 the bomb sight you can set the Bombsight and bomb for the entire formation. Theres nothing better 
 to see than 12 bombers releaseing up to 15 bombs each falling all at once, then watching the factory 
 or airfield or port being blown away by over a hundred bombs, after the run you can see the smoke 
 start to rise in the air and you can see the aftermath of your bombing run. To make this short 
 going home is the same way getting to that target only in reverse... it gets easier as you go... not 
 harder.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Even to this day the graphics are pretty decent, not the best, not the worst either its OK compared 
 to todays games... the planes up close are pretty good, the crew members are a little cartoonish 
 but otherwise pretty ok, clouds and terrain can be better, all 2-D even the clouds. You can see 
 each of the gauges on the fighters and bombers, and they all work. All in all the graphics given 
 are ok compared to today. The explosions from the bombs look fantastic and planes crashing into 
 the ground are very good as well, you can see all the dirt kick up as the plane slides across the 
 land or the planes crahses into a big fire ball if it hits the ground too hard.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is awesome, you can hear everything that goes on in the game... if you have 
 a surround sound system you wont be dissapointed. Hearing explosions off in the distance, hearing 
 the bombs hitting the factories below, bullets hitting the planes, machine guns going off all around 
 you, its just undescribable. Hearing the wounded crewmembers screaming in pain over the radio is 
 something that will surprise you.
  
  The End Note:
  
  I think i hit all the major points about this game in this review, this game is definatly worth 
 checking out if you love simulations or into the airwar over europe. You wont be dissapointed in 
 this game, it delivers what it promises and more. my final score is 8.3.
  
  Thanks for Reading
  
  Lan784 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrk9
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Firstly I would like to say that anyone who complains about boredom obviously doesn't play many 
 sims. Sims are very slow paced games but in my opinion more fun, challenging, and worthwhile than 
 an overly flashy and violent arcade style shooter. I would also say this isn't only a flight sim. 
 It is a combo of all the positions of the bomber, crew management, and also managing an entire 
 squadron. I don't care about graphics if their decent and in this game they are amazing for when 
 it game out and quite good now. The game is very stable and fun. I do though wish there was better 
 documentation on how to navigate and operate the Norden bombsight. The game has many good points. 
 The first being very realistic. The flight models are fair but unlike what a B-17 is. A B-17 is 
 like a giant ship in the sky loaded with a few tons of bombs. They don't handle like that in the 
 game. The realistic procedure you follow for all things and the briefing add a nice touch. The 
 flak sounds are great and a bit scary when you see that after a bombrun one of the other planes 
 looks like swiss cheese. all in all B-17FF is a great sim that is like another person said, much 
 like Silent Hunter III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  If you seen the film Memphis Belle, the story of a flight crew after long career they just had 
 to fly 1 more mission before they reached their limit before retairment. The Plane they flew, is 
 called Memphis Belle and I was fortunate to see the plane they used in that film, The last B-17 
 bomber still flying, I was fortunate enough to see the Final flight of the plane at the Duxford 
 air show. I think the year was 2001. To see one flying to this day for me was a real treat, these 
 planes were the fortresses of the sky one of the proudest moments I would expect for the USAF. 
 The sound of those Engines and how loud! the plane was when it flew over, I'll never forget, such 
 a lovely sound, loud but lovely. I can only imagine what the formation of the B-17 bombers would 
 of sounded like. This game gives me a good idea of how it looked like and I turn the volume up 
 full to get the atmosphere to the best I can. But I know it will be never as good as the real thing. 
 To be able to fly the Memphis Belle inside this game having seen the plane for real, is special 
 and added bonus for me.
  
  This game gives you a sense of the magnitude of the skill it takes to fly one of these planes, 
 but also the skill it took for the crews to fly these planes into Europe, under enemy fire to reach 
 their targets and get out to get home safely. To see those large formations of 22 B-17's at the 
 high altitudes to see the trails of the smoke coming from the engines. No feeling like it any where 
 else, up in the air your free. This game Captures that at such a degree that I've not seen for 
 long time even today. I'm sure there must be something wrong with this game like a bug or too, 
 or dated graphics but I've failed to see them. This game does the job of telling the stories of 
 the USAF during world war II. To me that is more important to make sure we don't forget. What they 
 and all the allies did for us, but! also to acknowledge the bravery of the German pilots in their 
 109's that went up against these large formations. For what this game does in honoring these people 
 and re-telling the story with the fun facter involved, makes up for any slight defect this game 
 might have.
  
  This is one game, I've backed-up and backed-up the back-up. To make sure I never lose this game. 
 So when the time my nieces n Nephews or my own kids one day, become interested. I'll let them see 
 and play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssdivision
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  What is most important: The game is not a real simulation, but rather a strategy-role-playing game. 
 Actually, you don't have to do anything in a mission except for operating the Norden bomb sight 
 for a precise and successful bombing run. You don't need to fly the complicated B-17 at all during 
 the whole game. Generally, a typical mission is as follows: 1. planning of the bombing, choosing 
 targets (as squadron commander) , just reading the briefing (as bomber commander - boring) , 2. pushing 
 Ctrl+B to begin the mission in the 3D-world, 3. pressing a lot the return button (to skip time) 
 and increase time accelaration to maximum (8x) , 4. shooting down some fighters (if you like to) , 
 5. operating the Norden bomb sight, 6. flying home. In between you might have to manage some injuries 
 or flames and can change the flight plan. That's all. A typical mission takes about 20 to 30 min. 
 So the actual game is quite limited! Actually, flying the B-17 is not necessary and a waste of 
 time. The graphics are even in nowadays standards (2005) quite good. The sound is okay but uses 
 the outdated Aureal 3D standard (might cause problems with WinXP) . The handling of the game is 
 below average: For example, to plan a bomb run, you have to assign targets with preferably high 
 priority but it is rather complicated to determine the target priority. The same holds true for 
 crew and bomber management.
  
  A last warning: The budget version has no audio tracks. Thus, you do not have music in the menu! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tycobb79
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing this. The graphics are very good for the majority of the game. What I 
 mean is if you are flying, everything looks terrific. It is the terrain that doesnt look so good 
 when viewed close up. There isnt a lot of detail. That is understandable, as you will be flying 
 most of the time anyway. The sounds are very good, particularly the sound of FLAK. Sounds kind 
 of like a July 4th fireworks celebration. It uses positional sound, moving around changes the way 
 everything sounds. It is great. I particularly like playing the canned scenarios they put you right 
 in the mix of a battle right away. I guess my main gripe about the game flying the planning and 
 flying of missions, you usually fly for a long time without incident. It is a sim, so I guess that 
 it is appropriate. I have read that bombers crews were exposed to hours of extreme boredom, followed 
 by 15 minutes of terror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alichino
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 4, 2005 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Oddly enough, I'm writing the review to this game after I purchased the recently Released Silent 
 Hunter III. In a strange way these two titles share some similarities. Since this is a review for 
 the former and I'm not any where near ready to review the latter, I'll make these simple.
  
  B17FF is not a flight simulator. You don't take on the roll of the pilot per say and simply 
 fly the aircraft into the bomb run and let the crew do the rest. No. This game is actually a complex 
 crew simulator. 
  
  You're priority is to manage the crew, by taking on the various positions personally when the need 
 requires. This is made deadly clear when you start a mission. The radio operator has to issue a 
 'go' command by assigning a time to the mission start. 
  
  Of course, most of the flight can simply be controlled by the AI, which is as accurate as the characters 
 skill level. Skill level can be increased by taking manual control of that character and 'helping' 
 them figure out their duty. For example, the most common crew issue, the navigator gets lost. You 
 jump to his position, find the actual location of the plane on the map, and move the plane there. 
 Simple.
  
  There are different modes, single mission, training, and campaign. Alas, no multi-player. Oh well.
 
  
  The graphics are decent if not down right good for the time. Although, the ground patterns are 
 pretty dull in the MS flight sim sort of way. Where they use a bitmap for the ground and then only 
 have buildings where there are targets. 
  
  There are some not so good points: like having to use the joystick to control guns. That is a pain 
 in rear, would have preferred the mouse, or at least the option to change it to the mouse.
  
  Sometimes the crew gets stuck. One guy will be in the gangway heading to put out a fire, while 
 another is trying to stop someone elses bleeding, with no way to call them off, soon the plane 
 explodes into flames... all hands lost.
  
  Flying the fighters is not very rewarding. It is a nice touch, but that's it. In fact one of the 
 best ways to cheat is simply to take manual control of the enemy fighters and shoot wingmen down 
 then simply crash. It seems sort of counter productive to allow access to the enemy in the middle 
 of a campaign.
  
  The flak is great. It can be as thick as soup. 
  
  At the end of a mission, if you survive, you can go into the office and see the outcome, review 
 awards, re-assign crew, check medical records, etc. (remind you of another game?)
  
  It may not be a great game and at times it might be very boring and frustrating, but if you're 
 into the simulation aspect of controlling the crew, it is a good game. Recommend that you Rent 
 it First. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
