-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Baldur's Gate: Tales of the Sword Coast
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/baldursgatetalesoftsc/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  9, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.7, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,526 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: BioWare
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Apr 30, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even though Tales of the Sword Coast doesn't extend the storyline of the original game, the new 
 areas added by the expansion pack are varied and well designed. 

 Expansion packs naturally appeal only to a subset of the original game's purchasers. In order to 
 entice gamers to purchase an add-on pack, developers often promise to deliver more items, more 
 enemies, and more areas to explore. But in practice "more, more, more" often only amounts to more 
 of the same. Moreover, the gameplay balance of the original title is frequently offset in an expansion 
 pack with the addition of too-powerful weapons or abilities. Baldur's Gate: Tales of the Sword 
 Coast suffers somewhat from these problems, which seem to be endemic in expansion packs, but still 
 manages to deliver a gameplay experience that improves upon the original offering in several notable 
 ways.  

 It's rare for a role-playing game to spawn an expansion pack. In fact, the only RPG add-ons to ever 
 grace retail shelves are a pair of Ultima VII expansion packs and Hellfire for the action/RPG hybrid 
 Diablo. Although few recent RPGs have been commercially successful enough to warrant expansion 
 packs, the epic confrontation at the end of most RPGs poses another obstacle to would-be developers 
 of RPG add-ons. Expansion packs for other genres tend to just extrapolate events after the completion 
 of the original product, extending the storyline. But RPG expansions, including Tales of the Sword 
 Coast, opt to incorporate the new adventures directly within the chronology of the original game. 
 Since RPGs typically end with your protagonists triumphing over some form of ultimate enemy, adding-in, 
 as opposed to adding-on, new areas and quests has been rationalized on the grounds that it would 
 be anticlimactic to extend the story. But this design constraint seems artificial, especially when 
 add-ons for games in other genres, such as Starcraft: Brood War, are story-driven and yet manage 
 to capably continue their original plots. RPG developers do face additional logistical problems, 
 but it still would have been more interesting if the plot of Baldur's Gate had been continued in 
 this expansion, since reentering a stagnant gaming world just isn't as engaging.  

 Even though Tales of the Sword Coast doesn't extend the storyline of the original game, the new 
 areas added by the expansion pack are varied and well designed. There are four discrete new areas 
 of significantly varying sizes, and they can be explored in any order. The action centers around 
 Ulgoth's Beard, a new suburb of the medieval metropolis of Baldur's Gate. While the original game 
 notably lacked a really substantial dungeon crawl, Tales of the Sword Coast provides a real doozy, 
 complete with dozens of devious traps and deadly denizens. There are also a couple new islands 
 to explore and one brief quest that will take you back into the city of Baldur's Gate. The new 
 areas are immersive and graphically detailed and are at least as interesting as any of the areas 
 in the original game. The new quests, while still relatively straightforward, are frequently more 
 complex than those in the original game and require you to solve puzzles instead of just hacking 
 and slashing your way to victory.  

 If you've already completed the main game, you're given the convenient option to start the expansion 
 on the outskirts of Ulgoth's Beard with your party in exactly the condition it was in prior to 
 the game's conclusion. Your party can freely transverse between the main game and the expansion 
 pack territories, but realistically you'll need an experienced party, or one that is extremely 
 well equipped, in order to hazard most of the new areas. While Baldur's Gate featured a few difficult 
 battles sprinkled throughout the game, Tales of the Sword Coast is almost universally challenging. 
 If your party is lacking a master thief, its progress will slow to a crawl in Durlag's Tower, where 
 it will be constantly assailed by lethal traps. Several of the new enemies are formidable spell-casters, 
 and enemies combine their attacks even more effectively than in the original game. Even well-prepared 
 parties are likely to be stripped of at least a few members the first time they encounter any of 
 the key scripted confrontations in the game. Some gamers will welcome the greater challenge of 
 the battles in Tales of the Sword Coast, but the less stalwart may find them to be frustratingly 
 difficult.  

 Baldur's Gate's real-time adaptation of AD&amp; D's turn-based combat system worked well, as it let 
 you pause the battle at any time to issue new orders to your characters, maintaining the excitement 
 of real-time and the strategy of turn-based gameplay. In Tales of the Sword Coast, however, the 
 difficulty of some of the battles unfortunately highlights one of the weaknesses of the combat 
 system. Because you can't afford to let the more difficult battles play out in real-time for more 
 than a second or two without pausing to amend your characters' orders, the combats frequently don't 
 flow well and devolve into jerky gameplay.  

 Tales of the Sword Coast does provide good value for an expansion pack, as in addition to 20-30 
 hours of gameplay there are more than a dozen interesting new magical items and a handful of new 
 monsters and spells. Also, Roger Wilco, a software utility that lets you speak online to other 
 players using microphones during a multiplayer session, has been conveniently included. While most 
 of the new monsters reuse graphics from similar beasts in the original game, there are three entirely 
 new types of creatures, and they are each dramatically incorporated. Some of the new items and 
 weapons are extremely powerful and tend to unbalance the original game's finale, even though it 
 has been slightly revamped for the expansion pack.   

 Most of the gameplay tweaks are welcome additions, though gameplay is still substantially similar 
 to the original game. Inventory management remains a bit cumbersome, although similar items now 
 automatically stack together, and unidentified magic items are color coded to indicate their status. 
 The experience-point cap has been raised to allow characters to gain at least one new level and 
 to grant spell casters access to more-powerful spells. You can now set the game to automatically 
 pause when hostile creatures are initially sighted. Thieves' abilities have been toned down so 
 that they can no longer vanish from sight unless there are appropriate shadows nearby, and they 
 now have to sneak behind opponents in order to attempt a backstabbing attack.  

 The original game adapted the AD&amp; D rules quite faithfully but took a few game-balancing liberties 
 and made allowances for the understandable limitations of the game's engine. Tales of the Sword 
 Coast is a bit less faithful to the core AD&amp; D rules, as most of the new items, creatures, and 
 spells have abilities and attributes that have been modified from their pen and paper equivalents 
 or are entirely original creations of the developers. Some of the diversions from the AD&amp; D 
 rules arguably enhance gameplay and overcome limitations necessary only in a pen and paper session. 
 For example, while pen and paper AD&amp; D relies upon the abstract concept of saving throws to 
 simulate a character's ability to dodge spell effects, Tales of the Sword Coast permits characters 
 to dodge spells by demonstrably moving out of the targeted area of effect. Veteran AD&amp; D players, 
 however, will likely be disappointed that the expansion pack doesn't attempt to correct any of 
 the main game's breaches of the AD&amp; D rules and creates original spells, monsters, and items 
 instead of incorporating more core AD&amp; D material.  

 Yet even though Tales of the Sword Coast features some occasionally frustrating battles, adds only 
 minor gameplay enhancements, and takes a few additional liberties with AD&amp; D rules, it provides 
 several well-designed new areas and a number of interesting new spells, items, and enemies. While 
 it suffers from the same flaws that afflict most expansion packs, Tales of the Sword Coast is still 
 a worthwhile addition to GameSpot's 1998 RPG of the Year.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: arijit_2404
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  This is an expansion pack for original Baldur's Gate. It is already a great game and this expansion 
 pack makes it legendary. Content wise plenty of maps (aka areas) are added to the original, but 
 after finishing it I left somewhat dissatisfied - developers should add few more hours of game 
 play.
  
  More enemies, NPCs, spells, weapons have been added to the original game. Also story is somewhat 
 extended though Servok is killed in the original game itself. There are plenty of dungeon crawling 
 available in the expansion and now player has to visit and cleanse the "Durlag's Tower". Difficulty 
 settings have become tougher. Now an experienced party with varying characters is needed to complete 
 the expansion pack missions.
  
  Traps, puzzles make this pack worthy to purchase. Any player who loved original game should grab 
 this one too.
  
  Pros:
  + Many maps, weapons, spells are added.
  + More dungeons mean more traps and puzzles.
  
  Cons:
  - Hard.
  - More content was expected. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrinningDemon19
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Wow, I heard about this coming out and waited and waited reading everything I could on it hoping 
 it was going to renew a game I had spent hundreds of hours playing and wanted something new to 
 explore. This expansion gives you new locations to explore and new NPCs to interact with. Now the 
 coolest part is if you install it before you start playing Baldur's Gate it will just automatically 
 be on the map so it just merges into the original game without any problems. They didn't up the 
 graphics or change the game play but hell when something's not broke don't monkey with it. I loved 
 that it added more hours of fun to a game that already eats so much of my life. I love it! If you 
 have Baldur's Gate this is a must buy just to give you more stuff. To be honest its hard to call 
 this an expansion since once you install it, it merges with the regular game so well you wouldn't 
 even know it was a new area if you hadn't played the game before. You have to love that fact alone 
 if nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 15, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  As the original Gamespot review mentions, this expansion does not build on the original storyline 
 from Baldur's Gate I. In fact, the quests in Tales of the Swordcoast, happen sometime before you 
 killed off that Sarevok guy in the original game.
  
  Don't let this bother you though. The quests in Tales of the Swordcoast are typical, hard-core 
 D&amp; D at their very best and won't disappoint even the most discerning Baldur's Gate fans out 
 there.
  
  The quests are well-defined and don't take very long to develop. In fact, you can jump right into 
 the first one moments after arriving at Ulgoth's Beard - a new place on the original Baldur's Gate 
 map, among a few others that were added as new quest locations. Here you will meet some new characters 
 that almost force you into the quests that collectively make up the expansion.
  
  The other good news of course is that your characters carry over from where you ended in Baldur's 
 Gate I, which means you won't be limping along with Level 1 characters and weapons that make Goblins 
 look like Daemon Knights.
  
  Having said that, the quests are varied in complexity and length and some of them will need most 
 of the skills and character development you've done up to this point in time. What this means is 
 that you shouldn't expect that just because you got to the point where you could defeat a character 
 like Sarevok, that these quests will be easy. Not by any means. In fact, without giving away any 
 spoilers, you will soon find that locations such as Durlag's Tower will require all the D&amp; D 
 skills you can muster and just perhaps you want to leave that quest for last - just to make sure 
 you've added another level or two to your characters.
  
  With that in mind, the developers probably realized that, in order to balance the end-game, so 
 to speak, you would need to get your characters up to higher levels than the limits imposed in 
 Baldur's Gate I. In Tales of the Sword Coast, your maximum character experience points have been 
 raised to 160 000 (which still isn't very high considering the bigger D&amp; D picture, but then 
 again, it does make the whole thing quite challenging in certain places if you don't intend using 
 cheats) .
  
  Graphics:
  
  Most readers will probably realize that a game dating back to 1999 can't really live up to any 
 expectations in a more contemporary context. However, if you're a true Baldur's Gate fan and have 
 played other games like Icewind Dale, etc. built on the old faithful Infinity engine, then you 
 will probably realize that a good storyline and quest design is still more important than the graphics 
 - even today. Being an old-school player like myself, I must admit that I found the interface almost 
 quaint after all these years and having been exposed to all the latest and greatest whoo-haa in 
 this department.
  
  Sound:
  
  All that you experienced and could expect after Baldur's Gate I.
  
  Value:
  
  If you are 
 one of those players that just absolutely has to complete every single quest and see every square 
 inch of the map, then there are some serious hours to be played here. One also has to bear in mind, 
 that the expansion was developed in such as way, that it integrates seamlessly with the previous 
 Baldur's Gate I installation, which means that you could even go back to some unsolved quests in 
 the previous game and go and solve them if you so wish. You could, argumentatively, even go back 
 and kill Sarevok for a second time. Just don't expect it to be exactly the same as it was the first 
 time round though!
  
  Who Should Get It:
  
  Anyone who owns and enjoyed Baldur's Gate I and doesn't mind going back to old-school days after 
 all these years as far as the eye-candy department is concerned.
  
  Who Shouldn't Bother:
  
  Anyone who doesn't own, or didn't like Baldur's Gate I. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZealotTheAloof
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I first played this game when I was 11. And since then I replayed it several times. Each time with 
 different character, groups and in different ways. It's atmosphere is amazing and the dialogues 
 are great, though a little short comparing to Baldur's Gate II. The game includes various links 
 to the Forgotten Realms world, such as Drizzt the drow, city of Waterdeep and many others. The 
 storyline is professionally made and it's one of the most important parts in the game which makes 
 it so great. You can choose from various races (human, elf, dwarf, etc) , classes (fighter, mage, 
 thief, etc) and other parameters of your character. A must-play for Forgotten Realms fans and D&amp; D 
 fans. Also I reccomend you read the novelization of the game by Hess Rhys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackleech
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  10-line review of Baldur's Gate: Tales of the Sword Coast
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 Same good D&amp; D roleplaying as Baldur's Gate itself.
  
  Graphics: 8/10 The 
 graphics for the new models/textures are just 'ok'.
  
  Sound: 9/10 The music and voice-acting done is still impressive.
  
  Value: 6/10 There really 
 aren't enough new quests/items/spells.
  
  Tilt: 8/10 The additions are welcome and the new areas are challenging.
  
  Good: Most of the 
 additions to the game, for example the spells and areas.
  
  Bad: A small portion of the additions feel recycled, quests are quite short.
  
  Who Should 
 Play: BG fans, D&amp; D fans, RPG fans and game collectors.
  
  Potential: +-0/10 The patches address minor bugs and do not do much.
  
  Conclusion: While the 
 new content is great, there isn't really much new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  This expansion adds several new aspects to Baldurs Gate. First, we have a few new areas to explore, 
 including a massive and challenging dungeon that on its own could take a couple of hours to romp 
 through. The level cap has been raised, allowing an extra level or so, and there are some general 
 tweaks that improve the interface and so on. Unfortunately there is no addition to the storyline, 
 which is a disappointment. On the whole, the general gameplay remains the same as the main game, 
 which is no bad thing, and more of a good thing is pretty darn good.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Just the same as the main game. Nice 2D pre-rendered backgrounds aplenty, dull textures and undetailed 
 models dragging it down.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  Again, the same as the main game. Good music, mediocre voice acting. Not much to say.
  
  Value: 
 8/10
  Due to the lack of actual substance in this expansion pack, its debatable as to whether it was 
 ever worth full whack when it came out. However, since its now available nice and cheap and bundled 
 in with the other games in the series, its sure worth it now for a good few hours of dungeon crawling 
 and environment exploring.
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  Excellent.
  
  Pros:
  Finally a real dungeon to explore, a challenging and sometimes deadly one to boot, and a couple 
 of other areas and quests for those craving more from Baldurs Gate.
  
  Cons:
  Theres no expansion to the main story, which would have been nice.
  
  Conclusion:
  If you 
 like Baldurs Gate, theres nothing to dislike here. More of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fwcosta
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 12, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  I believe that many rpgs nowadays should try to learn some things from this game, that was one 
 of the best I have played so far. Even being quite old, I still like to play it from time to time. 
 Today, I would only recommend it for D&amp; D fans or rpg beginners, but it will never leave my 
 list of best games ever.
  With the ability of making your own characters and evolving then along the gameplay, you gets yourself 
 more and more absorbed by the game, soon willing to made everyone of them as powerful as they can 
 get. Unfortunately, theres the experience point limit, but you will probably be at the end of 
 the game before it comes. The graphics arent so good today as they seemed at first in the release 
 of the game, but they still work, so as do the sound. One of the best characteristics of the game, 
 in my opinion, is the possibility to pause the game in the middle of battle, and rethink your strategies, 
 move your characters one by one giving then jobs and choosing courses of action that may take you 
 to victory or not.
  It&acute; s really a great game, with no doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cammaris
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Great atmosphere. That is the biggest asset of Baldurs Gate : Tales of the Sword Coast. The quests 
 in this datadisc are really interesting and attractive. Really this addition to Baldus Gate can 
 bring you some fun. 
  The background story is very good.
  However there are also minuses. The quests although they are quite long there are not many of them. 
 Sound is good just like usual in BG and the graphics has its style but is a bit old for todays 
 players. Well sure here isnt so many action like in Diablo, but thanks that the fights are less 
 repetitive.
  i think also that more really tough fights would help this game.
  I d recommend it to every one, just have played every little bit from outstanding BG series.
 
  I also think that lot of people under-appreciated this quality piece of classic rpg genre.
  Howg
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  While it did not add any new depth to the story of Balders Gate, it is a highly anticipated, and 
 much apprecaited expansion to the game. I had to wait a while before I could get this addition 
 to Balders Gate but when I finally did, I was pleased by what it brought to what I consider to 
 be one of the best D&D games of all time. Despite being gouged by the store for this expansion, 
 sold at nearly the full price as the full game, I found that I enjoyed it very much. It added a 
 lot of new areas to the game that I found enhanced the overall replayablity of the game. All though 
 I really only played it for less than a 100 hours, I can safely say that it was a very enjoyable 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morgue13-2
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  Yes, it does what it does....
  And what does it do? Well... It means you don'y have to change the disks ever again. Is that it? 
 Er... yes. BUT you NEVER have to change the disks again! Seriously... NEVER! All TSR games come 
 with a set of eight disks. Would the game fit on one or two? YEAH! Does it install the entire contents 
 of all of these disks onto the computer in instalation? Yes. Does it then need to change the disks 
 over and over every time you enter a different area? No. Does it? Yes. BUT with the tales of the 
 sword coast epansion pack, you NEVER HAVE TO CHANGE THE DISKS EVER AGAIN! How cool is that? I'm 
 still trying to find out if it does anything else, but I don't think it does, and it's a rubbish 
 game anyway so hell..... I seriously think you should get it. I don't think you should get the 
 game, just the expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammml8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 8:45 am PT
Review:  I must preface this review by saying that I look at Baldur's Gate as one game that spans the original, 
 its expansion, Shadows of Amn and its expansion. So I'm looking at this game as a part of the whole.
 
  
  Tails of the Sword Coast adds a touch more depth to the overall story allowing for a bit more hack 
 and slash and a few more experience points. If you're an experience point fiend like me then the 
 expansion is something to look into!
  
  Unfortunately, the game doesn't really further the story much, it just adds a few detours to the 
 original.
  
  In the end it's nice to be able to spend a bit more time with the characters as they evolve into 
 the individuals that will one day fight dragons and take trips to alternate realities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peanutbudda37
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 25, 2005 8:03 pm PT
Review:  this game aint that great but if ur a fan of games like icewind dale and medieval stuff like that 
 this game is worth pickin up especially now that it is runnin 4 like 5 to ten bux now. but hey 
 lets face it the forgotten realms world flat out owns the **** and drows are great. u can buy a 
 lot of weapons and armor in this game but the way ur party is set up it aint that great. if u have 
 ever read icewind dale or dark elf trilogy this game is worth pickin up just 4 kix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate was a great game and it brought a dying genre back on top; so screwing up an expansion 
 to this game should be impossible right? Think again.
  
  Baldur's Gate: Tales of the Sword Coast doesn't add anything onto the main Baldur's Gate storyline. 
 Instead you get a new town north of Baldur's Gate called 'Ulgoth's Beard', a new tower for puzzle 
 fans and some quest related areas along with some minor areas that are just there for exploration 
 purposes. 
  
  You can get several quests at Ulgoth's Beard, one being related to Durgoth's Tower (the puzzle 
 mania dungeon) , one related to a dungeon on a frozen island and one set on an uncharted island 
 where you're seeking the wreckage of the legendary Balduran's ship; there may be more but if there 
 are I haven't seen them. Two out of three of these quests are fairly large and one even has a narrative 
 (not spoken by the same narrator as Baldur's Gate, oddly) unfortunately that is all TotSC adds; 
 besides the bug fixes and new features that could have been added in a patch.
  
  Tales of the Sword Coast isn't really an expansion that you must play to get the whole Baldur's 
 Gate saga. It adds nothing to the main storyline and only plugs in a few new and unnecessary areas 
 and features that are only patch material. If you have yet to play Baldur's Gate and track down 
 the Original Saga bundle that comes with ToSC; by all means get it. If you already own Baldur's 
 Gate and are debating whether or not you want to get the expansion don't bother. A few new areas 
 and side quests doesn't justify having to spend money on this expansion: unless it's really cheap. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vorcoth
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 3, 2004 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Reviewer's Tilt:
  The Tales of the Sword Coast expansion pack, while innovative in that it successfully introduces 
 the concept of expansion packs (previous attempts for other pc rpg's failed miserably) to the PC 
 RPG market, was on the whole not much of an expansion. The basic jist of the add-on's were some 
 side quests and an expanded map. 
  The designers have recognized that an expansion pack that doesn't add any more story is kind of 
 pointless, so they've set up this expansion to run concurrently with the main game. This is mixed 
 blessing, however, since once I'd beaten the fantastic Baldur's Gate, I really didn't have much 
 interest in playing through the entire game again just to explore the expansion pack's content. 
 Furthermore, the expansion pack's content requires your party to be maxed out in levels and equipment, 
 so you pretty much need to beat the game before you can explore it anyway. Obviously not well thought 
 out.
  
  Gameplay Positives:
  The most notable advances in the expansion are the balancing of thief abilities. For example, thieves 
 can no longer blatantly disappear - there needs to be appropriate levels of shadows for them to 
 hide in. There are few other tweaks, but nothing really notable.
  
  Gameplay Negatives:
  Expanded content that can be explored concurrently with the main game, but requires you to have 
 a party of equivalent power to one that has beaten the game. Way to go, geniuses.
  Even if your party is maxed out, the battles that take place in the expanded content areas are 
 quite challenging. AI has been improved to the degree that unless you've really mastered the strategies 
 of combat in the main game, you're going to have a hard time with these expansion fights.
  
  Graphics Positives:
  More of the same excellent stuff, with the addition of new areas.
 
  
  Graphics Negatives:
  More the same = nothing new.
  
  Sound Positives:
  More of the same excellent stuff.
  
  Sound Negatives:
  More of the same = nothing new
  
 
  Value Positives:
  For die-hard 3rd person RPG fans like me, added content means more minutiae for me to delve into 
 and explore.
  
  Value Negatives:
  Wait until it's reduced to $5, or buy it used. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
