-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/baldursgate2throneofbhaal/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 26, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.9, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 2,379 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: BioWare
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Jun 21, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's filled with high adventure, epic battles, and plenty of surprises, and it's got a good cast, 
 a good story, and more of all the elements that have made the series successful. 

 The Baldur's Gate series of fantasy role-playing games has consistently exceeded the highest expectations 
 of even the most discriminating players. Back in 1998, the original Baldur's Gate almost single-handedly 
 salvaged the role-playing genre from obscurity -- its setting in the popular Forgotten Realms universe 
 of Dungeons &amp; Dragons, its combination of deep role-playing and tactical combat elements, and 
 its epic scale all contributed to its remarkable success. Some months later, the release of the 
 expansion pack Tales of the Sword Coast tided over fans waiting for the true sequel. When that 
 sequel finally arrived last year, it actually turned out to be even better than the original in 
 every respect. Tighter pacing, a better story, and an even greater attention to detail made Baldur's 
 Gate II easily the best role-playing game released in 2000. Now, the entire series draws to a bittersweet 
 close with the release of the sequel's official expansion pack, Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal. 
 Billed as the final chapter in the Baldur's Gate storyline, this full-sized game lives up to the 
 standards set by its overachieving predecessors. In fact, in some ways it's even superior to Baldur's 
 Gate II. It's filled with high adventure, epic battles, and plenty of surprises, and it's got a 
 good cast, a good story, and more of all the elements that have made the series successful.    
        You'll have to fight several of your mighty brothers and sisters to the death.    

 Throne of Bhaal begins shortly after the events at the end of Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn. 
 Your main character has learned much of his heritage: He is the progeny of the evil god Bhaal, 
 also known as the Lord of Murder -- and he isn't the only one of his ilk. In fact, you learn that 
 the other Bhaalspawn such as yourself are waging a fierce battle against one another, in an effort 
 to achieve the same level of power as their father. At the beginning of Throne of Bhaal, you are 
 thrust in the center of this conflict. Even more so than in Baldur's Gate II, in Throne of Bhaal, 
 the game does a distinctly good job of convincing you that your player character is legendary, 
 mostly in how other characters will respond to you, often with fear, reverence, or contempt.   
 

  Last year's Baldur's Gate II is a huge game, and while Throne of Bhaal isn't quite as expansive, 
 it's still very substantial and will take you at least 30 hours to finish. Likewise, there are 
 more than enough new features and content in the expansion to encourage you to play through it 
 multiple times. Specifically, Throne of Bhaal appends three additional chapters of gameplay onto 
 the seven chapters of Baldur's Gate II. In addition, it lets you venture into Watcher's Keep, a 
 dangerous high-level dungeon. The expansion pack raises (and virtually eliminates) the experience-point 
 cap for player characters, such that most character classes can reach an experience level of 40, 
 which is near-godlike status in the world of Dungeons &amp; Dragons. You gain all this experience 
 mostly by completing various key quests throughout the game and, of course, by winning battles. 
 What's more, all the character classes can now gain access to certain high-level skills that make 
 them extraordinarily powerful. Besides all this, Throne of Bhaal also adds a lot of new magical 
 items and spells to the game, some welcome new features to the interface and the gameplay, an interesting 
 new playable character class kit, and an old foe who'll actually join your party if you'll accept 
 him.           Throne of Bhaal takes place in a different part of the world.    

 The conflicts and encounters in Throne of Bhaal are plentiful, highly varied, and impressive for 
 the most part. Much more so than in any previous Baldur's Gate game, Throne of Bhaal makes plentiful 
 use of excellent voice acting to convey the dramatic situations at hand. Most of the key characters 
 you'll encounter speak all their lines convincingly, and portraits of these characters are often 
 displayed to further heighten the sense that you're facing real adversaries. In particular, the 
 drawn-out battles with some of the other Bhaalspawn are very intense. At other times, you'll have 
 to stand against entire armies of enemy warriors or face small groups of immensely powerful foes 
 who're as legendary as you. In any case, most all the combat in Throne of Bhaal is meaningful, 
 epic, and very challenging. Still, it's worth noting that while the gameplay has been optimized 
 somewhat since Baldur's Gate II, you might find that many of the battles tend to slow down on slower 
 machines as multiple spell effects flash across the screen. Furthermore, the combat can sometimes 
 be frustrating, as it invariably revolves around erecting powerful magical defenses for your party 
 and breaching those of the enemy forces. All the defensive and countermeasure spells can be a lot 
 to consider, and the difference between success and failure in combat will typically be in how 
 well you anticipate these. Fortunately or not, a trial-and-error approach with battle tactics can 
 eventually see you through the more difficult fights.    

 Soon into the expansion, you'll get to employ some of the new high-level abilities, like the fighter's 
 whirlwind skill, which greatly increases his attack rate, and the magic user's 9th and 10th-level 
 spells, such as black blade of disaster and dragon's breath. You start to gain these abilities 
 with every level starting at around level 20, and since your characters will gain about 10 levels 
 on average during the course of Throne of Bhaal, by the end you'll have amassed most of the new 
 abilities; actually, it's a bit unfortunate that you level up as often as you do, since eventually 
 there's little reward in doing so. Yet even an abundance of special abilities won't sufficiently 
 prepare you for the extremely strong enemies that await you. Fortunately, the great variety of 
 new magical equipment in Throne of Bhaal probably will. The discovery of an abyssal stronghold 
 at the beginning of the game will provide you with access to the services of a tiny (and rather 
 irritating) imp who'll look through all your belongings and mix and match some of your most powerful 
 artifacts with some of the other relics you find. In this way, you'll be able to make the best 
 equipment in the game even better, which can be almost as satisfying as actually using the new 
 gear in action.           Expect plenty of dramatic confrontations.    

 The structure of the game perfectly preserves and even enhances the epic pacing of Baldur's Gate 
 II. The expansion is split into main two parts -- Watcher's Keep and everything else -- and even though 
 you can venture into the dungeon at almost any point, the main story branch of Throne of Bhaal 
 is tightly focused. Both aspects of the game are well done: Watcher's Keep is a huge, dangerous 
 multistory structure for which "dungeon" isn't really an accurate description. After all, dungeons 
 evoke dank, claustrophobic, mazelike corridors -- but almost every square foot of Watcher's Keep 
 bears something of interest, especially further in. You'll encounter a host of interesting denizens 
 trapped inside its ancient walls.   

  As for the main story of the game, it successfully brings together the many plot points of the 
 Baldur's Gate series, and it even brings back some characters you'd probably thought you'd seen 
 the last of. Much like in Baldur's Gate II, the game strikes a careful balance between making you 
 role-play and making you fight. However, the fighting may be a bit better, as some of the role-playing 
 seems superficial. You'll usually have a lot of dialogue options available in conversation, but 
 often, all these options will still produce the same results. Also, the conversations themselves 
 skew toward revealing more about the plot than about the characters, such that the personalities 
 and true motivations of the cast in Throne of Bhaal don't always come across. You may even find 
 that the scripting in some of the non-interactive sequences is occasionally problematic. Fortunately, 
 by and large, much like Watcher's Keep, most every part of every new area in the expansion is detailed. 
 The new areas in the game are uniformly attractive looking, yet they're all highly distinct in 
 their own right. Plenty of background animation is used to make all these scenes seem alive rather 
 than static.           Throne of Bhaal concludes the story that began with Baldur's Gate.    

 
 There's much more to be said about Throne of Bhaal. The new non-player character makes an outstanding 
 addition to the main cast, and he's an extraordinary fighter to boot. The new wild mage character 
 kit, whose chaotic magic will often yield surprising or catastrophic results, is a lot of fun to 
 play, especially in multiplayer mode, when other human players might witness the consequences. 
 Throne of Bhaal also boasts an all-new orchestral score that is simply stunning. It matches the 
 action and settings in the game, and it will enrich almost every moment of your playing time. Otherwise, 
 the only real shortcomings you'll find in Throne of Bhaal are related to the game's use of the 
 aging Infinity engine, which was used in all of its predecessors. Yet the game assumes you're familiar 
 with how the Baldur's Gate games work, and as such, most any of the potential problems in the gameplay 
 (such as how combat invariably requires fits of pausing and unpausing as you reissue orders constantly) 
 can all be easily and naturally overlooked.   

  Though it'll challenge even the most dedicated fans, ultimately, much like Baldur's Gate II before 
 it, Throne of Bhaal is essential for anyone who enjoys computer role-playing games. The overall 
 level of quality found throughout the game exceeds even that found in Baldur's Gate II -- perhaps 
 even more so than last year's game, Throne of Bhaal is persistently rewarding and interesting. 
 As such, if you've followed the Baldur's Gate series since the original game, you should be especially 
 pleased with Throne of Bhaal. At the end of the game, you'll look back over the course of the series 
 and see how far it's come and how far you've come along with it. It finally gives a satisfying 
 sense of closure to the story of the beloved role-playing series, which is what's most important. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (34 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MrWednesday14
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate has a long been a part of my life. A childhood friend of mine let me borrow the game 
 when I was really young (exactly how young I cannot remember  possibly around ten years old) but 
 needless to say the game struck a very strong chord with me. The memories of the original are groggy 
 with age but there are moments that will stick out as pinnacle points of gaming. The rainy night 
 Gorion and Saverok battled. The doppelganger trickery beneath Baldur's Gate. The mines and the 
 hordes of kobolds that infested them. All these moments, no matter how blurry they have become 
 are magic moments of my child hood (sorry to get all sentimental but it's actually not hyperbole) . 
 My dad introduced me to fantasy by reading The Hobbit to me every night when I was around seven, 
 but Baldur's Gate made me fall in love with the genre.
  
  After I beat the original I left the franchise for many years. Again I can't exactly remember when 
 I first played the Sword Coast and then Shadows of Amn. I do remember not exactly enjoying the 
 Sword Coast and my first play through of Shadows of Amn I found I had went too quickly through 
 the beginning of the game only to find myself stuck in the Underdark with a low-level party. Again 
 I put the game on the backburner and only dabbled in Baldur's Gate until about a year ago when 
 I got a new computer. I installed Shadows of Amn and began to play my traditional character... chaotic 
 good, ranger, named after myself. I was thorough as I possibly could be. I killed every dragon 
 and lich. Searched every dungeon and tried to get every legendary item. Even pulling out all the 
 stops, I still couldn't completely crack the content of Shadows of Amn. The game is simply too 
 big; too sprawling. But what I did get around to exploring was one of the most beautiful, epic 
 and fully realized worlds I've ever been involved in. Again there were moments and characters that 
 were simply unforgettable. And when it was all said and done I left Shadows of Amn with one of 
 the most complete video gaming experiences of my life.
  
  This brought me too the expansion pack and final installation in the Baldur's Gate series which 
 I purchased about three weeks ago and only just finished today. Right now, bathing in the afterglow 
 of all that has passed with this series it's hard not to feel overwhelmed by the end of something 
 that has, at the very least, spanned ten years of my life. To say that the conclusion is as epic 
 as the rest of the franchise may not even be true, if possible it may be more epic than anything 
 that has come before. 
  
  For people who have played through the original and Shadows of Amn you'll remember NPC's that were 
 immensely powerful. Foes you couldn't hope to defeat, and allies that seemed nigh impossible to 
 slay. The real joy of Throne of Bhaal is that you now become that powerful; you really do become 
 a legend of Faerun. The mind blowing amount of cool weaponry, spells, and items you will acquire 
 during the course of the game is enough to leave anyone swooning with amazement. I couldn't contain 
 myself sometimes and let out low groans of pleasure as I looted the latest corpse of recently fallen 
 foe. By the final battle your characters will be stronger than you'll ever imagined possible and 
 when you look back on your fledging beginnings in Candlekeep you'll wonder how the hell you ever 
 got to this. Of course it almost goes too over the top especially with non-mage characters. By 
 the end you almost have too many spells and abilities leaving you a little worn from all the pausing 
 and spell casting but you can hardly fault Black Isle.
  
  Of course better characters means better enemies and some of these enemies are downright hard. 
 Dragons are chump change in this game compared to the demons Black Isle throws at you. You'll also 
 be involved in battles against whole armies at some points. Yes your party of six (or however many 
 you have) will not only fell great beasts but whole armies of foes which needless to say is loads 
 of fun as you slice and dice weak grunts left right and center. Where the other games you often 
 feel like a pawn in a game among greater powers, in Throne of Bhaal you are a one of the most powerful 
 players. Naturally you'll still be strung along and manipulated by the entities you meet but with 
 the immense power you now wield you'll feel far from helpless. The last battle though seems a little 
 too challenging, although it may have just been my strategy and it left me a tad bit frustrated 
 that I had to lower the difficulty level for the finale.
  
  The story and character are once again a high point even if it's not as well crafted as the predecessors. 
 The main enemies you face feel slightly shallower than the usual franchise standards and the new 
 NPC available for your party fails to deliver as much interplay as I would have hoped for. Nevertheless 
 new dialogue and character stories are available for all the old NPCs and it's a pleasure to play 
 it out with them, especially your love interest from the previous game (mine was Aerie) and while 
 the story may not be as rich as the previous games, for an expansion pack it's top notch, and has 
 a satisfying conclusion (complete with epilogue) that will satisfy any long time BG fans. Playing 
 time is also great for an expansion easily clocking in twenty hours on the main story line and 
 another three to five hours doing the massive dungeon called Watcher's Keep. Don't hold me to those 
 numbers though as I'm sort of guessing; regardless you'll definitely get your money's worth with 
 this game. Those expecting the free form of previous games will be disappointed however as the 
 game is much more linear than its predecessors. Nevertheless this is an expansion and for that 
 it's still mighty impressive.
  
  Essentially what this game comes down to is an excellent finish to a truly legendary series. Everything 
 the Baldur's Gate franchise has going for it is in this game; great role-playing (and possibly 
 one of the most powerful endgame choices ever) , great voice over work, polished graphics, lots 
 of replay ability, epic battles, and powerful spells. And while it slightly lacks in characters, 
 freedom, story, and depth compared to the other games  and let's face it most games do when placed 
 next to this series  it more than makes up for it by being a truly epic conclusion to one of the 
 most beloved game stories of all time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: loco_pollo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  That's right, a hell of a fight to the finish. Throne of Bhaal captures this epic feeling with 
 non-stop action until the very end. This formula ends with a good game, but actually that's the 
 problem. The game is good, but its predecessors were great and genre reviving. They set the bar 
 for CRPGs, and unfortunately Throne of Bhaal fails to meet that.
  
  Now Throne of Bhaal fails to meet this bar for three reasons:
  1. Lack of exploration. This was 
 one of the major pluses of the first two games. Even though the main quest required attention, 
 you pretty much could not continue on without hitting at least a few side quests, and if you wanted 
 to grab them all, you'd be playing for a very long time. The final chapter has none of this outside 
 of the Watcher's Keep. I'll admit that the Watcher's Keep was awesome, but even with that in place 
 there wasn't enough to keep the fresh feeling.
  
  2. Broken game mechanics. There is something seriously wrong when all of the strategy used in the 
 former games is replaced with spray and pray tactics. A few battles being nothing but desperate 
 dogpiles I can dig, but half of the battles? Sorry, but that's just wrong. The battles that aren't 
 like that feature enemies with an AC that is impossibly low, so it feels like you are fighting 
 a fanfiction dream. Why did the final boss need to use game breaking mechanics? I don't care if 
 she's bathing in the essence of a god, it wasn't any fun. 
  
  3. Crappy endgame portion. Now this part is just my opinion. The narrative was just fine and dandy 
 as it has been since the first game until the end. It seemed like the "twist" was just a cop out 
 because they couldn't come up with an epic way for you to fight your father. There was absolutely 
 no buildup for that twist in either of the former games (because the character it revolved around 
 didn't exist until the expansion) so it felt like an epic juicy steak funneled into nothing but 
 a limp noodle of an ending. (Note: None of that includes the two endings you get based on alignment 
 and choice, those were fine.)
  
  Even with these things, that game is by no means terrible. In fact, even if it was I'd still play 
 it just because of how incredible the soundtrack is. There are plenty of good things about this 
 that make it worthwhile. Every single bhaalspawn fight is incredibly epic, and unlike some of the 
 other ridiculous fights in the game, actually require strategy and pacing. These few fights are 
 fantastic and stand for what the entire game was about. Unfortunately it was some of those fights 
 in between that ruined it.
  
  So there is a mix of fun and frustration, but honestly it will all be excusable if some wonderful 
 modder makes a better ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  Finishing Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal brings the child of Bhaal saga to an end. This expansion 
 to the incredible BG II might be a little on the short side and only add a few new things but the 
 adventure is a lot of good stuff crammed into a small package.
  
  Throne of Bhaal keeps the same characters as the main game instead of introducing new ones but 
 continues to flesh out the relationships between the party members. The plot picks up right after 
 Shadows of Amn and involves a bunch of the main character's half siblings. I guess having a father 
 who is the God of Murder means he's a bit of a party animal and has spread his seed throughout 
 the land. The story takes place as four or five of the most powerful Bhaalspawn unite to wipe out 
 every other child of Bhaal in order to gain the power of their father. Of course the main character 
 happens to be the most powerful so it's up to you to prevent these usurpers from achieving their 
 goals. A twist happens  of the way through that wasn't blatantly obvious but not a total shock 
 either.
  
  Seeing as ToB really doesn't add much to the Baldur's Gate formula in terms of gameplay elements, 
 graphical enhancements or things of this nature, what it does add is the ability to reach a higher 
 level by removing the level cap, a high level dungeon filled with puzzles and powerful foes and 
 tweaks all the encounters throughout the game to perfection.
  
  With the removal of the level cap, characters become almost god-like. Although powerful spells 
 and skills are available at the highest levels, this doesn't make the game any easier. Throne of 
 Bhaal does a great job of still making the game challenging despite empowering your characters 
 with impressive abilities. Some portions of the game forced me to use every single character to 
 their utmost ability meaning I completely turned off the computer AI control of the characters 
 and strategically handled a few battles myself using everything my party could throw at the foe. 
 Usually I complain about being forced to micromanage party members but there were a couple of tough 
 battles that I didn't mind handling myself since victory felt well deserved.
  
  A pocket dimension is put in the game as a home base of sorts where you can gather party members 
 to swap out and have an imp make or improve powerful weapons if you have the right parts. I liked 
 this portion because it used a lot of items I thought were either pointless or flat out useless 
 and turned them into some of the best weapons in the game. This hub also serves as a place where 
 the plot progresses and the main character learns a little more about himself every time one of 
 his siblings has been defeated.
  
  The added dungeon was key to acquiring a lot of these items used for the magical weapon recipes 
 and it had some nice puzzles. It's a worthy side trip for that alone but it's not too shabby in 
 the side story department either. The end of that dungeon poses a nice moral dilemma that can be 
 handled in a few ways. While The Watcher's Keep isn't necessary play through the game, I think 
 it's a nice addition to the game that adds an hour or two of gameplay.
  
  I can't think of much more to add. If you played BG II, you know what to expect, gameplay wise, 
 from this expansion. You also know to expect a great cast and storyline that will last an additional 
 20-30 hours past the original game. In the end the few things added were enjoyed and it's always 
 a joy to have another great story put in a game world.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrinningDemon19
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Well I liked Baldur's Gate II a lot and when I saw this expansion I was worried it was going to 
 ruin the story since it had wrapped up so well. But man was I wrong, this expansion does nothing 
 but improve an already great game. Allowing you to carry over your group and character from the 
 previous game (like all the Baldur's Gate games) again really helps you get a attached to your 
 characters and when you're attached you get drawn in more. Now you do start the expansion with 
 a weapon that you have to find like 6 pieces to in Baldur's Gate II which is funny because I never 
 could find all 6 but bam I got it at the start of this, and if you did find all 6 and make the 
 weapon when you start Throne of Bhaal the weapon gets upgraded. The graphics remain pretty much 
 the same, along with the game play but that's one of the reasons I like it so much. If something's 
 working don't mess with it. Now the difficulty has been upped pretty well and I found that I hadn't 
 built my character right from the original so I restarted then came back through and had an easier 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonykorea
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  First of all, let me tell you one thing. I am a total D&D freak. I have beaten all neverwinter 
 nights series (except for 2 and its expansion pack.) , and all the baldur's gate series.
  
  Baldur's gate is one of those games that changed my life. This game inspired me to write a fantasy 
 novel with my own world (I wrote it up to 200kb!!) , and also inspired me to become a game storywriter. 
 Baldur's gate saga didn't let me down, and I spent more than 100 hours playing Baldur's gate 2. 
 After that, I found Throne Of Bhaal expansion pack for Baldur's gate 2. I played to only find myself 
 disappointed.
  
  GAMEPLAY - 5
  
  gameplay was strongest point every D&D game had. Ice wind Dale had well-designed game stages, and 
 Neverwinter Nights had addictive and exciting game flows that made it fascinating. Finally, Baldur's 
 gate 2 packed every good aspects D&D games had. Seemingly limitless combination of characters, 
 great character casts, plenty of secrets and well-done dungeons. I really found myself buried in 
 Baldur's gate 2 for nearly 3 months. Another great aspect of Baldur's gate 2 was its replayability. 
 I played with almost all kind of classes (except for druid which I hate) , and made a round through 
 whole game for more than 10 times. HOWEVER, Throne of Bhaal managed to smack me down so hard that 
 I had quite a shock. Hack, Slash, level up... TOB repeats following actions endlessly. This reminded 
 me of Ice wind Dale, which made me a bit bored. Also, game's excitement dimished significantly 
 from original Baldur's gate 2. In Baldur's gate 2, I was amazed by fantastic level designs and 
 excitement of leveling up. Also, some items like Holy Avenger really made me so excited that I 
 actually shout out my cry of joyfulness. What about TOB? There are so many +5 items that I wasn't 
 really excited to find out my first +7 weapon. Freedom of exploration seemed to be dimished quite 
 a lot from SOA too. SOA had class specific strongholds which really excited me. SOA also had plenty 
 of side quest which could be done anytime (except for Chapter 3~5) , and a lot of secrets to find. 
 TOB however, replaced those fascinating freedom of exploration with boring hack-and-slash battles. 
 Fortunately, I found out that storyline was pretty well plotted, so I gave this area a score of 
 5. If it wasn't good storyline, I'd give 3 on this area.
  
  GRAPHIC - 8
  
  Well, I found a lot of graphic replacements for spells and background. Definite 8 to this one.
 
  
  SOUND - 7
  
  sound was pretty good. Some are exciting, but SOA was better.
  
  Overall = 7.0
  
  Unless you are hardcore fan of Ice Wind Dale, AVOID IT! If you enjoyed adventure 
 more than battles, you will find youself utterly disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Throne of Bhaal may be smaller than Shadows of Amn, but it more than makes up for this by a offering 
 a more stimulating premise and pitting you against some really powerful enemies. With the annoying 
 experience cap gone (well, not really, but you'd be hard-pressed to reach it) you can become a 
 warrior worthy of godhood - which the game is actually about. Becoming a god will not be easy, 
 though, because you will have to fight others who have the same goal, as well as your inner demons 
 that can be just as formidable. You'll have a lot of tactical thinking to do, which is one of the 
 great things about Baldur's Gate. The game locations are mostly enemy territory (there are only 
 two towns, and those are very small, so you might miss the charm of exploring a big city) , but 
 they are still varied and beautifully done, especially the optional but huge segment of the game 
 that is Watcher's Keep. To help you in your struggle, the game makers have thrown in some cool 
 special abilities (although for spellcasters they come at the expense of other highest-level spells, 
 and not as bonus spells) ; there are also some new magical items, even though I wish there were 
 more of them - for instance, I couldn't find decent maces for my clerics. All of this contributes 
 to a truly epic experience; once again, Bioware delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  It is getting old, dated, from another era. Still, it remains strong, as the ultimate benchmark 
 for any RPG. Just think about it, 2 years is an eternity in gaming, most players would have change 
 PC... this game is many generations old, and it remains as THE benchmark.
  
  I could have pick the first, the 2nd, the sword coast expansion, but for me, this is all the same 
 and it culminate in this final expansion!
  
  - The story is great.
  
  -The game system used the best RPG mechanics available by this time (or the most popular, still, 
 for me D&D was always better then their competitor, although rolemaster would be definitely interesting 
 to see on a computer, but that is digressing) . Progression is logical and clear.
  
  - Although a betrayal to GBT games, it manages, so despite been a lowly non-GBT hybrid, it get 
 my full and unconditional support... unlike successors who drift aways and lose substance.
  
  - The NPCs interactions are great, the ending are marvelous.
  
  Reviewing such a title, 
 with soo many years after playing and enjoying it for the first time only add to the credits and 
 validity of this great game.
  
  We have a lasting testament to gaming with this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marktg
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 3, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  This is just a great game. It fun it has a lot to do in it and it was one of the frist Pc Games 
 I ever owned. The story line is just great. For the time the party grapics are very good. They 
 were all kinds of weapons for you to use. There are tons of Quest they can make the game have up 
 to 250 hours of game play. The classes that you get in the game are many and fun. There a tons 
 of ways to play the game that one play is never the same. If your into DND then this game is for 
 you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calulithrar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 12, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  While it doesn't leave quite as memorable an impression as the last 2 games, the sheer power you 
 can reach with the over 8 million xp cap is amazing. Not to mention the largest dungeon in the 
 series - Watcher's Keep - which ends off with you being given the option of defeating one of the 
 most heinous villains in the whole realm of D&amp; D. Also, out of the whole series, this installment 
 truly tested your battle strategic knowledge of the game and, if there was a game where you just 
 felt that you needed to look up cheats to get through one of those dragon fights, it was this one! 
 It also (sadly) ended this incredible series with a satisfying culmination of your adventures.
 
  
  Incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitofoller
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  If you've liked Baldur's Gate 2, then by all means, go out there and buy Throne of Bhaal.
  
  Much of what made BG2 a great game is here. Great story, great audio, great NPCs (even though 
 ToB only adds one - excellent - NPC) . It also gives a good ending to the saga, actually, it has 
 three endings, you get one based on your character's alignment and your own decisions. Battles 
 are also more impressive now, since you'll be fighting dragons and giants more often. Slaying powerful 
 enemies is more rewarding than slaying goblins, after all.
  
  The disadvantages? The game's a bit too short, I would go as far to say that about one third of 
 the expansion is in the optional dungeon, Watcher's Keep (not related to the storyline) . Beyond 
 that, there aren't many important side quests, like the stronghold quests in BG2 (the planar sphere 
 for mages, the castle for warriors, the thieves' guild, etc) , so you just follow the main quest 
 until the game finishes, so basically, the game's a lot more linear.
  
  All in all, ToB is just that: worth playing. It's more than good but not excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _gorgon_
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  Ok, I'm starting to assume that the reason I don't like this expansion is because I'm the only 
 one who doesn't like killing and killing and more high level killing. I'm serious guys, what is 
 so fun in killing hundreds and hundreds of 12.000 xp enemys? And of course, what is the point of 
 having a dozen of +5 weapons? I really was excited when I obtained my first sword+3 in BG2, now, 
 in ToB, a mere private have one... or two. Another issue will be that Watcher Keep . Possibly one 
 of the most stupid dungeons over Faerun... ops, wait, Watcher Keep does not really exist. But... well, 
 not everything in the game is bad, no. It has better graphics, a great soundtrack, a decent ending 
 for one the greatest rpg sagas of all time and... portraits for some npcs (a thing that I like 
 very much) . So, my conclusion is that the game is an undercover hack and slash.... all said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  Released around the same time as D2 LoD ToB got a backseat to the sales of millions of copies of 
 LoD expansions. This is sad because ToB is an excellent end to a mighty RPG game. The expansion 
 ramps up the difficulty up to par with Hordes of the Underdark. The battles in the game are epic 
 and the best in the entire series. In fact they are the best in both Icewind Dale and BG1/2. Hordes 
 is on par with the scale delivered here. The game completes the romance quests and party endings 
 .. It is worth the buy just to see how the series ends as well as giving you more skills. (Just 
 like in Hordes) The max level cap has been increased as well as giving you more stat increases. 
 The weapons are as varied as in Hordes and truly presents the infinity engine at its best.. Not 
 even Icewind Dale 2 comes close to showing off the abilities of the aging engine. My personal score 
 is a 10.. when combined with the original game. As a whole the series gains an overall 10 as well 
 and is worth your time when given a collection pack.. even without one the expansion is perfect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 29, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:9/10
  This a pretty big expansion to Baldurs Gate II, adding three new chapters that round off the story 
 in a rather satisfying way, a whole new world map, a big dungeon to explore and a bunch of other 
 additions and tweaks that make playing this expansion a joy. Basic gameplay remains the same as 
 in the preceding games; with plenty of exploration, quests, combat, dialogue and whatnot. Plus, 
 a raised level cap allowed for level 40 characters this time around. The only real problems here 
 are minor. In my humble opinion, the story presented here doesnt really hold up to that of Baldurs 
 Gate II, and the slightly annoying fact that every major battle seems to involve excessive use 
 of magic rather than allowing the player to explore other strategies, which actually impedes my 
 own play style somewhat. Not a problem for some people, but possibly a biggie for others.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  2D pre-rendering all around, topped off with plenty of pretty spell effects 
 and intricately detailed environments. But lets face it, by this point the Infinity engine we 
 all know and love is showing its age.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  Good music and voice acting, just like in the main game. Nothing particularly outstanding, but 
 nothing bad either, which is definitely a plus.
  
  Value: 9/10
  Compared to some expansion packs, this one is pretty substantial and is somewhat of a necessity 
 if you want to complete the epic story presented in the Baldurs Gate series of games. Like the 
 other entries in the series, this one is now available cheap and probably packed in with the others 
 too. No excuses, this is a very fine game.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  Superb.
  
  Pros:
  The storyline is extended in this expansion, unlike its Baldurs Gate counterpart Tales of the 
 Sword Coast. The new dungeon will keep you going for a while too. Its pretty challenging again, 
 even if some battles simply require you to buff your characters and pound away with every offensive 
 spell you have. Oh, and Sarevoks back.
  
  Cons:
  Its not as good as Baldurs Gate II. But then few things are.
  
  Conclusion:
  Worth it if 
 you are even remotely interested in the preceding games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoodThing00
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 18, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Unlike most expansions, TOB adds not only a whole bunch of things to the original game, but a whole 
 new story, and a proper ending for the baldurs gate saga.
  Harder fights, a new character kit, and one of the most suprising plot twists in history, all makes 
 TOB a worthy addition to the series.
  
  *story* TOB directly takes of after the events in suldanessar, where you deafeated the mage irenicus, 
 and therefore regained your soul. Now, without a path to go, no wrongs that need to be righted 
 you set of, to find out more about the bhaalspawn, and to find out more about your heritage.
  Soon after setting out, the game begins, in a cold forest, with a dark voice foreboding a storm, 
 with the knowledge about a fight coming your way, you ready your weapons and take a stance.
  Everything takes off from here, and i guarantee that the story will not disapoint.
  Soon, you'll 
 find yourself in a city under siege, and a conspiration of the most powerfull bhaalspawn, but what 
 are they after? Only time will tell.
  10/10
  
  *Gameplay* Same as always, the gameplay of the other games in the series are all intact, and are 
 joined by some new spells, and some kick-ass high-level abilities.
  A new addition is the wild mage, He can cast spells like a normal mage, but all spells he casts 
 have a chance of going wrong. The mishaps often range from simple itches, the dropping a cow, or 
 changing your gender.
  A completely new dungeon is also added, the watchers keep, somewhere in the run-down tower is a 
 ancient evil waiting for it's chance to break free, and the care takers are to weak to stop it. 
 Watchers keep is filled with new items, enemies and challenges.
  The action as i said earlier, is the same as always, point and click action is the order of the 
 day.
  The spacebar is still a major part of the game, allowing you to pause in the middle of combat to 
 micro-manage your party. The romances that took place in SOA also have gotten a extension, giving 
 a better ending to it all.
  10/10
  
  *Graphics* A little sharper than it's predecessor, and still with amazing spell effects and pain-staking 
 attention to detail. The only major complaint i have is that some of the character models look 
 a little stale by now, but besides icewind dale, this is how good isometric view games can look.
 
  The character portraits are identical to SOA, by that i mean they still look good as ever.
  9/10
  
  *Sound*
  The voiceacting is still as good as it can get, incredibly belivable, and 
 a role-model for every other game.
  The ambient sounds still sound good as ever, and have even gotten slightly leaner.
  The combat 
 sounds still sound a little.... meh, but the combat music more than makes up for it.
  10/10
  
  *Value*
  Around 40 hours of gameplay*wich is more than most main games* but it's tremendously 
 replayable, and modding it with acension and repedemition mods will give it even more time.
  This is defenitly worth your money. 
  8/10
  
  well, overall this is solid as ever, and is 
 one of increasingly decreasing amount of games you won't trade in the first few days of playing.
 
  And, to quote any russian/asian salesman ever.. YOU BUY!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 21, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  In the world of sequel games, it is easy to get bored or unamused by future incantations of the 
 same product. Some games, I wish, would just die. However, to be honest, in this series, I am actually 
 sad to Baldur's gate go. I actually felt loss at the end of this game. This comes from a series 
 of games whose original I found to be not awe-inspiring. 
  
  The key to this game's success is the character building. You are intrigued to know about the characters 
 that surround you in the game. Now, some of them are annoying, childish or arrogant, but they all 
 have distinct personalities and growth. So, you pick your five favorite ones and proceed down the 
 path. Most games, believe it or not, do not do this. It seems that you really have the same character (s) 
 that you start out with and are interested in the game play or plot. 
  
  In Baldur's Gate there is a continuing saga of your main character and your team. The team is the 
 same as the second edition in the trilogy. You can pick and choose from those who survived. You 
 may add one character but you don't even have to use him. 
  
  These characters you can intermix and exchange just like the former Baldur's Gate games. No real 
 difference except that there seems to be less squabbling and actual fights in the group. However, 
 you swap out this part of the game for the pleasure of finishing the legacy and being allowed to 
 see what happens beyond the end of the game. 
  
  The game itself is very well handled. You get a quasi-linear plot. The plot allows for a nice structure 
 in progression but does not seem like you are limited in going one direction the whole time. I 
 found that the story and quest venturing were better than the second instillation (which was better 
 than the first.) The villains even seemed better. I was intrigued by the plot the whole time. 
 
  
  The weakness to the plot might be that it was a little too short. This game was an add-on to the 
 Shadows of Amn (the second of the trilogy) , and had the length of an expansion pack. Well, not 
 entirely true. Black Isle always gives you more for the buck, but Throne of Bhaal is much shorter 
 than Shadows of Amn. With such a great story and a true ending to a trilogy, why not just make 
 a full version that everyone can enjoy, not just the people who own Shadows of Amn. In that, it 
 seems like a let down. 
  
  One thing that was not a let down was the audio and, for the most part, the graphics. The audio 
 endeavors of this game appeared to be far reaching. You can hear a lot, down to even the insignificant. 
 The sounds were all well thought out and made sense when you heard them. There also seemed to be 
 a plethora of audio files and almost every character had a voice over (usually good.) This must 
 have been time consuming, and I appreciate it. The graphics were just as good as the predecessors. 
 The characters move a little too stiffly like before, but there are very good color effects especially 
 when magic is being performed. These effects seemed even grander than in the Shadows of Amn. 
 
  
  There were a few frustrating arts of the game. The first was just that the game was very challenging, 
 almost impossible in parts. The ending was a hair puller I wish never to repeat. I guess the makers 
 felt that since this is an add-on they can assume that we are at the top of our game at the introduction 
 and have the ability to become super men. Needless to say, multiple saves are in order. 
  
  The other faults seem to stem from personal preferences. To swap people in and out of your group 
 can be hard. Most times, NPCs are "too busy" to talk to you. Now, in this game you leave all your 
 possible group members in a cave that they can not escape on their own and have nothing to do. 
 Why are they too busy to talk to me? Have they gone catatonic? Anyway, that and the fact that you 
 can't visit any of the places in BGI or BGII seems odd, especially BGII. This is an expansion. 
 We have the old game still on our PCs. Why not use the old cities and such? 
  
  All in all, this is a great game. This is probably my favorite sequel up until now. It also is 
 my favorite expansion ever. That, combined with the fact that we should judge this by expansion 
 standards, makes Throne of Bhaal one great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrog-III
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 15, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Throne of Bhaal is a superb finish to the series and delivers everything anyone would expect from 
 a Baldur's Gate game.
  
  Throne of Bhaal gives another great RPG experience for the PC and killing monsters and bad guys 
 is still the main aspect of the story. However, there are not as many side-quests as SoA due to 
 the fact that it is shorter. Don't get me wrong though. ToB is not short compared to normal games.
 
  
  Just like it's predecessors multi-player is an option controlling either all 6 characters or sharing 
 with other people connected with you.
  
  Altogether, ToB is another great Baldur's Gate game and a must have for anybody who likes RPGs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShotGunBunny
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 1, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  *sniff* The last chapter of the series.
  But what a chapter it is! ToB manages to deliver the ultimate culmination of the BG story, challenging 
 battles, extended romance plots and much more.
  
  i won't spoil the story here, but rest asured that it lives up to what you hope it will be.
  
 I can't even begin to describe the greatness of this title, simply everything has been unleashed, 
 nothing is too much. From wizard duals with dozens of powerful spells, to a besieged city where 
 the fireballs are raining down on you, to the massive armies you engage.
  
  The graphics still look great, even for today. It isn't fancy 3D, it's plain and simple stylish, 
 well done and good looking 2D with some 3D rendered effects here, people. From the background to 
 the characters, the game looks great.
  
  The sounds and music are noteworthy, the sounds are nice, nothing bad, the voice acting is great 
 and you should also consider that they've got lines unlike any other game. The music is absolutely 
 fantastic, most likely one of the best soundtracks ever!
  
  The gameplay, that's the most important part, isn't it? Well, what can i say, besides that it's 
 absolutely great? :P
  The story is grand, as said before, the battles can be difficult if you're new to D&D or haven't 
 played in a long time, but they're never frustrating. There isn't a lot of sidequests, though, 
 unlike Shadows of Amn. But you just want to get on with the story anyways. The partymember romances 
 continue with TOB and they're all very interesting and well done. Of course, there's a fair amount 
 of interesting NPC's in here, not as much as in SOA, but TOB is much smaller so that's kinda logical.
 
  
  I guess that's my only complaint: It's much short compared to SOA, don't let that fool you though, 
 it's much bigger and you'll last longer with this expansion then you'll last with most games nowadays.
 
  
  A grand game you simply need to have played, no matter who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcqueen_keith
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 21, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal is the expansion to last year's hit RPG Baldur's Gate II: Shadows 
 of Amn. The expansion is worth buying for fans of Shadows of Amn or for anyone that likes great 
 role-playing. The game also concludes the epic that started with the original Baldur's Gate, and 
 the end is promised to be a surprise for fans of the Forgotten Realms setting of Dungeons & Dragons.
 
  
  Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal still has the amazing gameplay found in previous games of the 
 series. The interface still works well considering that it has been used since the 1998 Baldur's 
 Gate game. It will be instantly recognizable to gamers who have played it's predecessors. The level 
 of difficulty of the game has been increased to make it provide a challenge to hardcore players. 
 This can be seen as a reversion because the original Baldur's Gate had this same unforgiving difficulty.
 
  
  The ancient Infinity Engine still powers this game. This engine was great back in 1998 with Baldur's 
 Gate but has been only marginally upgraded over the years, and now the graphical presentation is 
 only good at best. However Throne of Bhaal offers hours of gameplay to make up for it's graphics.
 
  
  The sound in the game lives up to the high standards of the series. The variety of different background 
 music, sound effects, and voice acting is still great for the most part.
  
  The series has always offered a lot of value for your money, and this game is no different. The 
 game will still take you many hours to finish, and that is not including the various other optional 
 side quests in the game. This is also the conclusion on the Baldur's Gate saga, and provides a 
 wonderful plot to end the series with.
  
  In the end Baldur's Gate games have all been extremely entertaining, and if you are in doubt whether 
 to get this game, then be rest assured that this game is well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is good. Its an rpg upmost and formost and truly draws you into the game with many many 
 subquests and even going as far as to give each character class their own unique sub quests. The 
 game interface is beautiful and the battle system is splendid while given the turn based commands 
 via pause and watching the live action. Special effects are great,
  
  The game brings D&D so well into the game that you will have the same indepth and very addicting 
 game play as we see on the tabletop version of this game. THe story line is great actually causing 
 tears to drop from your eye from time to time. There are any number of ways to beat this game and 
 has incredable replay value. You even get to use your character in future games includin Neverwinter 
 nigths. This game is one of the best rpgs ever on pc, if your not into oblivion, morrowind type 
 rpgs... well this is the ONLY other way to go.. it has a diablo esq feel except its much more gratifying. 
 Great game :) get it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FluxZero
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  Loved It its one of my all time faves (including) SoA. Played through a couple of times. Gameplay 
 is great and challanging. Well worth spending your cash on. Learning curve is if you havent played 
 SoA.
  
  Gameplay:
  Well if you have played the original then you you will feel right at home. The game play is teh 
 same as SoA but thats a good thing I loved it and would be upset if they changed it.
  
  Graphics:
  They arnt flash graphics of todays games but they suite the game well. Its easy to 
 look at and when you cast a spell its like cady :D
  
  Sound:
  The voice tallent is great and sound effects are wonderful. Feels like your there.
  
  Value:
 
  I picked this up for AUD10 so well extream value for me great value for everyone else.
  
  Tilt:
  Well till ummm story is verry good but its your standard D&D game.
  
  Result:
  9.2 
 Superb, loved every bit of it. and the fact that you can create a new player and start the expansion 
 without playing SoA they even give you goddies to start off with. All in all great value for money 
 give it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  This is probably why PC RPG exist. Having the exact same experience as being with your friends 
 a whole week-end, playing D&D. The story is engaging, the combat system is fun and you're always 
 looking to get more of the story. 
  
  But you have to have the time to go through it. I must confess, I took the short way, letting all 
 the side quest aside and concentrating in the main story. That brought me to the end, not being 
 able to beat the bad guy cause my characters were not high level enough. 
  
  But you can take you're time cause it will be a while before an RPG game come this close of being 
 perfect. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal is a lot like the last Baldur's Gate. But that is no problem 
 because if you played Baldur's Gate: TOTSC you know it was perfect. In Baldur's Gate: TOB you control 
 your character, who you can create or import from your last game, and pick up new party members 
 along the way. One of the great things about the Baldur's gate games is that you pick who to let 
 in your party, and who to keep out. One of the main differences of this game is that you start 
 on a moderatly high level. In TOTSC you start on level 1, but this game starts where the last left 
 off. In case you didn't know the fighting and leveling up in Baldur's Gate is based off that of 
 Dungeons and Dragons. So when you fight you don't determine whether you hit or miss, but you simply 
 tell you character what to do (like attack or cast a spell) . If you played another version of Baldur's 
 Gate and enjoyed it you will love this one too. And if you haven't played any of them but are just 
 looking for a fun game Baldur's Gate is a great option. Enjoy.
  
  While you're up buy The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, and reserve The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion
 
  
  Feel free to visit my profile and check out some of my other reviews while a make my way toward 
 the certury mark, plus I went around to all my reviews and edited this back in, so you should just 
 have a look anyway. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CandabraxisAU
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  The final installation of Baldur's Gate snuck out at the stores without much ado.
  
  BG fans around the world pounced and were quiet for a week until their character ascended into 
 the divine.
  
  This was a brilliant ending for the series, action packed, lots of big and nasty monsters and lots 
 of big and nasty powers for what had become a godlike party.
  
  My mage for instance, could cast time stop, and blow away many enemies frozen in time, of course 
 some bad guys were immune to some spells which continued to make the game a challenge depsite the 
 ability to do 300+ damage in one combat round.
  
  Those who want to play this game, should do themselves justice and play the entire series from 
 scratch, BG1, BG1 Tales of the Sword Coast, BG2, and Throne of Bhaal.
  
  The benefits of doing so, are rewarding to say the least.
  
  This series rates as my favourite 
 in my gaming history, and I must say I look forward to playing it again in the distant future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casteye
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 16, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  The Throne of Bhaal is a great follow on to the original Baldur's Gate II. I played it using the 
 same characters I finished BGII with so I got to experience some continuity of characters across 
 the two games. The story itself is pretty decent and gives you something worthwhile to fight for 
 and also helps to wrap up the "Spawn of Bhaal" aspect left open from the previous games.
  
  The game is definitely more difficult. There is quite a handful of dragons in this expansion pack 
 that require everything your characters can throw at them. There's also new weapons and items to 
 pick up as well as plenty of new items that can be used to enhance your existing weapons (Holy 
 Avenger Sword +6... oh yeah) .
  
  The game is generally of the same quality and caliber of the original game and provides enough 
 new gameplay to make it a very worthwhile expansion pack. and well its good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panzer_Zwei
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal (ToB) is the expansion game to the masterpiece BGII: Shadows of 
 Amn (Which happens to be my favourite game of all time) And it's the final chapter to the BG saga.
 
  
  The game doesn't really have the epic'ness to the level that Shadows of Amn (SoA) did (the ending 
 is a blast though) , nor it's countless secrets and rewarding side-quest and scenarios. Or a main 
 villain of the level of Jon Irenicus (who does though?) 
  But we also have to consider that this is an expansion and not a stand-alone game, and so it'd 
 be unfair to judge ToB as such.
  
  The game adds some nice things to BGII, (and it's better to play SoA with ToB installed) . The higher 
 level cap was a necessity really, but the high-class abilities are nice. Although full 3E D&D rules 
 would had been a whole lot (and I mean a whole lot) better. But there's a lot of nice tweaks here 
 and there: more spells, you can now remove spells from your spellbook, (yay!) and updated familiars 
 among other things. There's a new class: the "Wild Mage" to play with when you're feeling suicidal.
 
  And finally, an optional dungeon filled to the brim with loot and it's very own ber-cool not-so-secret 
 boss has been added.
  
  The game is a continuation of your adventures in Amn, and so you can export your character as well 
 as your data from SoA. This allows you to keep your levels and items, as well as to continue your 
 romance (provided that you had one in SoA) with your preferred gal or lad.
  
  As I said before, the game story is nowhere the level of SoA, but it does have it's memorable moments 
 and characters, as well as some really nice twists, including the return of "your best friend in 
 the world" It's also very interesting and does wrap-up things nicely. The ending was really great 
 too.
  What hurts it though, is that this time only your main character pretty much matters in the story. 
 Aside from those events regarding your "best pal" and some other minor dialogue here and there, 
 your party's interaction ain't what it used to be, and that's a shame considering that SoA was 
 rich in character development and had a load of character specific quests. I can't help but feel 
 a little bit disappointed in this aspect.
  
  What's great though is that this time the game does have an alternative ending depending on your 
 choices. And you also get to know what happens to your party members (like the lovable Minsc&Boo) 
 after the adventure is over, some even change depending on your final choice and if your romanced 
 them or not. All of this along with the ending makes the whole journey more than worthwhile.
  
  ToB is a worthy ending to the BG saga, and a very good follow-up to the masterpiece that was 
 SoA. I mean it even makes SoA play a lot better, what more could you ask for? ToB is simply a must 
 for BGII: SoA.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiatebake
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 5, 2006 3:53 am PT
Review:  To begin with, the game is good, but not as good at it should have been, it brings some annyoing 
 bugs to the game and the gameplay is stll too easy.
  if you really want to enjoy the game, download acension and repedemition to get some interesting 
 extras.
  
  You start directly after Soa in a forest (alone if you started the game directly, or with friends 
 if you played through Soa first)
  
  You will talk with some spirits and get a warning, and the story is of, it is however a short expansion 
 and the extra class is not as fun at it should be, but watchers keep is a great new dungeon that 
 adds extra treasure and new fiends.
  
  But the dungeon is also accesible in Soa, i don't like that very much, if you do it before Tob 
 you get too strong and will squash the finals of Soa..
  
  It is a neccesity as it finishes the saga, but it could be done better, but it is still very good, 
 and defenitly worht playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heatherceana
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 25, 2005 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This add-on will be mediocre for the hack-n-slashers out there. If you are a die-hard role-player, 
 you will get a real kick out of it! 
  
  Don't believe me? Try this:
  
  Play through this as a Neutral Evil or Lawful Evil character. Work for that Throne! REALLY want 
 to be the next Lord of Murder!! Stick to your role. Whether you are a being of your word, or have 
 a dagger ready in each hand searching for someone's back in which to plunge them, you will thoroughly 
 enjoy this!!
  
  One of the funniest parts of this add-on is the NPC reaction to being dragged-down into the hells 
 with you. The good and neutral NPCs display a fairly predictable reaction, except Minsc. The evil 
 NPCs' reactions may make you wet yourself, so be sure to take a potty-break before the fight with 
 Jonny-boy. 
  
  This add-on is best when played with a character that you took through the Shadows of Amn. I recommend 
 that you take Seravok with you as a fighter, regardless of your alignment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2005 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal is a quality expansion and a worthy conclusion to the Bhaalspawn 
 saga that began in the original Baldur's Gate. Unfortunately the story contains several continuity 
 errors that makes ToB feel disjointed from the original Baldur's Gate.
  
  In Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal you play as your BG\BG 2 character one last time as the time 
 of Alaundo's prophecy is upon you. The game begins with your character and your BG2 party (if you're 
 importing your game, if you're starting a new character for ToB you'll be alone) in a grove of 
 stone heads where you'll learn more about the prophecy and get attacked by one of 'The Five'; Bhaalspawn 
 who wish to kill all Bhaalspawn but themselves. Though ToB contains a couple of continuity errors 
 that may leave fans of the original scratching their heads it doesn't stop this expansion from 
 being an excellent conclusion.
  
  The graphics are the same; there are some new creatures for your high level party to fight and 
 some new nice looking terrain, but it's mostly the same graphics as its source game and every other 
 infinity engine game.
  
  ToB features some impressive audio; the voice acting is just as good as its predecessors and so 
 are the sound effects. The music in this expansion has to be some of the best in the series. In 
 the expansion; instead of trying to create atmosphere with the music the composer made it sound 
 epic and it really fits the whole 'ending of a long saga' feeling you get while playing ToB.
  
  Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal is an improvement over Bioware's previous expansion "Tales 
 of the Sword Coast" for the original Baldur's Gate. ToB may contain several continuity errors that 
 make it seem out of place with the original game making it seem somewhat disjointed, but it also 
 contains enough content to make it feel connected to the original. The ending is also satisfying; 
 each character in your party gets their own closing epilogue as does your character (though yours 
 is more generic and told through a cutscene) making Throne of Bhaal a true conclusion to an amazing 
 series. If you liked Baldur's Gate and\or Baldur's Gate II then the expansion is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2005 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Throne of Bhall is a good expansion that was just not for me. The reason being the spells, abilities, 
 and items are just too powerful. I had the same complaint with Baldur's Gate II to a minor extent, 
 yet this expansion really goes even further. Don't get me wrong, I love having powerful parties, 
 but not with how Throne of Bhall does it. I like getting powerful parties/characters through a 
 good combination of classes, and good use of items. Throne of Bhall on the other hand has items 
 and abilities that are good no matter how good or bad your character is. 
  
  The gameplay is exactly the same as Baldur's Gate II (probably due to the fact this is an expansion) , 
 with the exception of a few new spells/abilities/items that might change your style of play a little. 
 A few new areas have been added, including a new city. 
  
  However, the expansion is quite linear. You must do certain quests in order to access the next 
 step in the story. There is one place that you can visit anytime in the game, even if you start 
 a new game in BGII: Shadow's of Amn, but that's it. There are a quite a few fun battles, many of 
 which are boss battles, which is about the only thing I can recommend this game for. 
  
  You might as well get Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal since it's cheap now, and it IS the conclusion 
 to Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn. You can also get to the low 40's in level too, if that's your 
 kind of thing. All in all, this is not the greatest expansion that could have been made for Baldur's 
 Gate II, but it's cheap and somewhat fun, so why not? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nealok
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 7, 2005 11:58 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal is a fitting end for a great series in computer role-playing. 
 Although it lacks the breadth of the first game, it does tie up the story of the Bhaalspawn in 
 a nice little bow, which is a pleasant change from every other BG installment ending with a question 
 mark. The graphics are obviously unchanged from the main game; in the expansion you will rise to 
 insane levels of power, taking your place among the elite in the Forgotten Realms, acquiring magnificent 
 items and fighting some terrible foes along the way. 
  
  I liked Throne of Bhaal, but only because it put the lid on one of my favorite series and did so 
 with a bang. The massive dungeon that ends (possibly) with one of the roughest battles the mind 
 can imagine was a good combat experience, although it never approached the overall feel of the 
 more combat-oriented Icewind Dale. In the main game, where you progress the story, the combat fared 
 far poorer; the boss battles come off as much easier than they should have been. In all, only the 
 battle at the end of the big dungeon and the last battle were much challenge. But those two rocked 
 me and rocked me hard. I am not sure the game played totally fairly, actually, but they were certainly 
 a challenge. The other bosses typically come off as overly play-balanced. You fight some brutal 
 enemies who have performed some brutal deeds in the name of some brutal ideas. It was sort of sad 
 to step into their chambers and send them to their respective makers so easily. 
  
  The new NPC is a fun choice, and the options at your disposal are plentiful. You have good reason 
 to destroy him where he stands, but you could alternately work alongside him and have a savage 
 warrior to slice through waves of enemies. To highlight what a cool character they offer you, let 
 me say that I disposed of Minsc for this character; he and Boo had been with my paladin since Nashkel 
 in the first game, but that was the only opening I had for this character, and I couldn't miss 
 the chance. 
  
  The new expansion offers about 15-20 hours of play time, even if you take every road available. 
 Its lack of linearity can be off-putting, and some people might not like the idea of putting their 
 BG1 hero to rest. But if those things sound appealing to you, you will get a lot out of Throne 
 of Bhaal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arathin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 3, 2005 9:26 am PT
Review:  The final chapter of Black Isle's bestseller is finally here. Throne of Bhaal is a thrilling end 
 to the series and is one of the best games out there. If you liked Shadows of Amn, this game is 
 definetely worth a look at!
  
  Once again Black Isle has proved that their storytelling abilities are remarkable. Throne of Bhaal 
 leads on from where Shadows of Amn left off. You are the Heir of the God of Murder, and your destiny 
 has been set. You are to lead the world into chaos. Can you escape your fate? Can one man escape 
 the destiny that has been laid out before him? It's your choice.
  
  An amazing thing about Baldur's Gate, and all of the Forgotten Realms series for that matter, is 
 the reputation system. If you kill a good person, you become bad, and if you help a good person, 
 you become good. It's as simple as that, but it has a lot more detail and effects you in the long-term. 
 Your reputation can effect your bargaining in shops (in fact, if you're really evil shopkeepers 
 won't even sell to you!) , and it can effect how you engage conversation with other people.
  
  The battle system has stayed almost exactly the same as the original with the exception of 
 quite a lot of newly added items to the game. These items add a greater depth to the gameplay. 
 Such items as the Potion Bag, Arrow Bag, and Gem Bag (featured in Black Isle's other amazing classic, 
 Icewind Dale II) . These bags make item carrying a hell of a lot easier.
  
  You have the option at the beginning of the game to obtain a new character to your party, replacing 
 one of the old ones. This character may seem awfully familiar to die-hard fans of the series...
 
  
  Throne of Bhaal also adds on a new location to the original Shadows of Amn. Here you can fight 
 tougher opponents and obtain rare items only found here. It's got it's own little story as well, 
 but be warned, this is not for casual adventurers! You need to be quite experienced to survive 
 a trip through here!
  
  The music is once again, superb. Black Isle never ceases to amazing it's fans. The musical score 
 is amazing even compared to todays standards. The music sets the mood perfectly, and is a key feature 
 in Throne of Bhaal's amazing complexity.
  
  Black Isle is an outstanding games manufacturer, and places it's name amongst the big ones. Once 
 again they have added another amazing classic to their series of thriving games. 
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  WIth this expansion pack, I feel the emphasis was on several things that gamers wanted built into 
 BG2. Higher levels, a more difficult combat, more items and a conclusion to the story. All of these 
 wants this expansion met. Unfortunately it felt rushed and very short to me. Not IWD: Heart of 
 winter short, but still short. There were some nice added features such as the potion belts, unlimited 
 +number arrows and such but I felt the story took a definite turn from the original. Game play 
 and graphics are still the same along with the sound and character interactions. So I guess I was 
 hoping for more in game play like in BG2. But alas, there were only a few extra locations to explore 
 and while Watchers Keep was nice and very distracting, I didn't think it made up for the lack of 
 locations to explore. Great game but not the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 4, 2004 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This add-on is well-worth playing if you liked BG2: Magic and counter-magic plays a really big 
 role because you will be goiing up against mages that will use "time-stop" and other deadly spells 
 against your party. So you really need to understand the spells and how to fight against them to 
 succeed in this add-on. The difficulty level is definately one step higher than in BG2.
  
  The add-on concludes the story but to be honest I thought the story-line about Bhaal-spawn wasn't 
 very interesting and it starts to get silly that there are Bhaal-spawn around every corner. Like 
 others, I thought the character "Imoen" to be intensely annoying. She's a central character so 
 you can't really make her go away. Her high-pitched voice would drive me up the wall. 
  
  It would be a good idea to be pretty advanced into BG2 before you try this add-on. You really need 
 to know how battles work to enjoy the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:58 am PT
Review:  The Throne of Bhaal is a great follow on to the original Baldur's Gate II. I played it using the 
 same characters I finished BGII with so I got to experience some continuity of characters across 
 the two games. The story itself is pretty decent and gives you something worthwhile to fight for 
 and also helps to wrap up the "Spawn of Bhaal" aspect left open from the previous games.
  
  The game is definitely more difficult. There is quite a handful of dragons in this expansion pack 
 that require everything your characters can throw at them. There's also new weapons and items to 
 pick up as well as plenty of new items that can be used to enhance your existing weapons (Holy 
 Avenger Sword +6.... oh yeah) .
  
  The game is generally of the same quality and caliber of the original game and provides enough 
 new gameplay to make it a very worthwhile expansion pack. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
