-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/baldursgate2shadowsofamn/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 29, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 9.4, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 5,597 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: BioWare
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Sep 24, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a definitive role-playing experience, and the only reason it can't be called the best game 
 in its class is because in a sense there's nothing available that compares to it. 

 Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn is the sequel to BioWare's highly acclaimed 1998 role-playing game 
 based on the Advanced Dungeons &amp; Dragons Forgotten Realms universe. Baldur's Gate was an impressive 
 game, and the subsequent role-playing games published by Interplay were also generally excellent, 
 so a lot of players will understandably have very high expectations for Baldur's Gate II. Even 
 so, the game will more than likely exceed those expectations. It's a worthy successor to Baldur's 
 Gate and a superior role-playing game in its own right.   

  Initially, Baldur's Gate II looks very similar to its 1998 predecessor. The isometric perspective, 
 the controls, and the interface bars along the edges of the screen will all be instantly recognizable 
 to anyone who's played the original or either of Black Isle Studios' two most recent RPGs, Icewind 
 Dale and Planescape: Torment. That's because Baldur's Gate II uses the same engine as in all those 
 games and consequently plays in much the same way. Various similarities between Baldur's Gate II 
 and previous games using the Infinity engine are readily apparent, and a lot of these similarities 
 may be initially disappointing, as they may seem derivative of previous games, rather than reveal 
 what's certainly the best of Black Isle Studios' AD&amp; D-based role-playing games to date.   

 
  Baldur's Gate II picks up soon after the conclusion of the first game: A stylish cinematic sequence 
 explains that your character is captured, jailed, and experimented upon, presumably because of 
 his unusual lineage. Your character starts off at a relatively high experience level, based on 
 his previous adventures. And you'll immediately need to put these honed combat skills to use: The 
 first chapter in the game mostly consists of a dangerous prison-break sequence that's presumably 
 meant to be an action-packed opening for the game. However, the sequence falls flat - you'll spend 
 a lot of time trying to equip your character, and the battles even in this early part in the game 
 can be quite difficult. You'll see several bizarre events in the prison that won't make much sense, 
 and you'll be glad the whole escape scene is over after a few hours of play. The game gets much 
 better at that point, once you've escaped to the city of Athkatla, and from then on, throughout 
 the dozens of subsequent hours you'll spend with the game, Baldur's Gate II remains highly enjoyable 
 and very involving.   

  Some players felt that the original Baldur's Gate was too drawn out - you had to thoroughly explore 
 each area and keep track of all the characters you met as well as the tasks you needed to accomplish. 
 Since then, role-playing games using the Infinity engine have been refined so that they're more 
 cohesive, and Baldur's Gate II represents the ultimate stage of this refinement. It's an enormous 
 game that lets you do a lot of different things, yet it's surprisingly easy to keep track of your 
 main objectives. This is possible partly because of a well-implemented map feature. You'll refer 
 to the automap often, because its miniaturized depiction of each of the game's hundreds of big 
 areas clearly notes the various landmarks you've encountered, such as important structures, exit 
 paths, and more. Some areas are fully mapped for you as soon as you get there - namely, the city 
 of Athkatla. You can conveniently check your map to find locations you'd be interested in visiting 
 such as taverns, guilds, shops, and temples. This is very fortunate, because Athkatla is huge. 
   

  However, one of the things that makes Baldur's Gate II so great is that in spite of the fact that 
 you're free to travel throughout the entire city, many of your objectives will quickly become apparent. 
 You need to find your captor and discover the nature of his experiments. Accomplishing this is 
 anything but simple, yet Baldur's Gate II does a great job of keeping you from getting too lost 
 or bewildered in your search, partly through the map, but mostly because of the well-designed quests. 
 There are seemingly countless quests in Baldur's Gate II, and amazingly, most of them are very 
 substantial. You'll almost never encounter a situation so simple as having to retrieve lost property 
 or clear out some small monster infestation somewhere - there's always more to it than that. Also, 
 since your character has already earned himself some notoriety based on the events in Baldur's 
 Gate, it's understandable that rather than having to pry information out of everyone you meet, 
 oftentimes it's you who'll be approached and asked for help. And just as often, as you're working 
 on solving a particular quest, you'll end up discovering more than you expected and will take on 
 other quests as a result. All this makes the pacing in Baldur's Gate II very fluid.   

  Once you get to Athkatla, the subsequent chapters of the game mostly alternate from being open-ended 
 to more linear. You'll travel through a huge variety of settings and encounter hundreds of different 
 characters to speak with and monsters to fight. All this variety somehow manages to maintain the 
 game's tight pacing throughout the long duration of Baldur's Gate II. It helps that the party members 
 that travel with your main character are generally very well developed. Your party members will 
 often interject a comment into conversations you have with other characters, and over the course 
 of the game, they'll all take some time to speak with you and even with each other. Some of these 
 characters are entertaining, while others offer a real sense of camaraderie over the course of 
 the game as they do their best to support your decisions and to offer their advice whenever appropriate. 
 All your party members have a lot of dialogue, and a good portion of it is actually audible speech, 
 which is put to good use throughout the game in order to provide deeper characterizations for many 
 of the more important individuals you'll meet. At any rate, since you won't be able to travel extensively 
 with all the characters in Baldur's Gate II if you play it through once, you'll actually want to 
 play it a second time if only to learn more about your companions.    

 Another reason you'll want to play Baldur's Gate II more than once is that the game poses several 
 tough choices for you at various points; you'll need to go with your instincts and make decisions 
 where the right solution isn't obvious. The game also features many dozens of optional quests, 
 lots of hidden treasures and artifacts, and a very flexible character-generation system. Actually, 
 unless you import your character from Baldur's Gate, chances are you'll spend a long time just 
 deciding which sort of character to play in Baldur's Gate II. That's because in addition to each 
 of the basic AD&amp; D classes, Baldur's Gate II offers three variations of each class. Several 
 of these are intriguing, such as the shapeshifter, a druid who can change to a werewolf; and the 
 kensai, a master swordsman who forgoes wearing armor in his effort to achieve supremacy with his 
 blade. Baldur's Gate II even features three of the new 3rd Edition Dungeons &amp; Dragons character 
 classes: the monk, the sorcerer, and the barbarian. Many of the Baldur's Gate II classes make for 
 a very different play experience, and if you wish to try them all, you have the option to play 
 the game's multiplayer mode, create up to six characters, and play through the whole game with 
 your own party. The only disappointing aspect of character creation in Baldur's Gate II is the 
 very limited selection of character portraits available to choose from, which is especially disappointing 
 since the portraits all correspond with the various characters you'll meet in the game. You can 
 also choose to select a portrait from the original Baldur's Gate, and, as in the first game, you 
 have the option to import your own portraits and even your own sound effects for use with your 
 character.   

  During the course of Baldur's Gate II, you'll find a huge variety of conventional and magical equipment 
 for use with your characters. Weapon specialization in Baldur's Gate II is broken down into each 
 individual type of weapon, including long-, short-, and two-handed swords, scimitars, maces, flails, 
 spears, slings, crossbows, katanas, and many more. You can also gain proficiency in different types 
 of combat, including sword-and-shield skill and two-weapon fighting. Thus, whereas any fighter 
 character could be equipped with a mace in one hand and a longsword in the other, unless he specializes 
 in two-weapon fighting and those particular classes of weapons, he'll be relatively slow and weak 
 in battle. As such, choosing your equipment and your skills in Baldur's Gate II is an important 
 strategic decision.   

  The magic-using classes are even more interesting, if even a bit overwhelming. Baldur's Gate II 
 features literally hundreds of different spells, many of which are exceptionally deadly. Later 
 in the game, when you're facing powerful magic-users and probably have strong magic of your own, 
 you'll be firing off debilitating or deadly spells and powerful protection auras constantly. Although 
 the game does tend to slow down when a lot of spells are being cast simultaneously, the Infinity 
 engine actually does an elegant job of letting you manage all your magic. You can set hotkeys for 
 spells you use often, and when your party rests, your healers will automatically use their remaining 
 healing spells in order to expedite your recovery. Another very helpful feature in Baldur's Gate 
 II is the difficulty slider, which can be adjusted to make battles even more challenging or to 
 automatically give you maximum hit points when you level up and eliminate the chance of failure 
 in trying to scribe mage spells.   

  Baldur's Gate II even has an optional tutorial sequence, a huge manual (much of which is devoted 
 to describing all the spells) , and a collapsible interface so that you can play the game full screen. 
 The full-screen mode is actually highly versatile, as the interface pops back up whenever you pause 
 the action, which you'll have to do often in order to issue commands in battle. The game runs well 
 in either 640x480 or 800x600 resolution and has unofficial support for even higher resolutions 
 than that, and it takes advantage of your 3D-accelerator card for slightly enhanced visual effects. 
 The game's loading times can seem a bit long, and it may crash on a few occasions, but these problems 
 aren't significant. Otherwise, the game's prerendered maps are highly detailed and generally look 
 very good, while the characters and monsters are fluidly animated. In addition, the great voice 
 acting is complemented by the game's memorable symphonic score. Yet it's somewhat unfortunate that 
 the game recycles some of the special effects and miscellaneous sounds and graphics from the first 
 Baldur's Gate, as Baldur's Gate II is a superior game in every other respect.   

  There's always more that can be said about Baldur's Gate II, because while it's a very long game, 
 its fine points are what make it so great. Clearly, it was designed to be the ultimate AD&amp; D 
 role-playing experience - it features the most powerful monsters, the strongest artifacts, and 
 the huge variety of characters, places, and situations that make Advanced Dungeons &amp; Dragons 
 so prevailing. The game has a great story, good dialogue, highly sophisticated combat, meaningful 
 decision-making, memorable characters, and plenty of replay value. It's a definitive role-playing 
 experience, and the only reason it can't be called the best game in its class is because in a sense 
 there's nothing available that compares to it.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (139 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2009 1:15 am PT
Review:  It is THE RPG game for the PC... There is no other rpg game that I played was half as good as Baldur's 
 Gate II
  
  If you consider yourself a good RPG player and didnt play this game once, shame on you, cause after 
 you play this game your standards will go sky high.
  
  First of all, this is not a flashy 3d games, so which means the graphics are good looking, but 
 you will not see the lines on your characters forehead. it is a neat looking game and the graphics 
 are good for its time.
  
  As for the setting, you are in FR, Forgotten Realms, the very heart of Dungeons and Dragons setting, 
 the realm of Elminster. So if you are familiar with the D&D settings, this will be a walk in the 
 park for you, for those who are not familiar with D&D, or met D&D after 3rd edition, the setting 
 is classic 2nd edition D&D. The game helps you wih the rules and setting, so you will find your 
 way.
  
  You form a party of six characters and get on with the game, I dont like giving away spoilers but 
 the story is incredible, you will very much like it so no worries about the storyline here.
  
  The best part comes with the NPC's. On your journey, you can form a party of 6 or less, you 
 can create them all or create only one and find NPC's to join the adventure. You will meet many 
 different NPC's on the way and the most beautiful part is, they interact with eachother. Two female 
 characters might fight eachother for your love, or you can fight with an NPC in order to win a 
 girl's heart. they all have their own stories and struggles to battle through, so you can choose 
 to help them on your journeys and befriend them. Find a mighty paladin and watch him argue about 
 the good and evil with a druid, or listen to a thiefling bard's poets. You can also have romantic 
 relationships with your companions (Yes I love you Aerie!!:) ) so it is not a simple 6 pack party 
 hack n slash, the party you form up feels very much alive rather than simple character sheets.
 
  
  All in all this is an incredible game, I am playing this for over 5 years, I play it many times, 
 each time it suprises and amazes me with its depth and variety. The NPC's are the best I have seen 
 in a game so far, also it is modable, you can find many mods and different scripts on the internet 
 to enhance your game.
  
  All in all, this is a masterpiece and every RPG player should try this game.
  
  Edit : Sorry 
 I dont normally edit my reviews but some "rpg" players recommended Diablo II over this game... 
 
  
  DIABLO II??? ARE YOU INSANE???
  
  For players who dont know diablo II, it is a hack n slash game... which means you wander around 
 for hours and HACK N SLASH EVERY GODDAMN CREATURE ON THE MAP!!! If you are roleplaying a longsword 
 yeah then go play diablo II... 
  
  If you think Diablo II is an rpg, please dont play this game, because after D2 this game will be 
 more challanging and confusing since it is a bit complex, so you will not be able to play it... 
 If you think rpg is just adding skill points to attributes or bashing every little critter on the 
 map and loot the stuff that has been dropped, go on and play D2 and stay away from Baldur's Gate 
 II!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuraddin
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2009 10:33 pm PT
Review:  It seems kind of odd posting a review on such an old game, but Baldur's Gate 2 is old as, say, 
 Bach and Beethoven are old - because there are somethings that never go out of fashion, that are 
 timeless.
  
  Every now and then, in every area of the human sphere, comes a masterpiece that influences the 
 very lives of those who experience that masterpiece. Baldur's Gate 2 IS (along with Deus Ex but 
 thats another story) that masterpiece - they are the standards on which I personally build my opinion 
 on games. Its one of those games that you obsessively play until you finish it - provided you are 
 not impacient with the relatively slow pace and learning curve (if you have no idea how the D&D 
 combat system works) of the game and shelve it right at the beginning - and when you finally do, 
 you just get sad and want to live all those beautifully woven storylines, all the carefully polished 
 quests once again. If the combat system is something new to you, whatever you do don't give up. 
 Keep trying to "pick the game up" and in the end it's guaranteed that you won't regret it.
  
  Even though its an outdated game engine, it still isn't unpleasant to your eyes and is the 
 pinnacle of the great engine that Infinity was. The sound effects are not on-par with todays wonders 
 as well, but they fit right in and don't mess your experience. Voice acting is great though, gotta 
 love Minsc's comments or say, Edwin's. It really makes the characters alive.
  
  I've finished BG 2 and BG2: ToB near to 10 times, and its an absolutely huge game. I'm an avid 
 RPG'er since Ultima VII: The Black Gate and in my opinion, PC RPG history began with the old text 
 adventures but Baldur's Gate 2 was its "year Zero". There's what happened before and what happened 
 after.
  To sum up, BG2 shares the throne of single player RPG with Deus Ex, and IMO only Oblivion and perhaps 
 KotoR even came remotely close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SsriTelQuessir
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 6:15 pm PT
Review:  An older game, Baldur's Gate 2 is the very pinicle of D&D based computer gaming. The game play 
 is fantastic. And while much darker than the original Baldur's Gate, the story line, character 
 development, plot and sub plots create a totality of gameplay and entertainment. Heroism, action, 
 love&romance, tragedy, vengance and justice are all elements of the Baldur's Gate 2 experience. 
 I just can't say it enough, the storyline writing and game dialogue are fantastic. By today's standards, 
 even in comparison with the D&D franchised games, the graphics may seem a bit out dated, but in 
 1999, they were cutting edge. This is the game that all RPGs are compared too... and the game that 
 the developers/progenee continue to espire to equal. If there is a current critique, it is that 
 the game was developed prior to the current D&D rule set - those of us older games who a familiar 
 with the 1st and 2nd eds of D&D will not likely have a issue with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheThoughtless1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2009 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the best RPG out there if graphics aren't as important to you as game play. Graphics really 
 aren't that bad for 2-D and you will be quoting minsc and boo for years to come. This game will 
 make any D&D junkie feel at home and will make anybody who plays current RPG's wonder where we 
 went wrong. Every time I played BG2 I never wanted to skip side quests because they were just as 
 epic, fun, and rewarding as the main story line. Every set of side quests was like it's own story 
 line so different from what was just going on that you wonder if you are still playing the same 
 game. These mini story lines always seemed to run back into each other in different ways making 
 you play the same part over and over again and always getting something new. Every race and class 
 combo gets different results in the story also. Never once did I play through this game in less 
 than 100 hours and I played through this game over 7 times. I kept this pace up until I bought 
 the expansion which added an ending to the story and laid the game to rest for me. So just a reminder 
 don't buy the expansion until you are done with BG2 for good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wesprang
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 24, 2009 10:12 am PT
Review:  GFX:
  This game claims to have been released in 2000. But The gfx are the worst of any game I've ever 
 played. Even Master of Orion (1993) is far superior. Everything in BG2: Shadows of Amn looks tiny, 
 and badly drawn, as if the game was actually made in 1988, if not earlier.
  
  I had to turn brightness and contrast up to maximum, just so I could see anything at all. Then 
 I needed a walkthrough because, unlike Baldur's Gate (I) , which had green-robed "Tutors" to help 
 explain what to do, Baldur's Gate 2 has no help at all.
  
  Gameplay:
  It took me several tries (even with the aid of walkthroughs) just to get the key to release Jaheira, 
 because the key wasn't where it was supposed to be. Then I wandered around lost for hours, and 
 still can't find my way out of the dungeon.
  
  Value:
  Baldur's Gate I was lots more fun than this. Diablo I was more fun. Return to Krondor was also 
 more fun. And all of them had better gfx. If you want a fun classic RPG that looks good, play one 
 of them.
  
  Avoid Baldur's Gate 2: Shadows of Amn. It's the ugliest, least fun game I've ever played in my 
 whole life.
  
  Edit:
  Finally found my way out of the dungeon. But imo, it's a cheap, LOUSY, and totally LAME way to 
 start a game. I hate it when a game features a jail break, and the only way they can overpower 
 me is to "cloud my mind" and knock me out, without ANY imput from me. (SoA does it not once, but 
 twice)
  
  I really hate that in a game. To me that says "I can't think of a way to capture them, so I'll 
 just do it without letting the player/gamer/customer have any choice in the matter!" If I wanted 
 to play "Find Your Way Out", I wouldn't be spending my money on RPG's.
  
  Something that's become fairly annoying about SoA. It won't run from the Start Menu. It won't run 
 from the Game Directory. The only way I can get SoA to recognize the DVD is to double-click the 
 E: icon. Otherwise it says I don't have the right disk in the drive.
  
  So I'm thinking of getting through SoA just once, so I can say I played it, then remove the bloody 
 thing from my hard drive. My apologizes to Dan Walker, but I hate everything about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Templar_999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 8:08 am PT
Review:  heh alright this is my first review so take it easy,
  
  
  baldur's gate 2 is one of those rare case's that a sequal can be a all around improvement unlike 
 most other games prety much fail at, as a person who likes rpgs i thought id should thrown in a 
 good word for it as well because this game is almost nearly perfect and probaly could be named 
 best single rpg player of the computer while staying true to the rpg refernce but enough ranting, 
 lets explain why.
  
  Storyline 9/10 well written
  
  you take a role on a pre generated char that you make (or import from the first since this continues 
 the first story line that you dont have to play to understand this game..) and is traped in this 
 dark evil place by this powerfull mage called irenicus who sense's powers in you that he desires, 
 things happen and eventually you break out able to escape from this place then run into irenicus 
 again, in meeting irenicus again you get a feel for his power as he takes on many other wizards 
 and guards but ignoring that he eventually willingly gives in for the price of a taking your freind 
 as well, which will lead you soon to this outrages task of collecting 20,000 gold to gain the trust 
 of the theives and blah blah blah its mainly all you need to know about the start, i know the sound 
 ofcollecting 20,000 goldmay seem uncreative at first, but this cleveraly leads you to explore 
 literaly anywere you want like a sand box game not chaining you to the main storyline giving alot 
 of freedom, your probaly going to go at this by of course doing quest's however the quest's in 
 this game arent as plain as.." go to point a to b and kill everythingvery offten there will 
 be some sort of logical twist and 2-3 ways that you can go at with the situation that can leave 
 you to violence or none at all, but anyway the protagnoist dosent have to do this all alone, youll 
 run into characters with truly there own shaped personailty like Minsc, who usually refers to his 
 hamster half the time, jahearia, a durid who stays true to being a durid with a mixture of her 
 own personailty, or edwin, who's an evil mage and obssesed in being evil and a handfull other characters, 
 they all have there own uniqe personailty and they can convince you that they really do have brains 
 and acutally have interesting things to say from time to time, reguardless enough of the storyline 
 its just great along with its length to 40-100 hours,
  
  Gameplay 10/10 Insane
  
  probaly the main highlight of the game, despite it using the same format at baldurs gate 1, they 
 truley exercise it to the limit, everything is done in real time and every magic spell is done 
 with there own great animations so much that youd enjoy casting level 1 spells over and over again 
 because you love the effects and sound's as well as them not becoming useless in late game, so 
 youll be seeing alot of magic, arrows, swords etc flying around all over the screen, ( dont worry 
 you can set up AI scripts to other char's so you dont have to micro everything but your own char) , 
 whats best about this is there is no lag time so the game has the potential to move as fast as 
 you can, the most interesting about the gameplay is however the fact that its not simpily who has 
 the higher level will win ( though of corse it can give you a partial advantage) , a level 17 mage 
 vs a level 24 warrior can go ether way in several diffrent factors that are reasonable and not 
 just due to having higher damage which keep the game at a nice challenge for you not knowing what 
 your enemy may do or not, boss's or midboss's are wonderfully balanced as well, they wont be pathetic 
 and will not die for you just becausre your attacking them with a quaterstaff, the only real problem 
 of the gameplay is probaly diffculty to normal players, playing on very easy in this game can even 
 provide challenges to veterens as if they were actually playing on a normal diffculty so.. if you 
 arent very good in the rpg feild, you could quit anytime in the game ebcause its to diffcult for 
 you, on the other hand... those who are great at rpgs will defently respect the games challenge 
 and its reasonable deaths it can throw at your chars enjoying the game's diverse gameflow, and as 
 a small added bonus you can multyplayer this game, (oh though no visible join and who's on screen)
 
  
  Graphics 9/10 er... great
  
  ok, im not the usually the one to care about graphics but for its time there decent, tree's look 
 like tree's, mountians look like mountians, etc, thanks to its spell system i can give it a high 
 score without caring much because every magic has its own uniqe animation, coloring, glow and ahhh 
 you get the point, also there's areas created by orginailty in texture's its hard to explain but 
 youd get it if you played, its not perfect but its suprsingly good and dosent add lag to gameplay 
 which is a awesome combo to the game overall,
  
  Music 10/10 compeling
  
  interestingly... the music in this game is very good and orginal, now some of it may loop in 1-2 
 mins but theres enough diffrent tracks playing in diffrent areas for it to be excusible, whats 
 nice is that every music matchs there area like town music or forest to an epic dragon theme or 
 boss theme which the fighting themes might have the power to make you feel the rush of adreniline 
 if you really get into the game which im guessing most of the people will, as for sound, swords 
 and magic and voices are all done well and are actually realistic of what youd hear in a real battle, 
 its just plainly great and add's a nice combo to gameplay along with graphics,
  
  Replay value 9/10 wow...
  
  this is what probaly tops it all off, you can go with a new created 
 char that you hadvent played before or became interested in from your ally's, go through the small 
 begaining again, then when you go on side quests you can pick out new ones that you hadvent tried 
 or go along with the same one and go with the diffrent choice, to add more repay value you can be 
 a evil guy and go along with a party full of evil chars instead, of course this eventuall leaves 
 you to the same general thing but you have the freedom still to play as you please, and hey, the 
 game isnt forcing you to go on the main storyline to have fun,
  
  
  final words... this game combos its  value so well it turns 
 this game into a epic 9.5, if you love rpgs, theres about a 88% chance youll like this game and 
 if you happen to not... consider rpg not your favorite game type
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhomer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 8:45 pm PT
Review:  It's 2009 as I write this. Baldur's Gate came out in 1998. You can *still* buy the entire series 
 with little or no difficulty eleven years later. That should tell you something about the greatness 
 of this game series. You can buy the compilation of all the goodness that is Baldur's gate for 
 around $55 - Baldur's Gate, expansion Tales of the Sword Coast, Baldur's Gate II, and the Throne 
 of Bhaal. It is worth every penny and more... much more.
  
  You'll see some folks here and there complaining that the graphics are 'dated'. Ok, fair assessment 
 (now, in 2009.) 2D games are pretty much done and gone... no one does brilliant hand painting of 
 environment backgrounds anymore.
  
  But, do you want character interaction? Depth of story? Do you want to care about your cohorts 
 and the innocents that need to be saved? NO game I have played (except maybe KOTOR I, Mass Effect, 
 and the Witcher) has remotely been able to capture the depth and goodness of roleplay that is Baldur's 
 Gate.
  
  If you've never played Baldur's, but you're totally sold now and are ready to get it... get it. 
 Then, download the Baldur's Gate Tutu (free project online.) It converts all of the first part 
 (Baldur's Gate) to use the Baldur's Gate II engine (better resolutions) You can start at level 
 1 in Baldur's Gate and take him or her all the way to level 40 (or more) in Throne of Bhaal.
  
  According to the games I've tagged in Gamespot, I have over 114 PC games I own/have played 
 (I haven't tagged them all yet) ; Baldur's Gate is *still* my favorite game of all time.
  
  I could go on and on, but I don't want to ruin any of it for you. Play it... and tell Minsc and 
 Boo that I sent you. It's an epic adventure you'll never forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grigjd3
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2009 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Are you a DnD nerd who remembers all the traps in the paper and pencil DnD module The Temple of 
 Elemental Evil? Are you looking for a true cRPG that sets you out on a journey of high adventure 
 against horrible evils? Do you want a game that contains long and deep interactions with the NPCs? 
 Do you want a game with many subplots ready to be played through at your will? I could keep asking 
 such questions and if this sounds like the kind of thing you get into, this is the game for you. 
 Years out and this title still stands as one of the very best computer role-playing experiences 
 available. 
  
  Baldur's Gate II inherits the almighty infinity engine - an isometric view game that allows the 
 player control of up to six characters based on the rules to the Dungeons and Dragons game. When 
 I first played the original Baldur's Gate, I thought to myself, "I'm playing DnD without all the 
 pain numbers to keep track of and dice and character sheets and whatnot." It still had some issues 
 back then. Key was the space allowed for in the game. Characters often got stuck meaning you had 
 to spend agonizing time getting out from around a corner and a tight nook in the dungeon. All that 
 is gone now as all the lessons learned making Baldur's Gate have been considered in making Baldur's 
 Gate II. This game has made staggering improvements on what was already an incredible experience. 
 The action moves quickly and allows you much better control of your characters. 
  
  BGII starts where BG left off (minus Tales of the Sword Coast) and you can even use your old character. 
 The game goes far beyond as you learn more of your character's dark history and grow in power. 
 This epic finds your group ascending to tremendous levels of power and the corresponding spells 
 and abilities are truly impressive - all the while keeping the rules nicely in the background. 
 If you like RPGs and after all this time haven't played BGII, well, dated graphics aside you owe 
 it to yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubbal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Baldurs Gate 2 is a very cool role playing game. It has lots of depth even today. When I play games 
 like this I wonder where all the depth has went in some of the modern role playing games. Don't 
 get me wrong there are some with depth but not as deep in my opinion as say, Morrowind and of course 
 Baldurs Gate 2. It has so much depth it can overwelm you and thats where some of the cons some 
 in. You can tell that they take some cool elements from some of these older games and water them 
 down to appeal to a larger crowd. This is good and bad at the same time. Non the less if you have 
 the patience to learn the ins and outs of this game I think you will find a more satisfying adventure 
 here than most of the modern games.
  
  Man once again they went all out in this game, starting with the graphics. Its all pre rendered and 
 played from a 2-d over the top view. The world is pretty though. Even today some of the wierd and 
 exotic locations of the game are breath taking and a sight to behold. The sound does a wonderful 
 job of just drawing you in even deeper with cool music and sound effects that are real atmospheric 
 and make you feel like your really in this crazy but cool fantasy. Modern games have way better 
 graphics but most fail to capture such a wonderful atmosphere like this that makes you feel like 
 your really there.
  
  The Controls work really well. You use the mouse for most functions, and the keyboard for all others 
 and its easy to get the hang of.
  
  On to the game play! Like I said this is as in depth as you can hope for from a game. The game also 
 offers a tutorial that helps out a lot. Still I couldn't help but feel like I was doing a lot of 
 things wrong. There are so many quests, spells, and actions you can do it can overwelm you and kinda 
 trun you off. However once you do learn it all it gets really really fun. You will become a slave 
 to this game if you have the patience to learn all there is to learn. I take it there are many that 
 do not have the patience and thats explains the current lack of depth in a lot of today's RPG's. I 
 mean you create a character manage a party of up to 6 and this includes giving battle commands, useing 
 the parties skills, managing items and inventory, casting gobs of spells and many other functions. The 
 spells can be overwhelming because its one of the games most overlooked features for new comers. Spells 
 can help heal your party, remove harmful status effects, and put good effects that help a character 
 become stronger in some area for a time. These are also difficult to learn because there are little 
 icons you click on and hope your using the right one. Non the less it all comes together to make 
 a game that will be known and heard of for still years to come.
  
  All of these elements come together to create a masterpiece of video game design. I promise if you 
 have the knack for steep learning curves that turn out a game you've ben dreaming about then you 
 can not go wrong with baldur's Gate 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_andrae
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  This game is so amazingly good that it is very hard for me to find words to describe. I finished 
 this game 4 times (including all side quests and expansion) :
  
  1. chaotic evil elf male sorcerer: I was so horribly evil I even killed my girlfriend Jaheira in 
 the game. Of course I chose Bodhi in chapter 2 and killed the good dragon in chapter 6.
  
  2. lawful good half-orc male Kensai: I was so saintly good I never asked money for doing quests. 
 I even started a relationship with the drow woman en turned her from evil to good. 
  
  3. neutral human male jester: I was so neutral I killed everyone who was good and evil. I played 
 strange songs which confused my enemies. I started a relationship with that wingless girl and we 
 had a baby.
  
  4. chaotic good elf female archer: I was so chaotic I killed everyone from a distance and tried 
 to start a relationship with every woman in the game. Too bad you only had the option to start 
 a romance with that pathetic paladin wannabee. 
  
  Thank you for reading this crap. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_Guns
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  I can not say enough good things about this game, it is a masterpiece and one that I will never 
 forget. I played through it about 2 years ago, and while it is a little outdated this is a must 
 have if you are a fan of D&D or role-playing games. The plot is outstanding, you will become attached 
 to and care for your greatest allies, and you will hate and fear your greatest enemies. This is 
 NOT a game for people with short attention spans however, as it is long and there is a lot of reading 
 to do, but every aspect of the game is excellent. If you have the patience for it you will find 
 what is in my opinion the greatest RPG of all time. 
  
  The graphics are outdated, and there is a ton of text to read, but for me playing this game was 
 like reading a good book. If you just sit down and allow yourself to be immersed in the game and 
 use your imagination to fill in the visual blanks you will find yourself not wanting to get up 
 until the end. 
  
  While the graphics engine is 2D and outdated it is still very well done, for what it is. The pre-rendered 
 backgrounds are especially beautiful, such as the city of Athkatla. And the ambient sounds are 
 equally fantastic, all help greatly to immerse you in the game. The music is absolutely fantastic 
 as well, and epic in every sense of the word.
  
  Anyways, I'm no good at writing these reviews so in summary let me just say that this is a game 
 that you should definitely play, if you have the attention span for it. It is truly a masterpiece, 
 and one of the best games ever created. As far as RPGs go this game has no equal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troyalasx
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  Baldur's gate was a step ahead of it's time. When Baldur's gate 2 came out graphics were starting 
 to be main selling points in games. That never hindered the perfection of this game. The graphics 
 are slightly better than Baldur's gate 1, but the overall construction of the game is magnificent. 
 This game is the an example of the Infinity Engine at it's prime. Every action that you make have 
 far reaching consequences. Whether it be your strongest companion leaving the party or not being 
 able to finish a quest. It is an rpg in every sense of the word. You get to create a character 
 from scratch and complete missions how you want. Imagine playing as a fallen paladin because someone 
 pissed you off. :) I have wasted hours of my life trying to play every mission possible. Endless 
 replayability makes this one of the few games that you must play. It is very rare that a game can 
 influences games in completely different genere's. Baldur's gate 2 has managed to complete this.
 
  
  '] [' [ [] ] [ [] ] [ [_ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate II has been a game on my list for a couple years now that always got put on the backburner 
 because of the overabundance of isometric RPG's I have on my list. I finally corrected that error 
 and got around to dedicating a lot of time at work towards this game and finally made my way through 
 it. The experience was quite incredible and it's readily apparent why this game is on the top of 
 so many people's lists.
  
  The characters, dialogue and quests are all of the highest quality. Sure this game happens to have 
 been created in the olden days where there wasn't much voice acting but the voice acting that does 
 show up is of good quality. The different part members all have their own personalities and motivations 
 and they aren't shy from bickering or pestering other characters in the game. Certain personal 
 side quests from these characters can actually dictate when and if a character leaves your group; 
 put a knight's errand behind your own plans and goals for too long and you'll see that very knight 
 storm away from your party.
  
  Dialogue usually has numerous answers and retorts for any given situation and they're not always 
 situated in a good, neutral, bad response format which adds a little bit of suspense when choosing 
 your responses. The best part of the dialogue is that it enables your character to talk his or 
 her way out of situations which is something that most modern day RPG's don't have enough of. Sometimes 
 it's nice to actually play as a thief and not always have to engage in fighting to solve a quest.
 
  
  Speaking of quests, I honestly believe that the dozens of side quests often overshadow the main 
 plot of the story. Of course some of these quests are nothing more than little errands that can 
 be solved in less than five minutes but others are amazing plotlines that would put most modern 
 RPG's to shame. In the line of duty you might find yourself on a magical spaceship, in a planar 
 prison, or just running into numerous dragons and demons all willing to deal with you or kill you. 
 The majority of these are optional but there are others, especially during the second chapter that 
 are pretty much forced upon you artificially lengthening the playtime of the game.
  
  I have to say something about the main villain; he doesn't blabber about his plot in front of your 
 character leaving his story slowly unfolding throughout the chapters until the final conclusion. 
 Too often do games hand the player the plot on a silver platter during the first hour of the game 
 leaving out all questions as to what the antagonist is up to and why.
  
  The graphics are actually pretty good even by today's standards. There aren't many 2d isometric 
 RPG's left but everything is animated smoothly and easily identifiable right off the bat. Well 
 almost everything. The 'tab' key is often utilized to highlight items or doors that can be opened 
 seeing as some doors that are drawn are there merely for decoration.
  
  As mentioned before, the voices are adequate and the sounds for the attacks and spells are also 
 what one would expect. The music does have a nice sound to it and seems to spring up at the perfect 
 times with the perfect sounds. It's one of those types of in-game music that I wouldn't mind having 
 on soundtrack.
  
  As for gameplay, it's not as varied as more recent games such as Neverwinter Nights but it's easy 
 to see that the NWN franchise is just an evolution of the BG series. Most of the good stuff is 
 there like the most important races, classes and spells. There are even spells that have mysteriously 
 vanished from later D&D games that I think would have been an excellent addition like the "Summon 
 Nishru" spell that only attacks mages.
  
  Unfortunately the AI in the game shows its age as the scripts for party members are rarely as good 
 as the scripts say. I set one fighter as a mage killer and he instead kills anything on the way 
 to the mage, my mage set as a summoner uses the one summon spell and then stands their not attacking 
 or summoning new creatures when the old ones pass. I really don't like to micromanage party members 
 and control six characters but for Baldur's Gate II, it's a necessary evil.
  
  Another small gripe is that, as for most RPG's, gold really doesn't have much value. In the early 
 stages of the game it's nice to have and you might find something you'd like to purchase but as 
 the game goes on and all sorts of magical goodies are tossed into your lap, money really becomes 
 just a high score type deal. I rarely found anything in a shop that I needed to splurge on and 
 I was constantly offloading acquired goods so by the time it was all said and done, not only was 
 my character one of the most powerful characters in the game, he was also the richest.
  
  Anyways Baldur's Gate II will fall into my list of games with quality you don't see much of anymore. 
 I actually wanted to just rush through this game and get it out of the way but found myself enveloped 
 in the side quests more than anything else. It's one of those great games that makes it easy to 
 see what the fuss is about and one that has been added to my great RPG list. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClawKiller
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate is a whirlwind of a game that draws you right from the word go. 
  
  It has an epic, well developed plot, amazing dialogue, many memorable characters, almost unparalleled 
 humour. From the torutured soul of Irenicus, to the enigmatic Yoshimo, the vulnerable Aerie and 
 the hilarious Minsk and Jan Jansen. All the characters intereact well with each other and it has 
 the best written romances of any game ever. This is the main attraction of the game, and no other 
 games does it as well as BG2.
  
  The combat is tactical, with many options, playing out like a minature version of Medieval 2 Total 
 War. This is the second best part of the game.
  
  The graphics still hold up well nearly 10 years after release, with beautiful spell effects and 
 well drawn weapons and lanscapes. The monsters are animated nicely.
  
  The music is beautiful, coming in at the right times. The sound effects send a chill down your 
 spine and make you feel the world you are playing in is real.
  
  Overall, this is the most perfect game ever made. Its a masterful music album, artwork, videogame 
 and novel, all into one beautiful package. Its the only perfect thing in the world today, and I 
 can't wait for Bioware's next game, Dragon Age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osama99
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  One of the best CRPGs in videogame history... 
  
  It's a pity they don't make them like this anymore. Beautiful pre-rendered, hand-made 2D graphics, 
 cinematic-level music and sound, inspired professional voice acting, and enough detail to let you 
 immerse yourself in the game's own universe for hours and hours with all that life going on in 
 your screen, all the marvelous background text and mature dialog to absorb, and the neat autopause-based, 
 party level combat system.
  
  Nowadays, all those big $$$ companies are too busy churning out 3D engine licences of console action 
 games for preteens and casual players, to even think of doing something with real quality like 
 BG2. A sad reality.
  
  Baldur's Gate 2 - 10 out 10 on its own right, and 20 out of 10 when compared to the FPS crap they 
 have the cheek and ignorance to call "CRPGs" these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrinningDemon19
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This has a big graphic boost from its previous self and keeps the same type of game play you love. 
 That's right you can play the first one for maybe 1 month then switch to this without any learning 
 curve. The story continues with the same basic concept and just gets better. It has the great draw 
 you in story and with all the side quests and different people you can make your group with unless 
 you try you get a different story. Some of the same faces are back which gives you that since of 
 continuation that you have grown to love in this series. Without spoiling too much of the story 
 you loose an old friend and you get to see an old enemy. So for those that have played the series 
 from the first Baldur's Gate to this one or your brand new to this game you be able to keep up 
 with everything. I just can't come up with enough good things to say about this. If you love RPGs 
 and don't own this there is something wrong with you. And that's my 2 cents 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taloskai
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Thats all I really have to say. Baldur's Gate 2 really just grabs you, sucks you into the game 
 intil you finish it, so say good bye to your family and friends for a while.
  
  The gameplay is stunning with all the sidequests you can accomplish. There are quests that let 
 you gain castles and theif guilds but I don't want to spoil anymore. There are also quests that 
 might dig you deeper in the plot and it's not even a story quest! There are many pieces of equipment 
 and many ways to create your character starting with race class and gender. On my first set up, 
 I spent a half an hour just creating my character, just by that you can tell that the set it up 
 great.
  
  The story contiunes from the orginial with you being kidnapped by a wizard and it unravels from 
 there. Plot twists, alliences and betreals make the story a juicy one. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good, I've always enjoyed those 2D graphics, even in these days. They have 
 bigger resalutions that you can set up on your computer and overall the textures are great.
  
  Just buy the game, it's cheap and quite possibly it's one of the best rpgs ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucianu
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  the first games i ever played waz arcade games... Street fighter2.. since then i fell in love whit 
 arcade games like tekken.. ( which is the greatest game of all time) but then i found Diablo1, 
 wow, what a game, incredible fun.... so then i waz into rpg-s... so i started searching for a good 
 solid rpg, whit a great story.. and guess what i found? this game.... incredible from the start, 
 the story is absolutly amaizing, the graphics r just right, the caracters have lives of there own, 
 its incredible, i never tought that i would say this because i am into fighting games.... but u 
 know what? i like rpg's to.. thanks to this game... i love it, and i think im gonna play it again 
 :) , and trust me, i played a lot of rpg, but this is number 1 in my heart, the rpg that truly 
 is a great fun rpg, peace! and dont forget to play it ;) :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Being a child of Bhaal is no easy task really. Firstly your father is the God of Murder which means 
 you have a bit of a bad rep, and secondly every mad wizard and their vampire sister wants a piece 
 of you in order to rule the world.
  
  Baldurs Gate II picks up exactly where the first game ended leaving you, Imoen, Jaheria and the 
 fantastically fantastic Minsc (and his pet hamster Boo of course) in the depths of a dark dungeon. 
 You'll be seeing a considerable amount of dungeons in your quest through the world of Baldurs Gate 
 II and every single one of them is fortunately amazing. BGII also introduces the player to the 
 vast city of Amn, itself dividied into many districs all huge and full side quests if you thought 
 the original game was big, this is a LOT bigger.
  
  With your party in tow your brave adventurers set out the most in-depth, gripping and realised 
 story to ever grace a video game. I can't put into words just how amazing this plot is, but it 
 has everything and more. Fantastic story twists, superb characters to meet, fight and interact 
 with and most importantly of all emotion. The fact the game can take place fully from a point and 
 click isometric perspective yet still feel so realized and alive is a testement to Bioware's genius, 
 I hate to sound like a fangirl but there is nothing wrong with this story. It's flawless.
  
  A great story needs a great cast and whether you choose to be a balde weilding child of death 
 or hope for the world your party members all are interesting. Most of the BG originals make a return 
 (including my personal favourites Vyconia and Edwin) and add life to the already amazing plot through 
 their own unique natures. 
  
  The combat is relatively similar to the original BG albeit far less frustrating and smooth. I'm 
 no expert on D&D rules but there are certainly plenty of virtual dice rolling away in the background 
 as the game speedily calculates your characters actions. The game fortunately allows you to pause 
 and issue orders to your party en-masse which allows you to assess dangerous battles easier and 
 keep track of the vast amount of spells and skills hurling around the battlefield. While some battles 
 in the game may be difficult there is always a solution to be found and a tactic that will work 
 and there is never a time you will be totally banging your head against a wall in frustration. 
 
  
  Part of the beauty of BGII is the side-quests, there are so many to do and each so deep and entertaining 
 that you could abandon the main story altogether and spend 40+ hours just on the optional content. 
 Want to own a castle? Save a theatre from a portal to another plan of exsistance? Travel into ancient 
 egyptian style tombs in search of great treasure? Baldurs Gate II has something to satisfy everyones 
 adventuring urges and more.
  
  Visually the game is of course dated, but each isometric world is still beautifully drawn and animated 
 and once the sounds are applied it actually draws you in far more than most 3D games. The city 
 sounds like a city, your comrades bicker with each other (recruit Vyconia the drow to your party 
 for example and people can get a bit p'd off with her) the world is alive through the sound and 
 subtle animations. 
  
  Baldurs Gate II is quite simply a masterpiece and although Bioware have come close to it's greatness 
 both themselves and all other RPG companies have yet to better this title. For me BGII isn't just 
 the best RPG out there it's also the greatest video game of all time and something you owe yourself 
 as a gamer to experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brian0031
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Okay I will completely ignore the fact that Gamespot or IGN did not rate this game a perfect ten.
 
  
  Because it is a perfect ten.
  
  This is as close to perfection as video games has ever got.
  
  Nothing I have ever seen or 
 played can even compare to the perfectness that is Baldur's Gate 2 Shadows of Amn with the exception 
 of Plnescape Torment.
  
  You have everything in a game that you could want:
  
  Seriously hard and thought provoking battles and enemies
  An great storyline that makes you feel 
 like you are part of the game
  Great character customization
  Great NPC's
  A BALANCE of combat and dialogue
  Many memorable fights and characters
  
  And the list could 
 go on and on.....
  
  In fact instead of ranting about it all day you should just go and buy it. 
  
  Best Game Ever. 
 No Argument. End of Line 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barthold
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  (SPOILERS inside)
  
  
  Somewhere in high school, when i changed to a new school i met a guy who had the same hobby as 
 me, playing games. I told him i was searching for a great game, and at some point he gave me a 
 computer game in the form of a book. It was baldur's gate. I played it at a thrilling time of my 
 youth, and it learned me how beatiful a pc game can be, it also got me hooked into rpg's. I remember 
 that i was driving with my vespa and that while i had the rain falling down on my head, i was imagining 
 how the adventure would unfold and wich strategies i would use when i started playing again. Finally 
 Sarevok was death. 
  After getting at the end of planescape torment, a while later, it was there: baldur's gate 2, shadows 
 of amn. For me it was like i just continued my adventure, but more beatiful, bigger, more epic. 
 I liked it when i started at the dungeon of irenicus, i soon had the same party members with whom 
 i left off in baldur's gate. Khalid and dynaheir were dead, but the world of amn was so great that 
 sometimes it felt like i would drown in it. I beated the game first with a barbarian, then with 
 a berserker and then again with a berserker. I came to spellhold, then to the strange island, and 
 to the underdark to bodhi's lair untill suldaneslar, yes i have been there ! When the expansion 
 came out i went to the store and before it was open the shopkeeper gave me throne of bhaal out 
 of his vehicle, i paid him, went home and i enjoyed the final chapter but i was sad the game was 
 over. Though this game i have met a wonderfull community on the internet and people who like the 
 game just like i did, numerous mods, portrait sites, strategy guides found his way on the internet. 
 If there is one game that could be godly then it is for me baldur's gate 3 i hope someday that 
 dream will come out.
  
  
  Sidenote: things that make this game so great.
  
  It feels like your party is alive in shadows of amn. You can have romances and quarrels, disputes 
 and laughter. I remember having a dream all those years back, with my party and the protagonist 
 around a campfire and socializing. The npc's you can chose from do have a personality.
  
  The epic scale of the storyline: you fight dragons, powerfull evil mages, liches, vampires, and 
 other good- or evil- aligned parties. You are the son of an evil god and you destiny unfold itself 
 before you eyes in a sometimes macaber atmosphere.
  There are riddles and puzzles to solve.
  
  The arsenal of weapons: You can forge powerfull 
 weapons or find them. Also when you have beaten the game, the next time you can plan how you equip 
 your partie to the best. 
  
  This was my top game back then. Then i enjoyed world of warcraft. But big difference is that bg2 
 depends on your own imagination while wow is a world mostly influenced by a certain community of 
 people which comes with some annoyances.
  Now the graphics of bg2 might seem outdated, which in case it is, but imagine the game with the 
 technology from nowadays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kez1984
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Having came to Baldure's Gate relatively late, by eight years, I purchased a multi-pack of all 
 the baldure's gate games for next to nothing.
  
  Drones of other rpg's being played, I was pretty much predicting what was to come, A 10-20 hour 
 game with a cookie cutter story and fairy simple controls, boy was I was.
  
  Alot of people are gasping at Oblivion, world of warcraft and even biowares other effects such 
 as knights of the old republic, newer games, well, I have to say, this game, This game, including 
 the original, being 8+ years old are in a class of there own.
  
  The charecters in this game do not feel like tools, they actually do have character and back story's, 
 they randomly engage and your decisions change the outcome of quests. The story and dailogue along 
 with the voice actors are superb, stage play worthy
  
  The first game clocked 200+ gameplay doing all the quests, I have yet still to finish this game, 
 but about 40+ hours have been in, this is a huge game, that reminds highly quality from start still 
 finish, you will get your moneys worth, feel part of a world, and not have to pay any monthly fee's 
 as you would with an mmorpg.
  
  Obviously it's an isometric game, but I would argue that the beautiful hand art work in the world 
 along with player avatars has more charm than any of the newer three-dimensional games would offer, 
 the world is convincing and immersing.
  
  The gameplay is pretty deep, unless you know how to use the DD system, you will probably be fighting 
 aimlessly blind, the DD system is radically diffrent from other rpg's in terms combat, it's dice 
 rolling, but it translated really well, along with the ability to pause the game to figure out 
 exactly what your attack strategy is going to be.
  
  You cant go wrong with this game, Baldures gate and Baldures gate II are still the pinnacle of 
 rpg games, and for that matter, games, price wise as well, it's practically theft.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vacuum3
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  Pure masterpiece. The best true RPG ever made. There is no game, calling itself RPG surpassed Baldur's 
 Gate even to these days.
  
  Thrilling and unpredictable scenario, great use of D&D rules, amazing modding freedom... 
  
 
  One of the greatest things in the game is the characters. There are lots of them, and they are 
 all different... Different biographies, skills, emotions towards you.
  
  It is ashame that Black Isle Studios went down.. They really deserve their place in the wall of 
 honor.
  
  If you decide to play this game, which is HIGHLY recommended, dont forget to pick up Minsc, the 
 Ranger berserker with his little buddy Boo, the giant miniature space hamster and Lilacor +3, the 
 talking sword from the sewers in the Slums district. What fun!
  
  If you havent played Baldur's Gate, you havent played RPG at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogdabog
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn to this day, remains one of my favorite games and one of the best 
 told games I've ever played. Plus it has one of the best lead villains of all time. 
  
  
  Game Play: 
  Baldur's Gate's combat is power by the excellent Dungeons & Dragons rule set which 
 in my book remains one of the best playing combat rule sets of any RPG. As one would expect from 
 Bioware you have an almost insane amount of dialog options that let you play out all most any type 
 of character. Along with that you have the standard DnD Classes along with class "kits" that you 
 can select that have different perks and downsides. Such as the Swash-Buckler, which provides a 
 more direct combat thief. There are a few kits per major class so you'll have quite a selection 
 to fit your play style. My personal favorites Still remain the Kensai and Monk.
  
  BGII also has more then its fair share of loot which comes it all shapes and sizes, including the 
 ever so wonderful Bag of Holding for all of my fellow pack-rats out there. Also all of the games 
 items have their own bits of history you can read about them whenever you examine them. This adds 
 a great level of personality to the items that most games do not have. 
  
  As one would expect BGII is fairly open-ended (without feeling like the slapped together mess that 
 Fallout was...) with the only exception being around the middle of the game where you are shuffled 
 along on a pretty linear path, with it opening up again after that.
  
  
  Audio:
  Your standard fantasy sound effects here. The real audio treat is the game's superb voice acting. 
 I honestly cannot find anything bad to say about it (Well.... One bad thing about it.... There is 
 not enough of it!!!) . The actors are skilled and the direction is top-notch. Plus you can't miss 
 all of the wonderful and silly quotes of Minsc (and his hamster, Boo) and the talking sword Lilarcor, 
 add just the right amount of great humor to an otherwise serious game.
  
  
  Graphics:
  Pre-rendered 3D back grounds and character sprites are BGII's chosen graphic medium. While very 
 dated by todays standards, they're still a joy to look at for me. everything from the beautiful 
 city (and ugly slums) of Amn, to the underdark. I love it all. The upside to the game engine is that 
 BGII will run well on all but the most ancient of systems.
  
  
  In short: Get BGII and play it until your brain tries to escape out your ear.
  It is not something 
 to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samuelreay
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate II, the sequel to the massively popular Baldurs Gate I is easily just as good, or 
 an even better game. The plot starts off with a video prologue that effectively outlines what seems 
 to be the general overview of the games story and shows of the games good (for they era of 1999) 
 spell casting animations.
  
  The player starts in a dungeon with several party members to add. With a starting level of 7, and 
 plenty of weapons and armour early on, the dungeon became one of my faourite areas. After battling 
 your way out of the dungeon, the plot line quickly expands.
  
  Baldur's Gate II is one of the most non-linear games I have ever experienced. The player can chose, 
 if he or she wishes, to diverge off the main plot line, and delve into the hundreds of quests, 
 from finding a missing item, to uncovering an evil plot and then challenging a red dragon. The 
 main plot line is easy to follow, yet provokes thought from the player and abounds with riddles 
 and scenarios requiring good problem solving skills.
  
  Graphically wise, BGII has a myriad of spell and weapon effects. Whilst (due to its release date) 
 now outclassed by games such as Neverwinter Nights II, the visuals are still entertaining. The 
 isometric camera of the game is error free and easy to use, although its angle did (only once or 
 twice) obscure certain objects from the player. Bug wise, the game is virtually perfect, with no 
 errors in any plot line or object that I have found yet.
  
  AI is superb as well, although the path finding sometimes requires micromanagement. Enemies will 
 drink potions to restore health, shout out for aid in battle when wounded, and will cast specific 
 spells to deal with party members.
  
  With over 20 different party members to choose form, each with their own perosonality and many 
 with large quests related to them, the games diversity has exceeded most others in this genre.
 
  
  Baldurs Gate II: Shadows of Amn is undisputably, undeniably, one of the greatest RPG's in existence. 
 Animations, camera, plot, characters, this game has it all, and with a non linear plot system and 
 over 40 hours of playing just for the main plot line (which is small in comparison to the other 
 quests together) , this game can be repeatedly played in single player, or together in a multiplayer 
 setting. If you dont have this game, I strongly recommend it. In fact, just get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drunken_munki
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  What can I say?
  
  If there is one game you have to play, then I'd say it would have to be Baldur's Gate 2.
  
 
  Great storytelling game, with an awesome and massive history and universe to play in.
  
  The game itself has god knows how many hours worth of gameplay. Plus you may even play it a few 
 times (I completed it 5-6 times myself) . Impressive towns and areas to visit, hundreds of quests 
 to complete, plus the main plot is utterly intriguing and absorbing.
  
  Truly involving character development, and even party development.
  
  Truly a sad day when 
 you get to the end, however this can be fixed with the expansion pack!
  
  Amazing, and perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vsivertsen
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  ever played. Baldur's Gate 2 does bring justice to the genre. Shortly, Baldur's Gate 2 is bigger, 
 better and more. With an updated game system which is a blend of AD&amp; D 2.0 rules and D&amp; D 
 3.0 rules. This gives a lot of variations in the creation of the character, with different sub-classes. 
 The game is much bigger than the original Baldur's Gate with great dialogues and plot. I especially 
 loved the possibility to get a Keep (castle) , the different story lines depending on your allignment 
 and the romance.
  
  In Baldur's Gate 2, you really starts to get powerful and can experience high level spells and 
 skills. With litteraly thousands of quests, this game will keep you busy for weeks. One of the 
 greatest game of all time, get's beaten by the follow-up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tripwolf
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Very few words can possibly begin to describe this masterpiece of gaming art. It was revolutionary 
 in its simplicity and masterful in its story telling. Far and away one of the greatest RPGs to 
 date and arguably THE best. Some of the most memorable characters ever conceived came from this 
 title and their interactions amongst themselves have given me memories that will last a life time. 
 Needless to say, I think very highly of the story line. The combat varies greatly in degrees of 
 difficulty. At times you'll slay everything that dares approach and at other times you have to 
 pause the game every 4 seconds in order to prepare more spells or move your characters out of harms 
 way. This edge of your seat combat is exactly what makes this game stand out among its peers. If 
 you've never played and beaten this game, you cannot stand and call yourself a gamer in my eyes. 
 Go. Play. Live it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  The first question that comest to mind, is how does one improve on an already outstanding and probably 
 classic RPG called Baldur's Gate (including the Tales of the Sword Coast expansion) ?
  
  The answer: produce Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn.
  
  When I first played Baldur's Gate 
 way back in 1998 (when it was first released) , it ultimately became the game that got me hooked 
 on the RPG genre, and possibly one of the best RPG releases up to that time, as well as a game 
 that restored some credibility to a genre that was fast losing it's lustre.
  
  After completing both Baldur's Gate and the Baldur's Gate: Tales of the Sword Coast expansion, 
 I was rather tentative to invest in the second installment, because I simply couldn't see how the 
 guys at Bioware could improve on the first installment, given the technological limitations five 
 years ago.
  
  I certainly wasn't disappointed!
  
  The storyline in Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn picks up where you left off in Baldur's Gate, 
 after killing Sarevok and having explored around the Swordcoast for a while, before some new evil 
 became part of your life.
  
  It begins with your main character as a prisoner in a dungeon belonging to a new evil guy called 
 Irenicus - a guy that ultimately makes Sarevok look like an amateur.
  
  Some of your original party members are automatically written out of the script at this point and 
 it's up to you to build a new party, powerful enough to defeat your new enemies.
  
  The storyline does however continue with the same, core thread, from Baldur's Gate, namely that 
 you are a spawn of Bhaal and the entire storyline, including the main characters Irenicus and one 
 or two others, are ultimately the consequence of that condition .
  
  The good news is that the character you developed throughout Baldur's Gate and the Tales of the 
 Swordcoast expansion can be seamlessly imported and you therefore don't need to start developing 
 your main character all over again. Some of the familiar party members you may have had in Baldur's 
 Gate (including Tales of the Sword Coast) will also be there right from the start, and will also 
 carry all their XP points with them from the previous games, with one or two subtle changes to 
 their character classes.
  
  On the subject of building a party powerful enough to defeat your enemies in Baldur's Gate II: 
 Shadows of Amn, the good news is that the XP limit on characters has now been lifted to 3,000,000 
 which equates to around Level 17 if you are playing as a Paladin for example. While this sounds 
 rather high in D&amp; D terms, you will certainly need every last one of these XP's towards the 
 last chapters in the game to get anywhere.
  
  Bioware has done an excellent job of adding a host of new powers, features and spells that will 
 get you through the quests, albeit that most of them won't come easy if you leave the game difficulty 
 settings on core D&amp; D rules (the default setting) . If there is any complaint that I could raise 
 here, is that the huge number of new spells and their abilities, as well as the number of weapons 
 and special items available during the game can almost become somewhat overwhelming. Perhaps that's 
 not a bad thing either, since you really need to figure out what will work best in each encounter.
 
  
  As far as the storyline is concerned, it's almost never-ending and absolutely epic in scale and 
 length. This is especially so if you are one of those RPG players like me, who absolutely has to 
 finish every known quest in the game before moving on. Some players may even complain that the 
 main storyline is actually too long. Personally I don't know how a good story can be too long.
 
  
  Suffice to say, the gameplay is very similar to Baldur's Gate and it's expansion from a technical 
 point of view, but the story is absolutely epic in length and you can expect several 10's of hours 
 just to complete the main quest, not to mention the literally hundreds of side-quests.
  
  Some of the battles and encounters are rather challenging, but given the levels that you can take 
 you characters up to, the game remains balanced with one or two subtle changes to the underlying 
 D&amp; D rules.
  
  My Gameplay score for this one is 9/10.
  
  Graphics:
  
  In this department, Bioware obviously decided not to change too much from previous installments 
 using the same underlying game engine. Some improvements were made in terms of available screen 
 resolutions and the overall game just looks better than either of it's predecessors, with vastly 
 improved spell effects and other little improvements.
  
  By today's standards however, the graphics are really out-dated with 2D backdrops and little character 
 sprites moving about.
  
  From my own perspective however, this has never really mattered, since a good story and excellent 
 gameplay in any RPG title have always been more important as far as I am concerned. Too many new 
 RPG titles rely far too much on fancy effects in the eye-candy department to hide a poor underlying 
 storyline and ultimately a poor playing experience.
  
  After all, the game doesn't look bad either.
  
  My Graphics score is 7/10.
  
  Audio:
 
  
  Audio has been significantly improved from the previous two installments, with a lot more spoken 
 dialog for NPCs and pretty good voice acting all round.
  
  Music is also good as one would expect and serves well to set the mood and abiance from scene to 
 scene.
  
  My Audio score is 8/10.
  
  Value:
  
  Given the sheer length of the main storyline, not counting the vast number of side-quests, this 
 game will keep any RPG lover busy for many hours and possibly lead to sleep deprivation along the 
 way somewhere.
  
  My Value score is 10/10.
  
  Who Should Get It:
  
  Absolutely anyone who enjoys a good RPG with a good story and excellent gameplay dynamics, given 
 of course that you also enjoy the underlying application of D&amp; D rules.
  
  Who Shouldn't Bother:
  
  Anyone who doesn't like the RPG genre or doesn't like the underlying 
 application of D&amp; D rules as in previous Bioware titles, or those players who are more inclined 
 to enjoy shooting and kicking stuff from a first-person perspective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calulithrar
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 12, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  This game just has it all for me... The storyline is something else: it takes you so far and you 
 have so many memories by the end of it. It went so far as to explore the Underdark and even a drow 
 city! Feck I just get so happy thinking about it. It's much increased level cap improved greatly 
 on BG 1's dissapointingly low one as well. And the side quests! Well over 100 hours of them if 
 you're playing the first time through and don't know excactly what to do. Not to mention a brilliant 
 antagonist (one of the best I have ever seen in my long RPG-gaming career) . All in all, this one 
 is nothing short of a masterpiece for me and will always be a classic throughout the ages. ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_lost_wanderer
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Which game makes you start in a jail, half wounded by torture? Baldur's Gate 2 does it. How interesting 
 is that?
  
  Baldur's Gate is full of those little details that make the storyline, NPCs and cities come to 
 life. When you get inside a town, villagers will come to interact with you. It's quite different 
 from the usual NPCs standing forever to the same spot, waiting for you to talk to them.
  
  Now, the party. I think it is the greatest thing of the game. Your allies have opinions! They interact 
 between each others. They have a past. So, when you get back to their city, they might have a personal 
 quest to do. You may help them. Or you may refuse and they can decide to quit your party for their 
 higher goals. You can mix evil with good characters and watch the sparks. Whatever you do, you'll 
 end up caring for them, or hating them. But you won't be indifferent.
  
  Finally, rain starting to fall at random moments definitely gives a mood to the game.
  
  Now, 
 the flaws. Having a so detailed world can sometimes be overwhelming. There are so many side quests 
 that you get lost despite of the journal that is kept for you in the game.
  
  Also, there are a lot of monsters to kill. I was playing with druids, sorcerers and priests mostly 
 and it just took forever, it was annoying. The battles should defnitely be more focused and less 
 clear-the-map style.
  
  The graphics are okay, dated, but okay.
  
  As for the music, it is sometimes overdone, but it is still interesting. So, yes, Baldur's Gate 
 II is a great game that you should definitely try, however be prepared to long boring slashing 
 monsters, inventory management and pointless wandering trying to figure out what to do next. But 
 the NPCs will definitely lighten your journey as the storyline, when it isn't interrupted by a 
 too random side-quests! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeric-Ho
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 23, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Even though the game gave updated graphics and a hight screen resolution, even more skills and 
 classes, it did not make it a better game in my opinion! the game was harder and took longer to 
 complete i will give it that but, i did not like the way the game started and you had loads of 
 skills, and then you lose them and have to start from scratch again! as you start off thinking 
 your character is quite butch, and then you actually find out your not and things become harder!
 
  
  The best character being Minsk! he is funny and his pet hamster boo is awesome!
  
  Other than that the game was good! still very playable but not as re-playable as the first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeghead83
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 12, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn can be easily summed up in just two simple words: PURE BRILLIANCE
 
  
  not only does this game help define and entire genre but also throws gamers into a worlds with 
 so much to do and see, that this game will keep you busy for weeks if not months.
  
  Following on from where the original Baldur's Gate I finishes your character
  finds himself locked 
 in the dungeon of a evil power made wizard who wishes
  to steal your godly essence for himself. But after a quick escape you soon find that you have been 
 throw into the middle of an outstanding adventure!, taking on trolls, golems, werewolves, vampires, 
 zombies, beholders, drow and loads more and highly unique monsters in your quest to reclaim your 
 godly birthright and save the realm itself.
  
  Now while this game is dated compared to other RPG's out there on the market please dont let this 
 put you off what could, would and should be one of the best gaming experience that you can ever 
 have, with a simple mouse click system and the ability to pause the game at any time to cast spells 
 or think on what to do next even a novice can pick this up and play this game.
  
  and as for the game itself? over 100 NPC characters that you will meet and no two are alike, each 
 has its own and in some cases funny voice that adds to the already in depth characters. With Hollywood 
 quality voice acting and a script/story line that puts most so called next-gen games now to shame 
 this is a must play for anyone with a PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matzzz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  My first experience with the BG series was when I bought my first PC. A DVD 1cd version of BG I 
 was included in the software pack. I'd never heard about it, but it looked interesting so I gave 
 it a try. So I started playing, without having any idea what was in store..
  
  Since then, I' ve spent so many hours, nights and days in the forgotten realms. I bought the Tales 
 of the sword coast, and eventually, Shadows of Amn and Throne of Bhaal. Epic stories and tons of 
 quality gaming! Enjoy!
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonykorea
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I've been wondering for 3 years for great RPG games. I found out oblivion last year and finally 
 got it. But I was very disappointed with oblivion. extravagant system requirement, same gameplay 
 as Arena and daggerfall, and finally, disappearance of construction kit. My computer has 512 RAM, 
 3.06ghz pentium 4, and Nvedia GeForce FX 5200 128MB. They said in the guide that this is minimum 
 requirement. But what the hell? It runs so slowly even in lowest settings. I got very annoyed with 
 it and threw the CD and sealed it. After that, I encountered Baldur's gate 2.
  
  When I saw the name, I heard alot about it before. When I was at age of 10, those gamers played 
 Baldur's gate and spread about it. I was at age of 10. I couldn't speak english and I was more 
 attracted to Diablo 2. However, since I am 15years old now, diablo 2 got boring. I tried Baldur's 
 gate.
  
  I started a now game and said my self. 'What the hell?' Baldur's gate 2 had horrible graphic to 
 my eyes when I first played it. No need to say that I quit the game. I sealed it for 1 month. However, 
 I soon run out of games to enjoy, so I started Baldur's gate again. It still retained it's horrible 
 graphic, but I Tried and tried to be able to play it. Baldur's gate 2 had very strange graphic, 
 but very enigmatic the It looked much better as time goes. After 1week of playing, I got almost 
 addicted.
  
  This game surely is awesome. It is your choice to whether become evil or good. Even more, NPCs 
 have their own personality! This really rocks. They just be consensus to your dicision or disagree 
 with it. Every NPCs give different reponse to your actions and try to be friend with each other. 
 Man.. I beat this game about 12times and I still play it. This game really rocks. I love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokizarro
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  this is a very good RPG based on a magnificent storyline of the bhaalspawn
  you can pick from tonnes of characters like fighter, mage, palading etc.
  there are lots and 
 lots of quests, spells, weapons and a lot of characters too choose from...
  
  the good: you can create your own character and give them voices, colours, spells, classes, race 
 and much more in race you can choose from human, elf, dwarf, gnome, half-orc and a lot more. There 
 are a tonne of spells about two hundred spells or more and lots of techniques your character can 
 learn.
  
  the bad: there is not much bad i can say about this game except that you can only get to a certain 
 level until you stop leveling up and it takes quite a long time to get a level up depending on 
 what class you are playing as.
  
  overall: if you are into RPG games then get this one you won't regret it. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironthor
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  In the beginning, you find your soul taken from you by a man that desperately wants to use it for 
 evil purposes. In your quest retrieving it, you must save your sister and end up trusting people 
 who you really have no to ties to except your step-fathers old friend Jaheria. The storyline is 
 impressive, keeping you up all night and day finding out what happens next. This game is truly 
 a piece of art. Any gamer wanting to take a trip to the dark ages will love this game. You can 
 pick a character, who will become a fighter, ranger, priest, mage, cleric, ect and throughout the 
 journey you can become evil or good. Hard decisions will fall upon you and all you need to do is 
 do what you think is the right thing to do. I found this game to be an eye opener to who I really 
 am, which made me think twice in my own decisions in life.
  
  Image that! A game that helps with real life decisions! I actually felt smarter playing this game, 
 it keeps you on your toes and has you think about your decisions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlstar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 30, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  great game. the only thing that really bugged me was the start, the so called follow on from BG1. 
 i never meet the elf druid in bg1, i killed minsc in BG1 cause i wouldnt help him and ditched imoen 
 at level 1 in BG1. Xar, montaron, qualye, that dwarf fighter guy were my party not this good aligned 
 carry on that is forced on you at the beginning. Needless to say i ignored them all and took all 
 the evil and neutral guys later on.
  
  The added kits in BG2 made it more fun too if not over powered for some of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YMitsuda
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Don't let the outdated graphics fool you, this game is a classic. Following AD&amp; D second edition 
 rules that are very close to actual table top, the game play is extremely addictive and fun. Don't 
 expect an easy adventure, however, this game requires a lot of patience and intelligence to beat 
 on even the Normal mode. But you won't mind the constant saving and reloading because you'll be 
 too immersed to care.
  
  Also, don't mind the graphics. Sure, they're old, but they fit the game and they don't need to 
 be eye popping for the game to be a good one.
  
  And don't worry about whether your character will handle it, this game is seven years old, almost 
 any machine will be able to handle it on maximum graphics.
  
  Just sit back, and play an extremely enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thibbledorfP
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  Graphics
  
  The graphics in this game use the infinity engine, with 800x600 available unlike the lower resolution 
 in BG1. The engine was just a litte dated when it was released, but not bad at all. The reason 
 I rated the graphics so high is because of the detail! Great detail has been put into the outdoor 
 areas, and indoor areas. Each area is uniquely furnished, this game is truly the King of 2D sprite 
 games!
  
  Sound
  
  This game has near-perfect sound. Great voice acting, and superb music. The battle music is appropriately 
 hectic, and ebbs out nicely at the conclusion of combat. The exploration music is nice, and has 
 a variety of themes (preparation for an epic confrontation, exploration, wonder) etc. It is slightly 
 inferior to Icewind Dale 1's superb music, but that is like comparing ice-cream with chocolate 
 topping to ice-cream with chocolate topping and sprinkles. Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is the whole crux of what makes this game a classic. After the adventures of BG1, 
 your character is captured by a twisted wizard, who wishes to use your essence in some way. Your 
 pc must find his/her way to the truth and further unravel the mystery about his/her background. 
 The starting city of Athkatla is superb, a wide open, bustling city. There are many side-quests 
 and main quests around every corner, and many nooks and crannys to explore. Quests have many different 
 ways to solve them, and many different dialogue options. There is something intangible about the 
 way the quests are handled, they are always exciting. There is always something new around the 
 corner. The quests and areas are planned exquisitely. The strenghts of this starting area DO continue 
 for the rest of the game. The companions that can join your party are a major part of the experience. 
 Each has his/her own background, personality, comments and side-quest (mostly) . They will react 
 to your reputation and your deeds, and inject comments during your conversations with npcs. They 
 will inititate conversations with you, and your responses will have real effects on your relationship 
 with them. Keeping one set of pcs for the whole game is immensely rewarding, as you see the pc's 
 relationship with them grow and change.
  
  The story is absolutely tantalising, with many twists and turns. It is deeply personal, it is impossible 
 not to care about what happens to your pc. The combat is just as good. It is integrated and timed 
 very well with the talking. There is very little respawning. There is a lot of combat in the game, 
 but it is very enjoyable. The monsters and creatures that you fight make sense in the context of 
 the game. The monsters have their own interesting abilities to challenge your character. There 
 is a perfect pacing of extremely hard, hard, medium and slightly challening combats. The combat 
 never gets boring, and is custom-tailored to provide each pc with a good challenge, and different 
 methods to win. Even as your pc approaches godly levels of power, you must always be prepared. 
 The combat is challenging, but do not worry, you will not get stuck. Experimenting and trying different 
 strategies will enable you to win. The combat is not hard-core, you do not need to choose the most 
 power-player pcs and abilities to win. You will be sufficiently prepared for the foes that will 
 face you, but they will also be prepared for you. The abilities and kits add a great deal of fun 
 to this game. There are many interesting character types to try, as well as items/strategies etc. 
 The strongholds are excellent, as they are different for most classes (example, the mage sphere, 
 bard hall, warrior's castle and so forth) . They provide very interesting quests, but do so much 
 to involve the player in the game. The D&amp; D rules are implemented in a great way, for example 
 the multi-class and dual-class options can be used to create an interesting and powerful character.
 
  
  Interface
  
  The interface is great. You can control your pc and each companion completely, accessing their 
 inventory and moving them around. You CAN pause while in the inventory screen thankfully. There 
 are containers for every type of common item (gems, scrolls, etc.) and some bags of holding that 
 can hold anything. There is AI that you can set for your pcs, although I never use it, the thrill 
 of controlling them is too great. There is also a 'basic' AI button which controls whether the 
 pcs react to attacks. This is a nice touch, as there are moments where you may want your companions 
 to be sedentary. What can I say? The game has a classic, you can tell just by playing it. The pacing 
 of the story, role-playing and combat is addictive and substantive. If you like deep RPGs, this 
 is your Holy Grail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  I still play this game on occation not because of the graphics.. but because of the storyline/gameplay.. 
 The game is what I compare most recent RPGs with and surpasses the intensity of the first Baldur's 
 Gate. The avialable side quests and romance quests give the variety and joy most RPGs don't deliver 
 today.. It is a true RPG game meaning it isn't hack and slash and requires a bit of strategy/tactics 
 at times. This changes as you increase the difficulty.. meaning the game mechanics change a bit 
 when the game is increased. The music score down to the weapon sounds and voice dialogue is the 
 best it was back in 2000. You can play this game in 4 days if you work at it.. 8 days under normal 
 circumstances. Few games in my collection get a perfect 10.. this is one such game. I keep coming 
 back for more... and the ability to play different characters along with romances enhances the 
 replayability.. Party makeup is affected endgame in ToB.
  
  This is one game that will keep you coming back!! Well worth the 50 bucks originally paid and overly 
 worth what it is now.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shugo_TwinBlade
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate II : Shadows of Amn, has no equal.
  
  Don't get me wrong, other games from the same world have came close, your Icewind Dales and your 
 Neverwinter Nights', but none have came close to matching the PC-RPG-Gaming perfection that is 
 Baldur's Gate II.
  
  The gameplay, superb. Everything on the screen feels fluid and right. You know what you're doing, 
 no matter how complex it may sound. You know, almost instinctively what to press to suit the occassion.
 
  
  The graphics, I love them. The almost-painted backdrops, the characters which remain almost two 
 dimensional. The magic effects are what maim the visuals for me, but not by much. The three dimensions 
 on the magical attacks just don't feel right in comparison.
  
  The music is epic, especially the main sequence. On more than one occasion, I've just sat back 
 and listened to that song, over and over. It's beautiful, almost poetic in a sense.
  
  It's value, fantastic, unbeatable. For it's price now, this may be the best discount game you will 
 find. You don't need a super-high end PC to play the game, unlike Neverwinter Nights. This is what, 
 I believe gaming is about. Fun in any form possible, and Baldur's Gate II achieves that, in my 
 eyes.
  
  Of course, I could just be being biased. This game is the second PC-RPG I played [the first being 
 it's predecessor, Baldur's Gate] . This game will always have a place in my heart, and I feel that 
 sometimes, it isn't given the credit it truly deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elronzer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Anyone remotely interested in Role Playing Games will find the Baldur's Gate saga an epic gaming 
 experience. Highly based on the Dungeon's &amp; Dragon's theme, gamers with little or no D&amp; D 
 experience will still find the game equally as appealing. Graphically the game looks great and 
 will run on any PC. Yes, it won't look anywhere near as good as a modern 3D game, but the game's 
 graphics are not really an issue in this case. The entire series can be picked up for &pound;10 
 on dvd. The negatives: May come across as a dated, 'geeks' d&amp; d game, possibly tricky to fully 
 undersand when first played, may seem complex but really its easy after an hour or so. To surmise: 
 Great, highly replayable game worth every penny and more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makemydaygr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 15, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  What can be said for this game. I have finished it with all possible means and I believe nothing 
 managed to exceed it. Its a legend that must be played first of all by anyone who respects himself 
 and wants to be called an rpg player. Having played so much I can tell that the bugs you can find 
 at this huge are about 10 and except 2 (one of them is a helpfull bug) of them are fixed with the 
 patch. The number shows the work that has been made on this game because we can see today games 
 (titan quest etc) that cant be played by all these bugs. The game isn't about the graphics and it 
 never was. Developers gave base to gameplay and they didnt want to make you buy a new pc or say 
 wow what video/graphics .It uses a 2d system that helps you have the control of the game .Its a 
 true blooded rpg. The game recognise your alignment and you have the appropriate behavior. The best 
 part that I recognise in few games (oblivion, neverwinter nights etc) is that you dont follow the 
 history of a character. You write history and the game is revolving arround you and your actions. The 
 game doesn't force you to finish it as in the most games, so you can find yourself stuck and you 
 must start all over. So I say its hard and with core rules I 'd say its challenging even for the 
 experienced. When you play at first time you must spend a lot of time creating your character or 
 you may lose even at early stages. It uses 1.0 ad&amp; d rules so you may find some spells much different 
 than todays 3.5 rules. It has quite an atmospheric sound. Baldurs gate leaves you a nostalgia (that 
 cant be filled by icewind dale) and thats why at this time with power computers there is no sense 
 of a 2d game. So before playing neverwinter nights 2, final fantasy 12 or any other rpg consider 
 playing bg 2 with throne of baal to have a way of measurment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrey0ll
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I had never played any of the D&D (or similarly styled) games until Baldur's Gate 2. Baldur's Gate 
 2 inspired my interest in RPG gaming and is still the top of my list (along with Heroes of Might 
 and Magic 3 and Final Fantasy 9) .
  
  I've seen a few reviews complaining about the graphics in the game, but I really don't see much 
 to complain about. The graphics are fine for 2000 and perhaps the reason the interface seems tiny 
 now is because of the high resolution. On the intended resolution (800x600) the interface is easy 
 to navigate. The tutorial feature helps any new player learn the features quickly enough (the tutorial 
 takes about ten minutes) .
  
  What helped me fall in love with the game was the gameplay. The main story is extremely engrossing 
 and entertaining. The characters and npcs are colorful, each having a distinct personality. The 
 vast amount of side quests is probably what made the game what it is. The side quests have an individuality 
 of their own, revealing different parts of the world and allowing for greater equipment, skill, 
 and companions. This might seem like a common feature (in games like Neverwinter Nights) , but it's 
 difficult to describe with words; you really have to experience it for yourself.
  
  There are a few quirks in the game. I've played it through a few times and I always get this annoying 
 bug that disables the character scripts. This makes it annoying in battles with many opponents 
 as you have to control each character individually. There's also a bug with the spoken text (too 
 complicated to explain) .
  
  All-in-all this is a fantastic game and should be at least given a chance (past the dungeon) . While 
 the multiplayer isn't so active anymore there are many mods (as well as an expansion) that can 
 add a lot of replay value to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Though the game was released in the year of 2000, Baldur's Gate 2: Shadows of Amn is still considered 
 by many as the epitome of what a role playing game should be. The massive quantity and quality 
 of everything in the game screams out at you and you can't help but appreciate it.
  
  Shadows of Amn is the sequel to Baldur's Gate. Even if you haven't played that game, you'll find 
 that this game transitions you into it quite well. Though you will get to see some familiar faces 
 if you've played the first, it is in no way required to enjoy this game.
  
  Your character is fully customizable. You can choose the sex, race, and class of your character. 
 If you're really ambitious, you can even add a different voice and your own portraits. Whatever 
 character you choose, it can affect your style of play. If you're at all common to the Dungeons 
 and Dragons system, the game uses a D20 system and everything else found in the 2nd edition.
  
  There are so many unique personalities you will meet from Minsc, the wild barbarian who believes 
 his hamster is from space, to Cernd, a shape shifting druid who wants to protect his land from 
 pillagers. You can have six people at anyone time in a group and each character has their own unique 
 quests. To be honest, the main quest will take between thirty to forty hours to complete but there 
 are so many side quests that that you can multiply that number by three.
  
  Everything you do in the game can have an affect. If you're a really charitable and heroic character, 
 the townsfolk will give you discounts and treat you better. If you're a petty thug willing to harm 
 anyone for a gold piece, the reverse will occur. If you get to a low enough reputation, guards 
 will attack you on sight and if you're able to deal with the incoming waylay, then they will send 
 more and more waves of more powerful troops to stop you. This can be extremely entertaining and 
 challenging. One aspect about reputation that seems very strange is the fact that you can always 
 donate money to raise your reputation so even if you kill thousands of civilians, you can always 
 donate money to the church to get more reputation.
  
  The game spawns over seven chapters. Some are very long while others are quite short but that doesn't 
 interrupt the flow of the game. You control up to six characters all at once. If there's too much 
 going on, you can always pause the game and give some commands. There are lots of different weapons 
 and spells to choose from.
  
  On top of all this, there are so many enemies. Dragons, to werewolves, to ghosts and trolls who 
 regenerate if you don't' use acid or fire to destroy their bodies.
  
  As a thief you can lay traps and as a ranger, you can fire arrows at lightning speeds. Beserkers 
 can get enraged and attack faster while druids can shape shift and cast spells. The variation of 
 the classes and then the specialized kits are amazing. The game could be played over and over again 
 and a lot of people have done as such. The replay value is so high, I can't say enough. the music 
 and sounds of the weapons is fantastic. Minsc is especially funny when he screams into battle. 
 Some of the attacks sound so brutal, it can be entertaining just on that facet. The graphics are 
 the game run smoothly and there's nothing to note her other than in the year 2000, the graphics 
 were simply amazing. The effects of spells like fireball and entangle can be easily seen. There's 
 no speculating what is going on because you can see it all very clearly.
  
  Shadowns of Amn is an awesome RPG. It's quite cheap now and is probably bundled with the expansion 
 Throne of Bhaal that raises the level cap and introduces a new class. It's totally worth getting 
 now, or in the year 2000. You can't lose with this game considering everything so I sincerely suggest 
 you pick up this game and experience what an RPG is supposed to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelderon56
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  With the revamped class system, and the addition of new features including player keeps, Baldur's 
 Gate II outshines its predecessor's amazing game play. In the sequel to the popular Baldur's Gate 
 1 you can import your hero from the previous game, or roll one of the fun new classes, such as 
 the sorcer. The amount of content in the game is simply staggering, and with it being so open ended 
 its almost hard to choose what area to explore next. The main quest itself can easily devour a 
 significant amount of time and is highly compelling. Each of the primary classes also has a different 
 stronghold it can acquire such as a keep for the fighter, and a thieves guild for the thief, each 
 with its own subsequent quests. That not enough for you? You can assemble a legendary weapon or 
 2, or battle with a demi-lich. Baldur's Gate II has as much or as little to do as you want to, 
 and is a must have for any serious RPG player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  Baldurs Gate II has an extremely long, engrossing storyline and probably around a hundred or so 
 sub-quests. This adds up to lots of exploring, lots of combat, lots and lots of dialogue lets 
 just say the game is epic. There is once more good use of the AD&amp; D ruleset, this time with 
 many more features, classes, races, weapons, improved NPC interaction, raised level cap and so 
 on. Baldurs Gate II is simply bigger and better in every way than the original, and thats saying 
 something. One of a handful of games that are truly gripping.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Improved from the original, including higher resolutions, fancy spell effects, more detailed character 
 and monster models and more interesting and varied backgrounds. The backgrounds are still entirely 
 2D and pre-rendered though, and looking their age. But, like I said in my review of the first game, 
 in an adventure-type game such as this graphics are of lesser importance.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  Good music and this time the voice acting at least matches it. More of the characters and dialogue 
 have soundsets attached to them, adding to the sense of immersion. Its fun to hear your characters 
 bantering in between quest, battles or whatever.
  
  Value: 10/10
  Its bigger than big, and the main storyline alone will keep you going for a not insignificant 
 length of time. Add to that the multitude of sub-quests, areas to explore and characters to deal 
 with and you are looking at something truly epic. Now available very cheaply, so there are no excuses 
 not to give up your life for this game.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  Perfect.
  
  Pros:
  Its enormous, with a long, very personal story and a fantastic villain. Well, a couple of them, 
 actually. The AD&amp; D conversion is well done, good for the pen-and-paper fans but not alienating 
 everyone else. Very challenging in places, requiring the use of more than a little grey matter 
 in battles and puzzles.
  
  Cons:
  For all its greatness, there are points when Baldurs Gate II feels a little too epic for its 
 own good. Whether that can ever truly be a bad point is another issue, but there are a couple of 
 instances when the feeling arises that maybe it could have been a tad more streamlined.
  
  Conclusion:
  Still without peer in the computer RPG world. Its bloody fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  Baldurs Gate II: Shadows of Amn is the best RPG set in a fantasy world Ive ever played. It has 
 almost everything you could wish for. Many character classes to choose from? Check. A compelling 
 storyline? Check. Party members with vivid, many-dimensional personalities? Check. Quests that 
 involve more than fetching items and killing everything that moves? Check. Lots of well-written 
 dialogue? Check. A wide array of spells? Check. A huge variety of enemies? Check. Challenging battles? 
 Check. Many varied locations to visit and explore? Check. Beautiful graphics, even by todays standards? 
 Check. Complete freedom? Well Unfortunately, this is where SoA falls somewhat short. It doesnt 
 give you the kind of freedom you have in Fallout 2, for instance. First, being a complete **** 
 is not an option, because all but a couple of your party members will abandon you, and the city 
 guard everywhere will attack you on sight (and you wouldnt be able survive that like you could 
 in Fallout 2) ; you cant even attack any NPC in a city without everyone turning hostile. Second, 
 there are generally fewer ways to fulfill a quest than there are in Fallout 2, and the quests themselves 
 are fewer. Third, there are fewer cities, and some of them only become accessible at a later point 
 in the game (and then become inaccessible again) . Fourth, the whole game is divided into chapters, 
 which gives it a rather linear structure. I was disappointed by all this, because I had expected 
 a fantasy version of Fallout 2. But dont get me wrong: its still the best fantasy RPG out there, 
 and if you are even mildly interested in the genre you must play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undomiel9
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  Being a devoted fan of Baldur's Gate vol. 1, I couldn't miss a chance to buy the sequel. It didn't 
 dissappoint me indeed. Good 'ol AD&amp; D, engine slightly improved in comparison to the previous 
 part (finally the heroes managed to walk through narrow corridors without blocking each other just 
 in front of the monster's lair) . Music as good as before, witty conversations, nice and juicy drops 
 plus a chance to fight together with Drizzit himself, and his panther, let alone Sarevok. Oh, and 
 romance.
  
  Only one major drawback --the game lacks that something . Perhaps the original adventure influenced 
 me so much that I couldn't enjoy anything else when BG had already won my heart. Perhaps it's just 
 me. Just check it for yourself, go on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 1:46 am PT
Review:  Where the original game was great, this game was simply amazing. Everything about the original 
 was made better. Better graphics, better sound, better story and voice acting.
  
  The game really pulls you in. It feels much more like a real world than the first one. It's not 
 perfect and it is definitely not Elder Scrolls. But there is still a ton to do. The side quests 
 are almost overwhelming at time. The maps still feel boxy and two dimensional though. It isn't 
 a fluid game world. But it is still so reminiscent of old school CRPG conventions that have been 
 all but lost. Party oriented turn based top down RPG's are getting rarer and rarer. So, I can forgive 
 the lack of fluidity for ghetto awesomeness.
  
  Most characters feel truly three dimensional, especially the enemies. I wish I could say I loved 
 ALL of them, but many were just too downright obnoxious. Great villains and a few brilliant comrades 
 make it all worthwhile though.
  
  If you like old school turn based RPG's, don't think twice, get this game TODAY, and play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelisw
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  what can i say - i love this game! i've had it for years and i've replayed it so many times i've 
 literally lost count. the graphics may not be much compared to some of today's games but i quickly 
 get past all that with the immersive world and storyline. there are still many ways i wanna try 
 to play the game. as a girl i have to admit one of my favorite things about this game has been 
 trying to do all the romances - as another reviewer said, so much drama!
  
  the in depth storylines and the many, many possible ways to play through this game have made it 
 hold a place of honor in my game collection. every few months i get an urge and i just have to 
 take it down and reinstall and go through the whole thing again a couple times before i get it 
 out of my system. in my opinion its probably one of the best RPGs of all time, if not the best 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viedric
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  No game has come close to capturing my imagination for hours on end like this game. Baldur's Gate 
 2 is a MUST HAVE for anyone. I don't care if you don't even like RPGs. If you haven't played this 
 game, you should slap yourself right now and get on amazon. com and buy a copy.
  
  The gameplay is so fun and replayable, that you find yourself spending hours on end playing this 
 game late into the night. It mixes the point and click character movements of RTS games with the 
 dungeon crawling, beat'em ups like Diablo, with deep RPG mechanics. BG 2 features one of the deepest 
 character creation and development systems you will ever experience, more so than most MMORPGs. 
 The world is HUGE. You can spend hours upon hours playing and beat the game more than once and 
 not see everything there is to see. There are dozens of characters you can find throughout your 
 adventures that can be recruited into your party and fight by your side. Characters in your party 
 interact with each other, and if they come to dislike one another, a problem within your party 
 may errupt, Oh the drama! Thousands of interesting and profitable quests are scattered throughout 
 the game. The storyline is flawless and will capture anyone's imagination, even that of the dumbest 
 of counter-strike fans.
  
  The graphics are timeless. Sure, they don't have all the fancy bumpmapping of today's video games, 
 but the backrounds are beautifully prerendered. The character model's are a little bland when compared 
 to today's graphics, but the hundreds of different armor and character combinations keep them varied 
 and interesting. The spell effects are cool, and whenever you get a new spell, the first thing 
 you want to do is see what it looks like.
  
  The game benefits from some of the best video game music I have ever heard. Rousing and inspiring 
 songs play in the backround of you battles, and calm and joyful music plays while walking through 
 a friendly neighborhood. Dark and brooding music follows you deep underground in caves and catacombs.
 
  
  REPLAYABILITY should have been the subtitle of this game. Once you beat the game, you will imediately 
 want to try a new way to play the game. A different class for you main character, how about getting 
 rid of that same ole tiresome group and finding some more party members to hack down vampires and 
 dragons with? Why not play the game as an evil guy. Try taking a different path through the storyline 
 or, hell, avoid doing it all for a while and just explore.
  
  Baldur's Gate 2 is the sequel of, you guessed it, Baldur's Gate 1, which is also a very good game 
 that took the first steps toward BG 2. Icewind Dale 1 and 2 are also games that use the same engine 
 as BG 1 and 2, and they are worthy additions to the family. There was an expansion thats worth 
 picking up for BG 2, Throne of Baal, as well.
  
  If you haven't played this game, and since you are reading this review you must be thinking of 
 buying it, I HIGHLY recommend you pick it up and play it until your eyes bleed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skumakum
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 31, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game many many moons ago and it still ranks as my favourite RPG of all time. I plaid 
 this game without having plaing BGI so i started without the background that alot of people had. 
 Never the less i was immediatly enthrawled in the storyline and characters.
  
  From the time when you start in the cage and first meet minsc and boo you will love this game. 
 Nothing provides the sence of achievement from a single player game like BGII. There is so much 
 content that you will be occupied for hours and hours on end.
  
  Unlike alot of other fantasy RPGs you lead a party of 6 people so you have the diversity of playing 
 all archtypes. I normally play as a fighter DPS class. In BGII you can play yourself (as a fighter) 
 have a paladin with heavy armour to tank and DPS a mage to DPS Cleric to heal etc etc. In conclusion 
 this game is one of a kind. If you havent plaid it and dont want to because the graphics doesnt 
 compare to what is available now, dont worry, because the gameplay is far far better then anything 
 you will every play again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_General2000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 4, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  When Baldur's Gate was originally released on the PC, it helped to jumpstart a computer-RPG (CRPG) 
 revolution. Since then, a number of additional titles have been released in a similar vein to that 
 game, even from Bioware itself (Planescape: Torment and Icewind Dale specifically) . Although these 
 have been impressive games in their own right, they were not quite what Baldur's Gate was. The 
 sequel promised to deliver a bigger, better, and even more epic adventure than the first landmark 
 title.
  
  Baldur's Gate 2, right from the main screen, seems to surpass the original title in scope. It is 
 essentially the same concept as the original, where a group of adventurers (led by yourself) progress 
 through an epic storyline spanning multiple discs and also featuring a lot of additional side content 
 to be explored. Right off the bat, let me express just how much replay value there is in BG2; there 
 is easily over 100, perhaps even 200 hours of play time should you choose to do everything possible 
 within the game world. There are an even greater number of character classes and proficiencies 
 to choose from this time around, which means you can create an incredibly unique persona to use. 
 All of the old classes are available, such as frontline Fighters and magic-using Wizards, but also 
 include new ones such as Monks who fight without weapons and Barbarians who can enter a powerful 
 rage. These new choices don't change the game terribly much but they can add a new, distinct flavor 
 to the adventure as you play through.
  
  The gameplay is as fun, deep, and addictive as before. Combat is fluid, impressive, and pretty 
 intuitive. New dynamics introduced in the sequel make battles, especially at higher levels, far 
 grander and more complex than was possible in the first game. Outside of the battlefield, towns 
 are extremely well realized; there are thought out districts, areas, and building layouts almost 
 everywhere, and there are an incredible number of NPCs with backstory and character to them. What 
 makes this even more impressive is when this is factored into how huge the game is. Fighting, exploring, 
 and even socializing are all made fun by the thought put into BG2. Controls are good, but the problem 
 of pathfinding (especially in some of the very complex areas of the game) can get frustrating. 
 Like in the original, this is easy to remedy with a bit of attention but is annoying nonetheless.
 
  
  The pre-rendered visuals for backgrounds are sharper and look better than ever in BG2. The characters 
 look good as well, but the greatest improvement comes in the enemies you'll encounter. Not only 
 are there even more than before, but some are truly visually impressive, such as the dragons a 
 player may encounter during the course of their adventure. The spell effects are terrific for the 
 most part, but some of the older ones have the same look which is a little dated compared to the 
 rest of the game. The music is superb, with a wide array of appropriate tracks for most of the 
 areas in the game. The sounds aren't quite as good as the music, but are still quite good and fit 
 in well. The voice acting - which is quite plentiful - is of very high quality. Some of the sound 
 clips can get annoying after being repeated many times, but generally dialogue and acknowledgements 
 are believable and contribute greatly to the feel of the world.
  
  Overall, Baldur's Gate 2 is probably the most epic and grand adventure to be released on the PC 
 yet. It maintains a consistently high standard of quality over an impressively long period of time, 
 and once you've finished the challenging main quest there's a ton of side content to be explored 
 (some of it even more challenging than the main game) . For either the casual player or the hardcore 
 CRPG gamer, this is an excellent choice to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iploferom
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Baldurs gate 2 shadows of amn is even better than its prequel, baldurs gate. it is very addictive 
 when you start to play and you will be playing for hours without realising. For starters, it is 
 a massive game with a LOT of quests and story to do. there are loads of different weapons, items 
 and armors to get and there are loads of places to go. When you start you gaet to create your character 
 and choose what race, what class, what spells your character has, you get to choose his/her hair, 
 picture, skin colour and what colour their clothes are and what stats he/she has. i would recommend 
 anyone who has a computer to buy this game as soon as you can and if you can, buy baldurs gate 
 1 too. My score: 9.7 superb!!
  
  p. s. buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korlis612
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 6, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  What Baldur's Gate set up, Shadows of Amn brings home. Everything is stepped up: better implementation 
 of the rulesets, more characters classes and subclasses, more races, more weapons, more abilities, 
 more spells. That you can carry on your character from the previous game gives a fantastic sense 
 of continuity. This is your character's personal saga. A lot of the NPCs return from the first 
 game, and there are many new ones, too, but all of them are superbly realised with a lot of their 
 own dialogue they'll spontaneously come up with whilst you explore. Each character really has his 
 or her own quest, own life, to pursue and only by interacting with the different NPCs you can have 
 in your party can you uncover much of the game. Due to the high level character you'll either import 
 or create, BG2 offers a lot of epic quests to satisfy each class. Like it's predecessor, BG2 is 
 a sprawling game, taking many tens of hours to play through and covering a vast amount of Forgotten 
 Realms terrain and lore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makka_HS
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that Baldur's Gate was the first game I really got into as a kid, i played it for 
 hours at a time, you just got immersed in it, The sequel just brings back all the fond memories 
 plus more. It has everything an RPG needs and it comes with all the trimmings.
  The character creation is probably the best featured in any RPG to date and the spell system, I 
 believe, was much more advanced and interesting then the mainstream "mana" ones, the characters 
 are great, the story is engaging and the action is intense.
  A great game i will never forget.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karjah
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 13, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Where or where to begin with this thing. :)
  
  Baldur's gate 2 is very simply put a masterpeice. Every detail and option is perfectly planted 
 within a massive easy to navigate world filled with quests and charactors you will accually want 
 to come into contact with. The attention to detail plot wise and charactor wise is top notch and 
 the world does a great job of unfolding itself as something you want to explore as you progress 
 through the game. 
  
  So basically starting off Baldur's gate 2 picks up right where Baldur's gate left off with a few 
 advancments to the story. You you that you are a bastard child of the lord of murder baal. This 
 was hidden from you by your foster father 
  growing up and he was eventually murdered trying to protect you from a killer who was after your 
 blood for unkown reasons.
  
  You and a young girl named Imoen (a thief/mage) escape from the battle and with no where left to 
 go begin a journy to find out who you are and who killed your foster father.
  
  The game pretty much has an interesting plot from that point on but I'll not spoil it. Eventually 
 you do meet and slay your fathers killer after uncovering a plot that would have thrown the entire 
 sword coast (the world your exploring) into war.
  
  You leave the city when people begin to whisper about your heritage fearing a mob. You end up captured 
 by a shadowy group that you have no clue who they are and end up in a dungeon being tortured by 
 a mage. 
  
  Thus begins baldur's gate 2. :)
  
  The game is set with the AD&D ruleset and the controls are very simple. Point and click. You can 
 pause a game during a battle and issue commands to all your charactors or let the Ai run a bit 
 wild and assign other npcs scripts to follow in terms of prioritys in battle. Ultimatly what this 
 sums up to is a system that lets you have as much or as little control as you like and proves to 
 be refreshly deep but simple. 
  
  The soundtracks as well do a great job of rushing up the combat feeling when in a tough fight and 
 feels right for the diffrent enviroments you will encounter. Everywhere from forests to big citys 
 to old ruins. Even the romance music is done well here which is something rarely seen in gaming 
 today. :)
  
  The game while stunning when all is said and done is likely to take about 20 hours to complete 
 the first playthrough if you stick to just the story and the occational random travel encounter. 
 
  
  However the nice thing is the game can play VERY very diffrently on multiple playthrhoughs as you 
 can change your allignment and class and there are always mutiple ways to complete a quest not 
 all of them "good" being an evil charactor is not only very possible but there are some stiuations 
 where it's much easier to be evil then good and vise versa. The multiple ways to handle a situation 
 on any one playthrough can be vast indeed especially when you have quests mix with each other to 
 alter the others outcome. 
  
  The only bad part about the game if you can call it that is the graphics. Make no mistake they 
 have aged very nicely and don't really feel as old as they should but by this point they are a 
 bit out of date and while you will notice it it's vastly overshadowed by the great gameplay and 
 world at hand. 
  
  All in all Baldur's gate 2 with it's very cheap system requirements and tons of replay value in 
 such an interesting and diverse world should not be missed by anyone who is a fan of hack and slash 
 or RPG games. 
  
  This game is just in a league of it's own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 10, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Sequel to one of the best role-playing games thought ever created comes Baldurs Gate 2: Shadows 
 of Amn and its expansion Throne of Bhaal. From the same developers who brought you the first game, 
 Black Isle and Bioware teamed up again to bring another huge role-playing experience to the player 
 in a long and sometimes non-linear campaign that features some of the best quests, joinable characters, 
 and environments to date. A great idea from the developers was being able to take your character 
 from the first game and play them throughout the well written campaign gaining experience, building 
 levels, and becoming extremely powerful throughout your travels across the great landscape of Faerun, 
 from the Wizards of the Coast setting, Forgotten Realms. With the addition of the expansion, you 
 can give make your characters achieve almost godly status with how powerful theyll become and 
 thats only the beginning of it.
  
  As if life wasnt bad enough for our young hero from the first game, things just seem to get worse. 
 You wake up in a cell with a few other companions from the previous game including Minsc and Imoen, 
 but also with you is the dreaded Saverok. A powerful being who has captured you and wants to wreak 
 havoc on you being the child of Bhaal in hopes of harnessing that power. After soon exiting your 
 cage, youll be thrust into a epic story where you can choose companions from those around you. 
 If you want to take Imoen and Minsc with you; do it. If not, let them be there and move on with 
 your game and maybe pick someone up along the way. Many characters return from the previous game 
 making many connections from the previous title which generally make it a must to play through 
 the first game and bring your character with you throughout the entire process. As you progress 
 through the different chapters of the game, youll come across many unique and atmospheric environments 
 and also some powerful characters from the Forgotten Realms lore including the dual-wielding scimitar 
 Drow himself, Drizzt. If you played through the first game and came across him, hell remember 
 what you did and his actions from there will be based off of your choices at your previous confrontation. 
 You may end up battling the Drow because of a silly mishap the first game where you tried to pickpocket 
 his weapons. Oops. 
  
  The game and its expansion are split up into chapters and is somewhat non-linear in the beginning. 
 Only when you get to a center part in the story, will you not be able to go back and do some quests 
 and finish up some odds and ends that youve left behind, but dont worry because a couple chapters 
 later, youll be able to explore the map freely again. Unlike the previous game, the landscape 
 is much different. Not only is it a different part of Faerun, but your character wont be traveling 
 from one area to the next that were right next to each other. What I mean, is that when you leave 
 Amn, youll only be able to travel to different locations and their different areas on your map. 
 While these locations arent all connected to each other, youll be able to bring up your map and 
 travel to most of the known ones pretty much any time you want. And there are quite a lot of locations 
 to travel to. Not all of them are available from the start of course, but as you progress through 
 the game and find quests from different individuals, new locations will be presented to you on 
 your map. Even though the previous game was great in its entirety, many thought the endless trudging 
 throughout every map was a little much, so the developers made some changes and created something 
 even better. New to the series is the idea of stronghold. Depending on what class you may be, youll 
 have the ability to gain a stronghold where you can store different things such as items youve 
 found along your travels, companions that you dont want to take on your travels at that particular 
 time, and also, another incentive of having a stronghold is the taxes that you collect from your 
 people that youre able to pick up every now and then, but be sure to come back and defend your 
 stronghold when the need arises.
  
  Along your travels, youll find companions that you can add to your group making your group up 
 to six including yourself if youd like, but there is no pressure to do so. I would suggest getting 
 some companions the first time through though because of the extra entertainment they provide along 
 the way. Many have a lot to say to both you and others that may be in the group. Some of your members 
 wont get along with each other and you can decide if you want to put up with the bickering or 
 kick someone out. Also, with the companions is the possibility to have a romance throughout your 
 travels. Not everyone is able to have a romance, but certain characters and events trigger different 
 conversations and romances with your character and this adds quite a bit to the replay value as 
 you can try to mix your group up each time to see what everyone says each time through, plus all 
 the different characters are of different classes and races, so you can choose what kind of group 
 youd like to have and what youd like to include such as a paladin and fighter as tanks, many 
 some spellcasters, and also some healers to round out the party. The choice is up to you and the 
 choices may seem unlimited at times and thats what makes this game so much fun with each play 
 through. As you go through the game and its expansions, you and your companions will gain experience 
 and level up extremely high to the point where you almost feel that youre unstoppable, but until 
 the final battle, youll have quite a bit of fun with all the battles that the developers will 
 put your through which will only make you appreciate the whole experience that much more. As you 
 near the end of the games expansion, youll be battling many of your characters brothers and 
 sisters who were also spawns of Bhaal and this only builds more intensity as you wield enormous 
 spells to throw at them from all sides. Once again utilizing the Dungeon and Dragons rules from 
 Wizards of the Coast, Baldurs Gate 2 lets the player choose their own skills and proficiencies 
 as they make their way to the final battle. And the expansion, among adding more spells and skills, 
 raises the level cap to level 40, which is almost the same as being a god in the Dungeons and Dragons 
 rules. And the game really brings this feeling to the player through different conversations by 
 the many non-player characters youll come across during your travels.
  
  The game is once again on the Infinity Engine, likes its predecessor and it looks great. Having 
 a larger resolution and some great effects for the spells that are cast, the player can easily 
 see how much time was put into this game and its expansions. As you travel across the many locations 
 including the Underdark itself, youll appreciate all the unique pre-rendered backgrounds that 
 the artists put time into. Every environment is different from the next whether its a wooded area 
 outside or a tomb where youll be searching for buried treasure to complete a quest. The developers 
 also took quite a bit of time with the quests in the game. You wont be running around doing a 
 bunch of mailman quests from most role-playing games, because youll be completing intricate 
 quests that are both entertaining and satisfying to finish. The interface in the game, along with 
 the map has also been updated and youll notice quite a bit of improvements in every area of the 
 game.
  
  The sound in the game is great. The musical score is nothing short of spectacular. All throughout 
 your travels, youll be treated to an epic score that youll be turning your speakers up for the 
 entire time you play. The music will change for different environments and also for different events 
 such as battles with the multitudes of enemies that youll come across throughout the game. The 
 characters in the game all have voices and when certain characters get into their banters with 
 each other, youll find yourself laughing at how comical the conversations sound. And the voices 
 for the different characters really add a lot to the game as the more they have a voice, they more 
 they feel like actual companions throughout the games long campaign.
  
  With Baldurs Gate 2: Shadows of Amn/Throne of Bhaal, youll be able to travel Faerun with your 
 friends in your group each making your own powerful characters. Of course, having a friend or friends 
 in the game will take away from the amount of other companions youll be able to have throughout 
 your travels, but playing with your friends will always bring back memories of late nights playing 
 Dungeons and Dragons in someones basement with potato chips and soda. With how long the campaign 
 is, it may be hard to find friends who will stick it out to the end, but if they ever decide to 
 leave, just pick up another companion along your travels.
  
  Overall, the developers created an awesome sequel to an already great game. Making a lot of enhancements 
 and creating an epic story thats full of battles, romances, and treachery, Baldurs Gate 2: Shadows 
 of Amn/Throne of Bhaal could quite possibly have it all in one package. With giving the player 
 the option to take their character from the original game all the way to the end of the Throne 
 of Bhaal expansion, almost creating a god, it would seem that the developers just seemed to get 
 it right this time around. With the multitudes of mods that have come out for the game since it 
 was released, Baldurs Gate 2 and its expansions has limitless play and is easily a game that anyone 
 could recommend to someone who wants to play a true role-playing game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: comradsunite
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  This is THE RPG. Its story is darkly engadging. Its story is amazing. You could really go on forever 
 about how special the game's story is without even going into the gameplay or anything else. Without 
 the benefit of any of the fancy new-fangled graphics which allow a charactor's appearance to change 
 based on their alignment, you still feel like you are your charactor. The Infinity engine could 
 not be more perfect for this game, as it allows a player to have 5 charactors with them at any 
 time; all of these charactors are garanteed to be intresting and entertaining, and their interconectedness 
 is simply awsome. This is the game from which all other RPG creators have tried to learn. How good 
 is the plot and charactor developement in this game? So good that one is entirely happy to ignore 
 the fact that the graphics are, while really quite cool with things like the underdark and dragons 
 and demons, really nothing special. Why, I gave the graphics a 10 despite the fact that by 2006 
 standards they dont deserve one, but you know what? The rest of the game is so great that it can 
 lend points to graphics. This game does not represent a video game revolution; it represents the 
 beggining of a gaming evolution: this RPG altered the RPG kingdom so much that fans now expect 
 the feel like they are their charactor in every way; they expect to have *at least* two possible 
 endings to their RPGs. We can thank BG for KOTR and Morrowind to name a couple of widely loved 
 games which learned the lesson of plot and personality from Bioware. Baldur's gate is pretty much 
 the equivalent of the opposable thumb; anything that doesn't incorperate some of its features will 
 likely go extinct. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slasktotten
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 27, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  baldurs gate 2, what's left to say about this wonderful game ?
  the only word to use for this game is love. let me say it ''i LOVE this game''. sure, it ain't 
 perfect, but no game is. but it doesn't matter, because of what you have here, is a wounderful 
 and dark storyline, completely adourable graphics, a great fighting systems, and minsc! if oyu 
 don't have there is no excuse really (as long as you don't hate rpgs) to not go and buy it, one 
 of the coziest games ever. the only thing that's quite negative about the game is the learning 
 curve, because it does take quite som time to understand the system behind it all. but it's really 
 a minor thing, since you will have so much figuring out the system 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 21, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily one of THE best RPG's I have ever played. You will most likely lose A LOT of 
 free time to this one! Black Isle has literally outdone themselves this time. I think what I liked 
 the most was the main characters' interaction with all the NPC's (non-playable characters) . Obviously, 
 as with any AD&D game, your choices affect everyone else, and they will either commend you or leave 
 disgruntled (or dead) . Each character's personality is unique and well developed. 
  
  Set in the Forgotten Realms series, with all the original characters from the first Baldur's Gate 
 plus some new faces, this game will grab you from the start. Beautiful environments and grossly 
 large areas, with plenty of dungeon crawling. Between the quests and subquests you will be kept 
 busy for 200+ hours. The music is fully orchestrated and with definite ambience, need I say more? 
 If you're an online gamer, there's improved multi player support for up to six players. You won't 
 have the same adventure twice. 
  
  With the ability to create or import characters, new weapon abilities and AD&D proficiencies, you 
 can customize your character more than ever before. New races and character kits enable you to 
 become virtually any class/race you can dream of. The level of creation they leave up to you is 
 awesome. You decide gender, portrait, race, class, ability scores, alignments, proficiencies, thief 
 abilities, spells, racial enemies, appearance, voice acting, and lastly your name. There is a total 
 of eleven classes to choose from, with sub-classes in each. This is not including the character 
 customization kits. There is single, dual, and multi class options for each character depending upon 
 race and class. For example, if you are a wizard, chances of your learning to fight with sword 
 and shield are slim to none without disabling your spells and taking penalties. If you are a paladin 
 though, you have the ability to use sword and shield, as well as learn a few spells. It's all in 
 the character creation and your imagination. 
  
  They've even added "romances". Depending on your characters gender and alignment, you have the 
 ability to change anothers life within Baldur's Gate, not to mention your own. From the confused 
 paladin in training, whom you can either make or break for knighthood, to the devious drow, which 
 you actually have to insult to charm. Based upon what happens in these situations, you can either 
 permanently lose or gain the NPC. In order to "open" the doors for some of the subquests, you'll 
 have to recruit the character involved, and leave behind another. Don't worry though, you can usually 
 relocate the lost NPC. 
  
  The story is very well developed, and you'll be kept in suspense for awhile wondering, "what the 
 heck just happened?" I think that's what had me playing as much as I did. I lost hours in a day 
 without even realizing it. The only hitch I have found is the difficulty level. As with most AD&D 
 adventures, it takes a little bit of strategy at times. In some situations, you may actually want 
 to turn the difficulty level down completely. (I know I did!) Even then some of the higher level 
 monsters, such as lichs, were still difficult. The trick was to save... A LOT! 
  
  You begin as a prisoner of an unknown party. Your goal is to escape with as much knowledge as possible. 
 From here you set the pace as to whether you are of good alignment or evil. I opted for good simply 
 because i like to get some of the best stats in the game. There are pros and cons to this choice 
 if for no other reason than items. Some can only be used based on your alignment. You have the 
 choice to recruit characters from any alignment, regardless of your own, but be careful of choices 
 you make, someone in your party may disagree. For instance, you've chosen to be of evil alignment 
 and one of your party members is of the good, you decide to pickpocket and fail, in turn you kill 
 the guy for catching you, your party member may say something like "this type of behavior must 
 not continue." If it does they will want to leave and you will be given the option to apologize 
 or kick them out. And you thought your co-workers were difficult! Making "good" or "bad" decisions 
 as a whole really doesn't matter because based on your choices you are either rewarded reputation 
 points or they are taken from you. It's not until the last dungeon of the game that one decision 
 will affect your alignment permanently. 
  
  The battle system can be played one of two ways, real time or turn based. Real time is constant, 
 and you'll definitely want your hot keys assigned. Turn based allows you to pause when needed, 
 and you can customize your battles according to preference. Almost every aspect of the game allows 
 for change, there's not too much you don't have control over. 
  
  The journal has even been revamped. You can keep track of what's been done, and what's left to 
 do, as well as thoughts your character may have during each quest until it is completed. You also 
 have the option to rest anywhere, whereas the first Baldur's Gate limited you to inns. Some spell 
 durations have been modified, mostly status abnormalities, and some new spells have been added, 
 or changed. 
  
  If you likes the first Baldur's Gate, you love this sequel. If you didn't like Baldur's Gate, chances 
 are that the things you did not like have been changed, and your chances of becoming addicted are 
 still there. This game is recommended for anyone who is adventurous, and doesn't mind a little 
 bit of a challenge. For the experienced players and beginners alike, though it will take some effort 
 from both sides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZhugeMarc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 20, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate has always been one of the greatest RPGs ever made. Tales of the Sword Coast made 
 it even better. 
  
  And so it's nothing short of incredible that BioWare were able to better that effort with Baldur's 
 Gate 2: Shadows of Amn. BG2 is nothing short of amazing; perhaps even better than the Elder Scrolls 
 series in RPG terms. 
  
  The game starts with the player having been ambushed after leaving the city of Baldur's Gate; you 
 awake to find yourself in the dungeon of an evil mage named Jon Irenicus. However, his lair is 
 attacked, and in the confusion you escape. Familiar faces from the first game appear at the very 
 beginning - Imoen frees you from your cell, and in the same room are Jaheira and the stalwart pairing 
 of Minsc and Boo. 
  
  The game improves upon the first in every way, starting with your character creation. The main 
 character classes: Fighter, Paladin, Ranger, Mage, Bard, Thief, Druid, and Cleric, now have 'kits' 
 that are basically highly customised versions of the default class. For example, the 'Wizard Slayer' 
 kit for Fighters means that while the character cannot use magic items outside of weapons and armour, 
 they have extremely high magic resistance and greater damage against wizards. The 'Archer' kit 
 for Rangers cannot wear metal armour, but has several abilities that make their use of the bow 
 even greater. Three new classes are also added; the Monk, who can deal large amounts of damage 
 with hand-to-hand combat, the Barbarian, who can enter battle rages and emit warcries, and the 
 Sorceror, who does not 'learn' spells but is born with them memorised. The Half-Orc race is also 
 available. 
  
  In terms of gameplay, BG2 is extremely non-linear. The main quest can be picked up at any time, 
 and the number of sidequests will keep you occupied for hours if not days on end.
  
  BioWare has payed even more attention to character development in this installment - you can now 
 have a romance with several characters (Viconia, Jaheira, and newcomer Aerie for males, and other 
 new character Anomen for females) . Party members will also talk among themselves, offering for 
 heartfelt, serious, or highly amusing moments. 
  
  The story can only be described in one word: epic. As Irenicus' reasons for imprisoning you are 
 revealed, you're pulled deeper and deeper into one of the most engaging and exciting storylines 
 ever to grace a game. The story alone will leave you wanting to play Throne of Bhaal, just to see 
 the conclusion of this saga in full. 
  
  Baldur's Gate 2 is superior to the first in every way; something many would have thought impossible. 
 With the non-linearity of Elder Scrolls, and much better story and gameplay, it's the RPG any fan 
 would be proud to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrog-III
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 15, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  Shadows of Amn is a great Sequel to Baldur's Gate. Set in the City of Athkatla south of Nashkel 
 you have been captured among with some of the characters from the last Baldur's Gate. 
  
  Again, the story is based around getting magical equipment and levelling up your characters by 
 killing other people and/or monsters and just as many mini-quests exist as in the original.
  
  Multi-player is great again and just like Baldur's Gate you can make all 6 characters yourself 
 instead of recruiting them as you go along. 
  
  Just like Baldur's Gate, I advise this game for anybody with a PC who likes RPGs, killing things 
 and adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortaris
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 10, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Directly connecting to the events in Baldurs Gate, this game unfolds its interesting storyline 
 in form of a brilliant presentation.
  
  First off you create your own character. For that purpose theres a wide variety of races (humans, 
 elves, Halflings and some more) and classes available. Among them are fighters, sorcerers, rangers, 
 clerics, druids, rogues and more. AND there are sub-classes for each of those classes.
  While discovering the seemingly giant world you a thrown in, you can add five more characters into 
 your group, up to a total of six players that you have to control.
  
  The game begins inside a dungeon. You dont know where you are or whats going on. As you move 
 on you will be confronted with a lot of interesting locations, characters and quests.
  Everything here, in this part of the D&D world called Faerun, is so very detailed that it can actually 
 feel overwhelming at times (in a good way) . 
  Its just a huge game. Now dont compare it tolets say Morrowind (which is also huge, space-wise) . 
 BGII is huge because of the tons of different side quests, characters, items, monsters and all 
 the other stuff.
  
  As I mentioned before you can control up to six characters. That happens in a typical point-and-click 
 style. The whole menu system and the inventory management are very handy designed and they just 
 look good, too. Quick bars at the bottom of the screen make it easy to access your most important 
 equipment and/or spells at any time. Still, the pause-function via the space bar is absolutely 
 essential to strategically choose your next actions.
  
  The isometric view and the very detailed graphics fit, just like everything else, perfectly into 
 the game. All the locations look very unique and the magic effects also look great. I really recommend 
 playing BGII at 1024x768, which you need to really enjoy its graphics.
  Yet some of the monsters and even the characters look somehow strange. You usually dont really 
 notice this while playing, but the fact that the monsters and characters are 2-D designed lets 
 them look kind of weird sometimes. 
  
  And here comes my special mentioning of the soundtrack: Awesome! I rarely have ever heard better 
 music in a game than here. There are many different tunes that all sound great.
  The voice acting is also very well done and you will remember certain characters voices even in 
 years after playing the game.
  I also really love the voices while a character is casting magic, although sometimes they sound 
 somehow cut in the middle of the spell.
  
  Theres almost no bad critic to give. One thing is that the game gives you too quickly too much 
 you have to take care off. An inexperienced player might feel overwhelmed by this.
  And theres this problem with certain bugs that can occur if you dont care about patching the 
 game.
  Rules wise it seems complicated, because it is! The second edition of D&D rules (called Advanced 
 Dungeons & Dragons) , which is used in this game, consists of too many charts and unnecessarily 
 complicated rules. But you get used to it after a while and understand how things work. 
  
  Its also possible to play through the game in multi-player, but this is only real fun with persons 
 you know well (and who really know how to play the game) .
  
  I cannot state often enough how BGII draws you into its world and events. Its by no means an easy 
 game, but it feels most of the time well balanced. That is, if you take the time to think about 
 what youre doing in a battle instead of just blindly attacking.
  Because of many different scenarios that you can encounter with many different types of classes 
 and the amount of things to find and to do, you will find this game to have an unbelievable replay 
 value.
  
  Baldurs Gate II: Shadows of Amn is an outstanding experience for everyone whos interested in 
 role-playing-games and who has the time to really enjoy this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneRex
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 7, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best rpg games of all time, It's built on the style of D&D, this game takes 
 you inside the adventure itself.
  
  Gameplay: This game needs you to think, there are a lot of tactics included, you will need to use 
 all your characters' classes. A 9 for this one.
  
  Graphics: They are very good, old-school but great, the town itself is built with beautiful statues, 
 scenery, and the dragons look awesome. A 9 here.
  
  Sound: It's cool and fits to the scenery, a 10 goes here because of the voice overs. 
  
  Value: 
 This game is a gerat addition for any RPG lover collection. A 9 here.
  
  Tilt: I must say that the involving story, great characters, and terrifying monsters make this 
 game one of the best adventure RPS ever. It's a clean 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Distortion_Lane
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 24, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate 2: Shadows of Amn is an unbelievable experience. This might not be my favorite game 
 (which is FFVII) , but it certainly falls in my TOP 5 favourite games. This game is HUGE! This ain't 
 no Oblivion type huge, this is pure quests and slaying dragons kind of huge. Pretty good voice 
 acting, a great musical score, and a completely emersive world throws this game to the top of many 
 gamers' RPG lists. 
  
  Gameplay:
  +6 characters (5 of which are your choice throughout the game, and one which you make)
  +Tons 
 of weapons, armor, items, etc. And some of them even got a story of their own which you can read 
 in the menu
  +Huge world
  +Different scenarios make it unbeliavably replayable
  +Tons of optional quests which are meaningful, rewarding, and incredibly fun
  +4 or so dragons 
 in the game which are amazingly fun to kill, have personality of their own, give awesome rewards 
 (you can even make armor out of scales!) , and look very cool
  +INCREDIBLY deep in every freakin aspect!
  +Character development and story are great
  +Variable 
 difficulty settings with variable experience
  +The only RPG where I kept dying over and over again (you have to be smart instead of just leveling 
 up non-stop)
  -A tad complicated (I never played any of the board games so these ruleas were just too plentiful)
 
  
  Graphics:
  +looks great
  +cool lookin backgrounds
  -characters and mosters should have been 3d! 
  -since they're not, they look kinda bad (the characters 
 mainly)
  
  Sound:
  +music is great
  -but I not better than Baldur's Gate 1
  +battle sounds are great
  
  Value:
  +100-200 hours is enough (and screw the multiplayer, 
 this ain't no MMO)
  +Replayable to death
  
  Well there you have it, this game if freakin loaded! It's worth every penny, so go and get it man!
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joel_nukem_hell
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  its like a good book once you get in to the store you just have to find out whats next. its a grate 
 game even though its graphics and sound are old yes but some games can live with out good graphics 
 and sounds. this happens to be one of them. the game play is just purfect the story is grate and 
 the number of side quests just add to its grateness. what you can do in this game and all the little 
 hiden things you have to keep an eye out for are just to cool being able to transform in to a massive 
 golem with an item. even calling forth two mighty bears to aid you in battle or simple scout out 
 suroundings and blast your target with a couple skull traps be for all hell brakes loose. this 
 game all most has some thing for every one and eny rpg fan will most likely enjoy this game and 
 all it has to offer. but I feel one of the
  most notible parts of the game is the character creation. how your character transforms in to a 
 hero and his troubles he endures as you travel with him threw the store. the multi player part 
 of the game lets you and 6 friends create your own characters or use one that you made prior. to 
 play threw the entire game this game makes from some late nights and a good lan party or five. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DarkFusion-
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 1, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  As a huge fan of D&D (Dungeons and Dragons) I of course had to play Baldur's gate (played the first 
 one as well) .
  When I got the game my computer was working non-stop and seeing me eating or drinking was quite 
 a rare event.
  
  The game which is built on the "Old" engine of D&D (Version 2.0) , has much more to offer than other 
 rpgs in the market and that is in almost every aspect.
  
  Like i said before, the game is build on the "Old" engine of D&D which already guarantees a superb 
 and deep battle/character customization system.
  
  Furthermore, a brilliant, stirring and non-linear story which is brought to life with deep characters 
 (some of them are crazy I tell you, right boo?) .
  
  The graphics are nicely done, neat spell effects and character portraits although the cinematics 
 were a bit disappointing.
  
  The sound is great and it fits to the "atmosphere" of the game and in specific locations and events.
 
  
  Overall, Baldur's gate is bound to give you rpg fans and newcomers an adventure you won't forget.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eaweeks21
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  I have played this game many times and keep coming back to it. Why? Never in video game history 
 has a game had such a great combination of story, freedom, and love for characters. The depth of 
 this game goes beyond anything I had experienced previously, and even beyond everything I have 
 played to this day. This is the truest D&D experience possible in a single player computer rpg. 
 The prerendered backgrounds are beautiful, the sound is epic. Leveling up and character growth 
 is executed perfectly. Dungeon crawls are the best ever experienced besides traditional D&D playing. 
 The greatest thing about this game is the depth of characters. You will play as one of several 
 in a group, and the characters you come across actually grow as you play. You will have conversations 
 with them and learn about their past. You will help them with problems. The voice acting is in 
 my opinion the best ever done in a video game and is on par with an excellent movie. This game 
 is truly a once in a lifetime creation, and you will be doing yourself a favor to play this game 
 if you care anything about rpgs or d&d. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lechienfou
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 20, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Best RPG game of all time, impressive, good story, not too cheesy... A game that absolutely must 
 been finished more than one time. Too bad they don't make games good has this one nowadays. Masterpiece 
 is the only word that really describes it. 
  
  Sans joke, a clate vraiment ce jeu, mme si vous tes pas un amateur de Dongeon Dragons. Pour 
 tout ceux qui aiment voir des personnages progresser, qui aiment le fantastique ou la SF, ou tout 
 simplement finir un jeu avec des quipes totalement diffrentes, c'est un must. Il faut joueur 
 quelques heures avant de vraiment comprendre la pronfondeur du jeu, mais c'est vraiment un des 
 seul dfaut, parce qu'aprs....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcqueen_keith
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn is the sequel to the 1998 RPG game, Baldur's Gate. Shadows of 
 Amn improves on the original offering more of what was liked in its predecessor. Which isn't a 
 bad thing because this game offers many hours of exciting gameplay. This is the best game in the 
 series to date.
  
  The gameplay in Shadows of Amn is almost exactly like Baldur's Gate with a few new twists. You 
 are still able to access the inventory easily, and can still pause the game at any time which remains 
 essential to beat the game. This game is also not as challenging as the original Baldur's Gate 
 which was amazingly difficult at some points.
  
  The graphics are mostly the same as the one used in Baldur's Gate which used the Infinity Engine. 
 While the graphics still look good they are not as superb as they were in 1998 which was two years 
 ago. Many games have shown better graphics in their games to date, and why Black Isle Studios didn't 
 upgrade their graphics is puzzling.
  
  The sound in the game is even better than the original Baldur's Gate which had great music and 
 voice acting. There is a great variety of background music used. The voice acting is even better 
 with more characters in the game actually speaking their dialogue instead of you having to read 
 it.
  
  The value of the game is astounding. The game is about as long as Baldur's Gate to finish but there 
 is a lot of replay value to be had as some quests require that your main character be a specific 
 class. There is just as much people to talk to in Shadows of Amn as in the original with more NPCs 
 that can actually join your party. The story of Shadows of Amn is the best part of the game by 
 far, the epic feel of the game truly is amazing with many twists and turns in the story.
  
  Shadows of Amn remains to be a better version of the 1998 Baldur's Gate with a great new plot that 
 will keep you enthralled for many hours of gameplay to just complete the main objective, and then 
 more to finish all of the side quests. This truly is the best RPG game to come out in recent years. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CODman05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  First of all i love the game, but the fact that there is endless hours of wandering around not 
 knowing what your suppose to be doing can sometimes get on my nerves, like once you get out of 
 the dungeon and finally find Imoen Shes gets taken prisoner again and then you have go talking 
 around to people who nothing better to say then picking cabbage for a few hours after this if you 
 try to leave the town you cant, yet it taunts you by allowing you to see buildings outside the 
 town, my rating for this game is an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric-2-2-er
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  These days most Rpg's are headed towards online (world of Warcraft, Neverwinter Nights) Which, 
 I can understand completely because online is usually better. Players like interacting with other 
 people not a computer NPC.
  
  However, if i were to be stuck with no internet and I had to choose 1 game, it would be this game. 
 By far this game offers the best single player around. The story was incredible. Fighting the dragons 
 were incredible. and I don't know where to stop. It was one of those games where you forgot about 
 everything around you and completly enjoyed yourself and if you were to die while playing you would 
 be completly satisfied. A little dramatic?? I think not.
  Trully the best use of a single player mode i have EVER seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sly_Hippo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Firstly this is a great game which has a huge world and can be played in many different ways.
 
  
  Being able to create characters of many different classes and interacting with NPCs with their 
 own personalities. This is only a few of the great things that this game has to offer.
  
  This game can be played in a group of up to six characters who can either be created by you, or 
 your friends, someone online or an NPC. even though there are six spaces it does not mean you have 
 to use all of them it is possible to use just 5, 4 or even just 1 character to play through the 
 game.
  Using only 1 character requires you to take advantage of the game, but it is still a compelling 
 and exciting experience. 
  
  The story is great, even though it may seem simple, alot of twists are put into it and it can surprise 
 you in both wierd and obvious ways.
  
  Finding demons in different planes and drow in the underdark this takes D&D type gameplay and turns 
 it into a game where it cuts out the boring stuff. 
  No longer do you need to throw dice or imagine the place you are in, Baldur's gate shows the world 
 of the Forgotten Realms in all its glory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  This was one of the first games that I ever pre-ordered on line. I got it about a week after it 
 hit the store shelves so it was the last game I ever pre-ordered say for one or two excpetions. 
 Buying BG2 SoA was one of the best PC gaming choices that I have ever made. My anticipation for 
 this game was so great that I nearly broke the CD when installing the game. I took a week off of 
 work so that I could get into the game and enjoy my gaming time. It was one of the best mini vacations/holidays 
 that I have ever taken. I stocked piled the snack food, disconnected the phone, and dived in. A 
 week later I emerged from my computer room weakened from lack of sleep, slightly dehidrated, and 
 ten pounds lighter. BG2 SoA earned a place on the Best Games Ever mantel, right next to Tribes, 
 Farcry, Space Empires IV, and Quake II. It definately is one of the seven holly grail games of 
 all time. 
  
  It is a very deeply addictive, very richly involved gaming experience. One of the best times you 
 will ever have playing and RPG will be when you play this game. I do miss Interplay so very very 
 much. They made some of the best games ever, from Star Fleet Command to Freespace II, Interplay 
 always got it right. Go bioWar, you guys rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 29, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is good. Its an rpg upmost and formost and truly draws you into the game with many many 
 subquests and even going as far as to give each character class their own unique sub quests. The 
 game interface is beautiful and the battle system is splendid while given the turn based commands 
 via pause and watching the live action. Special effects are great,
  
  The game brings D&D so well into the game that you will have the same indepth and very addicting 
 game play as we see on the tabletop version of this game. THe story line is great actually causing 
 tears to drop from your eye from time to time. There are any number of ways to beat this game and 
 has incredable replay value. You even get to use your character in future games including the expansion 
 and Neverwinter nigths. This game is one of the best rpgs ever on pc, if your not into oblivion, morrowind 
 type rpgs... well this is the ONLY other way to go.. it has a diablo esq feel except its much more 
 gratifying. Great game :) get it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nshockeyplaya
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate II The Shadows of Amn is one of the most boring RPG's I have ever played. At first 
 it looks like its going to be a solid game, but dont let that fool you. I mean it basically does 
 all the combat for you, what fun is that. The graphics are decent. The sound is pretty good, nothing 
 spectacular. The plot is very unoriginal and average. Nothing about this game sticks out except 
 for the fact that it just isn't fun. I dont understand what people saw in this game. I would suggest 
 RPG's like Elder Scrolls, or my favorite Diablo II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: litnek
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 3:24 am PT
Review:  That's a game every RPG fan should play once. It has a WERY good story that continus from the original 
 game. At first when you play the game, it might seem kinda boring, because you are trapped in a 
 dark dungeon and you can't choose what you do until you get out of there. One of the best thing 
 is that you can do all your quests whenever uo feel it's the right time. It has lots of cool quests. 
 The game is much longer than the original game. You can play the game for for a week when you're 
 a pro at this game until you complete it. It also has some wery cool NPCs like Edwin, Viconia, 
 Korgan etc. They all have different characters and minds of them own. The combat is turnbased like 
 in the original game too. It kinda suits to gamers that like the slower and calmer way not like 
 in Diablo. The sound is also quite good and suits with the game. I recommend it to every RPG player, 
 because it's the best RPG till now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cybermage83
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I can only describe this game as a true adventure game. A born classic and a must for all RPG fans 
 to experience this game no matter what year it is. 
  I belive i have passsed this game around 3 times with different characters and eventhough knowing 
 how it all goes.. after the 2nd time u still want to be merged in that world! a true masterpiece. 
 Also, this game hold true to Dangeon & Dragons 2.5 rules which i find better than 3. Also, with 
 expansion pack this game truly ends in a godly manner! This game will be always looked upon as 
 a grandgame of its time and where the graphix were just right but the plot and adventure was marvelous. 
 Only now .. around 2007 i belive we might see some successors of BG2 as the GFX become more advanced 
 and Game Developers will be able to put more time on the plot and depth of the game. Till then 
 BG2 remains the king sharing the empire with the Planescape 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkzero
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:35 am PT
Review:  Baldurs Gate II is another BioWare masterpiece. If you want to see what they created before KOTOR, 
 you should look no further than here. This is definitely the best isometric view RPG ever to come 
 out. There is really nothing quite like it.
  
  You assume the role of a powerful character who has been captured, tortured and experimented upon 
 by a powerful sorcerer, Irenicus. The reasons for your capture are a spoiler for Baldurs Gate 
 1, so if you havent played that game, but plan to, perhaps you should do that first. However, 
 you will soon manage to break free, and you and your party will venture out to stop Irenicus evil 
 plans.
  
  If youve played the original Baldurs Gate, youll be able to import your character straight into 
 the game. However, if you havent such luck youll be able to build a character from scratch. First 
 off, there will be your stats. These range from Strength to Dexterity to Charisma. Some of these 
 statistics will be more useful to some classes than others, so youll have to base it on what character 
 class youll want to choose. A nice side feature to this is that Charisma will also affect how 
 your character will converse with other characters in the universe. Also, having a really low intelligence, 
 translates directly into the game, as your conversation responses will be those of person with 
 an IQ less than 60. These are just some of the finer touches to BGII. Youll also have to choose 
 your race (ranging from human to half-orc) , and your alignment (ranging from Lawful Good to Chaotic 
 Evil) . Your alignment doesnt really affect the game as much as in KOTOR. However, youll have 
 to be of certain alignments for certain characters to join your party, a certain evil dwarf for 
 instance will only join when your alignment is closer to the evil side. Next youll be able to 
 choose your character class. There will be an extensive range to choose from, taking in many Advanced 
 Dungeons & Dragons classes, while adding a couple of new ones. Choose wisely, as a Fighter with 
 high intelligence is not going to pan out well. Youll also have to choose your characters proficiencies. 
 This determines what weapons your character will be best at using. There are a variety of weapons 
 including long-swords, katanas, hammers, slings, staves, and flails. Youll certainly want to invest 
 in a specific proficiency, because these will really power up some of the games legendary weapons. 
 Finally, youll also be able to determine your character appearance, from clothing colour to character 
 sounds and character portrait.
  
  Youll also be able to either create your party members from scratch or pick up existing NPC characters 
 from the game. Some of the existing characters are hilarious, including Minsc, a slightly slow-witted 
 ranger with an obsession for Boo, his pet miniature giant space hamster (thats right, its no 
 typo, he really does own a miniature giant space hamster) , and Edwin, the arrogant and jaded 
 mage who will take any opportunity to insult the skill of your party. Youll be able to have up 
 to six characters (including yourself) in your party at any one time, and youll be able to drop 
 members and pick them up at later stages when youd like.
  
  Once you begin the game, youll be fighting with the use of the Infinity engine. This is a top-down 
 isometric view, and youll be able to pause the action at any time to give orders to your party, 
 set equipment and set spells. This gives you the advantage with more time to plan out your strategies 
 when tackling your enemies, plan well and theyll fall like flies. And youll be fighting heaps. 
 The main quest alone is of decent length, however, the side quests can give over 100 hours of extra 
 gameplay just to finish them all. And youll want to, because many have engaging stories to them, 
 and reward you with experience, gold and treasure. This will lead you to explore the massive gamespace, 
 and youll be in awe at the overall scope of the game.
  
  The graphics of the game are very similar to the original Baldurs Gate, because of the use of 
 the Infinity engine. However, they have certainly been improved and polished up a fair bit. The 
 landscape is made from pre-rendered backgrounds, but they look amazing. The characters and monsters 
 have less detail to them, suffice to say youll be able to tell the difference between an imp and 
 a dragon though, but they animate well.
  
  The musical score of the game is orchestral and fitting in the fantasy atmosphere of the game. 
 Sound effects are also well done, albeit some of it is recycled from Baldurs Gate. The voice acting 
 is talented, and can often be hilarious, especially with certain characters I mentioned earlier.
 
  
  In the grand scope of the game, Baldurs Gate II: Shadows of Amn is a massive experience, which 
 is thoroughly enjoyable for RPG fans. There is no similar game that does it better than BGII can. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  The much more intense, and in depth game otherthan the infamous Diablo series. The challenge to 
 this game is much greater with a unique plot against the diablo once again. More monsters, and 
 fighting styles with this game. More weapons, and a better make your own player builder. Like extremely 
 better!! Being able to pick photos for your character was nice, and stats. The graphics are even 
 better. I base this all around Diablo because of it's popularity with the masses since it's debut. 
 I like to shoot down Diablo also. This game was much harder for me knwoing I had a hell of a time 
 trying to get out of the first area. I like the pack of people that have their own unique personalities. 
 The ability to equip them with loot you find which I might add that's all over the damn place! 
 The story choosing is nifty as well. I like the idea of having control over anyone you want, and 
 being able to venture off without your party. I haven't cleared this one yet, but will add more 
 comments as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoodThing00
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  Baldurs gate. The definite RPG experience. Say otherwise, and i'll castrate you, and worse.
  Shadows of amn starts a few months after the first game, you have left the city of baldurs gate, 
 and are out travelling, but questions still remain, are there others? What will happen now?
  Whatever you think, you will propably be suprised.
  Not only is this game expansive like holy 
 hell, it's hilarious, intresting and most of all, .... godly.
  
  *Storyline* Almost surpasses MGS2 in twists, and everything else in uhh...*don't hate me for saying 
 this* coolness.
  As i said, the game picks up a few months after baldurs gate, life in the city has gotten boring, 
 and you have decided to set out again, to find answers to your questions that arised after sarevok 
 tryed to kill you to get to inherit your fathers heritage. Who your father is?... Bhaal. The lord 
 of murder.
  oh well, soon after setting out, you are ambushed, knocked out, and taken to some far away place.
 
  You awaken in a dungeon, in a cage no less.
  A mage has captured you, in attempt to get to the essence inside you, and is using rather... painful 
 methods of doing so.
  But a accident occurs, and you are set freee, now re-united with Imoen, you have to find a way 
 out, before your friend comes back.
  Everything sets off from there, and will evolve into the best storyline ever.
  
  *gameplay* 
 The character creation system has gotten even MORE solid than the first game, now with more classes 
 and under classes of each class. You can spend hours trying to figure out what kind of character 
 you want to be. The game itself is being played in birds view, but don't be scared, it works VERY 
 well.
  You've got complete control of your party members, and can either spend alot of time in each battle 
 micro-managing each member, or set up scripts for them. One of the major innovations of the first 
 game was the pause button, that let's you pause the action to give out orders to your teammates. But 
 it don't make the game to easy, you still have to KILL the bastards that are standing in your way.
 
  The world is vivid, and full of ''living'' people, that walk around, talks and makes sounds. The 
 game also has a godly quest system, and the gameplay will take you 200 hours+ to finish, not counting 
 the things you won't find either. And belive me, you'll want to play the game countless times once 
 you've beat it, just to re-live the events of the game.
  The game is also filled with humor, from the insane prostitute gnome to angry mages.
  The game 
 also features a well working aligment system, wich will determine certain quests or certain allies 
 that might show up.
  *10/10*
  
  *Graphics* Pretty dated, but still good.
  The world is very detailed, with dungeons being filled with skeletons, bodys and rubble, from palaces 
 with shining floors and wonderful statues.
  The magic effects are looking great on higher settings, but look stale on lower. Most of the weapons 
 and armor look pretty good, but can get repetive, since magic weapons often look like their normal 
 counterparts, just with a different coulor. ALL of the enemies look great, ranging from slave traders 
 to dragons to the occasional ghosts.
  *9/10*
  
  *Sound* Best. Voiceacting. Ever. All characters have great actors, and kudos to Black Isle for managing 
 to assemble the best.
  The music soudns good, always ranging from peaceful forest music, busy city music to dramatical 
 boss music.
  Effects? yup, all sounds good, swords are swishing, spells are frizzing *?*
  and such. The lower intelligence enemies growl, while the higher taunt and in some cases yawn.*seriously*
 
  *10/10*
  
  *lenght* 200hours+... why aren't you gone to buy it yet? The **** game Black had what? 8 hours+? 
 ... This is the lengthiest game ever *?* and will never let the excitement fade. There is only one 
 ending, but with hundreds of side quests, most of wich are character or class based, and with a 
 bunch of may-be allies with quests of their own, not to forget all other details there are to find.
 
  *i need a bigger meter* *seriously*
  
  The best game on PC, or indeed everywhere. A definite time eater, unplug that phone, lock that door 
 and emerge a few pounds lighter, and with a different view of gaming.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is very similar to the first, it's just a continuation of the storyline. If you liked 
 Baldur's Gate then this is definitely the game to get, otherwise there's not that much you'd be 
 interested in.
  
  One of the things the player will notice right away is the improved graphics. There are more colors 
 and the screen is clearer compared to the first game. A disappointing factor is that all the experience 
 that you gained from your first character can't be transferred over to this (at least I haven't 
 found a way yet) . The game does start you off at a level that assumes you have had previous experience 
 points, meaning that you don't start off at level one. NPCs from the first game make another appearance 
 here such as Imoen. Many more NPCs join you in the start of the game, because the enemies you'll 
 face are tougher than you are, but if you've played the original then you'd come to expect that 
 fact. That's right, this isn't Diablo where enemies are matched to your level. Enemies in this 
 realm come in different skills and levels, careful when choosing a fight. This is one of those 
 games that you should play consistently and constantly until you finish. Believe me, if you stop 
 playing for a week or more and try to get back into the game, you'll have a harder time orientating 
 yourself around.
  
  As stated previously, there are a few new additions, but the game still plays and feels like the 
 original. Enough said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This is probably why PC RPG exist. Having the exact same experience as being with your friends 
 a whole week-end, playing D&D. The story is engaging, the combat system is fun and you're always 
 looking to get more of the story. 
  
  But you have to have the time to go through it. I must confess, I took the short way, letting all 
 the side quest aside and concentrating in the main story. That brought me to the end, not being 
 able to beat the bad guy cause my characters were not high level enough. 
  
  But you can take you're time cause it will be a while before an RPG game come this close of being 
 perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowofamn1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  If you have not notice my name, I am a fanboy of this game, it begins when I bought this game in 
 a store, its quite cheap because I get 4 CD and a big fat manual plus a mousepad of BG2 SOA!!!! 
 for only 45 dollars canadian. Note, I have never play the first BG and his expension before. 
 
  
  When I start playing this I was amazed but how much possible combination there are to make a character 
 and the power to import your picture for your character. Making the character alone took me an 
 hr for brainstorming. This isnt my first RPG game but there are lot more job option than I thought 
 there is, usually I only assume there are 4 basic class, fighter, ranger, priest, and mage, which 
 feels in all the element of melee, range, defensive and offensive spells. But BG2 give way more 
 choices.
  
  After I start playing the game, I feel kinda bored because I dont know where to go and what to 
 do. But later I realized that is where is the fun part is, to explored, if you dont like to explored 
 and use a walk through then you will get bored really fast.
  
  Too much to say about the gameplay, after I beat the game I realized I only complete less than 
 half of the content of the game. The side quests are massive, also they main story isnt too bad, 
 only disappointment is the main story can go too fast if you know the way to get them done.
  
  Graphic is very good at year 2000, lot of animation and spells which leads to the amazing sound 
 effect they make for them. Over 100 spells I believe which most I dont have or never use.
  
  Overall this game is very good and the quest are never ending, and your job class do affect 
 what stronghold you get, which is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CandabraxisAU
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  This could not only be the best sequel ever made, but also the best RPG ever made.
  
  It followed so well from BG2, and was a simple transition for the simple folk like myself. The 
 fact your character from the entire series could be played through all games, and major bonuses 
 for this commitment to your character were provided makes me feel an nothing but an inner love 
 for this game.
  
  Sometimes, the music still catches through my head, and i feel like blowing apart trolls, ogres 
 and dragons with my abundance of spells.
  
  Any true D&D lover who has not played this game is really missing out, it takes you back to to 
 the goldboxes and beyond.
  
  The textures of the levels were amazing, there was some real effort put into these, much more than 
 i have ever seen from a true 3D game, they were indeed art. The music was fabulous, and the story, 
 well it was probably the best i have seen in any RPG.
  
  Single player was so rewarding, not only did you meet a multitide of NPCs for your party, but they 
 each had their own quests and interactions with your character and other NPCs, which meant at some 
 times, your party members could come to blows!!!!
  
  Finally the strategy was superb, spells, counterspells, formation, ammuniton all played a part.
 
  
  OH PLEASE WILL SOMEONE FOLLOW IN THIS VEIN.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeger
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  This is probably my favorite game of all times. It really was just an awesome game. I know 3 people 
 who played this game, and none of us played the same game. If you answer one question differant 
 at any time, you could dramatically change the entire game. Really cool! For instance, if you meet 
 a guy and he challenges you to fight, you could answer in say, 3 ways, one, smooz him and try and 
 get out of it, two, hold your ground, and three, be aggressive and press the issue. You might end 
 up backing him down by being aggressive, or you may impress him nd he may want to join you. If 
 you are too passive, he may attack you. Either path may lead you to a completely seperate scenario. 
 For instance, I had to kill all the thieves in the guild, and my buddy ended up joining the guild. 
 I played in parts he never saw, and vise versa. It really was amazing at the time spent by developers 
 to come up with such a complex story. Speaking of the story, it was one of the best I have ever 
 seen in a game. I was not only interested in going through the game, but I found myself wondering 
 what was going on, like a good movie would have you think. Honestly, if you never played this, 
 it is worth gettting and playing, it really is. Graphics are very good for the time, and still 
 pretty good today, even though they are a bit dated now. But I still gave it a 10 since it was 
 great for the time it came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gwydion802
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 27, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  This is without a doubt the finest CRPG of all time! Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn has been 
 around for a long time. I played it when it was first released in 2000. With a wonderful modding 
 community, engaging storylines (both official and third party) , and a plot that ranks off the charts 
 BG2: SoA is firmly cemented in CRPG lore. Recently I returned to this classic and was blown away 
 once again. I found myself caught up in the struggles of the Bhaalspawn and his epic companions, 
 the interactions, the non-linear quests, the rich depth that the Forgotten Realms Campaign setting 
 brings. Though now six years old the graphics still hold up (with minor exceptions) . The replayability 
 is nearly infinite with the pre-mentioned modding community as well as different character combinations 
 which will reward you with different interactions each time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabidsquirrel66
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This was one of those games that had a lasting affect on people. The characters in the game interacted 
 with eachother. Somtimes it was funny and other times it was strange but it gave the game an more 
 full affect. 
  This was a very complete game, and i wouldn't know what else to add to it. Because the game was 
 2d the art made the atmosphere in the game. I dont complain about the graphics because it was well 
 done 2d graphics. The ambient noises and sounds in the city were great and the music was great 
 as well. All in all it was a superb game and if you like reading books this is the closest thing 
 to an interactive story book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demagorgon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate II is a game made using Bioware's infinity engine, which is based on the 2nd edition 
 D&D rules. If you're familiar with D&D, and don't own this game, go get it now. If you're not still 
 give it a chance. Despite being nearly 6 years old, it stands up to almost every modern Computer 
 Role Playing Game ever made. 
  
  The story focuses on you, a Child of Bhaal, who in the Forgotten Realms (Were this game is set) 
 was the God of Murder, before he was killed. You spend most of the game looking for your childhood 
 friend Imoen and hunting for the Mad Wizard Irenicus, who is one of the most interesting video 
 game villains I have ever seen. However, their are hundreds of sidequests, each with their own 
 interesting back story. You also many interesting characters, whos own lives unfold as you play 
 through this extremely game. Playing through the whole thing, doing all the quests, can take you 
 more than a Hundred and fifty hours.
  
  The game has a deep combat system which is the core of the gameplay. You control 1-6 characters, 
 including your starting characters, and an assorted group of Non-Player characters that you meet 
 through out the game. You must control each of the characters, choosing who to attack, and using 
 a special abilities or spell. Their are several hundred spells, by the way. While it may seem overwhelming, 
 the game allows you to pause the game, and assign orders to each of your characters, which is one 
 of the best parts of the combat system.
  
  This game features 2D sprite-based graphics, which look quite dated by today standards, but there 
 is still a huge variety in the environments and monsters. You travel deep underground, to a forest, 
 to a sprawling city, and plenty of other areas. Each area with its own look and feel. 
  The game's enemies also differ greatly, from the tiny Kobolds, to mighty dragons, each enemy is 
 a different size and shape. 
  
  The game has an interesting soundtrack, and great voice acting. It can be quite funny in moments 
 (For instance, their is a man who believes that he has a Miniature Giant Space Hamster, and he 
 is constantly talking to it) and it features some great voice working talent, such as Billy West 
 (The voice of Bugs Bunny and Futurama's Fry) . Another thing I liked about the sound was that whenever 
 someone is casting a spell, that recite an incantation for that spell. 
  
  As I mentioned before, this game is the longest game I have ever played. The game has 7 chapters, 
 and each chapter can take 10-20 hours to finish. Their is also a wide variety of characters you 
 can make, and quests you can do, and people you can meet. It is impossible to see everything in 
 one or even two playthroughs. 
  
  The game does have a few minor problems though, the one that will most likely get on peoples nerves 
 is the Hackneyed dialogue. I enjoyed the conversations the characters I had throughout the game, 
 but a more Jaded gamer will be a bit put off by the cliches constantly being spouted.
  
  If you are a fan of RPGs or just a fan of Computer gaming in General, then this game is a must 
 have for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcohSS
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  Starting in 1997 with the release of Fallout, Black Isle began its reign as the premier house for 
 RPG's. RPG enthusiasts battled in the forums about turn based combat in fallout being better than 
 pausable real time featured in Baldur's gate. Some claimed that the pausable realtime of Baldur's 
 gate had been tweaked in Icewind Dale. Many complained of Tim Caine's departure and how Fallout 
 2 was adversly affected. It was a great time to be a gamer. In my opinion, Baldur's gate 2 was 
 the last major release of that fine studio. There would be a few others but the heady days were 
 over as they suffered interplays financial woes. 
  Baldur's Gate 2 takes up where the original ended. It's one of the few gripes I have about the 
 game, and it's rather a silly one; I always have a problem being 'the chosen one' or 'him that 
 is special' or whatever. Yes, I understand that there wouldn't be a very good game if I was Fred 
 Foofle, the shoeman. Still, the story makes your rise a good one. 
  As you left Saverok whimpering in a puddle of his own innards, you have a new nemisis for this 
 game. He manages to snare you by ambush and does some awful things to your party. You'll have some 
 rude surprises on you way out of his little hell; not everyone from the first game makes it. Jon, 
 the evil mage, apparently has another struggle going on and in the course of the battle, you and 
 your group are freed. Here is where the fun starts. You'll do the usual; assemble your party and 
 find some stuff. Then grab a string in the story and start working it.
  The old RPG's were famous for the game times. You could play these games for weeks and still not 
 find the end of it. You have many paths you can follow, evil, good or toeing the line. There are 
 many different party members available of different alignments and classes. They don't all get 
 along. You can actually have some colorful things happen in your party if you construct it right. 
 There is of course, the romance aspect which was unexpected and fun. You can even screw that up 
 later in the game of you choose to be a dark elf's gigolo. Suffice to say, there is a ton to do 
 in htis game; you're going to be doing a lot of travelling and you're going to end up in some wild 
 places. Combat is adjustable and you can play as hardcore as you want. You'll have demons and dragons 
 and all manners of goblinoids to hack blow up and burn. The story unfolds with many twists and 
 turns and you will eventually understand why old Jon Irenicus wanted you so bad. Saying more would 
 only spoil the surprise.
  So, if you like RPG's, you simply must play this game. It is one of the best in the genre; it has 
 a crafted feel too it; and I think, if you're like me, you'll come to love some of the characters 
 in it. Great game. We can only hope another RPG house will rise to bring us games like these. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panzer_Zwei
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I really can't express with words how much I love BGII. It's the only game ever that I kept playing 
 through for more than 1 full year. I bought both the normal and limited edition versions. I don't 
 think there's anything I didn't do in BGII. I played it back to back, (including the excellent Throne 
 of Bhaal expansion) I played it offline as well as online (which isn't really that great) I also 
 solo'ed with every class. And all I can say is that no RPG comes close in terms of the sheer amount 
 of gameplay that BGII has.
  
  BGII continued the story from the original BG while improving almost every aspect of the game. 
 And even today there's no other RPG game with such open-ended gameplay "huge" amount of great an 
 unique side-quests, memorable NPC's and high replay value.
  You can be good, you can be evil. And the gaming experience does change. Even though you'll get 
 the same ending regardless of what you do, this game taught me that it doesn't matter that you 
 get there, but "how" you get there. I rather feel different as I play through the entire game than 
 just get a a different 1 minute ending movie. 
  
  You can be noble and do the right thing every time, you also don't need to take on quests than 
 you think only hinder your journey, and use either force or cunning to get by. You can also betray 
 your employers, and even steal from them. NPC's will join or dump your party and some go as far 
 as to attack you depending of your actions and alignment. You can actually apply your own criteria 
 and personality in BGII, a feature that seems to be getting lost little by little in current RPGs.
 
  
  The attention to detail in BGII is also remarkable. The game does make you feel you're in the D&D 
 world of the Forgotten Realms. There's dozens of books with interesting stories, also every weapon 
 has it's own unique description and special weapons even have a story of their own. The game also 
 has it's fair share of (great) humor and easter eggs. Conversations with NPC's as well as the NPC's 
 having conversations between them, extremely well done, sometimes funny, and always interesting.
 
  There are some many things really that If you happen to be a D&D fan or just a fantasy-game fan 
 in general the game is basically a dream come true.
  
  The game can be easy to play, but may be hard to understand depending on how familiar you are (or 
 were) to the AD&D rules. And although most stuff in battle happens in a "behind-the-scences" way. 
 It's good to know the rules, so you can know why you ain't hitting an enemy, and just to take advantage 
 of the AD&D deep system.
  This is probably the only aspect of the game that hasn't aged well. If you've played with the 3E 
 D&D rules and beyond, going back to the archaic THACO and AD&D rule set with 'em stone sling-wielding 
 elven mages does really feel rather limited in the character customization area.
  
  BGII truly marked an era, not because of it's advancement in the genre (insert Fallout & Planetscape: Torment 
 here) , but because of it's refinement of it. Fancy 3D graphics and cinematic cut-scenes may be 
 the genre standard today, and for that matter many games call themselves RPG's nowadays. But do 
 you really role-play? that's the real question. BGII is a true RPG, maybe even the truest of the 
 true ever made. Needless to say, no 3D game has impressed me as much as BGII did, and still does. 
 Not in the same level no.
  
  I'm not saying I can't or don't enjoy better graphics, music and better stories which I'm sure 
 many other games have. I very much do actually. But BGII made me feel I was the wave and not the 
 lifesaver in the ocean of RPGs. Hard to describe really, but that's how BGII always was.
  
  EXTRA NOTE: Be sure to grab the BGII expansion: Throne of Bhaal, if you're interested in the game. 
 It really adds up to the game and finishes it nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 31, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I also recieved this game as a present alongside the first game as a present during the holidays. 
 Although it wasn't exactly the type of game that I really did like to play I never the less still 
 played the game for a while before I tossed it aside. The second game is in many ways similar to 
 its precessor although it has many more improvements to its systems that had not been seen on the 
 original Baldur's Gate game. Like any game that plays on a PC a good computer with a powerful graphics 
 card along with a powerful CPU in order to run the system are a must for the game to run as efficiently 
 as possible. Although this game isn't my type which I have said before in the past, I still really 
 like this game quite a bit from the short time when I had played the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikepearson85
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:59 am PT
Review:  This game was almost a part of my childhood! in fact I probably spent more time on it than I ever 
 didi on homework... time well spent!
  A great follow on from BG 1, the same great style of gameplay and character generation with even 
 better graphics and an expanded inventory, what more could you want!
  What stands out even more is the totally engrossing storyline, every new chapter and character 
 leaves a player desperate for more, almost like a good fantasy book-you just can't put it down!
 
  With a vast world to explore, many characters to meet and variable endings this game will provide 
 you with hours of play, replay and enjoyment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Like i said, no matter how oldie this game is, every true fan of the roleplaying games has to play 
 this must-have game.
  
  All right, with the graphic technologies that are today in the market, maybe the graphics and the 
 FX of Baldurs Gate may not look impressive, but in its time it was awesome...
  
  Now, you can overcome this looking the detailed enviroment, the great music and an immersive plot 
 that takes you to great adventures and introduce you to a REAL roleplay game in which your actions 
 has consequences and your party its really influenciable by your alignment and the way you decide 
 to make thinks, hey! you can even have a child!
  
  No other game (Except maybe for my favorite Planescape: Torment) can surpass the jewel that Baldurs 
 Gate is to the day, not all the great looking graphics can take you so deep in the AD&D realms 
 like this game... not even Neverwinter Nights...
  
  In resume, play it! Even on this days of technological fashion you will enjoy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pnkrcker
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  Awesome RPG, loved the first one, the second one and the expansion. best Battles I have ever experienced. 
 Just great to be able to pause the game, play out commands and let it all happen in sequence, its 
 tactical realtime fighting at its best. very impressed with the art work and detail that went into 
 items and the world as well as characters, an all around well rounded game, dint miss a thing. 
 After beating it once u will come back to play some more with the many options of classes and race, 
 keeps you wanting more.
  Spells are plentyfull and with the expansion you get to see even more devistating spells that will 
 leave your enemies in ruin. If you have played this game and the expansion and you remember the 
 gold skeleton called gax I believe. you can go back and kill him with one spell from the expansion 
 called Dragrons Breath, and get the most powerful ring in the game! I dont think ill ever leave 
 this one on the shelf, just talkin about it makes me want to play again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahd26
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Its a bold statement to make but one thats easily backed up. This is the second game in the Baalspawn 
 saga. You start the game with the knowledge that you are one of the baalspawn and a powerful sorceror 
 named Jon Irenicus is very interested in you and you friend Imoen. You start the game captured 
 by Jon and he's performing strange experiment on you. By a stroke of luck Jon gets distracted by 
 intruders elsewhere in the complex and Imoen comes to rescue you. From this point you are thrown 
 into a rollercoaster storyline that never gets dull. Its fantastically written contains many, wonderfully 
 created characters. 
  
  The basis of this game is the city of Amn. An absolutely huge city thats split into 6 or 7 districts 
 each one containing numerous buildings to explore, hundreds of quests to undertake and countless 
 characters to interact with. The strength of this game is this City. I've never experienced a location 
 quite like this. Its so well thought out, its an experience not to be missed. 
  
  You can make your own character at the start of the game and choose from a plethora of classes. 
 Fighters, barbarians, spellcasters, paladins, clerics, monks, rangers, bards etc... There such 
 a big variety to choose from each with their own strengths and weaknesses which dramatically increase 
 replay value. Playing through with a fighter is vastly different to playing with a spellcaster. 
 
  
  Spellcasting in this game is unique as well. There are 9 levels of spells, 9 being the strongest 
 and 1 being the weakest. At low levels your characters has mainly weak level spells. But as you 
 get to the higher levels you will eventually receive level 9 spells. Your ability to spellcast 
 is determined by slots. You have a maximum of 6 slots in each level and generally as you increase 
 in level you gain a slot in a certain level. Now when you cast a spell you use up one slot in that 
 particular level of spell. Rest your party for 8 hours or more and you refresh every spell slot. 
 So its imperative to enter each battle with a fully rested party so your spellcasters are at maximum 
 power. Resting can't happen whilst enemies are around. Again this all adds to the strategic element 
 of this game, are there loads of enemies in the next room, if so shall i rest now and risk getting 
 attacked by monster during my rest or should i hope for the best and rush that room now. I've never 
 had to think so much in any game but this is not a bad thing, on the contrary i loved every minute 
 of it.
  
  The characters are split into two types. NPC's and PC's. The NPC's are vibrant, varied and each 
 has their own personality and agendas. Play your cards right and you'll receive quests from the 
 more notable NPC's and when completed you'll be richly rewarded. There are over 10 PC's in the 
 game all appearing at various times. These characters are absolutely fantastic. They appear to 
 be living and breathing, each with their own strengths, weaknesses and alignment. You can choose 
 5 of these PC's to join your party but carefull planning is required, lawful good characters will 
 clash with lawful evil characters. Also you need a mix of character, having 5 melee combat oriented 
 characters is not recomended. Enemies are extremely varied, fighters, spellcasters, bow users. 
 In order to maximize your chance of success you need to consider which characters would be the 
 strongest to fit into your party. I can't go any further than that because the beauty of this game 
 is forming your own party, and replaying this game is very appealing as you can all sorts of different 
 parties. 
  
  As i said battles are very varied in this game. Its all about constant stategic thought. You can 
 pause the game whenever you like and this is very advantageous during battles. When you see an 
 enemy you can simply pause the game, give each of your characters an order and unpause the game, 
 its as if the game was never paused. This can lead to all sorts of effective methods: have your 
 spellcaster immediately buff up your fighters, send the fighters straight in to attack, pummel 
 the enemy with a barrage of arrows from your bow users. If you plan it right and know the weaknesses 
 of enemies before hand you can finish most battles with ease, every time you manage this there 
 is a tremedous sense of achievement, not to mention the experience point. The start of the game 
 throws releatively easy enemies at you but as you progress in levels so does the difficulty of 
 enemies. Soon you'll be facing vampires, mind flayers, dragons, golems, spellcasters, beholders 
 and the drow. This game never feels repetitive with all these varied enemies and the numerous quests 
 that can be undertaken.
  
  The leveling up element of this game is truly one of a kind. Never has a game been so addictive 
 to level up to the next level. Finish a quest and you'll receive a massive experience bonus, kill 
 enemies and you'll receive minor experience. Either way its only a matter of time before you level 
 and each level up sees a dramatic increase in ability. Be it 10 hit points for a fighter, an extra 
 spell slot for a spellcaster or excellent fist attacks for monks. This game is so diverse, its 
 very difficult to include everything in this review, its an incredible gaming experience.
  
  The graphics aren't extraordinary but then aren't dreadful. The game engine has seen a massive 
 overhaul since baldurs gate. Resolutions can be increased, textures look a whole lot better and 
 of course character models look great. This game proves single handedly that game do not need fancy 
 graphics to be a great game, get the storyline and gameplay right and you needn't worry about anything 
 else.
  
  The sound is incredible. Walking around the vast city of amn with incredible background music is 
 breath taking. The same can be said for battles, the music is heart pounding. But the best moment 
 is when you encounter a dragon, the music will make your hair stand on end and the fact that you 
 enemy fills the entire screen doesn't ease the tension. 
  
  Gameplay is without doubt the best and most balanced i've seen. You have a main quest to complete 
 which is to gather 20,000 gold. Thats all the information you get, how you get that gold is entirely 
 up to you. Quests, selling items or even mugging people. The choice is entirely up to you, there 
 are hundreds of quests to undertake. So whilst the game appears to be linear it infact is tremendously 
 open ended. Finishing every single quest in the game makes it over 100 hours long, not to mention 
 all the different party combinations you can make. Also there is a great mod community on the web 
 and there have been some fantastic mods made, the most notable ones are the romances packs which 
 add depth to party interaction. The replay value of this game is unbelievable if you are prepared 
 to make the effort.
  
  All in all this game cannot be described by mere mortal words. Its truly something else. If have 
 no time for RPGs then i urge you to play this, you will be an RPG fan in less than 30 minutes. 
 Its the best, most complete game i've ever had the satifaction to play and so should you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebusrocks
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:56 am PT
Review:  i've only played this hundred and twenty hours, and that is pretty small for RPG games, but I think 
 it was a good game to play around with. it's graphics are not as good WOW or Guild Wars, but probably 
 the same as Diablo2. although the game is good, it cannot be compared to modern games, even with 
 Diablo2. i like RPG games that only have one main hero because then you are more free of what you're 
 character does, but this series seem to have five or more characters you have to control. Need 
 some space to fill up the last 100 s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: globalchimp
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 4:46 am PT
Review:  This was the first role playing I bought, 5 years ago in 2000. Even tho it is 'only a game', words 
 still fall short to describe it, maybe because it's so good 'game' hardly feel fitting to describe 
 it. It's an experience, and the best RPG experience I've had ever since.
  
  Since it was my first RPG the learning curve was a few hours for me and took me a few restarts, 
 I should've read the manual first. The gameplay is very natural.
  
  This game can keep you playing for hours and hours and hours... Really interesting quests which 
 never stop feeling rewarding, the great feeling of finding great artefacts that you well earned, 
 and the sound of lvling up after killing a red dragon. Those were the days...
  
  Graphics:
  They're not very impressive, even at that time, but they do get the message across 
 and I was never really disappointed in them.
  
  Sound:
  The sounds are great, very environmental, nice speech/dialogues, really complements the game very 
 well.
  
  Value:
  Priceless! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mephistopheles9
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 26, 2005 7:04 am PT
Review:  I really liked this game because of the storyline and the realistic feeling npcs. i dont think 
 i will ever forget minsc (and boo) or jaheira, or yoshimo, or all the other characters. the main 
 villian, jon irenicus, really breathes a lot of life into this game because he just feels like 
 you can relate to him and that he isnt crazy, he just has his own goals. this is a classic in almost 
 every way. some people complain about the graphics. i think the overhead viwe is just perfect for 
 baldurs gate 2s style of gameplay. and i felt i really forgot about the graphics, wich really arent 
 that bad, because i was so immersed in the game play. ive just ordered the collectors pack, and 
 i have never done that for a game before. now i gotta fill some space for this review. i hope it 
 was really really helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2005 6:56 am PT
Review:  n such an imperfect gaming world, I think I can honestly say I am ill prepared to handle a game 
 of unerring quality. Sure, I have witnessed my share of gaming greatness, but I have to tell you, 
 most of the titles on my all time list date back many years, secured behind the double-sealed door 
 known as Windows 95, when computer gaming changed forever.
  
  Now, I am not trying to sit here and say that Win95 ruined gaming (okay, I am) I am just trying 
 to point out that most of the great games I have witnessed have come before Bill Gates and his 
 minions got his hands on our gaming code.
  
  So, when a great game is bestowed upon me, I have to constantly second guess my opinion, just to 
 be sure that what I say about the game is as accurate as possible. Which brings us to the latest 
 hunk of plastic that has found its way onto my desktop. To the uninitiated, it is known as Baldur's 
 Gate II - Shadows of Amn. To those who know more, it will be known as Gaming Heaven. Bold words, 
 I know, but I am a man with bold tastes, bold clothes, bold breath, and bold opinions when it comes 
 to my games. Read on, I think you might actually agree with me on this one.
  
  It started in 1996. At that time, the folks at Bioware, a small development firm in Canada, decided 
 to do an RPG. They had minor success with Shattered Steel, a mech-style game with somewhat of a 
 cult following. The interest in doing an RPG came from extensive experience playing both pen and 
 paper and computer RPGs. The boys at Bioware have cited games like Wizardry, The Bard's Tale, Ultima 
 Underworld, and such as sources for their inspiration. The idea was to take the great things from 
 Computer RPGs, and meld them with the high points of a pen and paper RPG session. Even the greatest 
 RPGs to date lacked any real pen and paper feel, including Dungeons and Dragons' own games released 
 by SSI.
  
  Baldur's Gate was supposed to be the epitome of a balanced RPG, and I think I would be repeating 
 known information by saying the game was a success. Bioware did an expansion pack, Tales of the 
 Sword Coast, which was another success. On top of the fact that the expansion pack sold well, it 
 started a positive trend by not only extending the game, but by also fixing problems with the original 
 release. It's all about innovation, baby.
  
  The most impressive aspect of Baldur's Gate was its engine, dubbed The Bioware Infinity Engine. 
 Black Isle Studios / Interplay saw the way that this engine offered above average graphics, smooth 
 gameplay, and near-perfect implementation, and decided to make two other games based on it. Without 
 Bioware's development help, they created Planescape: Torment (arguably the best RPG ever) and the 
 more action oriented Icewind Dale, an excellent RPG in its own right. Both games offer the same 
 level of immersion, further touting the beauty of this now two-year-old engine. And, interestingly, 
 both Black Isle games offer a glimpse of what's to come in Baldur's Gate II. As a matter of fact, 
 Baldur's Gate II is an almost direct melding of these two games. But more on that in a minute.
 
  
  With the original Baldur's Gate selling a ton of copies, the pressure was on Bioware to deliver 
 a sequel worthy of its predecessor's heritage. After over completing this 200-hour quest, I can 
 tell you beyond the shadow of a doubt that they have succeeded in this mission. Baldur's Gate II 
 is the perfect continuation of the series, and it excels in the minor details that make a game 
 go from great to spectacular. Now, onto the game.
  
  Baldur's Gate II picks up just a short time after your adventures in Tales of the Sword Coast. 
 (Didn't play that, or the original, for that matter? Don't worry, there is an introduction movie 
 that brings you up to date) . After your victory over your half-brother, you are mysteriously captured 
 by a powerful wizard Jon Irenicus, who wants to do 'experiments' on you. He is enthralled with 
 the fact that you are a child of the God of Murder, Baal, and you must escape his lair before his 
 experiments get out of hand.
  
  There to help you is Imoen, a mage / thief from the first game, and most likely, your main female 
 squeeze, if you know what I mean. Imoen frees you, and then decides it is time for you to gather 
 what your greedy hands can grab, and hit the proverbial road. Before you go, you can save two of 
 your other Baldur's Gate 1 friends, Jaheria, and one of the best game characters of all time, Minsc. 
 After the rescue, you must gather whatever gear you can find, and go bash some skulls.
  
  Your first experience with Baldur's Gate II is not exactly overwhelming, and I think, in retrospect, 
 this is a good thing. The area that you start off in is small, and doesn't really do the enhanced 
 engine justice. The graphics are much cleaner, thanks mostly to the support for 800x600 resolution. 
 At this resolution, the viewable area is widened, and the rough edges are smoothed out. There are 
 other, unsupported modes for the display, that will go up to 2048x1056, but I don't suggest using 
 anything over the 800x600, unless you have a huge monitor. The problem with the higher resolutions 
 is that the characters become so small you can barely decipher between them and the enemy. Actually, 
 if you have anything smaller than a 19" monitor, I recommend staying at 640x480, or possibly the 
 800x600, so long as it suits your taste.
  
  Other than that, the graphics are really amazing this time around. The difference between this 
 game and the original are immediately apparent. There are more 3D spell effects and crisper animations. 
 Only, you don't get to see this game in its full splendor within the first area. The wizard's lair 
 is plain and small, barely hinting at what's in store.
  
  You will escape from the lair, with all of your friends intact, and come upon the city of Athkatla 
 where you have a confrontation with Irenicus. Actually, you have no control over this. Imoen, your 
 childhood friend who underwent the same torture you did loses control and gets into a magical battle 
 with the wizard. In a second, four mages teleport in and inform you that Imoen and Irenicus have 
 violated the code of the city of Athkatla by using magic without a license. In a nutshell, Irenicus 
 and Imoen are taken prisoner, and thus begins your journey. You must save Imoen, and then confront 
 Irenicus, who claims to know how you can unleash your true potential.
  
  Once in the city, you get a better feel for the true power of the Infinity Engine. Some enhancements 
 have been made, and the sprawling city is a perfect example. All the colors are rich and bright, 
 making this one of the more beautiful RPGs to date. Many people might say that it is time for an 
 engine upgrade, but this engine, unlike the one that runs the Might and Magic series for instance, 
 has still got plenty of allure. After seeing what they can do with this game, I would be staunchly 
 against a 3D Baldur's Gate. Everything here works, and works well. It's more believable this time 
 around, and, well, prettier.
  
  Then again, RPGs are not about graphics. This game is supposed to bring a pen and paper RPG experience 
 to life on the PC. Bioware has stuck by the rules rather strictly, with almost every action, encounter 
 and happenstance in the game relying heavily on the dice. They had to make certain modifications, 
 but other than these few things, this game plays true to the D&D experience. The computer acts 
 as an excellent Dungeon Master, and delivers you an experience unlike any you have had, including 
 the original Baldur's Gate.
  
  One of the major enhancements made to this game from the original is in the character creation. 
 In my opinion, character creation is the most important element of an RPG. If I am going to spend 
 200 hours with a character, then I want to have an intricate hand in his creation. Baldur's Gate 
 II handles this well, and throws more options at you than you can handle.
  
  There are three new character classes, several new sub-classes, and some new races as well. For 
 instance, you can create a half-orc, a superhuman class in the area of strength, and make him a 
 Berserker, who, um, well, goes berserk in battle. It's sort of like jacking up a large biker on 
 a ton of caffeine, and then putting him in a room with a bunch of lawyers. Wouldn't be pretty. 
 You can also fine-tune your character. If you want a fighter, but want a specialist, that's no 
 problem. You can have a Palladin, a Mage Slayer (they kill mages, I think) or just about anything 
 else you desire. I chose to be a Blade, a bard who is an expert with a (you guessed it) sword.
 
  
  The sound in this game is more immersive than any previous Infinity-based game. There is support 
 for EAX extensions, and if you have a SoundBlaster Live! card, activating this option will deliver 
 you an aural treat. Character's voices rise and fade depending on how far away they are; there 
 are echoes in large caverns, and a superb musical score that reacts to the situations in the game. 
 Spell casting sounds particularly creepy at times as well. Also, the voice-overs are done superbly, 
 adding an extra sense of realism to the game. Some of them are so good, I hear them in my head 
 when I am not playing. Sick, I know, but true nonetheless. Again, RPGs really don't rely heavily 
 on sound. Actually some of the classic RPGs had horrible sound. This game doesn't, further adding 
 to its appeal.
  
  This sequel plays like a combination of Icewind Dale and Planescape: Torment. It takes the action-intensive 
 battles of Icewind and melds them with the heavy reliance of conversation of Planescape. While 
 both of those games went to extremes in these categories, Baldur's Gate II is a perfect blend of 
 action and story, but this certainly doesn't make the game easy.
  
  Because you start off at a high level (13 or so) the battles are instantly intense and require 
 a lot of strategy. You'll spend plenty of time reloading saved games to succeed in certain battles, 
 and this happens pretty much from the beginning. You have to prepare for your battles, and rest 
 a lot as well. There are several different classes of monsters, and each one has its special characteristics. 
 For instance, the magic spells that worked to wipe out one group of monsters might be useless against 
 the next. What I am trying to say here is that this is not a game for people who don't want to 
 invest a lot of time. This is no hack and slash, but you'll need a strategic mind to succeed. Also, 
 there are plenty of situations where conversation skills will come into play, and the decisions 
 you make will affect how the game unfolds. Half the time, after an important conversation, I worried 
 about whether or not I made the right choice. This can be frustrating, but it also illustrates 
 how well this game incorporates conversation.
  
  There are a wealth of choices that need to be made in this game, and all have their consequences. 
 You will make the decision between good and evil often, and most times, you won't even be aware 
 of which path you took. On top of that, once you add the characters from the previous game, you 
 have three empty slots and about seven playable NPCs to choose from. Each NPC adds a different 
 aspect to your party, and each one will affect your ending, one way or the other. Choose wisely, 
 because once you get past a certain point in the game, most of those NPCs will be unavailable to 
 you. You will also have dozens of subquests to embark on, and you'll be forced at times to complete 
 one and forgo another. Again, choices.
  
  Not only is this a superb single player RPG, it incorporates excellent multiplayer as well. In 
 this part of the game, one player gets to be the Dungeon Master, and you can play along with up 
 to five other people into your party. You can set a variety of different options, giving you full 
 control over the game. Multiplayer is free, but it isn't perfect. Even over a cable connection, 
 it runs slowly at times. I can attribute most of this to the whole idea of playing a deep, action-intensive 
 RPG over the current Internet. Still, with the choppy play, multiplayer Baldur's Gate II is fun, 
 and it extends the life of this game.
  
  As you can probably tell, this game requires a lot of thinking and a lot of time. Like I said before, 
 this is a minimum 200-hour quest, with many more hours on top of that if you want to get the maximum 
 amount of experience by completing the subquests. That's a lot of value for your gaming dollar, 
 and the best part about it is that every aspect of the game is enjoyable. After I completed the 
 game, I felt empty. This game occupied so much of my time, that I don't know what to do with myself 
 anymore. Not many games can boast such immersion, but Baldur's Gate II gives it to you in spades.
 
  
  What really brings everything together for this game is the incorporation of in-game movies (both 
 CG and engine-based) that help move the story along. At key points throughout your quest, you are 
 alerted to the actions of your enemy, giving you some information that helps you plan ahead. I 
 also must say that the ending of this game is one of the best I have seen, and though it might 
 have been slightly predictable, it still is excellent.
  
  Baldur's Gate II is by far the most involved RPG I have ever played. It's also one of the best. 
 I have been partial to Planescape as my favorite RPG of all time since I played it earlier this 
 year. After completing this game, I have to admit that it does more than give Planescape a run 
 for its money. It's a much longer game, it has just as good a storyline, and it offers more action 
 and multiplayer to boot.
  
  The guys at Bioware really know how to craft an RPG, and this one is going to be an instant classic. 
 It will be one of those games you will remember for years to come. If you enjoy RPGs, this is an 
 absolute must have for your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiatebake
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 24, 2005 4:39 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the best game that the world will ever see, hours of gameplay, an good expansion 
 and countless mods to make the game even better.
  Even though the game is old and suffers from serious bugs on some systems and the graphics is getting 
 old the gameplay and the atmosphere is beyond what ever game can come up with today.
  Many of the new generation of gamers will probably never get to see this game as the stores either 
 minimise the price (making it look like a bad game) or just getting rid of it.
  Try to get this game on Ebay or in online stores if you can't find it anywhere else.
  The story 
 is incredibly good and there is an enormous amount of jokes and countless hours of laughing.
  (just get Minsc an boo in your team and you'll know what i mean)
  There is VERY many things to 
 do besides the main quest ranging from getting a stronghold to getting a gem out of a chicken.
 
  I could go on forever on the perks of this game but i will have to stop sometime, if you don't 
 belive me try it, you can download the entire triologi (bg, bg2 and expansion) for free, just don't 
 let this game go unnoticed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This review is for Shadows of Amn and Throne of Bhaal.
  
  Gameplay: Simple controls. Real role-playing depth. Great turn-based tactical battles. (9)
  
 
  Graphics: Not as good as they could be. Still, there is a lot of detail and everything is very 
 well designed. (7)
  
  Sound: Great sound effects and music. (9)
  
  Value: With the expansion pack it will take you weeks to beat. Although the game plays out pretty 
 much the same no matter what character you have so there is not as much replay value as you might 
 think. (9)
  
  Tilt: Even with it's dated graphics, it is still better than any other RPG I've played, including 
 Neverwinter Nights. (10)
  
  The Good: Long campaign. Lots of interesting characters and cool spells. 
  Engaging story.
 
  
  The Bad: Nothing that really detracts from the experience.
  
  Bottom Line: Despite it's flaws Baldur's Gate II is as good as it gets even years after it's release. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allendar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2005 9:09 am PT
Review:  At first when I heard the second part of Baldur's Gate was about to be released I couldn't wait 
 to buy it. Days of nail-biting..
  
  My first impression on this game was "super!". The graphics were awesome, offcourse most of the 
 environment isn't moving so that makes it pretty easy to make it looking graphically very good. 
 The spell effects are really amazing for that time being.
  
  The first few hours of playing the game really took my thoughts into the unique world, and that's 
 what I want when playing role playing games. The feeling that you're not sitting in your own room 
 anymore. Marvelous!
  
  Also what was very noticeable was the very good integration with the first part of the game. You 
 could import your own Baldur's Gate 1 character's save files and continue to play with your original 
 character, this somehow gives a very good feeling, and in my opinion raises the story morale of 
 this second part and somehow makes you give a good reason to start play over from part one again.
 
  
  The sound in the game pleases me! Every spell, weapon, NPC, environment has it's own unique sounds. 
 Although more NPC, later on in the game, will sometimes have the same voice, but that doesn't really 
 effect the experience!
  
  My opinion:
  
  Not everyone will like this game! Especially not those who never played D&D Advance board games 
 or older platform games before. But for those who are really in to RPG and the deep-going systems 
 will really be pleased with this magical game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabe_Laurence
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:57 pm PT
Review:  If you just asked someone on the street if they knew about Baldur's Gate, chances are they won't. 
 If you asked them about something like Diablo, they would probably (assuming they're relatively 
 into gaming) know what youre talking about. It's because with a game like Diablo, you can pick 
 it up and start playing it without reading the rules. It's so darned obvious what's going on and 
 it's SO DARNED MINDLESS that a retarded infant could play it. Baldur's Gate, however, requires 
 a certain amount of game knowledge to enjoy, thus requiring a lot of reading, manual flipping and, 
 worst of all for Diablo fans, thinking. This game is not easily accessible, a fact that has turned 
 away many players and prevented it from reaching a status of fame like that of Diablo.
  
  But this combat system, when understood, covers everything. Everything is so... organized. It makes 
 a little more sense that you're probably going to be doing a lot more missing than hitting, unlike 
 most conventional RPG's. If you play Icewind Dale (where when you miss you hear little sword-clashing 
 sounds) it makes more sense because you realize that when you're missing it's probably because 
 your enemy parried it and not because you swung blindly into space. This missing slowed the pace 
 of the combat down a little too much for some, though. I see it more as measure to make sure that 
 crappy monsters don't hit you to often.
  
  Gameplay: 5/5
  
  This is the best combat system I've ever seen. It's very intelligent, organized, and you're ability 
 is not governed by luck. Luck is more of an influence. It still determines whether you hit or not, 
 but your character's skill assures you that the outcome will go in or out of your favor. You don't 
 often just get unlucky; you're powerful enough or you're not.
  
  Note that the game is not completely combat oriented. Not in the least. This is what defines an 
 RPG, and separates it from an Action game like Diablo (Diablo is NOT an RPG) . 
  
  The Diablo approach to a problem: Previously loyal and good friend Blood Raven has been brainwashed 
 by an evil demon and is threatening the Rogue camp! Go kill her! 
  
  The Baldur's Gate approach: Commander Brage was an honorable soldier and a good friend of Naskel. 
 Suddenly he goes mad and kills his family and some others (a considerably worse deed than Blood 
 Raven's) ! Bring him back to me alive, I think I'll be able to help him (taken from BG1) .
  
  Notice the difference?
  
  Graphics: 5/5
  
  The graphics are spectacular. Have you ever 
 walked through the temple district in awe? I sure have (except for the temple of Helm) . They might 
 not have had the technology to do some of the things we could do today, but the things they did 
 with what they had! Every area is beautifully detailed and emotes the setting they want. A creepy 
 dungeon, dank sewers, a slummy area, a marketplace, a holy temple, or a lavish castle, its just 
 darned pretty. Or not. Depending on the circumstances.
  
  Sound: 5/5
  
  The soundtrack is very good, especially nice combat music though the dungeon music is pretty repetitive. 
 The music in general is a bit repetitive. The music of the first dungeon is especially good, however 
 the dungeon itself is incredibly boring, adding to the non-accessibility.
  
  Value: 5/5
  
  When games get old (ish) , they get cheap. This game, four years old (twenty in video game age) 
 can be bought for a pretty low price, I imagine. I don't know because I received it as a Christmas 
 present, but I bought BG1 for cheap. I got the BG2 Collection, and I would advise against it for 
 I only got the manuals on PFD form (on the disks) and that really sucks. Buy SoA and ToB separately. 
 Plus I only got one bonus merchant, Joluv, but I promptly had that corrected with the newest (and 
 HP stealing) patch.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 5/5
  
  Err... good.
  
  Best CRPG ever. If you are patient enough to read the manual and beat the first area (baaaaaaaaaaad) , 
 you will find yourself in a cool world with an excellent plot, interesting characters that interact 
 with one another, and a world so big it's bad for one's health. Especially with that much replay 
 value, too.
  
  Anyway, here are the PRO's and CON's.
  
  PRO's:
  
  Good combat
  Involving characters
  Fun character generation
  Tons of equipment
  Good story
  Hundreds 
 of sub-quests
  Really good sub-quests too, from talk to this guy to go kill a Dragon
  Huge amount of voice recording
  Good music
  Sixteen interactive and complicated NPC's
  Huge 
 replay value
  VERY addicting
  
  CON's:
  
  Pathfinding AI never does what you want it to do
  The choices are so numerous and difficult it 
 becomes unbearable
  Quite inaccessible, complicated combat plus a boring first scenario
  Some might find the combat slow (nutcases)
  Unhealthily addicting
  
  That concludes my looooooooong 
 review of Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn. It is your duty as a human being to go out and buy 
 it. If you're a BG2 fan, then do get BG1. It's VERY good and it's quite short compared to BG2. 
 I haven't beaten BG2 yet, not even close. And if you love Diablo and hate Baldur's Gate, that's 
 because you're crazy.*
  
  *Thank you IKEA man for this wonderful quote 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkprince453
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate Shadow's of Amn manages to create a captavating and beautiful world full of worthwhile 
 characters to fight alongside of. BGSA has a very long and great story which takes you to many 
 different locales and dungeons. The game however is not too friendly to new users and takes a bit 
 of time to get used to everything (if the very large game manual is any indication of the complexity 
 of the game) . BG has easily over 30 hours of gameplay and many more if you partake in the wide 
 variety of side quests and explore every inch of every map. Considering Baldur's Gate difference 
 between good and evil, it is very easy to jusitify playing through this game twice, once to be 
 the loyal and great hero, another to be the dark and terrifying scoundrel. Black Isle never seems 
 to dissappoint and Baldur's Gate Shadow's of Amn is one of the must have games, especially if RPG's 
 are high up in your heart. I highly recommend this game to anyone looking for a compelling and 
 worthwhile game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SerpentTongue
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  To the die hard fans of rpg's this is a must have in your collection. Baldur's Gate II was a masterpiece 
 and will go down in the books as one of the best rpg's created to this day. 
  
  This game is probably the most substantial I'v ever played. It's far more in depth than it's predecessor, 
 which was a beautiful game as well.
  You are more invloved in the world and the races of Faerun on a much grander scale. 
  
  Baldur's 
 Gate two has a perfect balance of great looking graphics and sound that gives you a feel for what 
 is actually happening on your screen. One thing about this game is that you actually feel like 
 the character your playing and get invloved at a much higher level than any other game yet.
  
  This is a game where you actually role play, you choose wether your good or evil, you choose 
 what you want to do with your time, whether that's to kill a vile dragon and free a land from it's 
 tyrannical ways, or if you would rather go to a pub and drink the night away, the choice is yours.
 
  
  This is a solid game, and something to appreciate. I think every rpg fan should own it, whether 
 your looking for game play or looks. Its's a lot of fun and it's also highly addictive. Try it 
 out and you won't be disappointed.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: God_ofthunder
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This game adds more to the story and more to the game play even if the engine is the same as Planescape 
 torment. The game is great because it has so much to do and lots of hidden things to with hours 
 of quest and side quest this game is packed full of awesomeness. And the game play is awesome its 
 easy point click so you wont have to spend a long time learning how to move around. One of the 
 best things about the game is the jokes; The NPC's say some of the funniest things. And the characters 
 you meat in the game grow on you. And when you level up you feel more proud than in other games 
 that are easier to level up. Its based on Dudgeons and Dragons so its fun for any one who players 
 D&D. The Story in the game is great with well written plot on twists. Once you beat the game you 
 will want to play the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 29, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate was a fun game that provided quite a few hours of adventure, exploration and combat 
 to fans of the role playing genre. Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn managed to improve upon the 
 legacy started in the original while at the same time taking away some of the original's charms.
 
  
  In Baldur's Gate II you play as the same character that was responsible for defeating Sarevok in 
 Baldur's Gate\Tales of the Sword Coast. The game begins with your character in a cell being tortured 
 by a mage and you are clueless as to why. After a dreadfully boring dungeon the game really begins. 
 Baldur's Gate II places much more emphasis on story telling than its predecessor.
  
  In Baldur's Gate II your party members are much more alive than they were in the original game. 
 They will occasionally talk amongst themselves or with you giving them more life and making the 
 game feel more immersive than its predecessor.
  
  The gameplay in BG2 remains unchanged from what was in the original game. The Infinity Engine is 
 still used therefore people who have played any of the other IE games will feel right at home with 
 the interface and controls since they are mostly unchanged. The game keeps the effective semi-turn 
 based combat system and the same RTS style controls and RPG gameplay. One of my biggest gripes 
 with BG2 is the lack of explorable wilderness areas; there are three after you leave the Underdark, 
 but they're small and not very detailed and this is one of the things I loved about the original.
 
  
  Baldur's Gate II features the same quality graphics as any of the other IE games. There are small 
 sprites representing characters in the game world and there are detailed and beautiful looking 
 terrains that you'll navigate through on your latest epic quest.
  
  Baldur's Gate II's audio is a mixed bag like the original. The voice acting is convincing and the 
 sound effects word, but the music is mostly annoying and not as atmospheric as its predecessor's.
 
  
  Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn is a worthy successor to Baldur's Gate and though it has a lack 
 of explorable wilderness areas and a forgettable musical score it has better storytelling and the 
 NPCs that join your party feel more alive. Baldur's Gate II is a game that no RPG fan should miss. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akr321
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:16 am PT
Review:  I love this game. Although I only got it a short time ago, it still blew me away. Now I'm totally 
 hooked onto D&D, and I can't find any other games!!
  What a beautiful game this is! The sheer amount of depth makes it great fun to play, and I haven't 
 beaten it yet! I'm sure the best is still to come, and I can't wait for the story to draw to close.... just 
 as soon as I figure out how to stop those Mind Flayers from killing my entire party n like 4 seconds..
 
  Although the graphics are quite dated, the awesome voice acting, great story, and superb gameplay 
 help you forget those shortcomings, and lose yourself in the beauty of this classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afontanm
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2005 9:09 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn is simply the game that best put a pen-and-paper RPG into a graphic 
 game. I play RPG a lot, and it's amazing to see how well the game deals with the rules of AD&D 
 without compromising gameplay.
  It is superbly amazing in it gives you the possibility to do just about everything: from the creation 
 of your character to every dialogue, there are choices to be made that can affect considerably 
 the direction the game will take. Once, as a thief, I tried to brake into a house to steal something, 
 just to find a Lich waiting inside, that easily eradicated my party. This may not seem much, but 
 it's something RPG players all around can recognize and appreciate, as the game really gives you 
 the feeling that you're playing with a GM and are capable of every choice.
  Simply one of the best. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2005 4:55 am PT
Review:  I'm gonna dispense the superlatives right at the top, Baldur's Gate 2: Shadows of Amn, is the best 
 true sequel ever made. It picks up shortly after the first game left off and has a story that involves 
 the story and characters of the original game in a new, grander adventure that's in every way better 
 than the original. I understand this to be high praise, keep it in mind as you read my review because 
 the problems i have with the game are quibbles at the most. If you don't already have Baldur's 
 Gate 2 then it's more than worth a pickup. If you have it then it's probably worth another run 
 through during the slow summer months. 
  Graphically speaking Baldur's Gate 2 is largely the same as the original game's graphics. We see 
 2-d backgrounds with now 3d character models posed on top of them. Officially it supports play 
 in only 640x480 and 800x600 but they also included unsupported high res modes which help the game's 
 graphical polish sheen immensely nicely for a game that's five years old. The character models 
 look pretty good and they all are very dynamic so that if you get a suit of Red Dragon Scale armor 
 and a spear you'll see yourself carrying exactly that. If you top it off with a green helm then 
 you'll be able to see that as well. The whole game looks fantastic although I will say that one 
 portion of the game, which i won't spoil for you beyond telling you it's the big dungeon you crawl 
 through in chapter 5, has a bit of a difficult look. Everything else in the game looks great whether 
 it's fantastically giant forests or windswept hills, or even deep dark dungeons, the game looks 
 wondrous. 
  Aurally the game stands even further above it's predecessor. The game has far more voice acting 
 for one, and the voice acting is even better. The characters banter amongst themselves and with 
 you in partially voiced clips and the story also has an exceptional narrator. Furthermore most 
 of the sounds in the game sound like they drew from a larger stock than they did in Baldur's Gate 
 1. The only sound that ever became really annoying to me was one character's way of telling me 
 that her weapon wasn't working properly when she was equipped with a bow that fired 3 shots per 
 turn and she felt the need to tell me for each one. 
  With a role-playing game, it's of course important that the developers do a great job of telling 
 a story and developing some interesting characters and subplots amongst those characters and Bioware 
 Delivers this in spades in Baldur's Gate 2. For one thing, there are a lot of characters to choose 
 from depending on your alignment and class. Not quite as many as in the original but the characters 
 are all better developed than they were in the first game. They talk amongst themselves more than 
 they did in that game and there are some excellent mods there that extend and expand upon this 
 adding in more banter and the ability to flirt with your love interest if you have one. I particularly 
 liked that they added a romance element to the story. The story itself is a rather dark tale of 
 loss and revenge. I don't want to give anything away but you start the game in the clutches of 
 an evil mage named Irenicus who very early on takes something from you. In the process of getting 
 this back, he manages to take something even more valuable from you and you spend the entire game 
 hunting after him. You'll be thrown for some nasty turns along the way and have to visit every 
 corner of the central Sword coast to end this tale. I know i'm referencing the first game quite 
 a bit because i just played them in succession, but you really don't need to have played the first 
 game to get much out of the second game. There are some simple conversation options that'll bring 
 you up to speed on the things you needed to know from that game but it does make the 2nd game a 
 bit more fun if you've played the first game as many of that game's characters do make return appearances 
 including two of your potential lovers Jaheria and Vinconia. 
  Gameplay is of course the most important feature in any game and this game does have it where it 
 counts. The game retains the depth of the first game but starts you at a higher level. While the 
 enemies are more challenging the game as a whole is a bit less challenging as everyone starts out 
 at the level you finished the first game at give or take a bit. As such you never have many situations 
 where characters are going to die from a single stray arrow grazing them as magi had to worry about 
 in the first game. You can freely use spells that would have been very dangerous to use with your 
 party nearby in the first game such as fireball etc. Furthermore because the game is played at 
 a higher level the later battles in the game require a bit more tact to them than the first game's 
 did. For instance late in the campaign you're going to have to fight nearly ever battle with summoned 
 monsters at your side, and your mage having cast a great deal of support spells to speed up your 
 party, slow down the enemy and remove any protective spells enemy magi cast on themselves and their 
 henchmen. The game is a long game and should easily take you roughly 75 hours or so give or take 
 to complete. If you tried to do everything in the game it could easily top 100 or 150 hours. Furthermore 
 because the game gives you tons of choices on how to do things there are lots of ways to get things 
 done. This makes the game very re playable. 
  All in all if you've got even the slightest inclination to enjoy role-playing games you should 
 have this game. It's best if you play the original first but if you start here you're getting one 
 of the best games ever made and one no gamer really should be without having tried. If you've not 
 played this game you need to before it gets hard to find. If you've got this game then get on line 
 find some mods and play it a second time, it's fully worth several runs to see all the different 
 characters and how they interact together and that type of stuff. I suppose there is stuff you 
 could complain about like that it's in 2d or that it's a bit hard but frankly these are silly rationalizations 
 of not wanting to like it more than honest reasons there is something wrong with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewilyranger
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2005 2:36 pm PT
Review:  To simply put it this is one of the best RPG's ever made. Based again off the AD&D rules it is 
 incredible how Black Isle managed to make the game so much better than the first. The story behind 
 the game is that you play a character that is the bloodspawn of Bhall, the God of Murder, in the 
 first one you killed your brother, Sarevok who was trying to kill you to gain all the powers of 
 Bhall himself. In this one there is an Elven wizard who was excluded from his society known as 
 Jon Irneicus, who is trying to steal your powers so that he could live and have ultimate power. 
 The story is pretty good but what makes the game great is the environment. There are so many NPCs 
 and there reaction is amazing, for example if you are an evil character everybody hates you and 
 wants you to die, but if you are a character of good nature everybody will like you, and if you 
 are neutral nobody cares. The character creation is still incredible, there are so many different 
 classes to choose from so that way anybody can create the ideal character of their choice. For 
 anybody who likes RPGs or D&D or if you want to try something new, this game is highly recommended 
 and you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raycpt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2005 11:51 am PT
Review:  When Baldur's Gate 1st came out, it was a big hit, and mind you it is NOT an "evolution" of RPGs 
 , it is a whole new "Invention" . 
  
  Why would I say it is not an evolution? If a game is evolving, there has to be a base for it to 
 grow from but they have introduced a new engine for the game. Being an avid RPG gamer for so many 
 years , my only fond memories for computer RPGs were The Eyes Of the Beholder 2, Ultima 6 and King's 
 Quest by Roberta Williams. But not even these games came close to matching the superb gaming engine 
 of Baldur's Gate. It was many silent years for RPG fans until Baldur's Gate came out, and when 
 it did, we were so relieved. 
  
  Similar to its prequel , Baldur's Gate II ( BG 2 ) uses the same turn based combat system, and 
 there were some improvements over the 1st game. For example, the creators have decided to add in 
 more character interaction with Non Player Characters ( NPC ) , you will find that once in a while, 
 some of your party members will automatically pop up some questions asking you about the future, 
 your past, or he/she will state some reasons for disliking some situations. This makes the entire 
 game a genuine adventure where your party members don't just sit and do whatever you order them 
 to, they will sometimes give some rather pleasant remarks or some real harsh comments on your actions. 
 In this context I have to say that BG2 has excelled. 
  
  The graphics are very much the same as the prequel , but new lighting effects and shadowing makes 
 the game look fresh from a certain angle. There are also more sub-quests and more twists to the 
 plot compared to the 1st one and sometimes it leaves you to wonder: "who should I side with? The 
 Vampires? Or the Thieves?" And player decisions are another vital element in this game, you have 
 to decide and make many choices which will affect the story line, which makes the game highly replayable 
 . For example if you are playing as a Paladin, you get to acquire numerous sub-quests from the 
 House Of The Radiant Heart, and not forgetting to mention the ultimate +5 Carsomyr Sword that you 
 will get in the end. Worth mentioning also is the fact that depending on the party members that 
 you choose, you will get different quests and story lines as well ... In conclusion , the entire 
 BG 2 world is so huge and so intriguing. End up with a bad party member and Ooops, the effects 
 won't be pleasant, I assure you. 
  
  I finished this game long time back , but I am writing this review because BG is simply the best 
 computer RPG of all time ... looking at all the meticulous details that they have been implemented 
 in the game, the grand BGM and music scores that they have included in the game, rich character 
 generation and the improved AD&D rules ... Man I have to tell you , this is "Best Of The Best"
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: placksheep
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 5, 2005 8:41 am PT
Review:  Bioware's Baldur's Gate series is for the PC what the Final Fantasy games are for the Playstation 
 consoles. You will not find this particular style of role-playing game anywhere else, and there 
 are a legion of fans that will swear that the Baldur's Gate games are the best ever. Since each 
 game in the series continues the plot line of the previous one, it is difficult to compare them. 
 However, in writing this review I am evaluating the gaming experience of each game separately. 
 Given that, Baldur's Gate II is the most impressive of the series. (including the final game: Baldur's 
 Gate II: Throne of Bhaal)
  
  It's difficult to choose things to focus on when endorsing this game. I cannot impart to you, the 
 reader, exactly how good this game is. You really must play it in order to fully appreciate all 
 the wonderful nuance of the narrative, the memorable characters, the hauntingly beautiful soundtrack, 
 and strategically deep gameplay that BG2: Shadows of Amn offers.
  
  At this point the whole Forgotten Realms/ Dungeons and Dragons fiction may seem a bit hackneyed 
 and un-original to some, and the plot of the game isn't as different as say, a Planescape: Torment, 
 but the way it is told is extraordinary. Throughout the course of your adventures you will really 
 get to know your companions in a very intimate way through tons of dialogue. There are even options 
 to carry on romances with party members of the opposite sex. There is a mind-boggling amount of 
 dialogue that serves no purpose outside of establishing a believable relationship between your 
 character and his/her followers. Outside of that, the primary storyline is just wonderful.
  
  The sound may be the single most impressive technical achievement of the game. The sound clip 
 library used for ambiance and NPC sounds has grown huge since the first Baldur's Gate game. You 
 will recognize some sound from previous installments, but there is such a variety it is hardly 
 noticeable. Voice acting is absolutely top-notch, with perhaps the best performance coming from 
 the villain of the game: Jon Irenicus. The music is some of the best sounding synthesized orchestra 
 I have ever heard.
  
  All this is well and good, but is the game fun to play? YES. The only criticism I have for Baldur's 
 Gate II is that the learning curve can be steep, especially if the gamer has not had any experience 
 or familiarity with Dungeons and Dragons. There is plenty of documentation however, and all the 
 tools are provided (except a tutorial) to make the game as painless as possible, while still offering 
 a great deal of depth for the hardcore D&D gamers. This game can be quite challenging even on the 
 default setting, though you can dial it down for boss fights if you get frustrated.
  
  Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn hit store shelves in 2000. It is likely that you will be able 
 to find a copy for extremely cheap, and if you haven't played it yet GET A COPY. The graphics aren't 
 going to blow you away anymore, but if you're an RPG fan that shouldn't matter. This would even 
 be a great game to introduce you to RPGs if you haven't played one before.
  
  BG2: Shadows of Amn is my pick for favorite game of all time. I can give no better endorsement, 
 so just take my word for it: This game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2005 5:13 am PT
Review:  Over four years after its release, Baldurs Gate 2 still stands as the greatest RPG ever made. Since 
 then, not only has nobody matched it, but it appears as if nobody has even tried. This game provides 
 more quality content than any other game in existence. It's one of those exceedingly rare games 
 which proves that quantity and quality need not be mutually exclusive. If the gameplay seems out 
 of date, its only because other games have tried to imitate its elements. Until somebody comes 
 along with a better RPG, this is the game that sets the bar that every other game must reach for.
 
  
  You start off the game a prisoner in parts unknown, having been captured by a twisted and powerful 
 wizard who has been performing experiments on you. Soon after, you escape from your mysterious 
 prison and venture out into a massive, open-ended world. Along the way, you meet over a dozen interesting 
 and diverse NPCs which can join you. Each of them has a personal history and/or a special quest 
 to fulfill. The center of the world is the gigantic city of Athlatka, which is even larger than 
 the city of Baldurs Gate. You could spend a month just exploring the city and completing all of 
 the quests that you find there.
  
  One of the defining features of Baldurs Gate 2 is that each area and each dungeon seems meticulously 
 and richly hand-crafted. All of the areas in the game that you visit are memorable in some way. 
 Contrast this with other RPGs since then, which always seem to be filled with cookie-cutter areas 
 made out of tilesets, like Neverwinter Nights or Morrowind. Baldurs Gate 2 is a beautiful game 
 in its own way. Its outdated engine is more than made up for its breathtaking artwork. The real 
 strength of the presentation lies in Baldurs Gate 2s wonderful audio. The game boasts a big script 
 voiced by some great voice actors, including British actor David Warner, who lends a chilling personality 
 to the games main villain. On top of that, there is a wonderful dynamic soundtrack with some great 
 battle tunes and a great opening theme song. 
  
  This is an RPG that is very dialog-heavy, and most of it is not spoken, but very well-written. 
 However, there are some parts around the main story that arent very good. Specifically, there 
 is one ridiculous, contrived plot twist in the middle of the game that takes a lot of the steam 
 out of the game. A lot of the banter about your soul and destiny seem like they were written as 
 a Saturday Night Live Star Wars parody. These faults stand out as minor rough spots in an otherwise 
 outstanding game.
  
  The game uses the Dungeons and Dragons 2nd Edition rules as its core system. With it, you can create 
 a large variety of characters with various abilities. However, most of your abilities will revolve 
 around combat, since old D&D games like this dont have much in the way of genuine role-playing. 
 You can round out your party with five other followers, which you will want to do to have a well-balanced 
 party. This game was the third iteration of the Bioware Infinity Engine, and it shows in its many 
 refinements. Baldurs Gate 2 has a vastly improved interface over BG1 and Icewind Dale. These improvements 
 include items like potion and scroll cases, and pre-marked maps. The great party mechanics and 
 efficient interface, combined with the massive, open-ended world provide for an unforgettable epic 
 that has sadly disappeared from PC gaming. 
  
  You could spend as much as 200 hours in a single playthough for this game. It will probably take 
 you closer to 100, but whatever it is, its a long time. Baldurs Gate 2 manages to stay addictive 
 for weeks or even months. Over four years after its release, It still stands as the greatest RPG 
 ever made, and it still sets the bar that every other game must strive for. It's a shame that the 
 epic RPG for the PC is dead. Maybe one day, it will make a comeback. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 28, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  For me, this game has shaped what I like in my games today. I like the freedom, the numerous ways 
 to customize your characters, the combat system, the character development, the story, everything. 
 From spending hours upon hours of thinking about and creating characters, to item hunting, to the 
 final scene, everything was nothing short of amazing. As with its predecessor, only upon seeing 
 the loading screen I knew this game would be my favorite. 
  
  Now, of course, the graphics of today far surpass the 2D top down view of Baldur's Gate, and even 
 games during its release had better. However, the textures and simply put, amazing scenery, fit 
 this game perfectly; simple yet beautiful. There is a noticeable difference in everything over 
 its predecessor, Baldur's Gate, though. Most spells are much improved graphic-wise as well. Hand 
 in hand, casting effects have seen a dramatic improvement. Some spells could have used a bit better 
 handling since some defensive spells will actually hinder your view of what's going on, even though 
 that is not their intent. 
  
  I feel more could have been done NPC wise instead of just having them wander the streets aimlessly. 
 It would have been nice seeing them all have daily routines or some such; it would have made the 
 world feel a little more alive. However, this does not detract from the game what-so-ever, it is 
 only one of my 'wouldn't it be nice if' comments. No game can be perfect and Baldur's Gate II 
 is not an exception. 
  
  Sound is amazing as well, though I'm not particularly fond of the music. The music is a little 
 to 'epic' for my taste. I would have preferred lighter adventure-type music compared to Baldur's 
 Gate's music that sounds as if every fight is the dramatic end. Don't get me wrong, the music is 
 extremely well done and fits the game quite well. As you're walking along through streets or wilderness, 
 the game sounds alive even if it doesn't look it. You'll hear people yelling in the background 
 when you're in a market place, birds chirping in the wilderness, everything. It really makes the 
 times when you just have to walk from place to place a little more enjoyable, or just a lot less 
 dull. Again, the background sounds seem kind of silly since it's not really happening in the game; 
 it's just a background sound. The NPCs that wander around aimlessly do pitch in a comment every 
 now and then, but as would be expected, none of it is really important. Sometimes they can be a 
 bit humorous, while others feel slightly over the top. 
  
  Onto the most important part, and luckily the best part of the game the game play! Baldur's Gate 
 II is a RPG with a few different elements; there's a bit of strategy, a bit of adventure, a bit 
 of action, all forming into one. You can play through the game in either Multiplayer or Single 
 Player. In Multiplayer, not only can you play with someone else (or up to 6 people in all) but 
 you can just create your whole party of 6 and play the game single player. Now I say that because 
 in single player you only get to create your starting character and recruit NPCs along your journey. 
 Both are very entertaining and provide quite a different game style. Since I enjoy making parties, 
 I usually went the Multiplayer route. 
  
  While I'm on the subject, Multiplayer is a bit disappointing in this game. The reason being D&D 
 just isn't the same with friends over a computer than it is in the same room. On the computer, 
 everyone will be pausing the game left and right, confusion sets in, and no one really has any 
 fun what-so-ever. 
  
  Now, the combat in Baldur's Gate II is real time though the mechanics behind it are turn based. 
 For those of you who hate real time, the game can be paused to issue orders at any time you want, 
 if that makes the game any more appealing to you. The mechanics behind Baldur's Gate II are the 
 2nd edition rules of D&D. The developers have done a great job transferring the rules into a game 
 and at the same time allowing you to play as if you didn't care about using the rules. That is 
 not to say you won't have to know D&D to play this game, because you will. Take heed anyone who 
 hates a large learning curve, unless you already know D&D rules you'll be spending quite some time 
 trying to learn what all the numbers and rules mean. 
  
  Once you learn those rules, however, the game becomes much more fun and entertaining and at the 
 same time loads easier. After I had finally got them down, character creation became my favorite 
 part of the game. I loved thinking about how to make a party of 6 work well together through spells, 
 items, classes, etc There are just so many different types of characters you can make, it's amazing. 
 There are about 9 major classes to choose from, yet most of those have at least 3 different subclasses 
 as well. Items are not as plentiful as in Diablo II, but the items you find have so many more unique 
 properties than the ones in Diablo II they are much more fun to find. A new addition is a forge 
 where you can get item parts you find scattered throughout the game forged into some legendary 
 items further increasing the replayability of this game. 
  
  Though, that brings me to another complaint. These legendary items are not all that rare either. 
 Most quests will end with a few in your back pack with enough gold to go and buy more at the local 
 item shop. Some of those are just a bit too powerful for my tastes. I'd much prefer a weapon enhancing 
 a certain character rather than making the character. Compared to Baldur's Gate II's expansion, 
 the problem is not as bad, but there's still an inkling of it. 
  
  As is quite obvious, Baldur's Gate II is a PC game, and as such, has a large following of modders. 
 Few games have as many mods as Baldur's Gate II, but none of them have the sheer dedication and 
 skill of Baldur's Gate II modders. There are numerous mods that add hours onto the game, more content, 
 you name it. Along with that, those modders have made available some utilities to edit Baldur's 
 Gate II to your liking. If you are so inclined, you can actually make AI scripts for your party 
 (thanks go to the developers for that) . 
  
  The number of pros to cons of Baldur's Gate II is a landslide. There are only a few legitimate 
 complaints that can be made about this game while cartloads of praise may not be enough to give 
 the game justice. Few games will ever give the solid game play of Baldur's Gate II, and fewer still 
 will do it with such style. Every part of the game, beginning to end to beginning again is extremely 
 enjoyable in each and every way. At no time was I ever mad at the game for anything, nor was I 
 ever disappointed. Every turn from three years ago to now has impressed me through and through. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormRaider31
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 25, 2005 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I never would have even bought the game had I known up front that the main player character was 
 the son of a demon. Some people can get a around this, but I cant. There is no such thing as a 
 good demon and yet this game is trying to get you to believe story wise that there is. I could 
 not finish the game because of this nor can I, with a clear conscience, recommend the game. But 
 I will say it was well written and programmed and I hope Bioware puts such effort and attention 
 into a RPG title with a more palatable storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lysam
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 21, 2005 12:16 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate II is set in the world of the Forgotten Realms, a well known and well traveled universe. 
 Baldur's Gate II is easily the best RPG I have ever played, period. The game has Amazing visuals, 
 from the sprawling city of Athkatla to the great tower of Watcher's Keep to the depths of Hell 
 Baldur's Gate II never failed to impress with the locale. Creatures looked great, Dragons scared 
 my pants off and Beholders instilled more than a small feeling of terror as well. Spell effects 
 looked great, from the simple Magic Missie to the devastating Dragon's Breath everything looked 
 good. When it comes to sounds Baldur's Gate II wins a few trophies. The ambient sounds of Baldur's 
 Gate II make the enviroment, the visuals are amazing but who could forget the bustling sound of 
 the crowd in Athkatla, or the yell of town criers in towns across the land. The voice acting was 
 frankly amazing, especially the Part of Irenicus. The gameplay and combat rocked, I thoroughly 
 enjoyed every moment Iwas in the game, its difficult to describe how much fun I had. Best of all 
 was the storyline, the sheer epicness of Baldur's Gate II nearly melted my brain. Every dialogue 
 was well scripted, every quest well planned out, to form the greatest game I have ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nealok
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 7, 2005 11:55 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate II does not have as good a story as the first installment in the series. Let's get 
 that out of the way immediately. The shades of evil are not as veiled, the story doesn't have the 
 same balance of convolution, and the process of discovery and eventual conquest doesn't feel as 
 seamless. But despite these shortcomings -- and again, they are only shortcomings insomuch as we 
 are comparing it to the first Baldur's Gate -- this is far and away a better game in every other 
 respect. 
  
  Baldur's Gate II begins with a far more detailed character creation process. BG2 uses the Advanced 
 Dungeons and Dragons 2nd Editon rules set. It does flirt with with 3rd edition in that it offers 
 the Sorcerer and Barbarian classes, but there are not elaborate feats or skill sets here. You don't 
 even worry about non-weapon proficiencies. Unlike the first game, you can choose a kit for your 
 character to flesh out your role-playing experience or just to help you get some nice +1's here 
 and there. You are given the choice to accouter your main character with a kit, although it is 
 not mandatory for any character. 
  
  The type of character you choose to play will greatly affect your experience with the game, if 
 not your enjoyment level. This review involves my experiences with my Lawful Good paladin and my 
 Lawful Evil Monk. Both of these are combat heavy characters, in fact the Paladin is able to obtain 
 what is possibly the best and most overpowered weapon in the game. And monks, as I found out, are 
 ridiculously powerful. I guarantee your play experience will be different with a spells-first character. 
 Such is the appeal of a game this broad. 
  
  Your character starts with the power level the first game ended with; the pitiful minions of darkness 
 like kobolds, gnolls, and orcs are laughable, but the game has plenty of more difficult fare in 
 store. The enemy encounters throughout the game are varied and well-scaled to player abilities, 
 much more so than the first game, where you were battling hordes of pathetic skeletons right before 
 the final battle. Bioware appears to have put great effort into the arcitecture of all your encounters. 
 Baldur's Gate 1 was plagued by random encounters that were unscaled to your level and frequent 
 enough to be dependable. It was a chore to explore the game because you could anticipate the inevitable 
 tedium of killing yet more goblins. Along with the dreadful pathfinding and boring wandering around 
 far too expansive environments, the tedious enemy mixture was one of the central complaints players 
 leveled at the first Baldur's Gate. 
  
  The graphics are detailed and colorful, and they stand up well even today (Sept 2002) , although 
 the game is obviously not up to the task of being compared against Neverwinter Nights or Morrowind. 
 The sounds are equally enjoyable; the sound designers worked very hard to make the environments 
 teem with life through ambient sounds. I recommend stopping to listen occasionally; the dialogue 
 between some unseen townsfolk can be very amusing. The game is 2D with the exception of a few water 
 effects, but all the sprites are detailed and do an excellent job involving you in the story. 
 
  
  The big draw of this game is the astounding number of side quests. There are dozens of different 
 things to do, including a quest for all the classes -- except the Paladin and the Monk, dammit all -- 
 to gain a stronghold. By the time you complete the game, even without the myriad side quests, you 
 will be a force to be reckoned with. If you take the time to see what the world has in store, it 
 will be as if you were the child of a god. Which is appropriate, I guess. 
  
  Baldur's Gate II is also brimming with NPCs of various flavors to stand by your side as you progress 
 through the game. Each of the NPCs has more dialogue associated with him/her than the entire first 
 game's NPCs had combined. Some old faces reappear like Imoen, Jaheira, Minsc, and Boo, but they 
 are the tip of the iceberg. Other fun faces include a hysterical and thoroughly evil dwarf, a shifty 
 but useful thief, and a groundbound winged elf who likes to whine. A lot. There's even an opportunity 
 for romance in the game, although female characters get shafted -- figuratively -- with a pretty lame 
 opportunity for love. I won't spoil who it is, but with all the colorful males in the game, why 
 did my Paladin have to start intimate relations with that loser? Would it have killed them to bring 
 Corvyn back from BG1? 
  
  Baldur's Gate II is a must-have for any RPG collection, alongside the Fallout series -- which you 
 should be able to find for under US$20 -- and Planescape: Torment. The story is very well-done, even 
 if it's not as great as the first, the graphics are lively even now, and the scope of the game 
 makes you feel sorry for the Bioware spouses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaethro
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2005 2:54 am PT
Review:  Even Black Isle's usage of the dated Infinity engine goes entirely unnoticed whilst you traverse 
 the vast, well-tuned, and masterfully crafted world that is Baldur's Gate II. 
  
  The game is fantastically long with all of the side quests; the area layouts are superb, almost 
 never linear and will more than likely trip you up time and again (the astral prison is my personal 
 favorite) ; voice-acting exists in most everyone you encounter in some fashion and excellent acting 
 comes from classic and lovable characters like Minsc; the interface has been cured of any prior 
 blemishes; the combat is well varied to bring out the warlord (and the wimp) in everyone from mister 
 dual battleaxe-wielding half-orc to the reclusive gnomish illusionists.
  
  Comic relief is well placed; the game allows for massive freedom of choice when it comes to most 
 anything (including paying for merchandise, honoring death, and taking the "easy path") ; the learning 
 curve and expanse of difficulty settings offer something to everyone; the spell repertoire has 
 no match; character customization is substantial and influences game play in numerous ways dependent 
 on your race, class, and statistics.
  
  Romances are a feature in the game between characters that has ample effect; Jon Irenicus (arch 
 villain extraordinaire) is a formidable, rather dashing, and ingenious foe; the amount of variation 
 between each character you make causes the replay value to skyrocket (ten bucks says you will have 
 all the dialogue in the first dungeon MEMORIZED before Chapter 4 from having restarted the game 
 to play with a different, much "cooler" character) . EVERY SINGLE ITEM IN THE GAME HAS AN EXPLICIT 
 DESCRIPTION, SOME OVER 100 WORDS LONG!
  
  Need I bother mention this opus' twisted, intellectual, and thoroughly compelling storyline, the 
 game's forte to begin with? If you overlook Baldur's Gate II's sub par graphics (not a difficult 
 task; you probably would not notice them if you were not explicitly paying attention to them) , 
 Black Isle has created a monster. There is no excuse not to buy this game unless you cannot read 
 (this really is not a valid excuse either) or have a passionate and devout hatred of all roleplaying 
 games. Even those of you out there that don't like D&D will like this game if you give it try. 
 Yes, it is THAT good.
  
  Another note on the game's supremacy: if there is anything you don't like about this game's construction, 
 the Infinity game engine is amazingly flexible and there is more than likely either an easy way 
 to alter the undesirable feature or someone has already created a mod that is easily accessible 
 on the web to fix it. Spells, voices, AI... you name it and it can be tweaked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraigH123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2005 5:45 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a good storyline, great artistry in the graphics, masterful sound quality, 
 and the gameplay of a great RPG you have it in this game. It was most unfortunate that the main 
 companies that brought us this game are now no more (Interplay and Black Isle, although Bioware 
 is doing great) . To tell you how good this game is, I almost lost my girlfriend over it because 
 I played it so much until I beat it.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  I have never, ever played pen and paper D&D and was never interested in it until I played the original 
 Baldur's gate. I thought it was great, but I was completely blown away by the expansion on the 
 great storyline of the original into epic proportion. The spells are cool, the tactics needed to 
 fight battles is great, the dialog is top notch. The creatures are fantastic. The villain in this 
 game, Jon Irenicus is probably the best villain I've ever seen in a game. The great portrait and 
 voice used for his character are unbelievable. He looks like a pure conniving, diabolical, evil 
 genius villain, and I would say the voice acting is done very well. Although the other characters 
 in the game are done very well he stands out for sure.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  The graphic designers in this game did very well for themselves. The character portraits are superb, 
 the scenery in the game is amazing, and I couldn't imagine the design being any better.
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  The background noises of the marketplace in the busy city of Amn, the sound 
 effects of rain, the clicking of getting into an item cache in the game, everything all masterfully 
 done. The battle music fits in really nice and never seems to be too distracting and doesn't get 
 old. 
  
  Value 10/10
  
  This game is a must have for any RPG fan. 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 10/10
  
  I consider it the best game I've ever purchased, therefore 10 out 
 of 10. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shortman190
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 31, 2005 7:19 am PT
Review:  Wow. Simply wow. When I finally finished BG2 I was left with a funny feeling. I later realised 
 that I was dazed, in a state of shock and awe. Bioware and Black Isle have certainly done a good 
 job this time. BG2 boasts great graphics, great sound effects, luscious outdoor environments and 
 loads of quests. Top this off with an amazing story, which has you on the edge of your seat in 
 anticipation of the next climatic point, and youre left with one of the best RPGs to date. And 
 the best part is you get to create the main character, and decide most of the decisions. It even 
 boasts 200+ hours of playing time, which I assure you is very true; I lost a lot of sleep trying 
 to defeat a dragon or complete a certain quest so I can collect my reward and experience points. 
 And yes, you did here me completely, I did say dragon. There is a sum total of 4 dragons in the 
 game which you can slay or be slain by. There are certainly quite a few new monsters to encounter 
 in you perilous quest. 
  
  No prior knowledge of the D&D rules is required to play this stunning game, although it does help. 
 Even thought the manual is 300 pages long, it doesnt go into much depth about the D&D, rules which 
 is a pity, because when I started this game I was a complete newbie to the fantasy world of Baldurs 
 Gate and I didnt know why I couldnt obtain a certain statistic or kill a certain monster. 
  
  I thought that there was an unlimited amount of replay-ability. Many new classes are introduced 
 for you to discover, and an awesome 150 new spells to learn. You even meet up with a few friends 
 from Baldurs Gate 1, including the legendary Drizzt DoUrden. The story line has you moving to 
 many locations: the Underdark: home of the evil drow and many also evil monsters, and underwater 
 city of mysterious fish-creatures, the lair of a vampire; and the list goes on. With the addition 
 of an expansion, you can increase your levels to a god-like 40 with an experience cap of 4 million! 
 This was the first ever RPG I played and I am very glad that I did. If you ever get a chance to 
 get BG2, grab it with both hands.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arathin
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 30, 2005 3:45 am PT
Review:  I used to go round my friends house and play this game. In a sense, that is what brought me into 
 this fine series. Forgotten Realms games are some of the best quality games out there. So much 
 work has been done to provide the player with an experience they will never forget. 
  
  From the moment you begin Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn you are completely overhwhelmed with 
 superiority. For this game is much greater than it's predessesors. You are thrown into an utterly 
 amazing story where knights and wizards roam the lands. I shall not spoil the story, I will merely 
 point out that this story is unlike that of any other game. It's highly original and intriguing. 
 The characters and settings have so much detail. Each character that you can pick up along the 
 way has their own little quest that you can complete and their own story to back it up. Every detail 
 in the story is flawless.
  
  The gameplay is simply amazing. The character advancement is absolutely unlimited, letting you 
 control how powerful your character is and how he/she deals with every day situations. Your charisma 
 can be upgraded so that you may barter your way through the game, gaining certain items for cheap 
 prices. Not only this, but each character has loads of abilities to be chosen each time he/she 
 levels up. 
  
  The battle system that is used is amazingly complex. It is hard to describe how it works, but let 
 me put it this way: it is similar to a board game. The dice is rolled, but in this case, it is 
 invisible. The number you achieve determines what damage you inflict on an opponent. You can change 
 the odds in a battle by equipping items in your inventory to change the chances of a good dice 
 roll. 
  
  On top of this, there is hundreds of magic spells and equipment to use. So much detail has been 
 put into these items by Black Isle, giving the player a unique opportunity to have utter control 
 over their characters.
  
  Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn is a masterpiece. It melds together everything that makes a good 
 game. If you haven't already bought this game, add it to your wish list and get it quick! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2005 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Massive on a first person scale. Baldurs Gate 2 for me was the best in the series. While the expasion 
 was nice and the first helped get things started, this title is one game I always think of when 
 you mention Baldure Gate. Anything I wrote about the first game applies to this title too with 
 the exception of the character graphics. They were better I felt in this one than in the last one. 
 The amount of detail included is staggering when you think of the shear size of the game. Everything 
 from classes, romances, story line and replayability are incredible. I would go more in detail 
 but I really am at a loss for words when trying to do so. 
  
  Once again this is the best in the series hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAclipper89
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 26, 2004 9:17 am PT
Review:  baldurs gate 2 was a really good game with fun gameplay but it lacked in a few areas graphics to 
 the worst of the flaws. baldurs gate 2 takes you off where the first left off starting you off 
 with a few un answered question that quickly become answered as the story unfolds itself as you 
 progress through the game. The graphics in the game seemed to of gone down several noches from 
 the first now they look clunky and blocky but the backround and the enviroment still look reasonably 
 good but unfortunately i cannot say the same for the character designs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frostcurse
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 21, 2004 10:36 pm PT
Review:  This is the best RPG i have ever played and im sure many other people will say that as well. This 
 game lets you choose the kind of person you will be, you can be evil or good. Your reputation changes 
 with the actions you realize. Maybe the graphics are not quite good but the storyline is awesome 
 and personally; it was the best storyline i have ever seen! Im sure that many people will be addicted 
 to this game in the first hour of playing because it has many side quests and your actions in the 
 present can change the future, and what NPCs your getting to know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyv2003
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2004 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars and the LOTR are movie trilogies that come to my mind when i think of epic. The gaming 
 world has an epic in the Baldurs Gate Series. It is hard to rate the Baldurs Gate games seperately, 
 and not together, but I'll give it a shot. BG2 starts almost exactly where BG leaves off, with 
 the main character and most of the characters from BG in the dungeon of the sorcerer Jon Irenicus. 
 Don't underestimate the first dungeon, it's a toughy for the first one to appear in the game. The 
 storyline for BG2 is what places it on a different pedestal than other RPGs, with a wonderfully 
 complex villain (Jon Irenicus) , and an evolving story for the main character. The other members 
 of your party keep the questing fresh, with wonderful dialogue (Minsc, and Jan particulary) and 
 a good variety of different classes of characters. The battle system for BG2 will be familiar to 
 D&D players, but they way it is shown will appeal to non-D&D players (choose to pause to make decisions, 
 or challenge yourself and don't use the pause button at all) . Basically the battle system is turned 
 based, but you can move around and strategize in a way you can't in most turn-based games. BG2 
 is probably the most beautiful 2D game made (i dont consider it 3D like alot of people) . The characters 
 lack detail, but the environments more than make up for it. Give me this artistic, and breathing 
 world over some other games that give you more 3D but less detail. The music for BG2 I believe 
 is well impleneted, though it doesn't standout compared to other RPGs. The game will take roughly 
 40-80 hours depending on what difficulty and how many of the side quests you complete (that's right, 
 you're in for the long haul) . Luckily there are plenty treasures to find, and coloful good deeds 
 or bad deeds to complete. If you are a fan of a RPGs or even a good story, do yourself a favor 
 and pick up BG, BG2, and BG2: Throne of Bhaal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TitaniumAlloy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2004 12:20 pm PT
Review:  --You suddenly find yourself in a rusty prison cell in a dim underground dungeon, surrounded by 
 dried blood and implements of torture. Your head hurts and you can't remember much, if anything. 
 The sound of screaming in the distance keeps you alert when a young woman runs into the room in 
 which you are being held. She hurredly unlocks your sadistic cage and frees you. 
  
  You are the child of Bhaal, the God of Murder, taken captive by an evil wizard whose intentions 
 are unclear. You find yourself immersed in the world of spell and steel, of good and evil, of safety 
 and danger. You decide your destiny, to resist the evil within you, and forge a legend of heroic 
 proportions or to embrace your monstrous inner nature, and carve a swath of destruction across 
 the Realms. --
  
  The game of Baldur's Gate is a classic, needed for any RPG fans. The game is fought in real time- 
 but with the ability to pause which will allow you to order your party before unpausing and watching 
 it in action. Characters can be made anew with thousands of possibilities of Race, Skill, Statistics 
 and Class, or imported from the original Baldur's Gate game. Great graphics, atmospheric sound 
 and environments and online multiplayer make this this ultimate fantasy gaming experience. 
  
  With hundreds of monsters to fight, spells to cast, quests to complete, areas to explore and 
 items to acquire, this game is impossible to stop playing. 
  
  What I did not like about this game was the lack of detail in some areas, and the extremely limited 
 evil play. Online play is very similar to single player in most respects and gives way to a great 
 deal of cheats and glitch abuse. 
  
  But all that aside, I thoroughly recommend this game to all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomic_Mutant
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 21, 2004 12:18 am PT
Review:  Baldurs Gate II: Shadows of Amn is the fruit of the collaboration between the creative minds of 
 Bioware and the reputable label of Black Isle. The game expands upon the great roleplaying game 
 formula devised by the Canadian developer in terms of content and graphical fidelity, all the while 
 balancing the intricacies of the popular Forgotten Realms license and the adaptation of those elements 
 into an enjoyable CRPG (computer roleplaying game) base.
  
  I certainly hope that I was one of the neophytes in this particular blend of CRPG genre to whom 
 Bioware was hoping to appeal when they developed this game. Ive never had the pleasure of being 
 involved in any paper D&D game sessions, nor had I not even played the first instalment of the 
 Baldurs Gate series and its expansion. The welcoming aspect of this title starts with the rather 
 succinct introduction of the games settings, what lead to the current scenario in the beginning 
 of the game, and what are the predicaments that the protagonist in this epic would have to overcome. 
 Bioware covered all the bases in easing the new players to the series like me feel all warm and 
 tingly inside, and what with a comprehensive tutorial, allowed me to enjoy not all, but certainly 
 most nuances of the RPG right from the beginning.
  
  One of those nuances is certainly the fun to be had in creating your own alter-ego. What hours 
 Id spent glued to the front of the monitor, keep rolling the random number generator to get as 
 high stat numbers as possible for my first character that was, predictably, a fighter. Well, not 
 hours, but certainly enough clicking was done to induce carpal tunnel syndrome in my right hand. 
 My revealing of my pathological powergaming tendencies when it comes to RPG was not to alienate 
 myself from those hardened embittered veteran players who would scoff at such foolhardy exploit 
 (and rightfully so) , but to profess that Baldurs Gate II was one of my best powergaming roleplaying 
 experiences ever!
  
  Not that Ive never been humbled by this game. There were times where I just could not bear but 
 pull my hair out of frustration such as when Kangaxx the Lich laid a smackdown on my little group 
 of jolly men (and women) with a litany of imprisonment. And other hideous and powerful monsters 
 that I do not recall as fondly except that they whimpered to their end with carefully placed traps 
 and backstabbing. Baldurs Gate II has these kinds of especial moments where the conventions of 
 wonderfully deep D&D RPG rules shine through the relatively limited and tightly scripted CRPG gameplay. 
 
  
  Whether or not the preference of your roleplaying will be compromised is not in the question; the 
 whole bevy of NPCs which various traits encompass almost the entire of range of popular D&D classes. 
 There is almost no need to be limited to any degree by the choices players would make in determining 
 the development of the player character; it is as open to possibilities as RPGs like Fallout but 
 in its own effective manner. 
  
  This game is, in some respects, even better, since the interactions between the NPCs, which might 
 as well be mindless drones doing nothing but your bidding as you would during the games pseudo 
 turn-based combat, are one of the best scripted and endearing ever. They blurt out all of a sudden, 
 and sometimes their interjections of emotional pleading can be out of place. However, the dialogues 
 make the small sprites lumbering stiffly across the screen, seemingly dazed and lost more often 
 than not thanks to the poor pathfinding system that much more real, and your roleplaying experience 
 that much more convincing and alluring. When the NPCs do not share the same outlook on personal 
 integrity (between lawful good and chaotic evil for example) , they sometimes bicker and sparks 
 fly, escalating into a blood feud. There are threads where romantic interests kinder, treated with 
 a right amount of angst and as much realism as computer game designers (good ones) can muster without 
 delving into too much melodrama.
  
  Oh the places you will go, from the commercial sprawl of Waukeens Promenade (not Joaquins Promenade) 
 to places teeming with evil such as Underdark. The plot that weaves all these fantastical places, 
 however, is not really more significant than what many would hope of the RPG of this grand scale. 
 Why, you ask? Well, the games plot is a continuation from the first instalment of Baldurs Gate, 
 where the contrivances of the player character being a Bhaalspawn has already been elaborated. 
 In Baldurs Gate II, the novelty of that premise wears off amidst a rather befuddling storyline 
 involving a gaggle of forgettable villains with little to no character development devoted to the 
 main character (to which you would be more or less personally attached, especially if the character 
 from the first instalment was imported) .
  
  The worst thing that could be said of the plot, however, is that the ending that should wrap the 
 adventure up is so underwhelming and lukewarm that it only ended up pointing to the bare and undeniable 
 fact, that Bioware was prepping an expansion pack for the game. I was disheartened, and apparently, 
 Biowares little bait of an ending did not work, at least for me; Ive not played the Throne of 
 Bhaal until this day, and given how much Ive enjoyed Shadow of Amn, it is saying much about how 
 this game shouldve done a better job of treating its conclusion more seriously and render it more 
 respect that it deserved. 
  
  Baldurs Gate II features higher level characters than were available in the first game in the 
 series, although the levels are capped at 20. The rather esoteric D&D levelling system and its 
 intricacies are sometimes lost upon me, but they do not necessarily hinder the enjoyment, all the 
 while providing a thorough option that manage all the manner of gameplay settings and can be configured 
 outside the game, most important (to me) of which is level of difficulty.
  
  The combat is the main showcase of all this adaptation of D&D rules in action, and there are a 
 lot of battles to be partaken. In pseudo-turn based style pioneered by Bioware and that became 
 a cornerstone of their approach to combat for all their games thereafter (including Knights of 
 the Republic) , the combat provides a semblance of fluid action amid the wildly rolled dice action 
 that has to be seen to be appreciated (or to understand what the heck is going on) . And with perhaps 
 the greatest contribution to the RPG gameplay mechanics since the introduction of inventory system, 
 this evolution of a combat system includes a pause function, which makes all the difference between 
 a hack trying to suck up to more impetuous gamers leaning toward action and a thoughtful master 
 craftsman who cut enough compromise but still maintained the sterling integrity of the original 
 gameplay. 
  
  Baldurs Gate II is such a game: a masterful exhibition of compromise. Who would have ever thought 
 that such a wonderful game could be borne out of a patchwork of compromises, if only unified by 
 the vision to deliver the most possible authentic while enjoyable D&D gaming experience?
  
  The graphics in Baldurs Gate II represents the pinnacle of 2D hand drawn sprites in all in their 
 painstaking glory. It is only a wonder that Bioware could have crammed this much well rendered 
 content into the game that lasts well over 100 hours. It is also a wonder how I could put up with 
 Neverwinter Nights generic 3D in its cubist glory after having feasted on the intricate BG II 
 visuals. The spell effects, which are quite beautiful while being a bit minimalist, are in part 
 driven by 3D accelerator, and fog of war also becomes its beneficiary in becoming a bit smoother. 
 The screen resolution is limited to 800x600, but can be locked, of course without technical support 
 to higher resolutions.
  
  As for the sound and music, well let me tell you I have scoured the net more than one time and 
 even resorted to P2P networks to get my hands on any music files bearing Jeremy Soule and BGII 
 moniker. The orchestrated music becomes another organic experience and ultimately fulfilling; every 
 epic game deserves equally epic music.
  
  Multiplayer does function, but on a limited basis. Ive not tried it, though, and it is mentioned 
 only because it further augments the value of this game even more than what the single player that 
 spans four CDs can offer. There are more than a few fan mods available on the net and other custom 
 graphic sets if you so wish to alter the character portraits to your roleplaying preferences.
 
  
  I think I am not the only one who hoped dearly that the license that Obsidians new RPG was based 
 upon was none other than Baldurs Gate. Of course, it was revealed later to be Neverwinter Nights 
 2, also based on the Forgotten Realms for sure, but I am certain that the gamers would sooner or 
 later be longing to bask in the warm glow of eternal sunshine afforded by their experience of a 
 place called Baldurs Gate. The legacy runs too deep, and too wide, for its name to be only archived 
 in the annals of CRPG while being relegated to a forgotten realm of the golden era of PC gaming. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hargle
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2004 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Before I start on the particulars of this game, let me get one thing straight; Baldurs Gate II 
 is a superb game for you if you are a lover of the Western RPG format (as opposed to Japanese RPGs, 
 such as the Final Fantasy series) , admittedly, it has its flaws and shortcomings, but they pale 
 in comparison to the overall greatness of the game. It has a lot of replay value, as the quests 
 you get to participate in vary a good amount from class to class. The main quest is not affected 
 much at all by the class or gender of your character, which is a shame, but there are still some 
 things you can do to affect the way you proceed to the conclusion, if not the conclusion itself. 
 I will now go into some of the elements of the game in greater detail:
  
  
  STORY
  The story itself is nothing spectacular, but it is sufficient to keep you going from one part of 
 the game to the next in-between sub quests. (Which are where the game really shines) 
  I wont spoil it for you, but I would recommend that you play BG1 before BG2, as playing without 
 some of the new features introduced in the sequel can prove quite vexing at times.
  
  
  WEAPONS AND EQUIPMENT
  There is a massive amount of custom items placed throughout the game; 
 they are not randomly generated as in Diablo and Diablo II, rather being preplaced in very much 
 the same way every time, which can detract from the replay value, but the sheer number of items 
 to find can keep you playing for a long time in your attempt to obtain them all.
  
  
  SPELLS
  There are also many, many spells at your commend in BG2, far more than in the original 
 and better animated too. Several spells have undergone a complete graphical overhaul, which was 
 much needed in some cases. While some spells can be abused rather easily, this is a choice you 
 can make for yourself and does not really take away from the value of the game altogether.
  
  
  NPCs AND THE MAIN CHARACTER
  There is an abundance of NPCs in the BG2 gameworld, and 
 while many share the same voice sets and models, there is enough diversity as to not be a true 
 issue. The main character, who you play, is of the Avatar variety, meaning he says nothing of his 
 own accord and all dialogue options are yours to chose from, some players may like this, while 
 others desire some personality of the main characters own. There are also many NPCs that are able 
 to join your party, all have their own personalities and alignments (good, neutral, evil, etc.) 
 and will interact with other party members and the main character, such interactions pause the 
 game, so as not to leave you at the mercy of your foes, and can be quite humorous at times. You 
 have to learn to pick wisely however, as innately evil characters do not like the company of innately 
 good ones, and can fall to arguments at times, which can eventually lead to party members leaving 
 you; this can also happen if you stray too far from the path that your party members are aligned 
 to, slaughtering innocent civilians is a good way to have your good party members leave you or 
 even turn on you, while evil ones will applaud your actions. You are allowed a maximum 6 party 
 members in BG2, including the main character, if you attempt to exceed this limit, you will be 
 taken to a screen where you must either select an old party member to send on his/her way, or tell 
 the new one that you dont need extra hands after all.
  
  
  
  GAMEWORLD
  The gameworld in BG2 is quite large, with locations varied between secluded forests and corrupted 
 cities, most all of them have numerous sub quests available in them at any given time, and plenty 
 of monsters to be butchered.
  
  
  ENEMIES
  The menagerie of BG2 is good-sized, ranging from helpless fodder, (Goblins) to level-draining menaces 
 such as Vampires. Some of the enemies are actually very tough, such as the several Dragons included 
 for your killing pleasure; they are no mere normal foes however, as these formidable monsters are 
 armed with a plethora of spells, many of which are very deadly, and massive hit points and attack 
 damage. As one Dragon says: Time to perish, manling!
  
  
  
  
  CONCLUSION
  Baldurs Gate II is a great game, and one of the best I have ever played. You may not agree with 
 the above statements, but dont hate me for them as they are just my opinion.
  If you are wanting a solid RPG with a decent story, great items, many side quests and a variety 
 of monsters, pick this game up cheap, depending on your perspective; it may prove to be a worthwhile 
 purchase. 
  
  
  
  By Hargle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 9, 2004 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I will break down this perfect RPG, this best RPG of all time.
  
  Graphics: Baldur's Gate II retains the gorgeous 2D backgrounds of its predecessor, which bring 
 glorious life to the Amn region. The striking appearance of the wilderness areas, cities, and underground 
 dungeons are all beautifully rendered, making players feel as though they are traveling through 
 a lavishly illustrated fantasy novel. The weather effects, including raging thunderstorms, are 
 simple yet effective, immersing players even further in the game world. Since the majority of the 
 graphics are in pre-rendered 2D, the 3D effects are minimal, but impressive. For instance, the 
 fog of war is given a smoother look, and it interferes less with the rest of the visuals. In addition, 
 the water now reflects the rest of the environment, and spell effects have been greatly enhanced. 
 The graphics are artistically great that will always hold up even now 4 years later.
  
  Ineterface: Players can customize just about every aspect of the game to match their system specs 
 and personal styles. Players can remap all of the hotkeys, as well as fine-tune the sound and graphics 
 options. 
  
  The in-game interface makes it a snap to control your party members and how they interact with 
 the environment. One of the most important improvements is the ability to hide the entire interface, 
 which pops back up when the action is paused. Also, players can now access the inventory screen 
 while the game is paused, which makes tactical management much simpler during combat. 
  
  Gameplay: Baldur's Gate II is computer role-playing at its best. Plenty of character options make 
 it possible to create just about any type of protagonist imaginable, and yet the game adapts to 
 the choices that the player makes. At times, it feels as if a human Dungeon Master is altering 
 the story to fit with your play style, which is an amazing accomplishment. Fable take note!! The 
 story itself is enthralling (hello Fable) , with well-drawn characters that evolve over its course. 
 It is an epic tale that asks players to make morally ambiguous choices, gradually nudging them 
 closer to their ultimate decision: whether or not to embrace the legacy of Bhaal, the Lord of Murder. 
 STORY IS VERY IMPORTANT IN RPG's!
  
  The sheer size of Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn is also impressive. Numerous quests are available 
 in almost every area, but the main plotline remains easy to follow. This immense scope could be 
 daunting to newcomers, but the gargantuan, comprehensive manual, informative tutorial, and slow 
 learning curve make it simple to get into the realm of Amn. The is game along with the expansion 
 pack can take upwards of 160 hours! Fable is 9 hours.
  
  Sound FX: Baldur's Gate II boasts excellent sounds, The echo effect used in dungeons is amazing. 
 Also touches such as the rattle of heavy armor, thunder and rain, the roar of monsters and the 
 clang of weapons brings the world to life as handily as the graphics.
  
  One of the first sounds that players will hear upon starting Baldur's Gate II is the voice of the 
 antagonist, as played by actor David Warner. His perfect, chilling delivery lends credibility to 
 even the least inspiring dialogue, and creates a real sense of menace surrounding your adversary. 
 For the most part, the acting follows his example, as the voice credits are a veritable "who's 
 who" list of talented voiceover artists. However, the voice samples available for your protagonist 
 are still a little silly, with only a couple of new, uninspiring additions.
  
  Musical Score: Raising the standard set by the first Baldur's Gate, the music in the sequel is 
 perfectly suited to a high fantasy epic. At times haunting, mournful, and inspiring, the sweeping 
 orchestral score successfully evokes the realm of Faerun almost single-handedly. A number of the 
 new cues are thematically similar to tunes from the first game, but are blended with new motifs 
 to produce an entirely different feel. The score seemed a bit sparse at times, but the lack of 
 repetition and the amazing quality of the compositions more than compensated.
  
  AI & Difficulty: The AI of your opponents is controlled by AD&D morale rules, and as such is fairly 
 basic. If enemies take a certain amount of damage, or are outnumbered, they are more likely to 
 panic and retreat, but their other behavior is limited to simply attacking your party. Magic-using 
 adversaries often use nonsensical spells, such as repeatedly casting the True Sight spell when 
 none of your party members are invisible. However, monsters will sometimes follow you from location 
 to location, invalidating the simple "flee to the next screen" tactic. On the other hand, you have 
 total control over the AI of your party members, using either included pre-made scripts or by compiling 
 your own, which allows you to "program" your allies to act exactly the way you want them to.
  
  The difficulty level is adjustable; the medium setting adheres strictly to the AD&D core rules, 
 while the other settings adjust the amount of damage that monsters inflict. On the Core Rules level, 
 Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn provides a variety of challenges for veterans and novices alike.
 
  
  Overall: Black Isle and Bioware have done it again, creating another RPG that celebrates all that 
 is great about the genre and breaks new ground at the same time. This is the best RPG ever made 
 and only Bioware will be able to top it which may happen when they release their epic upcoming 
 RPG Dragon Age in 2005. Astounding graphics, sound, and storytelling combine to make the definitive 
 fantasy RPG epic, one that will enthrall players for years to come.
  
  The Lemmings have been OWNED!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkSmith
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 23, 2004 7:33 pm PT
Review:  A very deep game, the pinnacle of its genre. Even better than Fallout is Baldur's gate 2. Heck, 
 even the manual to this game is deeper than alot of games themselves.
  
  Graphics-Not spectacular, but good fora game of this type.
  
  Gameplay-Very customized. Everything 
 is about you. Whatever youy say and do affect sthe game. Either have the repuation of a hero, or 
 be hated like the coundrel you are
  
  Sound-meh. Oh well, its just sound.
  
  Value-Did I menation thsi game is deep? Hope you didnt really think you had time for a social life.
 
  
  The final scoop: Its not for everyone, but you you like action RPG's, you'd be doing yourself a 
 disservice not to pick up this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2004 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Fun and varied tactical combat with loads of options for your characters as they develop. Really 
 that says it all. The combat is quasi-turn-based and will turn off some, but stopping the combat 
 allows one to make many decisions during the fight that would be impossible in a real-time comabt 
 game. 
  
  The game has some faults: the in-game character graphics are disappointing. The story is just OK 
 and the ending made me groan out loud it is so cliche. Some of the sub-quests are also pretty cheesy 
 story-wise (like the Druid quest) but many of the other sub-quests are quite good. You can play 
 "evil" but only to a certain point and then you have to play the rest of the game in the same missions 
 as those who created a "good" team. The gameplay is all about choices that you can make -- its 
 very satisfying to play the game a 2nd time with a different team.
  
  The great turn-based combat combat makes up for any of its faults.
  
  I should add that the 
 add-on is worth getting for this game. 
  
  If it weren't for the sometimes cheesy plot-line, the game would get a 10 rating. Planescape Torment 
 has a much much better story and uses the same engine as Buldur's Gate II.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 29, 2004 11:46 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate II is an excellent game and a great sequel to the original. The game has a great 
 story that is well interwoven into the game. Perhaps the biggest thing that stands out about the 
 game is its sheer size. That are lots of side quests that you can partake in if you so choose. 
 These side quests are also interesting and never fall into the uninteresting pattern of "gofer" 
 quests. They also contribute to a strong sense on non-linearity to the game as you can do many 
 of these quests at any time in the game.
  
  The graphics are definitely the next generation beyond the original game. The painted backgrounds 
 look very good. Every area is also very detailed and serves some function. There are no random 
 areas in the wilderness you have to trudge through that have no interesting elements to them other 
 than killing enemies. Each area in BGII contributes in some fashion toward your quests.
  
  The sound is also very good. I particular like the rain the accompanying thunder that occurs occasionally 
 throughout the game.
  
  The character are also very fun. It's great to get characters in your party who know each and who 
 randomly engage in interesting and often witty discussions with each other. Of course, there's 
 the return of Minsk and Boo, "Sword, meet evil. Evil, meet my sword!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epaminondas_1
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 12, 2003 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I have never understood why anyone would like Baldur's Gate II. Yes, the graphics are pretty good 
 for this style of game, and the voice-acting isn't terrible, and the ambient sound is above-average. 
 But it all goes downhill from there. The story, for one, is awful. It's the same stupid chosen-one 
 plot we've seen in a thousand games before. Then, the gameplay... put simply, it's boring. Spend 
 an inordinate amount of time creating an ugly character, and then spend an inordinate amount of 
 time doing simple things like swinging your sword... that's right, you only attack EVERY SIX SECONDS! 
 Battles that in other RPGs are fun and exciting and made excruciatingly painful in this game. Also, 
 in between these awful sequences, you must manage your party, which is too large for its own good. 
 I didn't think it was possible, but someone has created a game worse than Fallout Tactics. Bleh. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvdre
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 15, 2003 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game when it first came out, after enjoying the original Baldur's Gate and Tales 
 of the Sword Coast. I started playing and then set it aside -- for a reason I'll explain later 
 -- and then got wrapped up in Dugeon Siege, Neverwinter Nights and then Icewind Dale II. But I 
 kept BG II in the back of my mind, knowing I wanted to come back to it.
  
  I did restart it recently, and I've had a great two months of gameplay. What a fantastic game -- 
 story, music, humor, interface, combat, voices. It is simply first class in every way. It ranks 
 among my all-time favorites.
  
  I'll admit to being a total freak about playing D&D role-playing games -- they have wiped out any 
 desire I have to play games like Unreal, Quake, NASCAR sims, etc. Ever since Planescape Torment, 
 I've been hooked.
  
  These D&D games can be grouped into two main types 1) hack 'n' slash -- Diablo and Diablo II being 
 the best of those and 2) role-playing stories -- Planescape Torment being the purest of those I've 
 played. Most games combine these elements. Dungeon Siege barely has a story, Icewind Dale and IDII 
 have a story, but who cares?
  
  Baldur's Gate II falls much more into the category of role-playing story. It has a great plot, 
 and the plot is nearly always a factor. Combat, although plentiful, is not hack 'n' slash. It is 
 more strategic, using your team of characters (up to 6) to the best of their abilities. In a good 
 team, each character must contribute. In fact, one of your characters at any moment might be the 
 key to your survival. That's engrossing.
  
  But the greatest feature of BGII is the quirky personalities of the characters. They are all unique 
 and VERY willful. They will nag you, annoy you, please you, surprise you. And they might just up 
 and revolt against you. I had Keldorn (good) and Vincona (evil) in my party, and they are both 
 really valuable characters. Keldorn is a kick-butt fighter with great magic resistance, and Vincona 
 is a pure cleric who can save your life in the worst of the undead dungeons. But after a few heated 
 arguments, Keldorn just up and attacked Vincona. He would have killed her, but I broke it up. I 
 then dismissed Keldorn in favor of Vincona. About one chapter later, Vincona got angry about the 
 'goodness' of my team and quit on me in the middle of a quest!
  
  The characters makes for great, unpredictable gameplay.
  
  And the dialogue at times can have 
 you rolling on the floor with laughter. Minsc (a tough but goofy ranger) is always ready with a 
 funny line, and yet at times shows such fierce devotion to your team that it can almost draw tears. 
 And Nalia (a mage) is always fretting outside a city, because she doesn't like peeing outdoors. 
 And Korgan, the evil dwarf, will agree to your direction, but add "or I might chop your head off, 
 heh heh."
  
  This gets back to my initial mistake playing the game. I tried to create my own team of six user-created 
 characters. Although I formed a very strong team, they had no personality at all. That would take 
 away all the fun of the game. When I restarted months later, I created a female 'skald' bard as 
 my main character, and used NPCs for all the rest. Much, much, more enjoyable.
  
  I highly recommend Baldur's Gate II. It is an exceptional gaming experience. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
