-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Baldur's Gate
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/baldursgate/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 20, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 9.2, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 4,090 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: BioWare
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 30, 1998 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Baldur's Gate largely manages to meet, and even surpass, gamers' high expectations for this ambitious 
 game. 

 Very few computer games based upon Advanced Dungeons &amp; Dragons, the most influential role-playing 
 game system of them all, have been released over the past several years, and those that did make 
 it to retail shelves have been ill-conceived, substandard products. In that context, it's hardly 
 surprising that Baldur's Gate, which many gamers suspected would finally bring AD&amp; D back to 
 the forefront of computer gaming, has been one of the most anxiously anticipated role-playing games 
 ever. Less expected, however, has been the extent to which non-hard-core role-playing gamers have 
 expressed interest in Baldur's Gate, perhaps lured by promises of features atypical of RPGs, such 
 as detailed 32-bit graphics, 3D sound, and multiplayer support. Now that the game has finally been 
 released, perhaps the biggest surprise is that Baldur's Gate, with its thoroughly addictive gameplay 
 and meticulous attention to detail, largely manages to meet, and even surpass, gamers' high expectations 
 for this ambitious game.  

 Many role-playing gamers openly expressed their disappointment when developer BioWare Corporation 
 announced that it was adapting AD&amp; D's turn-based gameplay to its proprietary real-time engine. 
 Stats-loving, rule-abiding, Gnoll-stomping AD&amp; D fans obstinately asserted that AD&amp; D just 
 couldn't be successfully adapted into a real-time game engine. Fortunately, BioWare stuck to its 
 game designing instincts, because no computer game has ever done a better job at simulating AD&amp; D. 
 Character creation and development is steadfastly accurate to AD&amp; D second-edition rules, allowing 
 gamers to create characters from six different races, eight core character classes, and eight specialty 
 mage classes and to advance in experience points and character levels as tasks are accomplished 
 and beasties are slain. Multiclassed and dual-classed characters are permitted, subject to the 
 applicable AD&amp; D rules governing such characters. Many aspects of AD&amp; D that have never been 
 emulated in a computer game, at least in any meaningful manner, are featured prominently in Baldur's 
 Gate, such as the significance of a party leader's charisma, character morale, the speed factors 
 of weapons and spells, the special abilities of thief characters and the tensions between characters 
 of differing alignments. The real-time adaptation of AD&amp; D's combat, which is really the core 
 of the game, works exceptionally well, modeling dozens of weapons and the 100-plus included spells 
 in a manner that provides visceral, immediate feedback, is visually appealing, and is eminently 
 controllable, since you can pause the action at any time to issue new orders to your characters. 
 Almost all of the monsters, spells, and magic items, and even some of the locations and characters 
 in the game, are taken straight out of the core AD&amp; D source books and related lore. BioWare 
 took some liberties with the AD&amp; D rules in the interest of game balance, as the number of spells 
 available to certain mage specialty classes was increased, for example, and the abilities of paladins 
 and rangers were tweaked, but only an ideologue would deny that there's never been a more faithful 
 adaptation of AD&amp; D.   

 Baldur's Gate is set in the Sword Coast region of AD&amp; D's most popular milieu, the Forgotten 
 Realms. Interestingly, although Baldur's Gate is a party-based game, the storyline is based around 
 a single main character, even in the multiplayer version of the game. The main character has grown 
 up in the monk-infested citadel of learning, Candlekeep. Learning of a mysterious, impending threat, 
 the character is forced to flee Candlekeep early on and is constantly assailed by would-be assassins 
 throughout the course of the game. The motivations of your character's enemies are not entirely 
 intuitive, other than their obvious intention to smack your character's head into applesauce, and 
 uncovering the rationale behind the actions of your character's enemies is your main goal in the 
 game. As in games such as Betrayal at Krondor, the main storyline in Baldur's Gate is divided into 
 chapters, during which certain key tasks have to be accomplished by your party in order to advance 
 the plot. While using a chapter structure creates a more story-driven game, it also potentially 
 creates unduly linear gameplay, where the actions of your characters are arbitrarily limited in 
 order to fit within the constraints of the chapter structure. Baldur's Gate deftly avoids that 
 design trap and is perhaps the first game to implement a chapter structure and yet still grant 
 you tremendous freedom to explore the gaming world in a very nonlinear fashion with a party composed 
 of members chosen by you. In fact, while the game will always give you ample clues to help you 
 to advance the main plot, you're generally free to do so at your own pace and often without specifically 
 knowing which particular actions will bring an end to the seven chapters in the game, allowing 
 the plot to advance in a more natural fashion.   

 Freedom to explore within a story-driven game sounds like the best of both worlds, but the plot 
 of Baldur's Gate is advanced almost exclusively through scrolling text and voice-narrated messages 
 that play at the beginning of each chapter and aren't particularly compelling. Nonplayer characters 
 in the game tend to only give your characters simple messages and basic tasks to accomplish. The 
 lack of significant interaction with NPCs other than your party members, who are quite colorful, 
 combined with the frequency of combat in the game, makes Baldur's Gate feel far more like a hack 
 and slash game than a story-driven one, which is a trait that's certainly consistent with previous 
 AD&amp; D computer games.   

 There are a couple of dozen nonplayer characters capable of joining your player character to create 
 a party of up to six adventurers, and some of the party member NPCs have particularly distinctive 
 personalities. Unlike in most other RPGs, where NPCs are routinely given colorful introductions 
 and backgrounds that ultimately have no impact whatsoever on gameplay, party member NPCs in Baldur's 
 Gate will vigorously pursue their own agendas, even if they are contrary to your own intentions. 
 Continue to act in a manner contrary to a party member's alignment and that character will voice 
 his displeasure and eventually unilaterally leave the party and attack your character. In a manner 
 similar to the way the companions in Ultima VII or the mercenaries in Jagged Alliance behaved, 
 NPCs in Baldur's Gate will occasionally respond to events in the game or will even carry on short 
 dialogues amongst themselves. The interactions work well, although they are quite repetitive, and 
 because there are so many potential members, there's a lot of potential replayability if you're 
 eager to see all of the character interactions.  

 If you'd prefer to create an entire party yourself, you can do so by starting a multiplayer game 
 and playing it solo. Baldur's Gate is, of course, also the first fairly hard-core RPG that you 
 can play multiplayer, either over the Internet (Gamespy is included with the game, or you can play 
 it over the Heat network) or using a more local connection. Up to six human players can each control 
 a character, with the host of the game deciding which players are given the ability to pause the 
 game, talk to NPCs, spend party gold, or perform any other action that affects other players. Action 
 gamers hoping that Baldur's Gate will satisfy their cravings for a new Diablo will likely be disappointed 
 with the party-based focus of the multiplayer version of Baldur's Gate. Any time a conversation 
 or a transaction with a shopkeeper is initiated by a player, the action pauses for all of the other 
 players, who are shown the text of the conversation or the shopkeeper's wares, as the case may 
 be, but are otherwise unable to participate in the conversation or transaction. While players are 
 given a great deal of flexibility to otherwise explore an area map on their own, they have to leave 
 each area map as a group. Since the story remains focused on a single main character, the game 
 will end if that character is killed, and occasionally conversations will be directed more towards 
 that character than the rest of the party members, leaving most of the players feeling like overgrown 
 Robins to the main character's Batman. But if you have a group of friends who are collectively 
 willing to stick together and play through the game as a party (gee, the same requirement as pen-and-paper 
 AD&amp; D) , Baldur's Gate provides an unparalleled role-playing game experience. While in the past 
 pen-and-paper RPG grognards have suggested that computer role-playing games can never adequately 
 re-create the human interaction that is a core aspect of a role-playing game, they'll be hard pressed 
 to make the same arguments now that Baldur's Gate has done an admirable job at creating a true 
 multiplayer RPG experience.  

 Baldur's Gate sports detailed, isometric graphics displayable in up to 32-bit color if you have 
 a 4MB video card. Most games that use an isometric perspective are actually tile-based, building 
 their landscapes like a giant jigsaw puzzle, pieced together by a series of individually crafted 
 tiles. Since each tile is usually used over and over again, even good tile-based games, like Diablo, 
 tend to eventually give you the overwhelming sense that you've seen it all before, even when exploring 
 new environments in the game. Baldur's Gate, on the other hand, is not tile-based, and features 
 fully rendered backgrounds, and each new area you explore in Baldur's Gate will look different 
 from the others, since it has been uniquely crafted. The backgrounds also depict elevation reasonably 
 well, which is another rarity in isometric-perspective games, allowing you to view sizable cliffs 
 and waterfalls. The individual character graphics are also quite detailed and accurately reflect 
 both the armor and weapons your characters have equipped. Unfortunately, the character graphics 
 are also quite small, and screen resolution is restricted to 640x480, making it difficult to really 
 appreciate some of the small details on individual icons. There are also no real dynamic lighting 
 effects, and since there aren't movable objects that cast light (in part because of the difficulties 
 in depicting dynamic lighting in a non-tile-based game) , Baldur's Gate doesn't include such AD&amp; D 
 fixtures as "Light" spells or equipped torches. Still, while the graphics would have been unsurpassed 
 if Baldur's Gate had come out when it was initially targeted for release a year ago, they are still 
 easily the best graphics to ever be featured in a role-playing game and a big step up from the 
 dated pixels that usually appear in games of the genre.  

 Support for Creative Labs' EAX 3D audio is included and used to good effect. The voices of characters 
 echoing in caverns and thunder from the prolific storms in the game often sound as if they are 
 surrounding your party. The musical score is also of high quality, favoring suitably epic orchestral 
 tunes instead of more subtle tracks. The game's interface is particularly well done, always providing 
 you with several ways to get something done. You can choose to control your characters in real-time 
 strategy fashion by dragging a box around them with your mouse, or you can select one of the available 
 preprogrammed formations. To control a character you can either click on its icon, or on its portrait, 
 which is always onscreen, or if you'd prefer to take a more hands-off approach and just watch the 
 action, you can choose from a number of preprogrammed AI "scripts" or even design your own script 
 to determine how that character will act in a variety of situations. Much of the interface is customizable 
 as well, allowing you to create your own character portraits and sounds for use in the game and 
 change the frequency of verbal character responses, the quick spells that a character can cast 
 in an instant, the subtlety of some of the graphical feedback, etc. Even though Baldur's Gate is 
 a relatively complex game, many of AD&amp; D's complex rules are incorporated seamlessly, hidden 
 from casual gamers who would rather just focus on adventuring.   

 Not everything works perfectly or logically in Baldur's Gate. While the weather effects are well 
 done, the weather in the Sword Coast seems particularly fickle and uncertain as to the season, 
 bombarding your characters with thunderstorms for days, only to be interrupted by a short snowfall, 
 and then to finally return to sunny climes. The font used for most of the text in the game isn't 
 particularly easy to read. The path-finding abilities of your characters are fairly poor in the 
 initial release of the game, requiring you to micromanage your characters as they wander through 
 underground labyrinths. BioWare has already released a beta patch for the game that purports to 
 fix this problem by allowing gamers to choose the number of path-finding nodes relied upon by their 
 characters. The automapping function is excellent, but it would have been great to have been able 
 to annotate the maps. Similarly, the auto-note-taking journal records your party's key conversations 
 in a creative manner, but it's difficult to find specific passages in an instant, since references 
 to completed quests are not discarded, and excerpts relative to a particular quest might be spread 
 out through several chapters of the game and therefore the journal. Most significantly, because 
 the game staunchly requires DirectX 6-compliant video and soundcard drivers and uses infrequently 
 utilized 24-bit and 32-bit Direct Draw aspects of DirectX, gamers have to ensure that their video 
 and soundcards are using updated drivers, and even then there are many cards, even very mainstream 
 ones, that have drivers that aren't certified DirectX 6 compliant. The official Baldur's Gate web 
 site has been updated with work-arounds for many of the cards that gamers initially reported problems 
 with, and these problems should fade once the hardware manufacturers have ensured that their drivers 
 have been updated.   

 Of course, some gamers may not like the AD&amp; D system faithfully re-created by Baldur's Gate. 
 In many ways, while playing Baldur's Gate it becomes apparent why the AD&amp; D system has effectively 
 been superseded by better-balanced role-playing systems. Mages, who have to memorize individual 
 spells instead of relying on a more flexible "manna" or spell-point system, are still wimps at 
 the beginning of the game and extremely deadly compared with fighters at higher character levels. 
 Combat is resolved in a bludgeoning, basic manner, where characters show no ill effects in spite 
 of their virtual battle scars until they suddenly keel over upon being reduced to that magic 0 
 hit-point marker. But those are all problems inherent in the AD&amp; D system, which BioWare has 
 been forced to duplicate in Baldur's Gate. Within the constraints of the AD&amp; D system, the game 
 has been balanced extremely well. There are so many little details that elevate Baldur's Gate above 
 the pack: the ambient life (birds, insects, squirrels, bats, etc.) included to flesh out the gaming 
 world; the way your opponents' bodies will twitch after they've fallen or explode if you manage 
 to reduce them to more than ten hit points below zero; the realistic-sounding thunder; the visually 
 beautiful spell effects; the echoes in underground caves if you have an EAX-compliant sound card; 
 and character "familiars" like the "miniature giant space hamster." Outstanding. Not only is Baldur's 
 Gate easily the best computer adaptation of AD&amp; D ever, it also convincingly returns role-playing 
 games to the forefront of computer gaming.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (75 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: arijit_2404
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2009 12:08 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate is a masterpiece from house of Bioware. I love Bioware games and my love started 
 when I first played BG. When I picked up the game I knew it is a RPG game. What I didn't know that 
 it is based on DnD system which I never heard of because I live outside of US. But Bioware designed 
 this game so good that I never felt that I was in different land. 
  
  BG was crafted beautifully. Though the graphics is dated but it was not bad either. But nonetheless, 
 a great RPG may lack great graphics but should ot lack story. Thankfully, BG has a great solid 
 story. The maps were different and never felt repetitive. There are different enemies in the game 
 and it made the game more interesting. Lots of weapons and spells, character customization added 
 into the gameplay which take my enjoyment bar to the fullest.
  
  I didn't like the starting of the game. First few hours were really slow and unless few party member 
 were gathered it was less interesting. Fortunately this spans for first few maps.
  
  Pros:
  + A great story
  + Lots of Weapons, Spells, Monsters, Maps.
  + Excellent adoption 
 of DnD system.
  + Longer gameplay.
  
  Cons:
  - Graphics a bit dated, could have been better.
  - Slow starting.
  
  I would really love 
 to see a Baldur's Gate 3, if possible. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tam
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I bought BG1 and its expansion, TSotSC, when they first came out and, on re-installing and re-starting 
 them just the other day, completely forgot that it was an ancient but energetic and absorbing decade-nt.
 
  
  Ten years I've been playing this! I can think of no other Game of any genre - with the ver notable 
 exceptions of Looking Glass' two System Shcok classics - that has held my rapt attention so many 
 times for so long over such a duration.
  
  True, I was quite an avid PnP RPGer in my childhood (I was about 20, I think!) but, prior to Bioware's 
 wunderkind nothing I've tried on the silicon scene - and there were a great number like Ultima 
 and Wizardry - gave anywhere the same the same powerfully magnetic, absorpbing qualities as this. 
 
  
  I don't think there's any need for me to continue. You get the picture: the Bo Derek of computer 
 games, an eternal 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsedai
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  To say that I enjoyed this game would be a true understatement. It didn't feel like a computer 
 game as much as it felt like an immersion into Dungeons and Dragons but without the paper and pencil 
 this time. I was able to control my party quite easily and it showed how flexible you can be with 
 your strategies. The graphics were acceptable for its time but mattered very little compared to 
 the exceptional gameplay and that storyline. Oh, that story was powerful and you felt very convinced 
 that you were needed in the world of Amn. 
  
  The Co-op multiplayer was pure fun but still played quite well as a single player story within 
 the campaign. It was this game that started a real trend of RPG playing for me and brought about 
 a hunger for more and more Bosses to be beaten by my party. I will always remember the story and 
 that evil boss, Jon Ironicus. Yes, I'll remember this as one of the best games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odintsaq
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  So many things have been said about this games that I cannot think of way of fitting all the comments 
 into a simple review.
  
  Let's start with the basics:
  
  - RPG genre revival.
  - AD&D licenses revival (and more than anything our beloved Forgotten Realms) .
  - The rise of 
 a great game's studio.
  - Modding community on the rise for RPG games.
  - A really interesting story.
  - An addictive gameplay.
  - And last but not least BOO the intergalactic 
 hamster!!!!!
  
  This first game in the series really enthralled us with it's use of core AD&D rules in the most 
 applicable way in a CRPG. I mean while doing another review about one of these mythical in the 
 table games or pen and paper games, I read a review of a dissatisfied player that was stating in 
 a few lines that the game couldn't be a real time game but should have been a turn based one. Some 
 people that play RPGs in a pen a paper campaign might as well agree with the lad. But I quite disagree 
 due to the fact that we have to recognize that even though the turn based system in a RPG is interesting 
 and in its way enspelling (especially when those fireballs are thrown) but as AD&D was (and now 
 D&D whatever edition) a CRPG totally turn based and based on the rules would end up tormenting 
 at least. This is what separates the Baldur's Gates series or the Icewind Dale ones from an really 
 famous (and also beloved) series: Might & Magic. Yes I know. Some people might argue that the casting 
 times are not good, that magic missile is really powerful and more thing of the line. Sometimes 
 I think we forget that we play PC (or console) games for having a good time and relax, not for 
 looking small details that don't follow the line of the original (this thing doesn't apply in the 
 Lord Of The Rings movies) . Baldur's Gate had its flaws, but they were cast aside by something that 
 since the Eye of the Beholder RPG gamers hadn't seen: a REALLY GOOD game.
  
  So before opening an endless debate and start having ramblings of a madman I'll just skip in the 
 review itself.
  
  The story begins with a tutorial (that you can skip it) , and after learning all the useful things 
 with a fetch and go quest you get into the action. I won't give away any plot spoilers should it 
 happen that anyone reading this hasn't actually played it (bad boy/girl! go right now to you PC!) .
 
  
  You can actually have a turn based system, through the option (I don't use it) , or you can simply 
 pause the game and assign specific actions to your players. You can have a party of totally six 
 persons and anyone of them can die with no (immediate) consequences, except you. Should this happens 
 you have to load a previously saved game. One setback of the game are the bows. You can actually 
 finish the game without having to draw your steel only but a few times.
  
  Obviously the main character can be anything you like (AD&D anything, not D&D 3rd and above) . Since 
 the game is a hack and slash game a fighter is a solid (and easy) option. Personally I use a Fighter/Thief 
 multiclass, and once even went to the Fighter/Thief/Mage kit. The bad thing if you choose an option 
 like this because of the low level limit you cannot progress sufficiently in all classes (especially 
 a Mage in a multiclass) . All the other players have fixed attributes and classes. In your travels 
 you will encounter all kinds of classes (and BOO) .
  
  The dialog of game is rich, has a lot of humor (OK, its not Monkey Island) and for the standards 
 of the time it was above average. The sound and music are also very nice and blend in the atmosphere 
 smoothly. The funny and cool thing was that you could choose the voice of your character, so you 
 could have funny lines during battles, or grumpy (dwarflike better said) .
  
  The graphics (always considering the release date) are pretty and give a really good picture of 
 the Sword Coast as conceived by Ed Greenwood (at least I hope so, so he won't send Elminster into 
 changing me into a frog or something like that) .
  
  The story is well worked and it is separated in chapters. The BEST thing in the game is that the 
 storyline isn't linear (as it would come to be in Baldur's Gate II and Icewind Dale I & II) . You 
 have to complete the current chapter objectives so you can explore more terrain, but since the 
 beginning you are free to roam in the Sword Coast. This is truly something worthy of praise, since 
 it is offering you lots of hours of gameplay and the feeling you are part of an AD&D campaign with 
 your friends at home.
  
  This is one of the best RPGs ever made. It became a legend since it was a massive and unexpected 
 sold-out of a genre that was having rough times. It made the D&D and Forgotten Realms find their 
 way back into the hearts of some people, or in other cases it made some of them get to know it 
 and love it (my first campaign with my best friend for example in Forgotten Realms) . If only they 
 could have made another hundred of the like of it!!!
  
  This review is dedicated to Gary Gygax. Thank you. A lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RiSkyBiZ-13
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate is what first got me into RPG's. Everything about this game is addicting, from the 
 epic music to the unbeatable storyline. The combat system is one of the greatest I have ever seen 
 in any game, simultaneously switching from turn based to real time whenever you want to, the ability 
 to set up a deadly barrage of attacks and watch the aftermath. The character customization is one 
 of the best I've ever seen. This game is a must have in any gamer's collection. I'll break it down:
 
  
  Graphics: AMAZING for it's time, the use of pre-rendered backgrounds makes the world incredibly 
 detailed, even on today's standards.
  
  Storyline: Immersive, to say the least. It's like an interactive novel.
  
  Combat system: Like 
 I said, unbeatable.
  
  Gameplay: Smooth...
  
  I'd rate it 15/10 if I could. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrinningDemon19
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This was the first big RPG I got for my computer 10 years ago and I still play it! It follows the 
 D&D rules pretty closely and works perfectly if you can't get a real life group together or they 
 don't play as offerened as you would like. I just can't say enough good things about this game, 
 the graphics are good, the game play is easy, the story is great! Allowing you to set up your parties 
 AI allows you to run a group of like 7 ( I think it is) without problems. With a top down view 
 of the whole thing and being able to pause and set up your spells to be cast and moves to make 
 while having plenty of time to think them over. There are tons of NPCs to get to know and allows 
 you to make a team that truely fits how you wanna play. With thousnads of choices to make on both 
 the side quests and main quest you can shape the game how ever you would like. This is a must for 
 anyone that likes RPG's or plays D&D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j007penz
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate could easily be considered a landmark of the gaming industry in computer roleplaying 
 games. With the ability to roll your character from scratch and then begin upon a quest with freedom 
 of choice in dialogue and the path you choose to complete the game, Baldur's Gate and its expansion 
 makes the work of Bioware and Black Isle seem almost genius.
  
  The story starts you off as a young character who has mysterious side to him and this character 
 that you create yourself through the 2nd edition rules of Dungeons and Dragons meets many NPC's 
 throughout his journey to find out about himself and his heritage. You're able to control a total 
 of 6 characters at one time, being able to control everything about the characters from choosing 
 their class each level to what weapons and armor they have equipped. All these NPCs that you're 
 able to pick up have their own background and class and you can choose to either support their 
 cause or leave them behind. Another mage doesn't really go with your party, well, just leave them 
 for another point and time in the game. The story through Baldur's Gate and Tales of the Sword 
 Coast will lead the player and his companions on an enormous adventure exploring areas and maps 
 that look both beautiful and serene. Through your travels of these beautiful landscapes, your self-created 
 character and his companions that he has picked up will become extremely and knowledgeable warriors 
 that will face tougher and tougher opponents and puzzles so the gameplay never gets dull. Think 
 you're so powerful, take a trip over to the Shadow Dragon's temple and see how you and your friends 
 stack up against his ancient magic. 
  
  There are just a multitude of quests to do to gain experience throughout Baldur's Gate: Tales of 
 the Sword Coast, whether you're clearing out crazy gnolls from ancient ruins or completing a quest 
 one of your companions asked you to do, you'll spend many hours crossing the lands of fields and 
 forests. The gameplay is pretty open-ended letting the character choose his own path, being able 
 to travel to almost anywhere in the game right off, but the point of whether you live or not because 
 of the level of your character can definitely lead you into certain directions from time to time. 
 All the quests aren't all the same either. You won't be dealt, what are known as "mailman" quests, 
 throughout the game. Traveling and carrying items from point A to point B. Black Isle took time 
 on the story and the quests in the game making the gameplay seem fluid and smooth from the beginning 
 till the end.
  
  The hundreds upon hundreds of quests throughout this game easily provide the player with 100 hours 
 of playtime. There have been many mods made for Baldur's Gate including the rather extended one 
 named: Baldur's Gate: Dark Side of the Sword Coast which adds many more hours to the almost limitless 
 gameplay that can be had in Baldur's Gate. Playing through with each character, different party 
 members, or going solo through the whole campaign can give the player new experiences and challenges 
 and give the game an almost unlimited amount of replay value
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azwhtknight
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is what all rpgs should strive to be. The depth of the game-play is incredible! The customization 
 of everything from race and class to the color of your clothing is nothing short of cool. You are 
 able to chose the way your character develops and who accompanies him in his quests. The variety 
 of compatriots you have to choose from is a nifty way to keep the game fresh and new every time 
 you play it (and play it more than once you will) . The only constant in my party is the ever lovable 
 "Boo the space hamster" and his dimwitted owner Minsc. The storyline is interesting from get-go 
 and only improves as the game unfolds. The main path that one takes through the game is only eclipsed 
 by the numerous and intriguing side quests. You will do everything from running menial errands 
 to conquering dungeons and slaying wizards in the pursuit of the all important experience points 
 that the side quests provide. The game takes place in a large world so there is lots to explore. 
 My recommendation however, is to play it with it's expansion pack 'Tales of the Sword Coast' which 
 will add a lot more areas to explore as well as additional weapons and side quests. The creatures 
 you will encounter are numerous and true to the D&D theme. There are lots of "sword fodder".. er.. I 
 mean monsters to battle with and loads of NPCs to interact with. If you love the Dungeons and Dragons 
 genre or are just a gamer, there are endless hours of enjoyment to be had for any serious rpg fanatic. 
 This is my all time favorite game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordan_allison
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 3:17 am PT
Review:  to start with story, it is amazing.
  You start as a young adult in the castle town of Candlekeep were u begin to know the controls and 
 interface as the character of your creation. Soon after your adopted father Gorion informs you 
 that you are to leave. After leaving Gorion is killed by Savorock (or however u spell that) whom 
 is trying to find all the bhall spawn (no spoilers so Don't Worry)
  So with the story out of the way. The world of the forgotten realms is spectacular and features 
 beautiful art and wonderful layout. The animations are repedative but thats only the era of gaming 
 you can't expect any more.
  you can build a party of hero's to join you there are about 30 choices throughout the world and 
 all have unique skills and weaknesses.
  in character creation you have literally thousands of combinations. Male-Female, Human - Elf - 
 Half-Elf - Halfling - Dwarf - Gnome. many classes and attributes.
  the story may become unclear in the earlier quests but soon were u have to go becomes clear apon 
 reflection.
  the difficulty curve is a flat line so as soon as your in thats it the better the stuff u get generally 
 the harder the enemy. but that said you still can manage without any knowledge of dungeons and 
 dragons.
  The games real play length depends on how many side quests you perform (whether evil or good) to 
 complete the game in full id say over 40 hours at least. i could only beat this time with a character 
 i imported from the end of the game. 
  
  Great game anyone who is in the RPG scene should pick it up and since the DVD edition including 
 BG2 and both expansions is only AU$20.00 its way worth it i can stretch that enough
  100% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vsivertsen
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  high. Last time I played role-playing games on the computer and was enthousiastic, was when SSI 
 launched the gold box series. I still take them out to play them once in a while. Baldur's Gate 
 is set in Forgotten Realms, my favorite gaming world. Immidiately after starting up the game, I 
 loved it. They way you created the character was very much alike the board game. Baldur's Gate 
 is a very lively world, with great character plots and dialogues. You are litterly drawn into the 
 story. With thousands upon thousands of lines of dialogue, the world feels very much alive.
  
  The only drawback of the game is that it is relatively short. With the expansion Tales of the 
 Sword coast it get's better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertjoel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Remember trying to play it on a below spec machine through crashes and lockups, it was just that 
 good I couldn't wait for my new PC to turn up. In fact it was the first game that I ever replaced 
 a PC for!
  
  Played paper based D&amp; D right through my teens so this was something amazing when I got my hands 
 on it. Captured the feel of that with you creating your character the way you wanted to and then 
 the ability to pick and choose your companions as you continued through the adventure.
  
  While the story line is fairly linear (as most games are, especially in this era) , the side quests 
 and the order you did things in wasn't restricted to the story line which was great.
  
  Still play it now and then to try out new classes and class combinations, and for old times sake. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calulithrar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 12, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate 1 is in ever sense of the word, a masterpiece. Perhaps it's just nostalgia for me 
 and the hours upon hours I threw at the game and never grew tired of any of it's finer points. 
 I'm not one to write long reviews, so let me just say that if you count yourself as a true fan 
 of this genre and happen by some freak chance to stumble upon this game, do yourself a huge favor 
 and just buy. Enjoy it!
  Soo, apparently I need 100 words... I could not give this game a 10/10 completely since no game 
 is perfect and the second one in the series is just slightly better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeric-Ho
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Ever since i played this game, which was around 7 years ago, i was hooked! the gameplay is smooth, 
 controls are easy to get used to and the story is great!, i still play it to this day, only thing 
 that drags it down just a little these days is the screen resolution, i wish someone could make 
 a patch or a hack that allows for a higher screen resolution!, when i first played the game all 
 those years ago it was fine, as that was basically the standard, i do not recall if it is in 640x480 
 or 800x600, i think the first, but a nicer resolution would be nice.
  
  BUT this does not stop the game from being any less playable!, since i started playing this i have 
 bought almost all of the AD&amp; D games for PC! they are just the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arthul2786
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate is one of the best games I have ever played. It has an in depth storyline, (considering 
 its off of the Forgotten Realms novels) a great score, some humor, and it's simply just fun. At 
 first I didn't like it because the learning process takes some time. The game can be quite complicated 
 as there is so much to grasp.
  
  Exploring - I also have to mention the exploration of this game. You'll travel through vast maps 
 to reach your destination and you will face dangers along the way.
  
  Companions - On your journey, you'll end up meeting npcs who can become travelling companions (if 
 you wish it) . You can have a maximum of 6 party members (including yourself) who will fight alongside 
 you.
  
  Levelling up - Gaining experience when levelling is rather slow. It takes hours of playing to gain 
 a level. I see the game as not a hack n' slash as some ppl see it but, an RPG that focuses on an 
 great story of epic quality. There's so much more involved then just killing in Baldur's Gate. 
 Your party members will also gain levels as well and you will develop them the way you want it.
 
  
  I highly recommend this game. It does take some time to get used to but, it'll grow on you. You 
 never know, it might end up being one of your favorites. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandmon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate. The first pure RPG I have ever played and I still play it till this now and then. 
 Graphics : Excellent for the year 1995 , still acceptable for the year 2007. Compared to today's 
 games , it is not the best but it is still playable. It is colourful and the environments are pretty 
 realistic , that give the game its OWN look , that have been followed to BG2 and Neverwinter Nights.
 
  The Terrain everywhere is detailed and the difference between day and night is also greatly noticeable 
 and awesome. It is one thing that BG's graphics are different than the others at its time. They 
 are simply Unique.
  
  Sound : From the mix of the Screams of your Teammates getting Harassed by Ankhegs to the detailed 
 background , Baldur's Gate got it all right. The great sound it has just helps you get in the game 
 and ultimately enjoy it to the best.
  There is a fair mix of character and NPC voices , the random sounds of monsters and the sounds 
 at night. Gameplay : One word , Legendary. It lasted in your PC , until your CPU melted , your 
 Video Card overheated or your Hard Disk broke in half. BG has that unique charm of Epic Game play 
 that you don't want to get rid of. It takes a lot until you finish the game. And like today's Oblivion 
 , you have 2 paths to choose from , the Short , 'main story only' way or the extremely long 'do 
 everything the game has to throw at you and offer you' way. Wither way , it is assured that it 
 will last you really long , and you will enjoy an experience that although you would have already 
 found in Modern Game , the BG formula still stands Solid. From the huge variety of Equipment , 
 like a ring that will make you change Gender or the Massive variety of monsters the game has to 
 throw at you and mow you down with them.
  Talking about monsters , the game has a certain charm that makes Difficulty into enjoyment. Although 
 you would lose on your first run tot eh Boss fight , you will give it a second go and fix what 
 needs to be fixed. You will keep trying , always fixing what you see wrong and only learning one 
 thing when you finally beat him is that you can never expect what you need to do to beat your opponent. 
 It will always be a completely different strategy that will beat each and every Monster. Only bashing 
 your Bastard Sword at your foe wont always work.
  
  Overall : Baldur's Gate is one of those game that I would pray that a game like that at the same 
 scale will be out. It is a Goliath that can stand solid against every other RPG and beat them. 
 Truly a Classic , nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 2, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  Almost nine years after its release, Im just as impressed now as I was then, when I started playing 
 this game again after such a long time.
  
  In fact, after all is said and done, this is probably the game that got me gaming in the first 
 place.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  With a deep, well developed storyline and lots of action in the main quest line, not to mention 
 the numerous side quests, this game remains hard to beat from a pure RPG perspective.
  
  No, its not Oblivion, but essentially that is purely because the gameplay is based on an entirely 
 different philosophy, besides all the technological advances in the PC arena over the past nine 
 years of course. Where games like Oblivion tend to be rather open-ended and are more like a FPS 
 when it comes to combat, Baldurs Gate (and its numerous sequels for that matter) all remain completely 
 true to the D&amp; D set of rules  Version 2 in this particular case.
  
  This is probably the biggest point of contention as far as gameplay in the entire Baldurs Gate 
 universe is concerned, since if you dont like BioWares strict application of D&amp; D rules, you 
 will probably not enjoy this game. Then again, if you do, this will be one of those games you simply 
 must have in your collection and will want to play over and over again  my own case proving the 
 point.
  
  To illustrate the argument, you simply need to look at the way combat is handled in Baldurs Gate, 
 compared to a game like Oblivion for example. In the case of Baldurs Gate, the outcome of any 
 combat sequence (turns if you will) are entirely dependent on the application of D&amp; D rules 
 and your character (s) development within that framework. If you are playing a level 1 Paladin for 
 example and come up against a Level 4 or higher character with many spells in his or her arsenal, 
 you will have a pretty tough time surviving the encounter. Your only means of defense will be your 
 armor class and whatever physical weapon you have at that particular point in time. There is very 
 little interaction from your side such as parrying, shielding and slashing as would be the case 
 in Oblivion for example, since these actions are not interactive in the strict application of D&amp; D 
 rules during combat.
  
  What therefore becomes more important in this case is that every combat sequence in Baldurs Gate 
 almost becomes a mini quest as you attempt to use all the tools and other characters in your party 
 to out-maneuver or out-fox your attacker (s) , given the strict D&amp; D rules framework you need 
 to operate in.
  
  It therefore also becomes rather obvious that rapid and well considered character development is 
 a key factor in terms of gameplay within Baldurs Gate. Taking the Paladin character again, as 
 example, the player needs to put quite a bit of thought into how to develop the character each 
 time he or she has enough experience points to level up. Placing a lot of emphasis on weapon mastery 
 at the expense of new spell abilities (within the character constraints of a Paladin of course) 
 may prove fatal in the end and you may even end up with a completely un-playable character later 
 in the game. The latter is probably why a lot of recent true to D&amp; D RPG games give players 
 the option to let the computer recommend character attribute development when its time to level 
 up.
  
  As far as the rest of it is concerned, Baldurs Gate really offers just about as much as one could 
 hope for in 1998, when it was first released. The user interface is simple, straight forward and 
 almost quaint by modern standards. It still works very effectively though.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Considering all that has happened over the past nine years, it would be almost 
 unfair to comment as far as this aspect of the game is concerned at this point. Even now, it actually 
 still looks rather cool, albeit a 2D isometric world running at 800x600 resolution!
  
  Sound:
  
  The soundtrack was great in 1998 and still is, not considering the fact that the 
 game makes full use of environmental audio, which was quite a big thing back then.
  
  Value:
  
  You will probably be able to pick up the entire Baldurs Gate universe for under 
 the price of one new game in the shops by now, and considering the number of hours of gameplay, 
 that must give it a 10 in this department by now.
  
  Who Should Get It:
  
  Anyone who enjoys RPGs where strict D&amp; D rules apply, such as Neverwinter Nights and other similar 
 titles, simply must have this game in their collections.
  
  Who Shouldnt Bother:
  
  Anyone who enjoys RPGs, but prefer more open-ended gameplay such as in Oblivion for example, will 
 probably be disappointed and may even dislike the gameplay altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kajqrd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  In Baldur's Gate you take the role of the young proteg&eacute; of Gorion, a wise old man living 
 in the town of Candlekeep on the Sword Coast. The game takes place in the Forgotten Realms and 
 is a role playing game following the 2nd generation Dungeons and Dragons rules. The story of the 
 game is quite typical for a computer role playing game and honestly the thing about not knowing 
 your past is getting pretty old. So Baldur's Gate needs other mechanisms to be interesting. Fortunately 
 the character gallery is plenty interesting and the world of the game just keeps you playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odechant
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  The attraction that can be found in this game is the same that can be found in any good series 
 of books, or games. Books relating to this series more than most other games out there, I haven't 
 read any of the Baldur's Gate 2 books (as there very well be more than one out there) but I know 
 there is an excellent rendition of Baldur's Gate out there.
  
  http://www. amazon. com/Baldurs-Gate-Novelization-Philip-Athans/dp/0786915250
  
  Like these pair 
 of adaptations. You can start at the beginning, and by the end you have essentially taken part 
 in something that is larger than the sum of the sagas parts. Take Baldur's Gate 2, an excellent 
 game that can be enjoyed even if you have no idea what took place in the previous chapter - Baldur's 
 Gate. The problem is that in Baldur's Gate 2 you start around level 12 complete with all the mid-range 
 skills and abilities, and depending on your class and carry on to around level 21 where Throne 
 of Bhaal is able pick up the story again to its ultimate conclusion. Does this mean that you can 
 load up a Throne of Bhaal character and have the same experience as someone who has played the 
 game through from the start, I think not. Anyone who played KOTOR the several years before KOTOR 
 2 came out, and felt they could know what was going on knows what I'm talking about. I guess I 
 can only really speak for myself, but I soon came to realize that had forgotten much of what the 
 original KOTOR had in terms on story, a story that would vary intrinsically depending on key player 
 choices, especially near the end. Which stemmed from a start filled with rumors that I stumbled 
 through not really know what an impact my words would have. What I lacked when I picked up KOTOR 
 2 was exactly what someone would miss if they were to say pick up Baldur's Gate 2, giving no thought 
 to its successor. The game its self is dated to say the least, even in comparison to its only slightly 
 newer older brother, but I can over look that, especially with my site's set on what is yet to 
 come. I haven't played it through yet, but I have already played a large portion of Baldur's Gate 
 2 (several subsequent times) and the simple fact that when I wake up in Jon Irenicus's cage I'll 
 be wearing that much more of a familiar face, complete with the scar's of familiar battles, gazing 
 through eye's deepened in the sorrow of innocent loss, raising an arm strengthened by my own hand. 
 Much of the gameplay issues you may have will be fixed by the time you make it to Baldur's Gate 
 2, and the graphics are update, most noticeably the menus and spell effects, but everything was 
 defiantly work over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironthor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game back in 2000, I was very impressed with the game play. I found it 
 intriguing that you could actually play a game based on a book. Now, you can pick a variety of 
 characters to accomplish you mission, which is really cool because you can make it you! What I 
 found very interesting was that you can pick a weapon class; a broadswords man, archer, mage, ect. 
 I found it cool that with the mage class, you can actually pick different magic preferences that 
 can defeat certain enemies. For instance you can raise the dead and defeat monsters with that mage. 
 Now, this game is not like James Bond, where you go around killing people for the heck of it, you 
 use strategy and find friends to accompany you during your journey. People may come up to you and 
 ask for money and ask to kill you, this is where you can add your own twist. You can be nice or 
 evil; you can kill every woman and child in town or play by the rules and be respectful. It is 
 your choice, and I guarantee that you will have a great time playing this game. Have fun and good 
 luck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brycechua8
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate 1 starts out with you creating a single character, you get to customise the class 
 and looks of your character, ultimately how you want your character to turn out is up to you, whether 
 you fancy an evil human fighter or a neutral good bard, it's really a matter of preference. Along 
 the way, you get to pick up allies of various classes who help you in your quest, who you want 
 to let into your party is also a choice you can make. BG1 spans many areas to explore, with a rather 
 open ended type of style, you get to choose which places you want to go first, but ultimately your 
 goal is to reach the city of Baldur's Gate.
  
  I felt that the monsters were rather tough, and levels were hard to gain, which made it quite a 
 challenge, however storyline was engaging and made me want to play on. Expect to reload saved games 
 alot as many a random dude simply recognises you and wants to beat you up.
  
  Overall replayability is average, as storyline is the same, but character customisation varies. 
 Good load of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLI_Lewis9
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a great rpg with the positive things listed above then i would totally recommend 
 you play the BG series as i have yet to find a rpg to be anywhere near as good as this. (2006) 
 Not to mention the fact you can probably pick up the entire series with all expansion packs over 
 at amazon for under &pound;10 which is a total steal.
  
  However the thing that i think stops this series from being, dare i say it, the best rpgs ever 
 is the DnD system.
  
  I really dislike it, and i've been playing this game for over 5 years and had multiple different 
 characters, but that is all down to the story and atmosphere.
  
  It just leaves so much to be desired, the combat is clunky, borring and isn't interactive enough. 
 Magic is restricting, can't adapt on the fly and is almost completely useless down at the lower 
 levels while being completely overpowered towards the end. At level 1 a mage can cast a *single* 
 spell before needing to rest again for 8 hours... Towards the end of BG2 you can decimate everything 
 in under 6 seconds (apart from the final boss) its just so stupid.
  
  I'm not going to go into detail about the whole system because i could probably write an entire 
 essay on it and no one would care but i think the DnD system is what stopped BG series and the 
 others like it from being amazing. For a game that relies so heavily on combat it would have been 
 nice to get a decent system to handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelderon56
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 3, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  Interplay's Black Isle studios has released many a top notch RPG, and this is one of the best of 
 them. The game may not be the most graphically stimulating, but the game play more than makes up 
 for that. The main quest is compelling and fun as you try and find the person who murdered your 
 step father and stop the troubles plaguing the realm. You can choose to do this either from a sense 
 of honor and justice, or for material gain and power. The game world is also massive, with tons 
 of optional areas to explore with just as many side quests to complete. There is even an appearance 
 from one of the Forgotten Realms most popular characters, Drizzt Do'Urden, who who can even test 
 your mettle against if you feel so disinclined. All in all a very well made game with high replay 
 value. If you like RPG's you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 28, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  Baldurs Gate features a huge environment to explore as much or little as you want during the course 
 of your adventures, a great translation of the AD&amp; D rules to the specific needs of a computer 
 game, excellent combat and plenty of questing both in the form of the main storyline and the dozens 
 of side-quests available. Rarely a dull moment.
  
  Graphics: 7/10 
  The graphics in Baldurs Gate are quite obviously not the best compared to todays games, however 
 do bear in mind that the original game is over eight years old now. The 2D pre-rendered backgrounds 
 used for the environment look very nice but after a while most of the areas and textures used can 
 get repetitive, especially in the wilderness. Also the character and monster models are not very 
 detailed. Despite the dated look here, graphics are not too important in this kind of slower-paced 
 story-based game, and so do not detract from the gameplay.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  The music in is pretty good if a little over the top in some places, however the little voice acting 
 there is happens to be mediocre and gets annoyingly repetitive in places. Thankfully most of the 
 action-specific sounds can be turned off in the options and to be honest, I rarely play the game 
 with sound anymore.
  
  Value: 9/10
  The main storyline is definitely replayable a few times, plus there are lots of extra side-quests 
 and optional areas to explore. Overall this is a huge and fulfilling game that is available very 
 cheaply now, so there is little excuse not to give it a try. There is also a mod available called 
 TUTU, which adds many tweaks and expands the gameplay to include aspects from the sequel, as well 
 as a fairly good graphics overhaul.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  Superb.
  
  Pros:
  A huge fantasy world to explore using traditional AD&amp; D rules for the hardcore fans, and with 
 a more personal storyline than most computer RPGs tend to feature. It is also quite a challenging 
 game, requiring the player to think about their actions and the strategy they are going to use 
 in the tougher battles.
  
  Cons:
  Once the finery has been stripped away, features a fairly standard save the world plot. The translation 
 from core AD&amp; D is far from complete, many races and classes are missing and the inbuilt experience 
 cap only allows for a maximum level of 6 or 7. And finally, despite all its pros, the game is dated, 
 which no matter how much we might wish it otherwise, does have an effect on how one views the game.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  For any fan of computer fantasy role-playing games, still great despite its age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackleech
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10 Open-ended environment and simply great battle system.
  
  Graphics: 8/10 Models and textures get repetive for a huge game.
  
  Sound: 9/10 Music composed 
 by Jeremy Soule is great
  
  Value: 10/10 Very replayable, especially if you add the multiplayer part.
  
  Tilt: 10/10 Once 
 you get the feel of it, Baldur's Gate is a great game to play.
  
  Good: Open-ended gameplay, battle system, lots of quests
  
  Bad: Hard to get into if you're 
 not into D&amp; D, lacks a lot of D&amp; D classes/etc.
  
  Who Should Play: D&amp; D fans, RPG fans and classic game collectors.
  
  Potential: +-0/10 The 
 patches address minor bugs and do not do much.
  
  Conclusion: If you're a D&amp; D or RPG fan, Baldur's Gate will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  When my dad got Baldur's Gate I was extatic about it as I was about all PC games at the time. He 
 told me to play it and tell him what I thought. I played it for half an hour and came down with 
 2 thumbs up! The Characters... The Story... The Cowardly Elf all of this is mixed up in a great 
 big bowl to make Baldur's Gate. If you don't have a copy then you cannot call yourself a true RPG 
 fan. Unfortunatley I can no longer play it as my sister chewed it up last year! ; ( But hey I still 
 got a great experience from these two games which made me want to find the next big blast in RPG, 
 from the same company. Which was NWN. Bioware did a great job of this game and deserve a pat on 
 the back. Well Done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undomiel9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  I began my adventure with PC games with this very treat. It's classic. It's good. It's practically 
 flawless. It's too good, actually, as now hardly any game can be compared with this one. It has 
 everything that makes an RPG a hit: intriguing plotline, funny one-liners, well-constructed quests 
 and, above all, the atmosphere. I could play it for hours... sadly, I don't have that much free 
 time anymore. But I'll return to this adventure some day, that's for sure.
  The graphics, well... now we know what a PC game can look like, so this one is not particularly 
 impressive... but it used to be once.
  I'd recommend BG to a RPG newbie, as it's simply the basics of the genre. And - it's fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 13, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  This is a classic RPG that absolutely MUST be enjoyed by anyone that calls themself a fan of the 
 genre. The sequel is definitely better, but it all connects. This game is getting a little dated 
 now, but it is absolutely worth the play.
  
  The world was huge and interesting. It isn't as immersive or interactive as something like Elder 
 Scrolls. What it does have is a classic turn-based party combat appeal that has all but disappeared 
 now-a-days.
  
  This game is the penultimate example of how to do an old school D&amp; D based RPG, only because 
 the sequel is better.
  
  Don't stop until you've played the sequel and Throne of Baal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecko
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 10, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  I started playing the baldurs gate series with baldurs gate 2 shadow of amn I couldn't get enough 
 of playing it that I had to go out and get the others in the series. I was expecting the original 
 to be less but was plesently surprised it may be old but is a fantastic rpg that everyone who is 
 a fan old and new must try, it will have you hooked from the start. With all its twists and turns 
 based on what you do you'll never get the same game twice, a classic to the end of time a hall 
 of fame contender if there ever was one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_General2000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate was one of the most epic experiences in PC gaming, and it helped define a series 
 of DnD adventure games and kick off the RPG genre in modern gamers. Even after a number of years, 
 it's a fun game to return to and it keeps a lot of it's edge.
  
  Baldur's Gate is based on AD&amp; D, or Advanced Dungeons and Dragons. Before you run away in fear 
 of becoming a geek, know this system works quite well for making a fantasy game of this sort. It 
 lets you clearly understand your capabilities, your weaknesses, and most importantly just what's 
 happening in combat... that is, if you bother learning it. It's entirely possible to go through 
 the entire game without understanding the underlying mechanics, but to me at least, that would 
 be frustrating. Baldur's Gate does a good job of telling you what's going on and remains quite 
 faithful to the AD&amp; D system of things.
  
  The game itself has you starting out with relatively humble origins. You are allowed to select 
 your class from a number of choices, customize your spells and weapon proficiencies, and modify 
 your appearance or gender. After this, however, (as it always seems to be) something tragic happens 
 and you are forced to flee from safety into the dangerous regions of the Sword Coast. What follows 
 is a truly epic storyline accentuated by a string of quests, not all of them necessary. You can 
 essentially go anywhere within the expansive game at any time, but this isn't necessarily recommended, 
 as some areas are notably more dangerous than others. As you kill things and get experience points, 
 you character increases in strength, which is important as monsters get stronger as the game goes 
 on. The path through the storyline is generally pretty clear, but it's pretty neat to be sidetracked 
 on other quests. These are a good idea to do, since often they have rewards of equipment, money, 
 or experience (in many cases, a combination of these) .
  
  Speaking of equipment, there's plenty of it. There are many weapon types, and also many armor types. 
 There's a wide variety of magical equipment to be found, as well, and the game includes a sizeable 
 number of spells to cast for each of it's spellcasting classes. As you travel, you can also have 
 people join your party. It's very, very hard to beat the game with just one person (if not impossible) , 
 so it's a good idea to get some members you like as soon as possible. There are a lot of people 
 that can join you, from a wide variety of alignments, personalities, and classes. As you travel, 
 fight, and complete quests, they'll gain experience just as you do and you have complete control 
 over their level up. The only downside to having them is that sometimes their pathfinding can be 
 frustrating; they'll catch on objects, or each other, and get struck trying to get from A to B. 
 All it takes is a bit of supervision to fix this problem, though.
  
  Visually, Baldur's Gate is quite impressive. Fully-rendered towns look quite nice, and spell effects 
 are quite good. Animations look appropriate and the myriad of sprites the game has all look great. 
 There are many different monsters you can encounter, and equipment changes your character's appearance 
 accordingly. The art design is very well done and suits the fantasy theme well. Aurally, the game 
 is great too. There are a massive number of voice clips recorded for almost everything; they all 
 sound very believable. The writing is excellent, too, and some of the things people will say are 
 hilarious. Sound effects are good, and the music is superb. It features a sweeping, epic soundtrack 
 that suits the theme of the game perfectly.
  
  All in all, Baldur's Gate is the very definition of an epic adventure. It's entirely possible to 
 play through it multiple times, or just stay on one character and try to explore everything the 
 game has to offer (which is far more than just the main quest) . One of, if not the, best PC RPGs 
 released to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korlis612
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 6, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Some nostalgia wrapped up in this one. Baldur's Gate is a real classic - sure, it's dated now; 
 even the venerable infinity engine is looking old next to the later incarnations in Icewind Dale 
 and BG2. But this really established Black Isle and Bioware as amazing RPG developers. It has a 
 brilliant storyline, great NPCs, and engaging gameplay - lots of engaging gameplay. The amount 
 of play and replayability you can get out of this game is insane, far beyond most modern games. 
 Definitely worth checking out for an introduction to Infinity Engine games, and the kick off for 
 the wonderful Baldur's Gate series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sodiumpentathol
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 24, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  The Baldurs Gate series must be one of the most popular RPG's to date
  Why? I truly wish I knew..
  
  For me, Baldurs Gate, when it just came out, was quite the disappointment.
 
  Not only did it seem like computer games were thrown back a century as the graphics looked truly 
 horrid.. (a static rendered world which looked basically the same as any interactive tile based 
 one) , but the combat system was clunky and a complete nightmare to boot. That is, if you actually 
 wanted to employ some strategy. Yes, it did have the much promoted D&amp; D rules system, or whatever, 
 but for people, like me, who were pretty much used to Computer RPG's, this addition wasn't exactly 
 the Holy Grail (more like an inconvenient study) . If anything, it made everything feel like a carton 
 board game with complex dice rules instead of giving an immersive experience like RPG's such as 
 the Bards Tales and Wizardry series.
  
  Also, the Experience Cap prevented you to develop the epic hero you were trying to become (unless 
 you waited for -and bought the next EP) . Obviously a marketing scheme instead of a valid excuse 
 to level the gameplay. Made quite clear by the fact they only developed ONE EP (Tales of The Sword 
 Coast) .
  
  The only redeeming point I can find (and that goes more for BG2 than BG actually) is the story 
 and characters. Some of the characters are really memorable/funny, like Minsc and his pet boo, 
 Xzar, and some of the NPC's you encounter. They have some of the funniest lines ever heard in an 
 RPG as far as I know.
  
  All in all a very mediocre RPG that got extremely lucky.
  
  Oh and I almost forgot, even though BG likes to give the impression 'one can play either as a good 
 or bad character, the reality is that there isn't a choice at all, since evil characters are so 
 extremely handicapped that it's impossible to survive for long with them. Goody two shoes, or Neutral, 
 is the only way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmeltdown
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 19, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a really great game! It's a perfect game for those of you who don't have a "next gen" computer 
 system, but still want to have some fun. It has good sound and graphics for being as old as it 
 is. I originally just bought this game to tide me over until another good game came out. No matter 
 how hard you try not to, you'll find yourself exploring every inch of the maps. The gameplay is 
 very open ended. This is a must play for anyone who is a fan of games such as Diablo 2. This game 
 will give you hours of enjoyment. The only thing I didn't like about the game was that it takes 
 forever to walk from city to city. Other than that, it was excellent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MessiahKnot
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 4, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Baldurs Gate has achieved classic status in the game market - just ask any reputable gamer. It 
 has assured itself a place in the history of great gaming and stands as a respected luminary of 
 the industry, capturing the imagination of legion fans. The reputation is indeed a infallible one, 
 and it is not without reason.
  
  The game is based on the Dungeons & Dragons universe of the Forgotten Realms. It is a party based 
 RPG with a massive gameworld, extensive storyline, huge array of characters and items and most 
 importantly - a lot of quality fun for the player. Developed by Bioware, the game caused a storm 
 upon its first release. It was a true revelation in the PC market, and heralded the creation of 
 the modern day RPG gamer. It took the comparably shallow action of Diablo, and incorporated a deep 
 story and character structure that is commonly copied but rarely equaled. 
  
  Using the infamous Infinity Engine, the game is seen from a top down isometric view. The visuals 
 looked dated compared to pixelfests like TES IV, but what they lack is spectacle, they make up 
 in charm. The environments and characters are detailed and varied and a heap of fun to explore. 
 The character creation is also very extensive with a wide array of options to help you sculpt any 
 character imaginable. Fighters, Mages, Theifs all have attributes and abilities individual to their 
 class which have a practical purpose in game. This adds some more depth to the game and assures 
 that the replay value is massive.
  
  The gameplay is point and click and rarely deviates from this prose. You see an area you want to 
 explore - click it, an enemy to attack - click it, an NPC to talk to - click it. This simple interface 
 is user friendly and easy to navigate. The combat can be fast and fierce so its important to anticipate 
 you enemy and adapt to its abilities. Choosing your tactics well and tailoring your party is essential 
 to surviving the world. The strategy this invariably creates adds yet more depth, and can spawn 
 into a deeply complex approach to all facets of the game.
  
  Interaction with your party and NPC is very fun and has now become a blueprint for many games. 
 When you talk with people, they often give you a range of replies that subtly change the course 
 of events. You can create good and bad relationships, recruit members to your party and gain quests 
 and items from positive interaction. The missions are very fun to undertake and there are enough 
 side-quests to appease even the most hungry RPG gamer. Youll regularly find yourself trapping 
 through some forest to help out an NPC for the promise of a big reward. Its a basic system, but 
 its effective.
  
  The game is sprawling and quite long which everyone will appreciate. Theres enough content to 
 explore and re-explore, secrets to find, special items to discover and parties to assemble that 
 makes Baldurs Gate some of the best value for money your going to experience. You need to play 
 this game, if only to see the roots of the RPG genre. But not just for that, because its a really 
 wonderfully accomplished game, and one that youll spend countless hours exploring.
  
  Ill finish up by saying the game is the closest youll come to gaming perfection and realization 
 youll experience. The game is extremely cheap today, and there is no excuse not to purchase a 
 copy 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wo33eR1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Summery:
  The very game that has haunted me for leaving uncompleted has now been finally laid to rest.
 
  
  Body:
  Long story short I have been haunted by Baldurs Gate since its release back in the day when 
 I was a young boy. I would love the game, playing it for hours  days on end until I would get 
 to disk 3 of 5 (usually around chapter 3/7) , where I would give up and either quit the game to 
 come back and repeat fate once again months later  repeated a good 7 times (Im sorry world) .
 
  
  After a long delivery and a quick install I jump right into the game (being prepared for the challenge 
 I had a character designed and ready to save me the hours of hmmm hours about a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ValiantDarkness
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This is the greatest game I've played. The gameplay is great and original. Being able to play with 
 all 6 characters is really cool. The story is the best I've ever had in a game. (I'm writing this 
 review reguarding all 3 Baldur's Gate games.) Very in depth character creating and in depth story. 
 many unique items and quests, classic D&D. The camera tilt was perfect. The graphics aren't the 
 greatest, but for this game more then adequate. Very well done. This is the greatest game I've 
 ever played. It has all the things a great game requires. Both of the expansions deserve the same 
 rating. The first Baldur's Gate really kciks off well. The fight at the end was near impossible 
 (I was a mage) but that's how it should be. You have to use everything possible to beat the last 
 guy. Sarevock was no piece of cake. The final expansion Throne of Bhaal was crazy hard. All you 
 fought were bosses. But that was perfect for what the game represented. Absolute mahem, I loved 
 every minute of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 17, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate has been heralded as one of the best RPGs available on the PC today, and it has surely 
 earned it's title. Baldur's Gate is set in the realm of Waterdeep, an area well known to AD&D RPGers. 
 It's a town with everything and anything, and quite a few little problems cropping up. The basic 
 storyline has the you (the main character) having to run from your home in Candlekeep. During your 
 escape though your foster father murdered in the woods beyond, and you discover that it was you 
 they are after. You set off on a quest to find out who wants you dead and why. 
  
  The game uses most of the rules and roll methods of Advanced Dungeons and Dragons 2nd Edition. 
 And like the epic real-life RPG it's based on, Baldur's Gate gives every player a unique experience 
 everytime they play, with the choices made able to truly effect the game play. 
  
  The only "required" storyline is of course the aspects that advance you through the seven chapters 
 of the story to the end when you discover who you are and why someone wants you dead (and of course 
 avenge your father) . Beyond that, everything is your choice, with over 100 subquests and plots 
 open for you to slide yourself into. 
  
  Starting the game takes a little time, especially for anyone who has not played a real RPG (you 
 know, the ones you play in gaming stores with a bunch of friends while eating take-out Chinese 
 and drinking tons of soda, while surrounded by source books) . I have had such experience, so character 
 generation took me only a three minutes or so, while my brother took about six minutes by just 
 clicking through most areas (though he had no RPG experience) . 
  
  All in all you get to customize your player in the areas of gender, race, class, alignment, abilities, 
 weapons proficiencies, appearance and of course name. If your character is a magical being, such 
 as a mage, you customize your starting spells as well, while rangers get to pick their racial enemy. 
 
  
  Despite the huge number of choices for character generation, most new players should have little 
 problem making their choices. The on-screen descriptions are through and give a good overview of 
 how your choices might effect the world around you. The instruction book it comes with also gives 
 some extra information and a few charts if you are feeling unsure. 
  
  The interface of Baldur's Gate is simple to use with nearly every aspect having a descriptive that 
 appears when you leave the mouse over if for a moment. The only thing it doesn't tell you is to 
 right click on items on the inventory and spell screens to get a full description of them. Candlekeep 
 provides plenty of learning opportunities, though, for players to get the hang of how things like 
 combat, items and talking works. 
  
  Baldur's Gate also allows the user to be as good or as evil as they desire. I played as a fairly 
 good player my first round, retrieving lost items and bodies for those asking my aid, running favors 
 and being nice until it was time to not be nice. My brother, on the other hand, went through the 
 game slaughtering everything in his path. By the last level we both had our party at levels 7 and 
 8. There is a caveat to beware though, if you choose the evil route. The last chapter of the game 
 can not be completed if you kill everyone in Baldur's Gate and if your reputation gets below 6 
 you'll have to deal with Flaming Fist soldiers attacking you at every turn! 
  
  Without a doubt this is one of the best game I've ever played on the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrog-III
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  The story starts off with your foster father, Gorion, telling you to get ready to leave your home 
 town of Candlekeep.
  
  The story goes on (i'm not going to give anything away) with you going on a massive adventure around 
 the realms and killing evil monsters and people. There are loads of miniquest sort of things that 
 you can do to help you get better equipment and stuff.
  
  The multiplayer is great aswell giving a whole new aspect to the game. Instead of only making 1 
 character and recruiting other characters from the game to help you, in multiplayer you make all 
 6 characters yourself.
  
  Altogether this game is amazing even for now and anybody who has a PC should get this. The graphics 
 are great considering when they were made and the gameplay is unbeatable.
  
  Buy this now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 1, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Not only the game has a large variety of heroes you can build, there's a huge amount of enemies, 
 bosses, dungeons, spot-on places, weapons that affect your capability of beating the game.
  If you want to test the game in full of it's abilities, pick up more heroes of different specialties 
 on your way, not only it will change the difficulty of game, but also it will moderately change 
 the story, which is very entertaining by itself. Magic is one of the core elements here, a lot 
 to learn and it's never enough to satisfy your spell book.
  
  Every time story took me to different places of this huge realm: meeting different people, going 
 to different places in different time and the dialogues between NPC'S & enemies that has different 
 outcome in most situations.
  And the world... you just have to see it - dozens of creepy sites to visit that'll give you shivers; 
 uncountable amount of beautiful forests, lakes, mountains and medieval buildings to see, all this 
 includes crazy background sounds from various creatures.
  
  Try it, feel it n' believe it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baelrrogg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  Whether you consider it an action-RPG or a faithful representation of a D&D RPG does not undermine 
 the fact that this is a great game and that if you have any interest in RPGs you should play this 
 game.
  
  This game gave birth (as far as I know) to the pause mechanic used by most action RPGs today. This 
 pause mechanic allows you to pause the game at any time using a key stroke or mouse click and give 
 commands to your party consisting of one to six characters, which they'll execute once the action 
 resumes. This brings a lot of strategy depth to this otherwise action-oriented RPG. This game makes 
 good use of the D&D rules and implements them well (I myself have never played traditional D&D... so 
 this is debatable) . The game also makes a god job of making the rule set and attribute understandable 
 for non-D&D players like me. 
  
  The star of this game is it's compelling story. The game is comprised of 8 chapters (including 
 a tutorial oriented prologue) . The story starts off by describing your life as an orphan in Candlekeep 
 under the tutelage of Gorion. The game starts once Gorion gives you some money and asks that you 
 prepare for an unexpected journey. The story really picks up once you reach the end of chapter 
 two. The story isn't as open-ended as the gameplay itself unfortunately, but this doesn't prevent 
 it from being one of the best stories amongst recent RPGs.
  
  Like I mentioned before, gameplay is very open-ended in Baldur's Gate. While exploring the game's 
 multiple wilderness areas and cities, you'll be able to perform any action you wish on pretty much 
 anything. You can kill (assuming you have the strength) , steal from, talk to or otherwise interact 
 with any NPC you meet. Monsters and enemies are very varied ranging from goblins and ogres to thieves 
 and bandits to powerful sorcerers and mages. The game's magic system will be annoying at first 
 for any non-D&D player as it requires you to memorize spells to cast them. What this means is this: 
 There are 5 levels of spells in the game, your character can memorize a set number of spells of 
 a certain level depending on his own level, you can then memorize these spells and fill out these 
 slots to use them. The way this works will force you to memorize the same spell three times if 
 you expect to use that spell three times without resting as resting is the only way to re-memorize 
 spells. Once you grasp this concept the magic system works really well. The game will require you 
 to use the pause mechanic to cast your spells effectively and protect your spellcasters (if they 
 get struck while casting the casting fails.) The inventory system is easy to use but takes a bit 
 of time to get used to these D&D stats if your not familiar with them. Attack is measured using 
 dice, and armor class gets better as the stat goes lower. This a very lengthy game if you take 
 time to do some of the hundred or so of sidequests available. Fortunately, the journal does a great 
 job of keeping track of you quests. 
  
  Graphically Baldur's Gate isn't particularly impressive except for the spell effects and the fact 
 that every piece of equipment you character wears actually shows up on his sprite while playing. 
 The interface is simple to use once your familiar with it (most buttons have icons instead of text) 
 but tooltips will help you understand it quickly. 
  
  As for it's sound, Baldur's Gate has great dialogue and voice acting. Some of it may feel over-dramatic 
 but the Forgotten Realms have somewhat been written this way. Environmental effects are interesting 
 if you have a 3D sound-capable card. 
  
  In conclusion, Baldur's Gate is a game anyone interested in RPGs, great story or D&D should check 
 out as they won't be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoodThing00
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 8, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  The best Rpg (hell, the best GAME EVER) , Baldurs gate.
  One of the few games in my shoebox that i play atleast once a day, it combines comedy, great storyline, 
 wonderfull characters and amazing gameplay for an experience that will have you return over and 
 over again!
  
  The storyline: You start out in candlekeep, your home. 
  You foster father gorion has sent you to the inn to get supplies for a journey, you don't know 
 where and he is secretive with details.
  But soon after leaving you get ambushed.
  Gorion dies and you're left alone in the wilderness.
  You have no idea what to do, you can't 
 go back to candlekeep so you have to go forward...
  
  The gameplay: hard as hell, and that means something coming from me!
  You can only advance to 
 lvl 8 (without the expansion)
  but you don't really need to go further since that would make the game inbalanced. you can have 
 a max of five group members with you, and you need to choose wisely, since aligment and class means 
 a great deal, if you just have warriors, you won't make it far.
  This game also has Very much replay value since there are quests based on aligment, reputation 
 and class, and you won't find all the side- quests on your first run, the game is riddled with 
 comedy, like the gravestones in nashkel or the Oompa the exploding ogre.
  The game also has a multitude of classes and races, and it's defenitly worth playing through the 
 game with each class.
  Basiclly you can play this game hundred times over and still find new stuff.
  there is sidequests 
 and eastereggs everywhere, so you will put alot of time exploring.
  the enemies are hard, so you must use every skill in your party to survive.
  The game also has 
 a great character creation engine, you can spend hours deciding what you should be.
  
  the graphics: pretty bad, but it won't mattter to you since the game is great.
  the spell effects 
 are pretty good.
  
  The sound: Very good, the monsters sound good, your party banters with eachother and people are 
 coughing and talking like they are real.
  
  The best game ever made, but it can be hard to find, get it of the web if you can't find it. You 
 must get it. period.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: easy0neasy0ff
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 8, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Never has a game before this been able to capture my attention. When Baldur's Gate first arrived 
 on PC shelves I have to admit that I had never heard of it nor was I planning on buying it. At 
 the time i was playing games like Mechwarrior and didn't think much of a roleplaying games outside 
 of PnP. My friend invited me over one day like always , just hang out and playing on the console 
 or something. When I got there he was playing Baldur's Gate ( he just started a new game) . I was 
 not into RPGs much at the time and I thought I would be bored just staring at him playing the game. 
 I found out I was mistaken, gravely mistaken. For the next few hours we played with JUST making 
 characters; the addiction had started.
  The unique character generator was way ahead of its time; letting you tweak stats, proficiencies, 
 colors, portraits, sounds, AI kits, and more. This game is so engrossing that you can spend hours 
 just exploring all the scattered houses in a city, or talking to odd people for quests or amusement, 
 or go bandit hunting so you can strip scalps to turn in for gold . . and the list keeps going. 
 This is one of those rare games where you can actually go just about anywhere at anytime, so you 
 have to watch out and save often, but with a game this large, thats a good thing. Stumbling across 
 a group of mid level fighters and mage/ cleric casters can wipe out your entire team, BUT with 
 a little extra planning, some serious spell casting ( or maybe even coming back after a couple 
 levels ) can make a hard fight just right. There is plenty of balance, and a well rounded party 
 will have to consist of many types of classes , not just fighters that kill everything.
  The engine is spectacular for this game as well as the production score & ambient sounds threading 
 it together. The different effects for everything from spell casting to rainy weather really grabbed 
 at the eye sockets. The paper doll character manager was a key factor in the games success. It's 
 very simple to query your characters inventory, armor class, hit points, and more all from one 
 screen. The NPCs on screen looked simple, but there was no question as to who, or what type of 
 NPC, you where looking at. All locations are pre rendered 'maps' that have been beautifully detailed 
 to perpetually engross the player. All of it seemed open I never felt caged while playing, unless 
 it was scripted into the story to feel closed in. 
  The enemy AI is a mixed bag. The scrips called for most NPCs to do a pre planned attack/spell chain/swallow 
 potion and then just rush in. For a game like this though ( practically 2D ) there aren't many 
 other options. All characters have a life of their own and everyone has an alignment that played 
 into the larger picture. Evil and good characters would bicker and fight with each, even going 
 as far as to leave the party if they feel unwelcome. There are a couple times when an NPC or two 
 didnt seem to portray the right personality but that is a minor flaw. Lending further into the 
 immersion was all of the dialog scripted into NPCs behavior patterns.
  Much of the dialog is voice acted and makes you feel like you are listening to a real person. I 
 mentioned earlier that the sounds thread this game together. All of the sounds match perfectly 
 with the on screen effects. A spell sounds like it should, and weather effects like rain and wind 
 have a deep effect on the mood of setting. The musical score is brilliant, and changes depending 
 on what is happening on-screen. Fast paced and ruffled music plays for death defying combat, to 
 slow and mellow music when walking around a peaceful town.
  The plot is very detailed with main quests, sub quests , and SUB sub quests. If you are a fan of 
 D&D PnP or Forgotten Realms Books , then you will appreciate the little things added in for those 
 'holy crap' moments . . . like meeting the legendary Drizzt or seeing Volo kicking back in a tavern. 
 I will not divulge any real story points or quest arcs because I feel that in any game, the story 
 is key and it should be up to the player to uncover the mystery. The main thing to remember is 
 that this story stretches across many chapters, like in a book, and will keep you busy for a very 
 long time.
  Nothing in this game struck me as over powered or underrated. You feel like a budding hero from 
 start to finish. Finding enchanted gear like amulets, rings, boots, cloaks, helms, armor, shields, 
 swords ect. made your awesome character just that more awesome. There are some slow points in the 
 game but it more then makes up for its short comings with great role playing moments. The Open 
 ended game play, witty character dialog, surprising story and epic D&D battles make this one of 
 the top PC games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalalchemist
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Baulder's Gate is just a masterpiece! I started playing this game as a child after my dad got it. 
 I loved it and it was my favorite. And I still love it today (allthough it is no longer my favorite, 
 but its still right up there.)
  
  Gameplay: It's really easy to control. All you have to do is select your character (or characters) 
 and tell them what to do. Not very hard. It's a very fun game. You start out by creating a character 
 to go on an adventure with an awesome storyline. Then well, it just goes smoothly from there. There 
 are plenty of monsters to face in plenty of large enviornments. There are boss battles and puzzles, 
 and all sorts of stuff! Lots of fun!
  
  Graphics: Very good for the time, they just could have been a smidge sharper. But other than that 
 everything looks great. There are a lot of things to look at and places to go in this game!
  
  Sound: The sound is excellent. All the voiceacting is top notch. I especially love the music! 
 it has an awesome score! All the sound effects are great too!
  
  Value: There are soooooo many things to do in this game. So you may find yourself playing it for 
 quite awhile. I know I did!
  
  Conclusion: GET THIS GAME! Believe me, you won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcqueen_keith
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate is a role-playing game set in the AD&D universe of the Forgotten Realms. This might 
 turn you off because before this RPG, games that have tryed to adapt AD&D rules have ultimately 
 failed for the most part. This game however is one of the best role-playing games that have come 
 out in many years, and has adapted Dungeons and Dragons rules better than other games that have 
 attempted the same thing.
  
  The gameplay in Baldur's Gate is superb from the design of the game's controls to the challenging 
 difficulty of the game. The interface is fairly easy to get the hang of, and is good at having 
 most options you would need only a click away. The ability to pause the game at any time, and then 
 issue your orders to your party is a great ability as you will depend on it in most battles, and 
 it offers the ability to play the game in turn-based style.
  
  The graphics in the game are look amazing and are easily one of the best graphics seen in a RPG 
 game with fully rendered backgrounds. The character models all look amazing, but the games graphics 
 would have been revolutionary if the game had come out a year before when it was targeted for release.
 
  
  The sound in Baldur's Gate is one of its best features with many background music that is composed 
 really well and captures the theme of the game. The sound effects also are good with a wide variety, 
 and voice acting is performed excellently when it is used.
  
  The value of the game is the best part of the game with an interesting story with plenty of great 
 characters to talk to, and some can join your party of six. The games antagonist is one of the 
 baddest villains ever created, and near the end of the game you will enjoy the battle against him. 
 Baldur's Gate will take you around a long time to complete with a lot of optional side quests added 
 in to make the game longer. There is also a fair amount of replay value in the game as you can 
 solve quests differently.
  
  Baldur's Gate is a great game that had extremely high expectations but even exceeded those expectations 
 to become one of the best games released in years, and it also made role-playing games a popular 
 genre where before the genre was dipping in popularity. I highly recommend buying this game because 
 it is one of the best games I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  The decision to buy Baldur's Gate was one of the wisest PC gaming choices that I have ever made. 
 My anticipation for this game was so high that I nearly burned myself out before I ever installed 
 the game. I blocked off an entire weekend to play the game, cleared my schedule, called in sick 
 from work, and talked the girl friend into spending the weekend at her mothers. (Best call of my 
 life for that evil manipulating c-word, soul sucking, parasite of a women met the man of her dreams, 
 a rich, soon to be poor, fench man, and left me. Thank You God and Balders Gate.) It was one of 
 the best mini vacations that I have ever taken. I stocked piled the snack food, disconnected the 
 phone, and dived into the world of D&D RPG that BioWare had so expertly created. Three days later 
 I emerged from my computer room weakened from lack of sleep, slightly dehidrated, and five pounds 
 lighter. Balders Gate had in my opinion earned a place on the Best Games hall of fame. 
  
  It is a very deeply addictive, very richly involved gaming experience. One of the best times you 
 will ever have playing a D&D RPG computer game. Just be prepared to spend several hours with your 
 computer. Aside from a few boring spots, a few bugs, blurry vision, and a sore mouse hand, your 
 in for a gaming experince like no other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is good. Its an rpg upmost and formost and truly draws you into the game with many many 
 subquests and even going as far as to give each character class their own unique sub quests. The 
 game interface is beautiful and the battle system is splendid while given the turn based commands 
 via pause and watching the live action. Special effects are great, 
  
  The game brings D&D so well into the game that you will have the same indepth and very addicting 
 game play as we see on the tabletop version of this game. THe story line is great actually causing 
 tears to drop from your eye from time to time. There are any number of ways to beat this game and 
 has incredable replay value. You even get to use your character in future games including Baulders 
 gate II and Neverwinter nigths. This game is one of the best rpgs ever on pc, if your not into 
 oblivion, morrowind type rpgs... well this is the ONLY other way to go.. it has a diablo esq feel 
 except its much more gratifying. Great game :) get it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  This is the game who redefine the RPG genre in PC gaming. It took me over three months to complete 
 but man was it the same as when I was 18, playing D&D... sorry AD&D... with my friends. The characters 
 were memorable and I got so attached with mine that I still remember the name of every single one 
 of them 7 years later. Even by today's standard, this game must be played.
  
  You must go throught the serie to realise I well this title is. The graphics were superbe at the 
 time, the game mecanic was so close to the real deal that I almost wanted to get my dice out just 
 to see if you could play without the computer's help. And then you had the Multiplayer who opened 
 a hole new field of play. A gem 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CandabraxisAU
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  This with out a doubt, and the sequels have been the best game i have ever played on PC.
  
  Character development, sotryline, action, difficulty and adventure were outstanding. The fact that 
 if one played their charater from BG to BG Throne of Bhaal they would not doubt fall in love with 
 their hero.
  
  My like myself rue the day black isle went under, they truly were a masterpece company.
  
  
 Later gen, NWN and soon to be released NWN have nothing on these games.
  
  As a handy hint, grab some friends and some black isle games and play some multiplayer, it is really 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Baldurs game is a decent RPG type game where you travel around the world and as you collect more 
 and more items you gain more and more stats as you traverse through the entire game. The main gameplay 
 is quite simple and straight through, there aren't many hard functions with the game itself that 
 a beginning player would have to worry himself or herself over. However during the combat portions 
 of the game a player should also first understand how the entire fighting function works in order 
 to effectively get the most out of each fight. Against the weaker creatures just throwing your 
 characters against a foe will work, however against the boss and the much more stronger foes strategy 
 is essential. Since this game is based off the computer system a good graphics cards and a good 
 computer are mandatory in order to get the most out of this game as a whole. Personally I'm not 
 too interested in the whole dark genre which this game focuses on, but I didn't really buy this 
 game (I got it as a christmas present along with its sequel) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maegnas
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say this was one of the first games of its genre i have ever played, and i feel 
 like i started in the right spot, because this game sure through me for something i wasn't expecting. 
 Great game, immense world, awesome spells, battles, everything about this game makes it amazing. 
 I think that if you are wanting to try a good RPG, you should really give this game a try. It really 
 opens up your senses to what games are capable of. I hope that this review was useful and i really 
 hope someone will be inspired to go get a copy. lol. Great game, recommend to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frost6969
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  This was a great game I own every single game and expantion ftom the series. The story mode is 
 great. The graphics are fantastic. I really liked the music in this game. the Fighting can be hard 
 at times but thats were skill comes in right. I highly recomend this game to anyone who likes Roleplaying 
 games. In this game you take control of your future. you can be hardcore evil or an angel from 
 heaven. The only sucky part is you start to get wanted posts out for you if your bad. But if you 
 doo end up killing the guards you get some kick ass armor. I had tones of fun playing this game 
 and I do believe anyone who trys it wil to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Baldurs Gate is a game with endless possibilities. You can create any kind of character from a 
 warrior to a theif, and change the specifics even more. The game itself is extremely fun, but it's 
 also just as fin to do whatever you want and level your guys up. Not only can you customize your 
 own character, but you can also gain up to 5 more party members, and customize them every level 
 up too. The only part of the game that ever gets boring is when you are experementing with different 
 classes and you have to go through the begining again and again. Baldurs Gate is still an almost 
 perfect game and I strongly recommend you buy it if you don't already own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuBu198
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Not much to really say about how it, The Baldurs Gate series is the best series Bioware has made. 
 This game is one of those games you will look back at after you beat it and say i beat that awesome 
 game. Game is alot harder than the 2nd. Make sure you roll the most perfect stats ever when you 
 make your character. The hardest part of the game is the beginning because neither you or your 
 party members have like any health points. So just bare with it until you level up. The only real 
 flaw i can see is that the 2nd baldurs gate is better, but either way if you liked the 2nd then 
 you will like the 1st just as much. Most people play the 2nd baldurs gate first. Also Minsc and 
 Boo rule!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:42 am PT
Review:  This was my 1st Bioware game, and they have won me over after playing this. They have proven themselves 
 to be one of the leading RPG makers in the market, as can be seen with KOTOR. I was never a D&D 
 fan, but this game introduces you to its world. I can't imagine what it was like to play the original 
 board games where you have to roll the die! 
  
  You can design your own character with his own strengths and weaknesses. You can live out your 
 fantasy with ogres and elves and humans and dwarves, etc. The graphics are nice considering when 
 this game was made, and the storyline has a nice twist towards the end. There are many quests to 
 complete and this will take a long time to finish, as can be expected with BioWare games. Since 
 this is a D&D game, like most RPGs, a lot of the fighting takes place underground where it's dark 
 and dank. I'd rather fight battles outside where the lighting is good. After the game you can continue 
 playing. I'm one of those guys who likes to get the most out of my game, so I visited every corner 
 and completed every quest there was. I also ended up with over a million currency at the end of 
 the game, because I always picked up the loot. Because of my playing style, I was very worn out 
 even before the ending of the game, so if you're like me, try not to collect everything or you'll 
 start having headaches. I'm also one of those guys who likes to use every single resource, such 
 as not wasting bullets or health packs in FPS. Anyway, you can gather up to 6 (I think) NPCs to 
 be your lackeys. Be prepared to fight hobgoblins, giant spiders, kobolds, etc. I wasn't really 
 into the whole magic part, I'm more of a fighter person. Good game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 6:43 am PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate (BG) by Interplay has finally been released after what seems like an eternity in 
 development. Judging from the fact that most stores sold out the day they received it, it seems 
 a great many people didn't wait to read a review before purchasing. Chances are then that if you're 
 reading this you had some trepidation about the game. Considering Interplay's track record and 
 the fact it was released just in time for Christmas your feelings are understandable. You can set 
 aside your fear because Interplay has delivered a solid, engrossing, CRPG worth the wait.
  
  The game is set in the Forgotten Realms, a land familiar to anyone who has played AD&D. Even 
 if you've never touched a twenty-sided die an excellent 158-page manual will introduce you to the 
 world you're about to adventure in. While it might seem like a large tome the vast majority of 
 it is devoted to describing the Realms, the spells, and explaining the various rules which are 
 in play behind the scenes. The mechanics of gameplay are simple and intuitive enough that they 
 can be explained within a dozen or so pages.
  
  All action, except for inventory management and item transactions (renting a room, buying equipment, 
 et cetera) , takes place on the main screen. The largest portion of this screen shows the world 
 and your characters. While it's viewed from a skewed perspective similar to Diablo all likeness 
 stops there. The game is made up of 10,000 (!!) individually rendered screens and presented in 
 life-like 16 bit color (higher if your video card can handle it) . What that means is that instead 
 of three bushes and four buildings being repeated throughout the game world every single object 
 is unique. There's an abundance of little graphical touches that add immensely to the immersiveness. 
 Butterflies flitter over fields of flowers, hawks screech overhead (in a bizarre bug they sometimes 
 fly backwards) , and the sky darkens as rain moves in. BG takes place in accelerated real time (at 
 a 10 to 1 compression ratio) so you'll also get to experience a true day/night cycle.
  
  Surrounding the playing field are various buttons and boxes. The buttons call up various parts 
 of the game, from the automap of the area (uncovered as you explore) , to a journal that keeps track 
 of quests and deeds. Some buttons also allow characters to cast spells, change weapons, or use 
 special and/or thieving abilities. The boxes are for readied items such as a potion or scroll that 
 a character can use at a touch of a key. Finally, on the right side are portraits of your party 
 members; exquisitely done paintings, which when clicked upon will bring up the stat and inventory 
 screen for the character.
  
  Moving, attacking, conversing -- it's all easily done with either a mouse click on the main playing 
 area, or hitting a hotkey (sometimes followed by a mouse click) . It's quite possible to play with 
 nothing but the mouse. Pop up tool tips appear over practically everything eliminating the need 
 to hunt through the manual to find out what a button does. Right clicking on objects will bring 
 up a small text blurb explaining the item. It also gives how the item functions in the game so 
 you don't have to worry about keeping a stack of AD&D books nearby.
  
  BG begins with creating your character. While your party can include six members, five are computer 
 controlled and received as the game progresses. For now all you need to worry about is your player 
 character (PC) . All the basic races and classes from AD&D are here. Non-weapon proficiencies don't 
 make an appearance, and neither do kits. After your PC is made a spoken word prologue sets the 
 story. It explains that you don't know who your parents are but a kindly old man has raised you 
 like his son (much like three dozen or more fantasy novels) in a place called Candlekeep. The first 
 hour or so of the game is set there.
  
  Your "father" tells you to prepare for a journey without giving an explanation. You can then purchase 
 your equipment, practice using the interface, and in a homage to Fallout kill some rats. Throughout 
 this area there are plenty of NPCs that will give you gameplay advice making the beginning somewhat 
 of a tutorial. Once you leave Candlekeep the tough guy who keeps making an appearance in the BG 
 magazine ads ambushes you and your father. Apparently he's interested in you for unknown reasons. 
 After a brief but spectacular magical battle your father is slain but not before he tells you to 
 flee. Thus begins the game proper.
  
  Finding out why you were ambushed, why you're being hunted, and avenging your father's murder forms 
 the backbone of the game although there's plenty more to do than just that. Progression is not 
 set in stone as BG is a non-linear adventure. You begin with a few areas that you can travel to, 
 which in turn unlock more areas to explore. There are dozens and dozens of small quests to be completed, 
 the majority being the standard "fetch some item for me" quest found in most CRPGs.
  
  During these quests you get to travel to exotic areas, meet interesting people (and beasties) , 
 and usually kill them. Besides hostile encounters you can deal with shopkeepers, priests, mages, 
 and commoners. You can also meet "class" NPCs that can join your party if you so desire. Because 
 there's no time limit, and there's such a huge number of activities to do, the game will take a 
 casual player several weeks to finish. Even a hard-core gamer would be pressed to finish BG in 
 under eighty hours.
  
  As mentioned earlier the game takes place in real time, albeit real time in which a day is equal 
 to two of our hours. This might lead you to wonder how combat is handled. Combat is thankfully 
 not like Diablo where the most important factor is having a strong index finger. Battles use the 
 pen and paper initiative system which means the more specialized you are with your weapon, and 
 the quicker the weapon is, the more attacks you can make in a round. How fast you can click has 
 nothing to do with how well you fight.
  
  You can also pause and issue orders to your party, which helps to keep battles from becoming too 
 chaotic. The problems found in BG are small and mostly confined to some scripting errors within 
 the quests. This is completely acceptable considering the mammoth size of the game and some of 
 the errors will actually benefit you. Game crashing bugs are noticeably absent.
  
  BG includes a multiplayer option but it has a "every game needs a multiplayer component" feel to 
 it. The only difference between multiplayer and single player is that real humans instead of the 
 AI can control the rest of your party. While the sentiment of a human party with a CPU DM is nice, 
 the length of the game and normal multiplayer problems (read lag) hamper the idea.
  
  Until computers can think like a human no CRPG can take the place of a real role playing experience. 
 After all RPGs are about role playing and not roll playing. BG does an admirable job of trying 
 to create the experience on your monitor though. The majority of rules survive intact which makes 
 the jump from paper to processor that much easier. The world is lively enough, and gorgeous enough, 
 to let your imagination take a break and allow you a glimpse into the world of Faerun. There's 
 plenty of value here with scores of quests and more on the way with the expansion pack.
  
  The plot and quests are intriguing enough to make you care about your character and party. This 
 is a game where the real world slips away when you play, and hours fly by like minutes if you're 
 not too careful. For many of us finding a good AD&D game is next to impossible because of work, 
 family, and all the other joys of adulthood. Baldur's Gate gives us that game again, whenever we 
 want. If you're an AD&D fan purchase should be mandatory, and even if you're simply a CRPG fan 
 this is one game that needs to be added to your hard drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SerpentTongue
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2005 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate opened the door to rpg's and set the bar with it's beautiful storyline and excellent 
 game play. This has got to be my favourite rpg and something that i will always keep with me. This 
 is the dungeons and dragons of computers games. From Candlekeep to Beregost to Nashkel this game 
 had it all. The looks the sounds the depth of a true rpg and the gameplay that made it so appealing. 
 This game is a monument. 
  From the second you talk to Winthrop your immersed in the rich storyline that made this Baldur's 
 Gate the role playing game it is today. 
  
  This is a game that seriouly takes rpging to the max. The sword coast is a vast land that awaits 
 the treading of your feet. Follow the beaten path or make one yourself. Baldurs gate has an incredible 
 storyline to follow or you can carve a name for yourself by adventuring through forgotten forests 
 and ancient ruins. 
  
  A brilliant game, too be had by anyone seeking to start anew and live another life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: God_ofthunder
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate is one of the best RPGs I have ever played. Once you start is hard to stop. The game 
 starts off in a small quant keep called Candelkeep where you grew up with your foster father Orion 
 you have to leave in a hurry and Orion wont tell you, but from then on the plot thickens and the 
 stores develops in to one amazing quest to find out who you are. The game play is easy all you 
 do is point and click where you want to move. And the characters you meet grow on you so you may 
 even start to look into there back-story. Another great thing about this game is that you can go 
 almost anywhere you want to as soon as you get out of Candelkeep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordbob13
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:13 am PT
Review:  What can be said about this game that hasn't already been said. It started the current way pen 
 and paper D&D games are played on the computer. There have been improvements along the way, but 
 for the most part the games are still running on the original Baldur's Gate engine. This game will 
 not wow you with graphics the way todays games will, but you will see why this become the norm 
 of how we do it. Not to mention the storyline is grade A fantastic. The first time I ever played 
 this game turned into a 30 hour marathon, that still only saw me a little over half way through 
 the game. If you have never played Baldur's Gate then I suggest you go rummage through the cheap 
 bin at your local computer gaming store to try and find this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  The now famous Bioware's first role playing game was Baldur's Gate, and it was an amazing first 
 attempt and though it may not have the party member conversations of its sequel it still has a 
 charm of its own.
  
  In Baldur's Gate you play as the twenty year old ward of Gorion (Gender, race and appearance are 
 defined at character creation) as he or she prepares to leave the library fortress of Candlekeep 
 for the first time in his or her life due to a situation that Gorion isn't explaining to you; thus 
 the plot unfolds from there. The storyline in Baldur's Gate is fairly solid; the plot twist is 
 a little poorly executed, but the story is convincing and doesn't seem to pull any unnecessary 
 stops.
  
  Baldur's Gate is a semi-turn based RPG; more recent exampls of this are Neverwinter Nights and 
 Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. You can pause at any time by hitting the space bar, and 
 when attacking there are dice rolls going on in the background which effects your chances of hitting 
 an enemy in that particular round. Baldur's Gate uses a conversation tree system like most PC RPGs 
 do these days; unfortunately it is nearly useless because nearly every response yields the same 
 results: a problem Bioware is still struggling with today.
  
  The Infinity Engine is dated, but even today it has beautiful hand made backgrounds. The outside 
 areas (and there are a lot) consist of nicely drawn grass, vegetation, waterfall and several other 
 surprises. Indoor areas: whether it be dark dungeons, the local tavern or an old castle are nicely 
 detailed. Character sprites are unfortunately small and lack detail (understandable) and some look 
 nothing like their portrait. Minsc for example is bald, and his sprite has white hair. The monster 
 sprites are okay and more detailed than the playable race sprites, but they still seem somewhat 
 small.
  
  The sound in BG is so-so. The game features an atmospheric score, but it's just not very catchy. 
 The voice acting is okay, but it's nothing to write home about and the sound effects are nicely 
 done. The ambient sound effects whether it be in a town or in the outside areas are great, but 
 there could have been more of them.
  
  Baldur's Gate is a great RPG experience; if you haven't played it yet do so. If you're one of Bioware's 
 newer fans and want to check out their older games the Baldur's Gate series won't disappoint and 
 the original is definitely the game you want to start with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Square_Enix_69
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 14, 2005 2:04 am PT
Review:  Well to start off I seen Baldurs Gate: Dark Alliance advertised on the television, and i thought 
 it look quite cool. Im a big fan of rpgs.
  
  So one day im down my sisters house and her boyfriend asks me if I want to lend a game so I said 
 ok. So he showed me some and I seen Baldurs Gate there. The first one. So he lends me that.
  
  So i get home and play on it, made my mage, and thought, well the graphics arn't brilliant 
 so I guessed that it was fairly old yet io continued to play and the gameplay was amazing!
  
  You could fight, theive, cast spells, level up.
  It was a perfect classic of rpgs.
  
 
  Im having great fun and im only around 62% the way through it.
  
  So I checked on gamespot how old the game was and when I seen 1998 my chin hit the floor. I could'nt 
 belive how good the game was for a classic.
  
  Well all I can say is if you are a lover of rpgs and you are looking for a good bargain. This is 
 the game for you. Even at this present day I think games that this sort of great gameplay will 
 represent no other. This great gameplays just as amzaing as FF, Fable, and all the other rpgs out 
 there..
  
  Guild Wars
  Fable
  Final Fantasy
  Warcraft
  
  You klnow the list goes on
  
  But on value This games amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOneCow
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 25, 2005 8:53 am PT
Review:  Ok let's get this done in a few words.
  Baldur's Gate is a huge game (5 cds! In 1998!) . It has a deep, very deep D&D/Forgetten Realms feeling 
 and lore, it's open, epic, dramatic, it's hard and unforgiving (like reality) but it has save and 
 reload (unlike reality) . There is no reason whatsoever to not buy this game, except, maybe, death 
 or coma. Downloading this game using various pirate networks is highly immoral, plus, it will take 
 you a long time because there are 5 cds, effectivly increasing the span of your non-Baldur's Gate, 
 miserable life.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  
  Complex and frustrating at times; save and reloads; bad pathfinding. However the greatness of the 
 D&D universe compensate for this.
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Nice spell effects, lush scenery that is both artistic and realistic.
  
  Sound: 10
  
  I 
 was amazed by some sound effects: casting spells, drinking beer, hiding in the shadows; the music 
 is epic and powerful.
  
  Value: 10
  
  I would say there is not much replayability to this game but it doesn't matter. It's great ok?
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10
  
  Original, deep atmosphere, comprehensive role-playing, sense of hugeness and adventure, blabla 
 buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaoticAtwa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 10, 2005 5:57 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games that i've experienced in my time, although it's not the mind blowing 3D realisitc 
 graphics of today, it still retains it's origional roleplay values. I hope the game still stays 
 alive for the years to come and is able to best even the latest games. 
  
  Some of the best characters would have to be Minsc and Boo but there needs to be more of Drizzt, 
 Wulfgar, and Bruenor.
  
  Would be nice to see a third-person action based from Drizzt or a RPG based off of him.
  
  
 Anyways except for the minor graphic downfall the game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Znuggles
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 28, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Baldur's Gate, my prior experience with role-playing games was marginal at 
 best. Years before I had played The Bard's Tale II on my Amiga 500, and over the years I have tried 
 paper & pencil role-playing maybe four or five times, never quite enjoying the experience. With 
 Baldur's Gate, my life as a gamer changed.
  
  Here was an environment full of virtual life, bursting with what I call atmosphere - the overall 
 feeling of it all. Immediately, I was thrown into a whirlwind of a story where I, as the main character, 
 learned that all was not as it seemed in my life. Through many, many hours of exploring, doing 
 quests and investigating what is going on, we learn the main character's secret, and realise just 
 how much is at stake. In the process, there are new friends to meet and work with. They all have 
 distinctly different personalities, and some might get along better than others. You might get 
 in trouble with your comrades in arms if you only perform good deeds while they are inherently 
 evil, or vice versa.
  
  The game world is pretty big, and it will take a long time to see all there is to see in the game. 
 There are many quests, most of them tied in with the overall storyline, and they do a great job 
 of pushing you along, compelling you to go to new areas to find out what's going on. The title 
 of the game refers to a city - the biggest populated area in the game - and the city is actually 
 closed to you when you first start out. Only after a few chapters of the story will you gain access 
 to the city of Baldur's Gate, and there continue the adventure.
  
  The graphics of Baldur's Gate were at the time the game was released quite beautiful. Even if the 
 trend was already turning towards full 3D games (Half-Life was released around the same time) , 
 Baldur's Gates isometric view worked beautifully along with the simple and intuitive interface 
 of the Infinity engine, which would later be used in Baldur's Gate II, along with the Icewind Dale 
 games and Planescape: Torment. The music is to this date among my favourite game soundtracks ever. 
 Atmospheric, slightly melancholic, with a touch of tension where appropriate.
  
  Truly a superb game, Baldur's Gate is still among my very favourite games, and comes highly recommended 
 for any computer role-playing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 14, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  The year 1998, was a banner year for PC games. Three games were released that year that stand out 
 as true classics in every sense of the word. Valves Half-Life redefined First person shooters, 
 Blizzard finally launched Starcraft which turned out to be much more than orcs in space, and Bioware 
 revitalized the fantasy role-playing genre with Baldurs Gate. When we write the history of PC 
 gaming Baldurs Gate may not turn out to be as influential as the other two games but it was every 
 bit the timeless classic that the other two are and launched one of the best modern gaming epics 
 in history. If you own this game already it is well worth revisiting as there is so much to see 
 and do that I guarantee you one or even two runs through didnt let you see everything there is 
 to see. If you havent played Baldurs Gate, now is the perfect time to get a classic game for 
 next to nothing, thats great in just about every department.
  When you pick up a game thats getting on in the years, you expect that the graphics are going 
 to be pretty unimpressive, they might even be an eye-sore after being used to the latest and greatest 
 stuff. Well Baldurs Gate bucks that trend as the 2-D backgrounds look surprisingly good even in 
 the low resolution that theyre in. Its very clear that Bioware took a great deal of time drawing 
 the world of the sword coast that this game takes place in. While even in 1998 this game wasnt 
 much of a technical breakthrough the game retains an aesthetically pleasing sensibility about it 
 because the artwork is so pleasing to the eye. Forests look like forests; dungeons look appropriately 
 deep and dank. The Character portraits look fantastic too even if the models arent very good at 
 conveying the look of the character you might want to see. Most impressive of all are the cities 
 which have a nice sense of hustle and bustle that one might associate with cities. There are people 
 everywhere and most of them dont have anything to do with you but a few do. This all helps to 
 create a real world for the game to take place in not just a few levels. 
  Also quite excellent in Baldurs Gate is the games soundtrack. The game has some nice music as 
 composed by Jeremy Soule that conveys mood very nicely. Itd have been nice to see the whole script 
 being read but the parts of it that are very well done. Furthermore the game has a great narrator 
 to explain things between the chapters who lends a weight to his voice thats completely suitable 
 for the serious problems on display. The Sound effects do have a bit of canned feel for them as 
 do the stock voice commands which get quite tiresome after the millionth time you hear them but 
 theyre well done stock work. I guess this is to be expected with an older game but its one of 
 the few let downs in the whole game. 
  The gameplay in Baldurs gate is an exceptional interpretation of the Second Edition Dungeons and 
 Dragons rule set (D&D 2) . Its a party based game with several NPCs (more on them in a bit) that 
 allows you to mix and match parties of 6 throughout the game. Youre going to need to do a good 
 job picking your 5 companions because there is no magic formula for success you need to pick something 
 that works for you. Youre going to need to pick between the Archetypes of Fighter, Thief, Cleric, 
 Druid, and mage of which there are several sub-classes of like Paladins Thief-Mage or Necromancer. 
 Pick these well and they all work together like a well oiled machine. One of my favorite parties 
 had 3 fighters a cleric, Thief-Mage and Mage but there are all sorts of other very winnable combinations 
 that work. The trick is to not be short on people to do various tasks-Fighters to fight, mages 
 to cast arcane magic et cetera. 
  The story and character development in Baldurs Gate are the real highlights of the game thatll 
 keep you playing for a long time. You play an orphan whos being raised in a monastic community 
 of scholars by a powerful wizard by the name of Gorion. Your only friends in the whole town are 
 the barkeep and a young girl named Imoen but of course the game makes this more complex in a hurry. 
 I dont want to give anything away but lets just say youre soon swept up into some big events 
 thatll effect the future of the whole sword coast and your unique history will be critical in 
 saving the day. 
  The characters in the game are also quite good. Not only are the characters interesting, but there 
 are a whole lot of them, well over 20 by my estimation. These characters arent throw- away replaceable 
 parts as they all have plenty to say about your actions and have their own agendas. For instance 
 if youre playing as a good aligned party and doing charitable things across the sword coast 
 but have characters who are evil then theyre going to complain until eventually they either 
 leave or attack some of your good party members. This can completely ruin your day if youre 
 being pursued by monsters and your party members suddenly decide now is the time to draw swords 
 and be through with one another. Pick all good guys and play good and theyll love you and compliment 
 your regularly. Its up to you as some characters are more malleable than others. 
  All in all, Baldurs Gate is a fantastic game to play that offers in excess of 60 hours of adventuring 
 easily. Its well made in just about every facet and has withstood the test of time very well. 
 The fact that you can find this game on Amazon for under 5 U. S. Dollars today means its time for 
 you to pick it up if you havent already if you have even the slightest inclination towards playing 
 great RPGs. If youve already got it, its well worth playing again. Try doing a new alignment 
 with a new party, or a new class or something different there is plenty of life left in the old 
 girl. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vissuluth
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 18, 2005 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Primer he de dir que faig aquesta review molt ms tard de quan vaig jugar-hi, uns anys desprs, 
 per en tinc molts records i bons.
  Tamb he de dir que mel vaig acabar, i jo diria que vaig fer quasi totes les misions que hi ha 
 al joc, i vaig descubrir-ho tot, jo diria que em vaig deixa poca cosa per descobrir o fer, crec 
 que vaig fer-me un 95 percent del joc.
  Us he de dir que vaig estar molt de temps esperant-lo i quan va surtir i el vaig poder jugar, vaig 
 tenir les mateixes sensacions que quan vaig jugar per primera vegada al Eye if the Beholder, una 
 sensaci de punt i a part, que estava davant dun joc que obria un nou nivell en els jocs de rol, 
 i jo sc un amant daquests tipus de jocs, nhe jugat a molts durant molts anys, i aquest va ser 
 la culminaci dunes expectatives que teniem tots per aquelles poques.
  El disseny en general s especial, el poder anar fent el grup dhomes, acceptar-lo o rebutjar-los, 
 canviar de grup, poder fer el joc amb un sol home (difcil) , tenir infinitat darmes, darmadures, 
 objectes, encanteris, enemics, submissions, etc.. eren atntes coses i tant ben fetes...
  La presentaci ja tomba i els grfics sn molt bons, bona definici i bon tamany dels objectes, 
 pantalles grans i de gran qualitat, totes diferents, amb caracterstiques diferents, el mapa global 
 s immens, vaja el joc en general s enorme, potser ms gran que la segona part, b en general 
 s millor que la segona part per m.
  El so era molt bo, sobretot el so ambiental, quan no feies res, el so i la msica que tenvoltava 
 eren exquisites, sort que vaig aconseguir la banda sonora per una altra banda i lescolto moltes 
 vegades, tamb era interessant les veus que se sentien dambient i les veus dalguns personatges.
 
  La trama era bona per era la tpica, jo crec que va ser una trama que va creixer amb el temps 
 amb el segon joc, no crec que dentrada se la pensssin tant extensa. Lo maco era fer les petites 
 missions que et surtien al pas, buscam aix, ajudem a, el meu fill sha perdut, i etc...
  Vaig tenir una obsessi per descubrir tots els territoris en quan vaig descubrir que els territoris 
 que surtien al mapa dun principi no eren els nics, sin que a mida que avansaves te-n surtien 
 de nous, amb zones noves i personatges nous.
  Lincrement de nivell va ser una obsessi i fer baixar la AC i pujar la forsa datac, en definitiva 
 fer un guerrer com mana, els mags en aquests jocs sn personatges secundaris, tots els jocs daquest 
 tipus els faig amb guerrers i desprs altres classes com a complement.
  El joc va ser extremadament llarg, cosa positiva perqu estava totalment absorvit, per em vaig 
 estar davant lordinador moltes hores per fer-mel, .... sort que va ser llarg, van ser hores ben 
 gastades.
  s un daquells jocs que no em queda la sensaci de... no hi jugar mai ms, no em costaria gens 
 tornar-mhi a ficar... dintre dun temps.
  En general un dels jocs que va entrar en el meu top ten, i que encara hi s, espero que dintre 
 de poc pugui sentir les mateixes sensacions amb un altre joc.
  Hem deixava comentar que el sistema de pausa, va fer que aquest joc sigui el que s ara, va ser 
 el primer joc on jo vaig veure-hi aquest sistema i em va deixar molt sorprs gratament. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 28, 2005 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I remember talking to my friend about video games one day, and he mentioned that Baldur's Gate 
 was a really cool game. The next time I was at the store, I noticed Baldur's Gate for about 10 
 bucks and decided I'd give it a shot. What a surprise was in store for me. Every other game I had 
 played up untill then was nothing compared to Bladur's Gate. After seeing only the title screen 
 I knew this was going to be a great game; after finishing it, it was confirmed, this game is VERY 
 VERY good. 
  
  Years after it's release, everything is definitely subpar to today's standards, except for the 
 gameplay and story. One thing time has very little effect on is the gameplay of a game. Even close 
 to 10 years after it's release, Baldur's Gate is one of the few games I still go back to time and 
 again just because it was so much fun. The story, though not as exciting as a book, is better than 
 most games out there, even if it isn't all that original. 
  
  Now, I admit, it doesn't allow much in the ways of customization, allowing you to advance only 
 to the 7th level. Though, in D&D terms, 7 levels is a huge difference. However, this makes you 
 depend more on strategy than only your characters skill. You will have to use each of your party 
 members effectively and make use of the pause button in battles to give orders to them all. The 
 game does come with some basic AI scripts to give your characters, but they really are not that 
 great and will even get in the way of some of your orders. 
  
  Unlike it's sequal, Baldur's Gate II, this game let's you explore right from the start. It really 
 gives the feel that you truly are an adventurer looking for treasures / action / quests. And indeed, 
 that's what you'll find. You'll constantly be running into monsters, getting ambushed, finding 
 a lone traveler in need of your help with a nice reward. You won't feel like you're being pushed 
 into the story like other RPGs, you'll feel this *is* your story. 
  
  As I mentioned earlier, the rules of this game are AD&D rules. While a good knowledge of these 
 rules will certainly help out it is not exactly needed to finish this game. However, you'll get 
 alot more out of this game if you *do* know the rules. If you are unfamiliar with D&D rules they 
 are a bit complicated and the manual doesn't do a great job of explaining them either. As a warning, 
 you might have to spend a few hours reading up on D&D rules to fully enjoy this game. 
  
  There are plenty of other entertaining things about Baldur's Gate, and if you really like RPG's, 
 I'd reccomend you give this game a try. It is undoubtedly one of the best RPGs I've played and 
 one of my all-time favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2005 2:04 am PT
Review:  What can be said, while it is ageing, it is still the standard by which all other fantasy RPG games 
 are measured? Its graphics while not flashy, do an amazingly good job of conveying the feel. The 
 game play is superb; the feel is epic, if a bit juvenile. This was fixed in BG2. The characters 
 a bit flat, but the engine and game dynamics more than make up for this. Again, BG2 really helped 
 to fix all of the little detractors, but man what an arsenal of features it brought to the table, 
 still better than Neverwinter Nights and Tomb of Elemental Evil could ever be.
  
  For its time, it really was far ahead of anything else. In a way I wish I had never played it b/c 
 I wouldn't know what all the other games are missing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2005 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Well what can i say it is one of the the games that kick started the rpg games, The amount of times 
 i played baldur's gate i can still not get over how well it was made. it is based on the dungon 
 and dragons dice game that has been going on for the past few decades.
  
  As for its story it is one of the few games where the story dose not end and if you want to know 
 what happened you had to play the second one which i think is a good thing. 
  
  Graphics for the time where good great even and the sound effects where very cool ( go a mage and 
 thow a few fireballs around and you will hear what i mean) . Value wise if you can find it it is 
 well worth the time that you will invest in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  That is no joke. While I wasn't head over heels in love with Baldurs Gate when I started playing 
 it (I had bought it at the same time I bought Planescape: Torment so it was up against some stiff 
 competition) I did really like the game.
  
  The scenery was nicely done, There was a lot to explore, it was free roaming in the areas you got 
 to go to, the story was intriguing, the dialogue options were superb, the interaction between the 
 NPC and you was great and most of all theres Boo. The giant space hamster.
  
  Now for the problems. The character graphics were ok, the combat system left a lot to be desired 
 and the introduction of so many NPC's left you with an odd choice for who you wanted to add to 
 your party. So in my opinion this was nice but the sequels were better in everything they offered. 
 Especially since your level limit was around 6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsantor
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 5, 2004 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate is an important game - plain and simple!
  
  As an old-school D&D player from the 70's/80's (yes, I'm old) no game announcement thrilled me 
 quite as much as Baldurs Gate. This was the first game to provide an simulated real-time RPG that 
 has the feel of table-top D&D without sacrificing the rules and precise game-balance that TSR had 
 spent so many years developing. It also launched BioWare into the forefront of the RPG gaming, 
 which would later lead to Neverwinter Nights and Star Wars: Knight of the Old Republic.
  
  The graphics are as good as you can get with what is essentially a 2D-engine. Play-time is long 
 due to a marathon storyline. (Which can be expanded upon.)
  
  P. S. Im Canadian, so I do have bias in favour of BioWare. :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 1, 2004 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Baldur's Gate could easily be considered a landmark of the gaming industry in computer roleplaying 
 games. With its initial release in November of 1998 and the expansion (TOTSC) in April of 1999, 
 Black Isle/Bioware definitely put their names on the map of computer gaming history. With the ability 
 to roll your character from scratch and then begin upon a quest with freedom of choice in dialogue 
 and the path you choose to complete the game, Baldurs Gate and its expansion makes the work of 
 Bioware and Black Isle seem almost genius.
  
  The story starts you off as a young character who has mysterious side to him and this character 
 that you create yourself through the 2nd edition rules of Dungeons and Dragons meets many NPC's 
 throughout his journey to find out about himself and his heritage. You're able to control a total 
 of 6 characters at one time, being able to control everything about the characters from choosing 
 their class each level to what weapons and armor they have equipped. All these NPCs that youre 
 able to pick up have their own background and class and you can choose to either support their 
 cause or leave them behind. Another mage doesnt really go with your party, well, just leave them 
 for another point and time in the game. The story through Baldurs Gate and Tales of the Sword 
 Coast will lead the player and his companions on an enormous adventure exploring areas and maps 
 that look both beautiful and serene. Through your travels of these beautiful landscapes, your self-created 
 character and his companions that he has picked up will become extremely and knowledgeable warriors 
 that will face tougher and tougher opponents and puzzles so the gameplay never gets dull. Think 
 youre so powerful, take a trip over to the Shadow Dragons temple and see how you and your friends 
 stack up against his ancient magic. 
  
  There are just a multitude of quests to do to gain experience throughout Baldurs Gate: Tales of 
 the Sword Coast, whether youre clearing out crazy gnolls from ancient ruins or completing a quest 
 one of your companions asked you to do, youll spend many hours crossing the lands of fields and 
 forests. The gameplay is pretty open-ended letting the character choose his own path, being able 
 to travel to almost anywhere in the game right off, but the point of whether you live or not because 
 of the level of your character can definitely lead you into certain directions from time to time. 
 All the quests arent all the same either. You wont be dealt, what are known as mailman quests, 
 throughout the game. Traveling and carrying items from point A to point B. Black Isle took time 
 on the story and the quests in the game making the gameplay seem fluid and smooth from the beginning 
 till the end.
  
  With pre-rendered backgrounds, you travel the length of the Sword coast from your hometown of Candlekeep 
 to the enormous city of Baldur's Gate itself, step by step, map by map. As you traverse through 
 the Sword Coast of Faerun, you'll meet renowned characters such as Elminster and Drizzt Do'Urden 
 and travel through many small towns and villages, not to mentioned abandoned ruins and temples. 
 The real-time based combat can be paused anytime during battle to give instructions to your group 
 members to make battles a fun experience. And controlling these six different characters can be 
 a great time having them rely on each other for spells of defense and potions leading up to the 
 final conclusion.
  
  The graphics, as you can guess, are not the best since this game did come out in 1998, but that 
 doesn't mean they're horrible. Actually, the isometric view presented in the game is what many 
 RPG's of recent years have grown accustomed to. The detail that went into the background artwork 
 can be applauded for their richness in the outside scenes such as the Cloakwoods or the city of 
 Nashkel. The Infinity Engine Bioware created for this game has sure been used over the following 
 years for multiple games that people have come to love. The detail that was put into each pre-rendered 
 background only shows how much time Black Isle spent with Baldurs Gate to give the player an atmospheric 
 experience traveling the Sword Coast.
  
  The sound represented in the game is beautiful in the sense that it wraps you in the adventure 
 from the time that you pick up your staff or sword and adorn your armor or robe. In whatever youre 
 doing, the music is always there whether you notice it or not. Sometimes, while traversing the 
 many maps in Baldurs Gate, the player will feel so immersed with the detailed backgrounds and 
 the atmospheric sounds of animals or city folk that they barely notice the music, but when they 
 do, its always wonderful and on key.
  
  Set in 1370 DR (Dale Reckoning) , 12 years after the time Time of Troubles, Baldur's Gate and its 
 expansion are what every company looks at for a good game. It's almost crazy to believe what kind 
 of fanbase this game has. The forums at Interplay were still buzzing with hundreds of posts per 
 day leading up to their bankruptcy and closure of their site and by this you can easily see how 
 many people play this game over and over and are willing to help others out in their own quests 
 with up to the minute responses.
  
  The hundreds upon hundreds of quests throughout this game easily provide the player with 100 hours 
 of playtime. There have been many mods made for Baldurs Gate including the rather extended one 
 named: Baldurs Gate: Dark Side of the Sword Coast which adds many more hours to the almost limitless 
 gameplay that can be had in Baldurs Gate. Playing through with each character, different party 
 members, or going solo through the whole campaign can give the player new experiences and challenges 
 and give the game an almost unlimited amount of replay value.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vertigofm_basic
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2004 6:02 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Baldurs Gate I didn't know what I was getting mysyelf into. This game is truly 
 an artpiece. An epic rendition of a world torn by the forces of good and evil; yet it is so much 
 deeper than that. Although the graphics and quality are B grade, for their time they were pretty 
 good, yet not amazing. But what is most amazing is that these simplistic graphics can so absorb 
 you into this world. When you play this game it is as if you are not yourself in a time that is 
 foreign to you. If I could erase my knowledge of this game and play it for the first time I would 
 do it again and again... That is not to imply that this game is short. This game is epic in size, 
 possibly lasting into one hundred hours, and not a moment of it dull or boring. This game will 
 transform what you thought an RPG was and will forever make you remember it. Quite possibly the 
 best game of all time, period. There is no game I have played that is better than this, nor will 
 there be for a very long time. So if you think- how can I get into a game like this when it is 
 so old? You are fooling yourself, buy it, and prepare to engage in the most satisfying RPG's of 
 the century. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vorcoth
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 2, 2004 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Back when Baldur's Gate first came out. The computer RPG as a genre was in a drastic downward spiral. 
 First-Person Shooters and Real-Time Strategy games were the order of the day. For RPG fanatics 
 who can't stand FPS and RTS, like me, it was pure Hell. When Baldur's Gate was announced, not just 
 an rpg but an official D&D licensed rpg, I nearly wept in joyful relief.
  
  Gameplay Positives:
  Baldur's Gate featured a very faithful port of the D&D roleplaying system. 
 Character creation was very in-depth and customizable, allowing for the importing of user-made 
 character portraits as well. Combat was easy and enjoyable, providing enough of a challenge to 
 force the player to use their heads in regards to how to approach various types of opponents.
 
  What I really appreciated was the totally interactive environments. Homes and buildings that weren't 
 a part of the game could still be entered and looted if you so desired. Rocks could hide secret 
 treasures, as could barrels, bookshelves, cupboards, tree stumps, etc. etc.
  NPC interaction is very well scripted and thought out, as are the main plot quests and a ton of 
 excellent side quests. The D&D staple of forming a party of adventurers is maintained, and the 
 characters you find along the way that you can invite to join you are all interesting and unique, 
 each with their own backstory and side quests.
  The inclusion of story books that detail various fables or geopgraphy or history stories was totally 
 unnecessary, but added that little extra flavour to the game that helped defined the world and 
 setting. Brilliant. This is a tactic that would be picked up by the folx who did Morrowind.
  Best of all, in my opinion, is the 3rd-person/top down perspective of the game.
  
  Gameplay 
 Negatives:
  Not many bad things about this game at all. What little bugs there were, were soon rectified by 
 a few patches.
  
  Graphics Positives:
  At the time, the graphics in this game were phenomenal. The maps and setting details were lush 
 and excellent. The character and npc graphics were unbelievable. Now, by today's standards the 
 graphics are dated, for certain, but taken as a whole, they fit the game perfectly.
  
  Graphics Negatives:
  Dated compared to today's graphics.
  
  Sound Positives:
  A very excellent 
 and talented voice acting cast. And a stereo-typical, but nicely done fantasy score.
  
  Sound Negatives:
  The score is a little understated. This was back when the gaming industry was 
 starting to realize how much a full music score adds to the gaming experience.
  
  Value Positives:
  Like I said before, this game revolutionized the PC RPG genre. But beyond that, 
 it set itself as the standard by which all future rpg's would be measured. You must own this game.
 
  
  Value Negatives:
  A little dated at this point in time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cycloptis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2004 9:58 pm PT
Review:  The one that started it all, at least for Bioware, that is. This RPG not only started Bioware's 
 lasting series of masterpieces, but it also started the Baldur's Gate Trilogy. The game starts 
 off in Candlekeep, where you are a humble apprentice and foster child of Gorion, a sage & wizard 
 who has been looking over you for many years. One day, you and Gorion leave Candlekeep, only to 
 meet Sarevok, your evil half-brother with malintent for the country of The Sword Coast. Sarevok 
 murders Gorion, leaving you to fend for yourself in the dangerous wilderness. You travel to Gorion's 
 good friends Jaheira and Khalid in the Friendly Arm Inn, and from there, your grand adventure begins 
 to find Sarevok, avenge Gorion's death, and find out what he is trying to do. Eventually, you come 
 to the truth that your true father was Bhaal, the God of Murder, and that Sarevok is attempting 
 his ressurection by causing a war between the Iron Throne and Amn.
  
  The game features many strong points, and few low points. For example, the beginning brings many 
 frustrations which could cause you to restart. What I'm talking about is that it is too easy to 
 find characters at the start, and by joining with them, the experience you receive is diluted to 
 the point of uselessness. This is obviuosly avaoided by being patient and not getting them immediately, 
 but for the impatient, this game will get hard fast. Besides this, and the incredibly slow combat 
 (at least until the game progresses) the game is virtually flawless.
  
  This masterpiece gives choice a plenty in comparison with todays so called RPGs such as the awesome 
 but lacking Final Fantasy VII (not bad at all, mind you) . I'll get to that later as it's major, 
 but first some other things. The main enemy Sarevok is quite possibly the best, but that's just 
 my opinion, and this is because of his menacing look with that rather kick-butt (no Minsc pun) 
 armour. His violent nature and intellect, with interesting character augment him, but you really 
 don't go into detail with his character until Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal. The character 
 development and creation is beaten by none other. You get to choose all sorts of things: class, 
 voice, appearance, portrait, etc. Which never interfere with the excellent novel like chapter story 
 telling.
  
  Technically, there are no problems with the game other than some small bugs which were already 
 fixed in a patch. At today's standards especially, you needn't fret about technical requirements 
 as this game has low requirements. The form of art that was chosen to display the game's environments 
 was especially intriguing when I learned that the backgrounds are actually paintings! I know of 
 nothing that is this original, like the game itself. Warning RPG fans, you'll be stuck to this 
 for hours to come! At least until its expansion and/or sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XisorShadow
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2004 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Baldurs Gate, well i'll admit when I first played BG1, I didn't gel with it. I loved the D&D universe, 
 and remember the old old school games that TSR released like Eye Of The Beholder, but since those 
 days, I'd gone on to a gaming diet of FF style japanese Rpgs that began with Shining Force on the 
 Megadrive and went through to FF7 on the psone. The last PC rpg I was into was Ultima 7, and I 
 was heavily playing UO. I remember playing BG1 at a friends, and not really getting into and dieing 
 alot, and i didnt like the top down areas, id seen it only in a cave area though and hadnt noticed 
 the attention to detail or the story. Later I got the chance to borrow it of another friend convinced 
 to convert me. After several re attempts at character design and joining the game from the start 
 (this folks is vital, just like any good movie or film, it needs a beginning, middle and end for 
 a rpg to work) . I really now rate the overall story in baldurs gate 1 above most of the greatest 
 rpgs ever written. Visually, it was great for its time, but suffers by todays standards, and in 
 a 3D world. Combat can be heavily frustrating when things arent going your way, and you will see 
 a lot of reloading and repetition as you figure out how to tackle each situation the game throws 
 at you, though often clever dialouge can save you entirley or make combat less likely to go against 
 you. There are numerous sub things and by passes to do from the main story, even more so if you 
 get the budget editions including sword coast doing the rounds in the UK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leapfrog91
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  An epic game by any standards, Baldur's Gate (BG) does not dissapoint. The game brings new meaning 
 to the term "polished," as most any gamer will be awed by the remarkable lack of faults to be found 
 within this gigantic, ambitious work. And while BG manages to succeed in every area from combat 
 to exploration to visuals, I find the most impressive (and unexpected) gem of this game to be its 
 characters.
  
  It cannot be denied that dice rolling RPGs are not simply a success due to the game mechanics; 
 for many, their largest charm is the ability to dive into another world. So, while it would not 
 be terribly difficult to bring traditional D&D combat to the PC - a transition seeming quite natural 
 throughout the game - an overwhelming challenge presented itself into bringing the fantasy world 
 to life. Though helped along by the extensive (and beautiful) world and intricate plot, the characters 
 that you meet along the way bring the fantasy to life.
  
  The dialogue, for one, is terrific. You'd need a heart made of coal to stop from cracking a smile 
 at Minsc and his magical space hamster, Boo. Even during combat, Minsc can be heard saying - with 
 quality sound and voice acting - "Go for the eyes, Boo! Go for the eyes!" Each of the characters 
 has their own unique, well, character, and you'd be hard pressed not to find yourself attached 
 to each and every one of them. The extensive voice acting throughout the game couples with this 
 characterization to create an incredibly immersive environment.
  
  Adventure and exploration also plays a key role in BG, and there's rarely a dull moment. When traveling 
 across the gameworld you are not forced to enter each area along the way; you need only deal with 
 the occasional random encounters, which eliminates the downtime of walking considerably. There 
 are many quests to be solved, people to meet and treasure to be found, if you are willing to put 
 in the time. Completing everything the game has to offer is a massive undertaking, but one that 
 feels very rewarding in the end.
  
  And, of course, there are many enemies to be slain. Luckily, the games combat rarely falls short 
 of engaging, as there is much to be done in every battle. Magic, items, and melee must be managed 
 for all six members of a full party, in real time if you chose to do so. However, pressing the 
 spacebar allows for the game to be paused while you issue commands to each of your characters. 
 Further, BG allows for each party member to have a customizable AI, so you can concentrate on one 
 or two of them when needed.
  
  BG offers a variety of classes and races to chose from, and a characters place in battle is determined 
 largely by this combination. Necromancers may summon the undead for aid, while a cleric may take 
 a break from hammering to heal the wounded warrior. Each has a specific role, and much strategy 
 can be found outside of battle, in selecting a party, as well as spells and equipment.
  
  While healers and potions can keep your party alive and kicking for a while, eventually you'll 
 need to rest. Resting, while eliminating fatigue, is also necessary for reviving spells and hit 
 points. You can rest either outside a city in a camp, or in an inn. While camping, however, you 
 may get attacked during the night by some foul creature or another, interrupting your rest. Resting 
 should not be used on any whim, as the game clock plays an important role in some quests. Resting 
 too often can push time ahead more quickly than expected.
  
  I've already touched a bit on the technical aspects of BG, but I'll elaborate. The game map is 
 beautiful, the characters are sharp and interesting, and the spell effects will leave few unsatisfied. 
 The voice acting permeates through the game, and the dialogue is terrific. The sound effects and 
 music both seem inspired, and are worthy of this well rounded game.
  
  Those seeking an epic role playing experience on the PC should look no further than Baldur's Gate, 
 except, perhaps, to Tales of the Sword Coast once you're finished.
  
  [Note: I had originally rated this game a 9.4. I re-rated it with a 10.0 because this game is as 
 close to perfection as we are likely to see in our lifetimes. A true groundbreaker in its genre.] 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
