-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bandits: Phoenix Rising
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/banditsphoenixrising/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 14, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.5, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 80 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tri Synergy
Developer: GRIN
Genre: Car Combat
Date:     Mar 28, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a straightforward car combat game that promises straightforward driving and shooting action 
 and more or less fulfills that promise. 

  Bandits: Phoenix Rising is a straightforward car combat game that promises straightforward driving 
 and shooting action and more or less fulfills that promise. It's not especially ambitious, but 
 for what it is, and despite its problematic save system, it's good enough.  

          The control scheme lets you drive in one direction while firing in another.     

  As 
 far as plot is concerned, Bandits can be summed up in three words:  The Road Warrior . It's the 
 future, society has gone to pot, one thing leads to another, and all of a sudden you're driving 
 a nitrous-injected dune-buggy tank across the desert. The main vehicle is actually piloted simultaneously 
 by two characters: Fennec, a traditional wisecracking hero type, and Rewdalf, an angry Scottish 
 dwarf. Which, technically, leaves you in the role of the car.  

  The game's 22 missions offer a nice variety of goals. There's offensive driving from points A to 
 B, the running defense of friendly vehicles, racing, and the occasional oddball surprise mission, 
 such as one in which you man a stationary turret. Most of the missions start at a screen where 
 you can choose a chassis (light, medium, or heavy) and then stock it with a variety of weapons. 
 Every vehicle's primary gun is a rotating turret that can fire in all directions. Steering defaults 
 to mouse control, though you can switch on the fly to operating the turret with the mouse and steering 
 with the keyboard, letting you drive in one direction while aiming and firing in another. This 
 control scheme, combined with the large size of the environments, makes the combat less prone to 
 the constant driving in tight circles that characterizes other car combat games. You can actually 
 tear across the desert and still effectively engage a pack of cars on your tail.  

  Secondary weapons -- ranging from missiles to Gatling guns to land mines -- generally fire either straight 
 ahead or straight behind your vehicle. This weapon choice adds a minor, but somewhat interesting, 
 strategic element to every level. Some missions are definitely better tackled with a specific combination 
 of chassis and armaments, though you may have to play a particular level a few times to figure 
 out the best combination.  

  You'll have to play various levels a few times for other reasons as well, and this is the game's 
 biggest flaw -- you can only save your progress at the end of each mission. Bandits is a tough game 
 to begin with, but the save system occasionally drives it into the realm of the nearly impossible. 
 Some of the levels involve 10 or more minutes of routine combat followed by a difficult boss battle. 
 The game's developers even acknowledge the problems with the save system; the between-level hints 
 specifically refer to replaying missions repeatedly.  

          Even though the environments are generally bland, you'll occasionally come across interesting 
 environments like these.     

  Graphically, Bandits is just average enough to not make much of an impression at all. It creates 
 believably large desert and tundra environments featuring long stretches of flat ground punctuated 
 by low-slung buttes. With only occasional extra scenery, though, the environments also quickly 
 become realistically monotonous. The car models are much more detailed than the landscapes, but, 
 in a significant graphical omission, they don't show any progressive damage until they finally 
 explode in a shower of metal scraps and ammo pick-ups. The audio is unremarkable as well, though 
 the developer put Rewdalf's thick Scottish brogue to great use by inserting the word "crap" into 
 every other line of dialogue.  

  The game also includes standard deathmatch and team deathmatch multiplayer modes. Though these 
 work well enough, Bandits is best as a single-player game. It would have been nice if the developer 
 had attempted to add some truly new multiplayer modes to the game -- perhaps something that took 
 specific advantage of the game's vehicles -- but no such luck. Last year's Mobile Forces would better 
 serve anyone looking for fast-paced multiplayer car combat.  

  Bandits has good enough graphics, good enough sound, good enough mission design, and good enough 
 action. So, those looking for action reminiscent of  The Road Warrior  should give the game a look, 
 but they shouldn't set their sights too high.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 1211212112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Bandits : Phoenix Rising ( BPR in further text ) , a game by the Swedish developer Grin is one of 
 the best experiences your money can buy if you are looking for a Mad Max dedicated game. 
  
  The story of BPR takes You to a parabolic world to one that we live in, a world ruined by war, 
 from which only the strongest recovered. Realising that the war will not end, no matter how bad 
 the world is damaged, or how many people are slaughtered, the survivors organize into groups, tending 
 to continue the onslaught but in a different way. The last time there were tanks, troops, airplanes 
 and many more. This time we have 4x4-like cars with guns strapped on to every ****ing free spot 
 on it, just like Mad Max.
  There are four groups of survivors :
  
  1 ) The Wolfpack - A group of Funk-techno music lovers who aim at raiding with single scouts and 
 soloing with more or less mighty cars to earn their loot and glory. Swift, agile and brave, they 
 cut through the weaker units like axes through flesh. The leaders of this group are Fennec and 
 Rewdalf ( Both your main characters in the game, so I won't give you much details )
  
  2 ) Flaming Pumpkins - A group of Metal-heads ( Hell yeah! ) who'se ultimate goal is the rampage 
 of everything. They tend to be rather barbaric, as they have no advanced vehicles, only the most 
 simplest ones, and they stick in large groups, charge in, kill everything, and call it a day. If 
 Orcs could drive cars and listen to music they would ( probbably ) be Flaming Pumpkins :-) The 
 leader of the Pupmkins is Daud, a disloyal, brutal, low intelligence berserker who has a BIG cannon 
 on his car.
  
  3 ) Crusaders - A massive group of military-based soldiers, in which the mightiest aspect that 
 dominates is discipline. Crusaders believe everything is accomplished through discipline, good 
 tactial mastery, and intelligence, and care little for the losses. They are the faction that builds 
 most settlements, and cares the most for valuable strategic points. The leader of this group is 
 FC Carter. FC Carter is a man who screws his wife by the book. Square head, straight hair, no realistic 
 smile ( ever ) , cares only for the total victory of, something we might name, the greater good. 
 He has a assistant, Lucy, the only female in the game, who is a valiant fighter and will aid you 
 in some missions.
  
  4 ) The Enclave - A bunch of religious, drum and bass loving fanatics that care for nothing else 
 then a total purge of the known world, for they believe that the world is corrupted, and that they 
 are the only one who have the financial, teritorial and military might to do so. Being the main 
 bad guys in the game, they will give you a pretty rough time. Unlike the other factions, who mostly 
 dwell in the desert - like terrain, The Enclave have retreated to the mountains, and they habit 
 there to the end of their days, coming out only to frequently kill everything that moves, so that 
 their duty is complete. Their leader is a man ( man? ) named Vincent, and Vincent is the biggest 
 freak of them all. Uses a sniper very efficently.
  
  5 ) I do not know what to write about the fifth faction, or what is their name, but they are the 
 defenders of Jericho, the biggest and mightiest city in the known part of the Earth. Jericho's 
 riches exeed everything one has ever dreamed of, and many bounty hunters and treasure seekers have 
 tried to siege it, failing completely. For the defences of Jericho are so efficent, one would need 
 a tank the size of a twelve-story building to smash its walls apart, and then they would have to 
 kill everyone inside ( a nearly impossible task ) , and then face the mightiest, fastest, and most 
 lethal driver there is, Sebastian, the king of Jericho. Sebastian... what to say? There is basicly 
 nothing I can say of him, since nothing is known, but I know that he is the only person in the 
 game who beated me more than 8 times, and I remember the agony of trying to kill him too well.
 
  
  Ok, that's it for the story, now I will say a little about the game it self.
  
  The graphics of the game are outstanding, the vehicles are very imaginative and the world really 
 looks like a whole other experience. I sometimes felt like fighting on Mars, sometimes like fighting 
 in the deserts, sometimes like fighting In the Arctic, it varies. There isn't much I can say about 
 the foliage or something like that, since the war ravaged it all, I guess.
  
  The sound is, by my opinion, one of the best aspects of the game itself. The sound of Rewdalf shouting 
 ,, Eat crap, Flaming Craphead!!!! '', while shooting my machine-gun and metal music going in the 
 background was something I will never forget. The soundtrack is one of the best of the kind, varying 
 from Hard Rock, Metal and Heavy frying of the guitars to the deep and dull sounds of many basses, 
 and I remember taking the music from the game and listening it on my MP3. Though with little vocals, 
 it manages to somewhat capture your attention for some time.
  
  The gameplay is fascinating. This game was so addicting for me at those years, I can still see 
 my friends face while we were playing the first level, it was so amazing. The multiplay is fun 
 as hell itself, no matter if you play LAN or on the Internet ( though LAN with a lot of people 
 is more fun, since you can shout ,, Bwahahaha, rest in pieces you fucking blood biscuit '' to someone 
 you have just killed, oh yea. ) and the story of the Single player mode is aspiring enough to keep 
 you playing the game on all three difficulties at least 2 times ( equalling a total of 6 times 
 :-P )
  
  Overall, ( I have to finish this review, it is getting rather long ) , BPR is one of those games 
 that you will always keep on you shelves, no matter what, and when your friends ask you ,, Why 
 don't you throw it away? '', you will say ,, I can't ''
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
