-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bang! Gunship Elite
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/banggunshipelite/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 26, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 6.9, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 30 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Red Storm Entertainment
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Jul 19, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You'll spend the majority of your time shooting throngs of enemy ships until you get so used to 
 it you just want to stop playing. 

 Since there are many different types of space-combat simulations, some are often lumped into the 
 category that have very little in common with other games in the genre. For instance, some developers 
 aim to make epics like the Wing Commander series, while others try to make simpler, arcade-like 
 shooters set in space. Red Storm's Bang! Gunship Elite definitely falls into the latter category: 
 It tries to draw you in with its graphics and fast action, though it's weakened by its simple story 
 and repetitive gameplay.   

  Like many other space combat games, Gunship Elite looks great. Although the background images are 
 simply two-dimensional bitmaps, Red Storm added a few effects to make the game look more appealing. 
 Many enormous background objects such as planets and gas clouds almost look three-dimensional. 
 Various effects like blinding lens flares and numerous polygonal asteroids are also in abundance 
 to make the surrounding environment seem more realistic. However, the actual ship models are not 
 very complex. Each ship has a distinctly rectangular or blocky look, which was apparently necessary 
 in order to accommodate the large number of ships that can appear onscreen at once. In addition, 
 with the exception of the hellfire and the stasis cannon weapons, which both fire with impressive 
 effects, Gunship Elite's weapons are disappointing. Most of the weapons just fire simple projectiles 
 or balls of light that really don't convey any sense of increasing strength.   

  While Gunship Elite is pleasant to look at, other aspects of the game suffer from a pronounced 
 lack of depth. Gunship Elite's story is nothing but a series of mission objectives strung together 
 with an incredibly boring and poorly voiced prologue explaining that you're fighting to protect 
 a valuable resource from the Sektar and its allies, the Morgoths. Whatever semblance of a plot 
 there is in Gunship Elite ends abruptly with the final decisive battle, which is merely narrated 
 to you by the same monotone voice actor. It's anticlimactic to say the least: You fight the majority 
 of the battles yourself, only to be left out of the final decisive confrontation. If you expect 
 a story to help lend some purpose to playing through a game, don't expect Gunship Elite to deliver. 
   

  Although you'll have to sit back and watch the final battle, Gunship Elite does at least offer 
 plenty of action up to that point. Gunship Elite resembles an arcade shooter more than a typical 
 PC space combat simulation, even though the game has its share of escort and specific-target missions 
 that fans of traditional space combat sims will recognize. The challenge in a typical mission consists 
 of swarm after swarm of enemies hurling themselves at you while you attempt to complete the objectives. 
 While this keeps the action going at a quick pace, dealing with so many enemies can become quite 
 frustrating and redundant. You'll spend several long minutes taking out the first few waves of 
 enemy ships, and by that time you'll want to get the mission over with. The problem is you can't, 
 because the enemy ships just keep on coming. Except for a few stages, you'll have to spend a large 
 portion of time taking out the enemy ships before you can complete the rest of the mission. Since 
 your foes come in large batches, detecting each individual ship on the radar can take some getting 
 used to. Fortunately, after a few battles you should be able to read the radar without much trouble. 
    

 Gunship Elite only really requires that you're able to hold down the fire button, maneuver well, 
 and nothing more. But there are a few additional elements - some of which can be frustrating - 
 that add a little more strategy to the game. Your main goal is generally to shoot down as many 
 enemies as you can in a short amount of time, but you need to be aware of certain resources during 
 battle. The most important resource to keep watch over is your shield, which can be activated at 
 any time. Power for the shield dissipates for as long as you hold down the activation key, and 
 being aware of the shield's power levels is especially important for mission objectives that require 
 you to almost completely ignore smaller enemy ships and focus all your attention on a single primary 
 target. Enemy ships will harass you constantly while you're attempting to destroy a primary target 
 like one of the larger ships, so if you haven't conserved your shield power for that attack, then 
 you probably won't be able to complete the mission. Your ship also has limited boosted-acceleration 
 capabilities, and like the shield, the amount of time you can accelerate depends on how long you 
 hold down the acceleration key. If you use your extra speed early to pursue smaller ships, you 
 can become a sitting duck while your primary target escapes.   

  The enemy artificial intelligence in Gunship Elite isn't spectacular, but it can sometimes surprise 
 you. Low-level Sektar ships won't do much to avoid your shots, but some of the middle-level ships 
 like the Sektar bombers will try to hide behind asteroids. Once discovered, they will scramble 
 to find another asteroid to hide behind and fire at you in the process. Likewise, if one of these 
 ships is in the open, it will fly directly toward the brightest star so that it becomes difficult 
 to track it visually because of the lens flares and brightness levels.   

  With most of your efforts focused on shooting down wave after wave of enemy ships, you may not 
 pay much attention to Gunship Elite's music. That's not to say it's bad, because it's actually 
 quite good and suits the theme of the game. The problem is that the thunderous weapon fire and 
 radio chatter from enemy and allied ships will all but drown out the music unless you adjust the 
 volume settings in the options menu.   

  A well-designed multiplayer mode is the saving grace for many games - that's not the case for Gunship 
 Elite, but it's still a nice bonus. You can engage in a dogfight with up to eight other players 
 over TCP/IP or through one of two gaming services. You can even choose which environment you want 
 to fight in, though each level is fairly similar and features an enormous space station through 
 which you can maneuver. The multiplayer mode is fun initially. The combat is really fast, but like 
 other more simple space combat simulations, it can quickly turn into a game of running in circles. 
   

  Gunship Elite does a few things right. Its visuals are excellent, and you probably couldn't find 
 an easier space combat game to get into - but the ease of use comes at a price. Gunship Elite's 
 gameplay is shallow, and you will spend the majority of time fighting throngs of enemy ships until 
 you get so used to it, you just want to stop playing. It's especially frustrating when you've been 
 dogfighting for close to ten minutes, only to lose the mission because you've wasted all of your 
 ammunition and booster fuel, which occurs often if you aren't very careful. But Gunship Elite's 
 worst problem is that there's no real incentive in it - the lack of story and repetitive combat 
 offer no good reason to stick with the game. It's attractive and easy to learn, but other aspects 
 of the game come up short.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ChAoS_Maker
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Its a good quick game with good grafics nice sound a VERY nice amout of weapons and stuff and the 
 sheild Rechares by it self so thats a good thing (its very easy to get Mobed at once) anyways here 
 we go what the review...
  
  ----GamePlay: 10/10 : gameplay is easy and simple jus killem all!
  
  ----Graphics: 10/10 : 
 very Good for a year 2000 Game.
  
  ----Sound: 7/10 : it was good it could have had a bit more music though but sound evects was nice 
 voice acting was good sept i dont know what was up with all the germans...
  
  ----Value 10/10 :Dude... 10$+tax ... Cheap Stuff!
  
  ----Reviewer's Tilt : 1/10 :Once youv 
 done the Singe Play Missions its all boring becuase Multiplayer has NO players...
  
  
  {All in All a Decent game to play it must have been much better in the year 2000 tho anyways good 
 for killin some time..} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlton999
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 3, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  when i bought this game i didnt have my own pc yet but my mom let me use her computer. She had 
 a lap top with M. E. so i went out and bought this game along with Tachyon, i spent a total of $15 
 for both games then went and bought a Saitek usb gold joystick. i installed this game on my 40 
 gig external and proceeded to have a whole lot of fun. this game plays like an arcade and has a 
 decent story line to it. your a young rookie pilot who has to save your people basicaly single 
 handedly. the first thing that happens in the first level is you get thrown into the middle of 
 a hi jacking of one of your spaceships and you gotta save it all by your self. you get jumped and 
 you have to blow everything out of the sky. basicaly thats every level of the game. each level 
 gets harder as you proceed and with each level you get better weapons. for those of you who dont 
 require a complex story to have some fun will enjoy this game. its your basic get in my way i'll 
 take you out kind of game. now here's the draw back of the game. if you have windows 2000 or xp 
 your joystick is not gonna work because the game is made for windows 98 and M. E. once i thought 
 that i found this game for xp but it might have just been my imagination, and no there isnt a patch 
 to fix the problem. so if you dont mind playing this game without joystick support i say go ahead 
 buy this game and if you happen to have an old pc i say you must buy this game. the graphics look 
 good and its easy to learn. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
