-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Barnyard
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/thebarnyardmovie/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Immerses players in the movies skewed world.
 Refreshing open-ended design.
 Dozens of minigames and helper missions.
 Lots of visual and auditory detail.
 Genuinely charming.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Minigames arent really unique or challenging.
 Not enough spoken dialogue.
 Controls are uncomfortable at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  8, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.9, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 40 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Blue Tongue
Genre: Action
Date:     Aug 1, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The open-ended design is a breath of fresh air, while the overall presentation lives up to the movie's 
 skewed style and humor. 

  THQ's Barnyard isn't like the majority of movie-inspired games. Instead of leading players through 
 a series of missions that simply duplicate the film's story, it lets them explore the farm and 
 tackle a wide variety of missions, minigames, and collect-a-thon checklists on an open-ended basis. 
 Fans of the movie can experience firsthand what it's like to be a hip and happening cow. They can 
 talk to their favorite characters, visit their favorite places, furnish the barn with the stuff 
 they like, and do everything that Otis and his buddies did on the big screen. None of the missions 
 or minigames here are all that unique or challenging, but that isn't such a big deal since most 
 players will be too busy giggling at the charming anthropomorphism underpinning each one to really 
 care that they're burning up the high-score chart.  

          Players can explore the world from the movie and interact with all of the key characters. 
     

  The game, just like the movie did, depicts the farm as a bizarre place where animals behave like 
 people. In this three-dimensional fantasy world, cows, chickens, and other livestock hang around 
 and chat as if they were teenagers hanging out at the local mall. Otis, a carefree cow, likes to 
 swim in the pond and play gopher golf. His father, Ben, carries around a clipboard and keeps raccoons 
 and coyotes at bay with his milk squirters. There's a chicken named Peck who dreams of flying, 
 so he routinely has the other animals launch him out of a slingshot so that he can sail across 
 the farm, usually to disastrous results. There's a pack of cows that likes to race their bikes 
 and go joyriding in the local farmers' cars. Every day, just for grins, these same cows sneak up 
 behind the mailman and mock him behind his back. Players are dropped right into the middle of this 
 menagerie, taking on the role of a teenage cow that has just been delivered to the farm. This cow 
 wants to make a good impression, so he (or she, depending on the choice made in the beginning) 
 decides to join the animals in their activities and help out in any way possible.  

  All of those activities, and dozens more, are depicted either as minigame challenges or as point-to-point-style 
 missions. Just by wandering around and talking to the other animals, players can play gopher golf, 
 blast coyotes and raccoons with their squirt-gun-like udders, control Peck's journey as he sails 
 through the air, dance the robot behind the mailman's back, and so on and so forth. The controls 
 and complexity level for each minigame vary, but they're all generally straightforward and nontaxing. 
 What they lack in difficulty, they make up for in sheer amusement value. A cow squirting milk at 
 raccoons like Keanu Reeves in  The Matrix  is just plain wacky. Some characters have tasks they 
 need help with, which typically involves bringing back a certain item or visiting multiple characters 
 situated at various spots on the farm. Most missions only take a couple of minutes to complete. 
 The reward for completing them is usually a cinematic scene advancing a loose subplot involving 
 the raccoons and coyotes, along with some gopher bucks to spend at the store on gopher hill.  

 
  There's plenty to see and do here. The environment itself encompasses two farms and the surrounding 
 areas. Players can walk around, climb ladders, pick flowers, and ride a bicycle to get around more 
 quickly. A few daredevil tricks can be performed while riding the bike, for no practical purpose 
 except that it's something else to do. Tree stumps in the environment are actually prize machines 
 run by the gophers that spit out gopher bucks in exchange for prize tokens. At the barn, players 
 can participate in parlor games and use the food items they've collected to make treats and mocktails, 
 which can be given to the other animals or sold to the gophers for a huge profit. Numerous bike 
 upgrades and barn decorations are available for purchase at the gopher shop. Although many of these 
 decorations are purely for aesthetic purposes, some of them unlock additional parlor games, such 
 as pool, darts, and whack-a-rac. A cell phone item makes it easy to remember which missions are 
 available, and there are multiple notebooks to keep track of all the hints and recipes collected 
 along the way. This is a lighthearted sandbox-style game where players can watch the hours zip 
 away as they do whatever they want, whenever they want.  

  What is perhaps most important in the game is that the 3D world does a good job of making players 
 feel like they're actually exploring the farm from the movie. The cel-shaded graphics and bright 
 primary colors mimic the look of the animated film. Players can explore a number of familiar locations 
 from the movie and watch or talk to their favorite characters, which are all large and expressively 
 animated. At first glance, it doesn't appear that there's much happening in the environment, aside 
 from animals walking around, but closer inspection reveals a wealth of subtle details just waiting 
 to be noticed. The animals smile and blink when spoken to, bushes and flowers shake when characters 
 walk through them, and dirt and leaves are kicked up at every turn. A glimpse of the sky reveals 
 that the clouds are actually passing by up there, and that the sun, moon, and stars are making 
 their appointed treks as the clock ticks. Numerous objects in the environment can be picked up 
 or smashed, including fruit, rocks, boxes, hay bales, and flower pots. Trees can be kicked and 
 ladders can be climbed. The world of Barnyard is quite vivacious. Throughout it all, the graphics 
 engine never skips a beat. The textures and character models are sufficiently crisp, the frame 
 rate remains smooth even when a bunch of animals and items are visible, and the draw distance is 
 far enough such that only the occasional distant tree suddenly pops into view. As for the minigames, 
 they vary in quality. Some are rather plain and recycle the same character models from the normal 
 viewpoint. Others employ their own full-featured 3D engines and slick visual effects. In general, 
 the more complex a minigame is, the nicer it's put together. Gopher golf, for example, could have 
 been sold as a stand-alone game if it had more than the single nine-hole course.  

          There are dozens of minigames to try. Some beg to be played over and over again.     

 
  The audio is similarly atmospheric. Just standing still, you can hear the wind blowing through 
 the trees, the birds chirping, and the faint sound of water coming from the direction of the river. 
 Every action, such as shaking fruit out of a tree or walking across a rickety dock, has the appropriate 
 sound effect. The banjo music that's always playing in the background is rather fitting too. Despite 
 all of this ambient detail, the audio often feels too subdued. The main reason is the lack of character 
 speech in the game. Characters don't say much while wandering the farm or during minigames. Even 
 during conversation scenes, each animal will only say its first line of dialogue, leaving the player 
 to read the rest. It's rare that a movie tie-in has so little recorded dialogue, as that's usually 
 a major selling point.  

  Anyone considering purchasing the PC version of the game may also want to keep in mind that its 
 display output is locked at a resolution of 800x600 pixels, and that it doesn't support the use 
 of gamepads or joysticks. Most people won't be bothered by the display resolution, since this isn't 
 a first-person shooter requiring pixel-perfect aiming across huge battlefields. The lack of gamepad 
 support is irksome at times, though, especially since the minigames seem to have been designed 
 with gamepads in mind. The keyboard-and-mouse controls are fine for getting around in the world, 
 but the minigames require ridiculous amounts of mouse-dragging and finger contortion. When it comes 
 to controls, the PlayStation 2 and the GameCube versions definitely have a leg up on the PC game. 
 Of course, the PC game costs half as much as the console versions do, and its graphics are slightly 
 better in every regard.  

  In any event, fans of the movie will likely be pleased with how the video game rendition of Barnyard 
 turned out. Its open-ended design is a breath of fresh air and many of the minigames are genuinely 
 fun. Also, the overall presentation lives up to the movie's anthropomorphic sense of humor.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AussieMelb
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I played this game right through with my 5 year old daughter, I have never heard her laugh so much. 
 There is so much to do and the graphics and mini games are fun.
  
  Some of the things to do are; tricks and jumps while bike riding, shoot milk at other animals (they 
 just get wet) , wack a mole, darts, pool, barmen drinks (catch and throw) , teach a chicken to fly, 
 great 18 hole putt golf course, car driving, making food and drinks and many others. There are 
 soo many missions, it even kept me interested because you can upgrade your barn to a funny party 
 house full of decorations and games. We loved this game long before we saw or heard about the movie. 
 I have played 1000's of games, this is by far the best game that has a movie, they are usually 
 a quick afterthought which can be completed in one weekend. I give this game 10 for gameplay, 10 
 for graphics, 10 for humour and 10 for fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
