-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Barrow Hill: Curse of the Ancient Circle
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/barrowhill/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It eventually ends.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Boring plot that is both amateurishly told and largely incoherent.
 no sense of horror, fear, or even mild heebie-jeebies.
 clunky graphics that do one thing well--hide clues.
 voice acting to make an online soap opera sound like the Royal Shakespearean Company doing <i>Hamlet</i>.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 24, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.6
Critic Score: 6.8, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 210 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Got Game Entertainment
Developer: Shadow Tor Studios
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Aug 25, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In Barrow Hill, nobody can hear you yawn. 

  Bad things apparently happen in towns with "Hill" in their names. As if the nightmarish streets 
 of Silent Hill weren't enough to scare fright-game fans out of their wits, now they have to contend 
 with Barrow Hill: Curse of the Ancient Circle. But this adventure based on authentic archaeological 
 digs in the UK doesn't live up to its almost-namesake, due to grade-z production values and a suicidally 
 dull story that lacks even the mildest hint of the heebie-jeebies.  

          After a few hours in Barrow Hill, you'll likely find yourself curled into a fetal position, 
 too.     

  Anyone who's worked on an actual archaeological dig will tell you that there is nothing scarier 
 than hauling dirt and painstakingly cataloguing ancient artifacts. And certainly, a game based 
 on such back-breaking labor would be more hair-raising than this third-rate frightfest. Although 
 the writers have attempted to spook things up with a creepy tale about Indiana Jones types digging 
 up something best left buried at a circle of ancient, megalithic standing stones, there are no 
 scares here, aside from a few cheap "Boo!" moments, such as when a raven suddenly flies out from 
 behind a garbage can. Yes, you wander dark paths through ostensibly eerie woods. Yes, you explore 
 to the accompaniment of occasionally ominous music. But aside from the sporadic moment where the 
 lights blink off and a standing stone goes for a walk, or the odd encounter with globs of goo that 
 were recently hippies, there isn't anything to keep your interest. You'll open your mouth wide 
 to yawn, not to gasp or scream.  

  Much of the storyline seems hacked together. The gas station and attached motel that you encounter 
 right after your car mysteriously breaks down soon becomes a hub that you have to backtrack to 
 over and over again. You'll go down one roadway to a hippie shack and find some clues that lead 
 you right back to the pumps. You'll go down another road to a wrecked jeep and find a tip that 
 forces you back to motel room number one. You'll head back to the motel yet again after discovering 
 that you need pieces of a broken ancient seal to get everything back to normal. You'll need to 
 use the gas-station kitchen to mix up some interesting recipes late in the game. Admittedly, Barrow 
 Hill is a tiny place, with just a half dozen or so primary locations, but there should be some 
 sense of progression -- not of constantly going over old ground. All this pointless busy work is 
 reinforced by generic adventure-game mechanics. Too often you're engaged in a scavenger hunt, collecting 
 random objects as you know that they'll come in useful later. Generally, this makes zero sense 
 at the time of acquisition. Crayon? Why not? Egg basket? Hey, you never know when that might come 
 in handy. Batteries? Maybe you'll find a flashlight. Acorns? Better grab those just in case you 
 need to make an offering to the pagan gods later on.  

  Picking up items is made difficult by the graphics engine, as well. This is one of those old-school, 
 stutter-step adventures where you move like a four-way automaton, clicking to move forward, look 
 left, look right, and zoom in on objects. It works decent enough for moving around, although it 
 is quite clunky and routinely clips important areas you need to focus on to pick up an object or 
 a clue. Getting out of the hippie shack, for instance, was incredibly frustrating, as the hose 
 we needed to use the acetylene torch on was stuck in the far bottom right corner of the screen. 
 You typically have to roam the cursor all over each screen to make sure that you're not missing 
 an object or a hot spot, which makes progressing through the game incredibly tedious.  

          What passes for a puzzle in Barrow Hill.     

  Other aspects of your quest are similarly 
 incoherent. Having to use your cell phone is completely artificial, a way to both insert a cheesy 
 damsel-in-distress element to the story and to point you in the right direction every now and then. 
 The sparseness of the visuals and sound enhance the synthetic nature of the story, too. Most of 
 the screens look reasonably good (for an adventure game) , if a long way past their best-before 
 date, but every location is completely devoid of people. Presumably, this is to build a sinister, 
 "Where did everybody go?" atmosphere, but it ends up making you think about production values so 
 bottom-drawer that the developers couldn't handle animating people. The audio is just as empty, 
 a fact accentuated by a musical score and sound effects that vanish for long stretches of time, 
 only to suddenly swell at apparently random instances. The rare moments when you get to listen 
 to the voice of another human being, usually on the radio, are marked by some of the worst acting 
 this side of an online Star Trek series.  

  All in all, Barrow Hill: Curse of the Ancient Circle is about as engaging and terrifying as a wait 
 in a doctor's office. Maybe a doctor's office with appalling, old magazines that make waiting for 
 the nurse to call your name a little bit menacing, but a doctor's office nonetheless.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KimGagePT
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  Barrow Hill is a nice little Indie game that can usually be found in the 5 dollar bin at your local 
 game store. Basically it is about you. You are traveling through Cornwall on the night of the Autumn 
 Equinox and your car breaks down just as the sun begins to set. From there you are compelled to 
 solve the mystery keeping you locked within the small town of Barrow Hill or suffer the same fate 
 as those who couldn't.
  
  It can be a little confusing at times, but with a trusty walkthrough at your side and a healthy 
 investigative instinct you will be fine. I didn't run into any bugs and the only problem I really 
 had with the game is that it wasn't long enough. A lot of the navigation is reminiscent of Myst 
 which doesn't sound very good, but it isn't that bad. In my personal opinion, this game is what 
 Myst should have been. It is a lot more engrossing and the general eerie feeling draws you in. 
 If I could change anything, it would be the length of the game and the conversations with NPC's, 
 which are just different pictures of the person cycling through a sort of slide show. It is a DVD 
 game so I thought that it wouldn't be a problem for them to just add the footage of someone talking. 
 Not bad though for a game that was made by a small handful of people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistyanddark
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 3, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Atmospheric graphics and environmental sounds. Not one linear way to gather all the clues. 
 Interesting info on the Cornish legends throughout the game. Logical riddles. Decent difficulty 
 level.
  
  The Bad: It's easy to miss important clues because of the point and click system. Some voice overs 
 are mediocre. It is too short, therefor not suitable for hardcore gamers.
  
  Overall: If you want to spend an hour before going to bed with a game that will make you forget 
 your everyday problems by sucking you in its world then Barrow Hill is the game for you. It is 
 amazing how it can send chills down your spine even if you play in a static environment. You know 
 that you can not die in this game and yet you are constantly worried. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seventh_void
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  This is where you wonder if the reviewer from Gamespot was just judging the game because he doesnt 
 like these type of games . Just like I would hate playing with the Minnesota Vikings on a franchise 
 when I love my Chicago Bears. Its that simple....2.6 guys????? Give me a break. I can think of 
 tons of games that are far more horrible than this and you guys would give it a 6 or a 6.6 or a 
 7 even. Sometimes I wonder about you guys, if the ol' boss said when your done with this review 
 you can go home (on Friday) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  I've never been one to solely rely on big-time game reviews from places like GameSpot and IGN. 
 Too many times have I been led to believe that games were either terrible or fantastic only to 
 find out the complete opposite once I actually gave them a try. However, I do like checking them 
 out, if only to find out what the basic premise of the game will be. When I came across Barrow 
 Hill: Curse of the Ancient Circle, I was shocked to see that GameSpot had given the game a 2.6 
 and that IGN had given it an 8.1. How in the world could a game be given such different scores? 
 The only way to settle this was to play the game myself.
  
  Barrow Hill is a standard point-and-click adventure game set in the English countryside in a fictitious 
 town of the same name. Well, not so much a town really, but more like a blink and you'll miss it 
 pit stop on the way to bigger and better things. However, this rest stop has much more to offer 
 than a simple hotel and gas station. Fueled by years of rumors and legends concerning the disappearance 
 of a group of travelers, tourists come from miles around to see the ancient stone ruins and healing 
 wells within Barrow Hill's limits.
  
  What you were doing in the town, we'll never know, but it soon becomes apparent that you won't 
 be leaving anytime soon, since your car breaks down at the beginning of the game. This accompanied 
 with short lasting power surges and a real lack of many things resembling civilization immediately 
 adds a feeling of desperation to this first person adventure. Oh, and did I mention the fact that 
 it just so happens to be the night of the Autumn Equinox? That's right, you are in for twelve hours 
 of total darkness, something that is more than a little frightening in a town surrounded by dense 
 woods.
  
  At the beginning of the game, you're left on your own to find a way out of town. The only person 
 you actually meet is a man named Ben who works at the gas station along the only road in town. 
 Shaken and visibly terrified, Ben warns you to leave town; he says that they have been awakened 
 and that they are out to get everyone. They being the guardians of the ancient stone circle buried 
 deep within the woods.
  
  Seven stone pillars stand in a circle, each representing a different land-made material, like water 
 and salt. After years of negotiations, an archaeological dig has finally been approved for the 
 sight. Led by a man named Conrad Morse, the dig was opened only a few weeks before everyone around 
 started to die. The dig, as you'll quickly learn, has disturbed the balance of the stones, releasing 
 the guardians who are out for revenge on the villagers who disrupted their land, and it's up to 
 you to set things right.
  
  The game is set in a very small section of land, with the gas station being the center hub, if 
 you will. The game's story may be linear, but the order in which you find your items is not. Every 
 area of the map is opened once you find a lantern (which happens within the first ten minutes of 
 game time) and where you go from there is up to you. This is one of the game's big negatives, since 
 you may end up finding items that you can't use for some time or not being able to find the items 
 you need right away.
  
  Along the way, you will gain advice and clues from journal and news clippings, as well as from 
 the game's only other main character, a radio host named Emma Harry, who will contact you via cell 
 phone. The voice acting isn't as bad as other reviews would have you believe, and the addition 
 of a camera phone like aspect, which allows you to see who you are talking to, adds a Blair Witch 
 Project sort of feel to the game, when Emma starts talking about how she is being hunted.
  
  Since the game is set on such a small land area, it won't take long to learn every detail of 
 the land without the help of the map. While this takes away from the overall stress of the game, 
 the developers made sure you could never be too comfortable when they added in random encounters 
 with the circle guardians. These encounters are the only way in which to die in the game, but can 
 easily be avoided by simply turning around and running. However, if you're madly clicking, trying 
 to quickly make your way from point A to point B, be prepared to pay for it with your life.
  
  In true horror style, there are various instances set up for quick scares, like a bird flying 
 right in front of your face, or the floor giving way below you. Since the game takes place in first 
 person, these instances can be truly scary. I'll even admit I jumped at least once.
  
  What the game has in terms of scare factor it adds to with its graphical appeal. The environments 
 are more like photographs than interactive landscapes, which means that they could add all the 
 detail they wanted to the backgrounds, and add they did. Dark shadows and foliage surround you 
 on your many trips into the woods, and the miniature spotlight provided by your lantern truly makes 
 you feel as if you are walking through haunted territory.
  
  To round out the fear factors is the sound department, which provides more of those instant scares 
 with loud booming drums mixed with creepy voices and the howling of animals. As to be expected, 
 the musical score will grow and change depending on the level of danger you are about to find yourself 
 in, which makes venturing into that dark barn or into that murky swamp all the more suspenseful.
 
  
  While the game may take place during twelve hours of complete darkness, I'm very sad to say that 
 it won't take you near that long to complete the storyline. There are two endings available, with 
 one adding only about ten minutes to your overall time. You can easily finish the game in less 
 than three hours, and once you see the ending you may very well be left wanting more.
  
  Where the ending was the main aspect that left something to be desired, everything leading up to 
 it makes the game worth the time, especially since it is so short. It may not be the best point 
 and click game to have ever been released, but Barrow Hill should definitely receive some credit 
 for trying something different. Too many times, games are based on crime dramas and whatnot, challenging 
 you to find the serial killer or terrorist before it's too late, but Barrow Hill takes a completely 
 different route. At least, I don't believe I've seen another game like this based around archaeology.
 
  
  Overall, Barrow Hill may not have reinvented the wheel when it comes to the adventure genre, and 
 it may have taken one too many cues from the film The Fog, but it didn't fail either. It's definitely 
 a breath of fresh air in terms of independent developments, and if you do manage to find a copy, 
 no matter how rare they might be, do yourself a favor and pick it up. You're bound to enjoy it 
 while it lasts.
  
  Review part of grrlgamer. com. Full review and screenshots at: http://grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=barrowhill 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kristel13
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Barrow Hill is a nice little Indie game that can usually be found in the 5 dollar bin at your local 
 game store. Basically it is about you. You are traveling through Cornwall on the night of the Autumn 
 Equinox and your car breaks down just as the sun begins to set. From there you are compelled to 
 solve the mystery keeping you locked within the small town of Barrow Hill or suffer the same fate 
 as those who couldn't.
  
  It can be a little confusing at times, but with a trusty walkthrough at your side and a healthy 
 investigative instinct you will be fine. I didn't run into any bugs and the only problem I really 
 had with the game is that it wasn't long enough. A lot of the navigation is reminiscent of Myst 
 which doesn't sound very good, but it isn't that bad. In my personal opinion, this game is what 
 Myst should have been. It is a lot more engrossing and the general eerie feeling draws you in. 
 If I could change anything, it would be the length of the game and the conversations with NPC's, 
 which are just different pictures of the person cycling through a sort of slide show. It is a DVD 
 game so I thought that it wouldn't be a problem for them to just add the footage of someone talking. 
 Not bad though for a game that was made by a small handful of people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melody
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed it. Wasn't boring to me, but I like puzzles and sometimes it is nice not to have to wrack 
 your brain to figure things out. It was relatively easy and really too short, however, the ambience 
 was just creepy enough for me. I could play it at night and still go to bed and during the evening 
 the kids could follow the gameplay and not be too freaked out. Although one of their friends wanted 
 an escort to the bathroom and requested I play it on mute! Like I said, a great weekend game. Easy 
 to get into and easy to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katjajett
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  The game is full of suspense and mystery (heavy on the mystery) . For a 2006 game the graphics could 
 defiantly use some updating. The control of walking through the areas by using your pointer to 
 click is irritating. The controls are similar to CSI games. The story defiantly creeps you out, 
 but Ive seen scarier. It is intriguing and it does make up for the games faults. Sounds are effects 
 great and creepy, but the music gets in the way. All and all, it is a good game but will not be 
 one of the ones you can play again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MClaw666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  I actually enjoyed this game. It reminded me a lot like Darkfall, but Darkfall was better. The 
 largest problem I have with adventure games like these is the useless information or useless clicks. 
 Barrow Hill wasn't abundant in these, but it definitely had its share. The one thing that I do 
 like about this game is that it's not for idiots that just click on things. You actually do have 
 to read stuff, write it down, and figure out the puzzles for yourself. This falls into a design 
 trap, though. You have to provide information useful to the gamer (Barrow Hill does this) and provide 
 other useless information that you just dig through. The question is ho w much of it do you provide? 
 Well, the books, articles, pamphlets, etc., pretty much tell you everything you need to know, but 
 in such a manner that's obvious once you've figured out what's going on, while not being too obvious. 
 That is, it almost flows with the other information, so some information is questionable if you'll 
 use it. The only thing that's different from other games is the interface. Rather than using items 
 on things, an icon appears that looks like a wrench, and you just click on one item in your inventory. 
 While this does make life easier, some of your inventory items are small and look similar, so you 
 may find yourself having to re-do some puzzles. This is a good game to play once if you liked Darkfall. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimberWolf_CLT
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  If you examine the production staff list for this title, you'll see an amazingly small group of 
 people. As such, I think that they did a credible job of producing a mystery game that kept my 
 attention.
  
  One caveat is that this game was definitely written with a UK audience in mind and I have a feeling 
 that other folks that don't have that much of an interest in the neolithic structures of Cornwall 
 might be a little put off.
  
  My biggest complaint was the movement control. It appears that they kept the graphics to essentially 
 snap shots and restricted the movement ot allow for this type of environment display.
  
  It wouldn't have taken a whole lot more effort to have enabled cursor movements and that would 
 have made the adventure a whole lot more pleasurable.
  
  Also, the top and bottom pop-up menus could be a little tiresome when you/'re looking for clues.
 
  
  All in all, I enjoyed this game and applaud this Indie's effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueSinew
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  Hold on a minute guys, this game is not that bad. It is exactly as it is advertise to be, a traditional 
 point and click adventure. Reminiscent of Zork and Myst you wander around collecting items that 
 work with other items. No big challenges, just a relaxing adventure game. Although, it is not as 
 easy as you might think. There are a lot of items to find and it seems like you won't get very 
 far unless you find them all.
  
  If you have just played an action game there will be a bit of adjusting to do with the pace. I 
 just finished Tomb Raider: Legend and DaVinci Code, so it took a little time to adjust to this slow 
 pace. Other than that I find the game really enjoyable. It is certainly worth a rating higher that 
 a 2.6. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeeVee2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  I too absolutely disagree with the GS review. As someone else said 'To slate a game so badly just 
 because it is an adventure and not a gun-toting blast-a-thon is puerile.' Too true. I have been 
 thoroughly engrossed in this game and I enjoy it for what it IS, not slag it off for what it obviously 
 isn't. It is, to my mind, The Blair Myst Project, and a type of game I haven't seen done before. 
 Don't expect full 3D top-of-the-range graphics. It is just static shots mostly. But it conveys 
 a lovely dark 'Clive Barker' type feel, some mystical elements combined with a strange unsettling 
 'something in the trees' mood.
  
  The writer obviously has a love for all things darkly British like League of Gentlemen and Wicker 
 Man, and the graphics I think are very well done.
  
  A few 'video' sequences are fairly lo-fi but overall the mood is kept well. And the radio station 
 idea is a nice reference to The Fog and helps sustain a menacing atmosphere - Ok, so the acting's 
 not world class but the horror genre's not known for that, it's far more about style and mood, 
 which this has. The sound works really well, not too much, swelling and fading, ominous and suggestive... 
 It's a real shame the wrong person reviewed this game. Don't believe em. For an independent low-budget 
 game, created by ONE GUY, this should be commended. Great work Matt Clark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  First-person adventure games has a long tradition of having vague story-line and second rate graphics; 
 Barrow hill is no exception (graphic-wise) .
  The opening sequence doesnt supply the player a lot of backround story or even a lot of clues 
 about what the hell are you suppose to be doing. Altough the story does get a bit more sensable 
 and clear as the game goes on, you can still find yourself running around the (very limited) map, 
 trying to figure out your next step.
  The graphics in the game are mediocre at best. The few people you encounter are in real life footage, 
 and the surroundings are static. You wont find yourself staring in awe. You probably wont even 
 pay any special attention to the graphics.
  Following the grphics is the sound, which is much worse. The characters are annoying, there is 
 hardly any backround music (apart from a few moments, the game is almost completely silent) .
  Where the game shines is the story and gameplay. At first it doesnt seem to be much of a story, 
 but as you go along the story unfolds (using the usual read these papers, they are very important 
 routine) you discover a very unique and interesting story.
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as every first-person adventure game. You use the mouse to 
 interact with the world, pick up objects (randomly) , and to use your cell-phone.
  For conclusion, if youre looking for a fun and short game, with a unique story, this game is for 
 you. For those who care for good graphics and a faster paced game, move along, youll just be disappointed 
 and annoyed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 1.4
Date: Oct 1, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  This is one of the worst games this year and mauby at all time.
  But let me review what i played in those 10 minutes!
  
  First person view and click-point type 
 moving! Now someone tell me what were the developers thinking, how can a first person view fit 
 in a click-point game!! But what really makes mathers worse is that when you click where you want 
 to move, theres no animation of you walking there, it's just flyes to the next picture. This makes 
 it so stupid as you can't see in every desired angle, it's really hard to spot any items that may 
 be there and just the moving is really painful as you have to click every time you want to see 
 left or right. It's just very stupid!
  
  Story: Well apart the fact that you are some man going to barrow hill for who knows what reason 
 and something happend as soon as you arriced in Barrow hill, there is no story!
  
  Sound: Well there are the basic sounds like when opening a door, picking something up but thats 
 the only thing thats reasonable, voice acting is extremly poor at least from the guy in the gas 
 station. Overall it's very, very poorly done!
  
  Graphics: Well it doesent have graphics but it has pictures, 3D pictures that is! As i've sed up 
 you actually scroll through the pictures and thats your movement.
  
  Overall: It's the stupidest game of the year for sure!
  Fun factor: 0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miladasadi
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  I saw the gamespot review but decided to buy the game and now I am happy with this. gamespot reviewer 
 has considered this game asc a first person shooter and then has written his review , in that case 
 he is right! game is a bad first person shooter! but as an adventure game it is great! story is 
 flawless and has historical and scientific background, it has no plot holes and everything is explained 
 enough although it could be a little longer and some more locations. gameplay is great much better 
 than adventure games with big names like dreamfall. puzzles are along story and player never gets 
 mixed up about what to do next. inventory was one of the best parts of gameplay and made using objects 
 very easy. graphics and sound were good not great for an independent game it was great. if you 
 are an adventure gamer then this is one of the best games you can play in this year. (don't listen 
 to gamespot review!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pulingsen
Rating: 4.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  It's an alright game. If you play it in a dark room with loud sound it can be very scary. But after 
 som hours playing and you're nearing the end it starts to suck. I don't wanna ruin anything but 
 it has a crappy ending. The menus and the game interface is also a bit sucky. Therefore not a game 
 to buy. But if you have bought it and playing it you'll se that I'm right. A thing that i did like 
 about the game is the constant surround sound which made me scared. So if you're friend has it 
 you should "barrow" it: P but it is not worth its money... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asla
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  The Gamespot review for Barrow Hill is insulting, to say the less.
  
  Just a few words on the game itself, since I'm sure that all people interested here have already 
 read the reviews from Just Adventure or Adventure Gamers.
  
  It is a creepy and interesting story, well written and well structured, with very good graphics 
 and sounds, for an independent effort. The environmental sounds are recorded with a very high quality, 
 and they are completely artifact-free. As for the graphics, it is very good and some elements, 
 like the foliage and the woods are just beautiful, and really moody.
  Being told in a non linear way, you are free to explore the environment, collect clues and solve 
 the game at your own pace. The only drawback to this approach is that some item are to be collected 
 without knowing why, sometimes "too soon" and it feels more disjointed than a game with a forced 
 narration line.
  Another minor thing I did not like is that, being portrayed with the classic fixed views, you have 
 to click a lot, and it annoyed me. I would have been able to look around with the mouse, like in 
 Scratches or Post Mortem.
  
  This said, I found BH to be a very successful game, and to be praised for being an independently 
 developed with such a care and attention to details.
  It's an old style adventure, and it's made for passion. It's the product of a mind, not the one 
 of an industry, and as such should have been reviewed. Calling it a "grade-z production" is feeding 
 the industry monsters, not reviewing games.
  It is cheap also, just buy it and make up a mind for yourself. And, most important, have fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
