-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Baseball Mogul 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/baseballmogul2002/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 16, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 8.2, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 11 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sports Mogul
Genre: Baseball Management
Date:     Mar 31, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Baseball Mogul 2002's greatest success, as well as most disappointing failure, is that the captivating 
 gameplay remains virtually identical to the first game in the series. 

 Baseball Mogul 2002 is the computer game equivalent of a dream come true for anyone who collected 
 baseball cards as a kid. The management simulation lets you trade in that cheap cardboard and take 
 complete control of your Major League faves in a drive to bring home the pennant. Sign 'em, sit 
 'em, or ship 'em off to Montreal at the trade deadline -- it's completely up to you. The game is 
 so effective at drawing out your inner child that by the midway point of your first simulated season, 
 you'll find yourself longing for a stick of cementlike gum.           How 'bout those Miracle Mets? 
    

  Unfortunately, the above could also have been said for the original Baseball Mogul, way back when 
 the concept was new and intriguing. Now, three iterations and as many years later, the bloom is 
 off the rose and the entire idea seems a bit tired. Those who have been with the series from the 
 very beginning can't help but get a sense of dj vu when loading up the new game, which 
 is a lot like the "new" game from last summer, which was a lot like the "new" game from the summer 
 before that. As much as it might be unfair to fault a game for what it isn't, it's hard not to 
 demand some sort of rejuvenation from a series this far down the road. Winning concept or not, 
 nobody wants to buy the same thing, year after year.   

  Of course, if you've never played one of the previous releases in this line, you're in for a real 
 treat. Broken down to its basics, Baseball Mogul 2002 is all about winning, both on the field and 
 in the accounting ledgers. You're sort of like an owner, general manager, and manager rolled into 
 one, with godlike control over everything from the price of admission to who gets to bat cleanup. 
 All the official Major League Baseball Players Association members are on hand, in contrast with 
 previous years when fictional players were used. The game still lacks the full Major League license, 
 meaning that you'll have to input team nicknames yourself if you want that extra touch of authenticity. 
   

  You keep track of everything with an easy-to-use interface that organizes all of your team's stats 
 and relevant financial data on readily available menus. Player cards containing all the current 
 stats and a scouting report can be checked by just double-clicking on the players' names. Complete 
 box scores and remarkably thorough game summaries are available from the calendar screen. Games 
 themselves can be simmed one day at a time, or you can move through the schedule by the week, month, 
 half season, or entire season. Simulation time is incredibly fast. Click on "entire season" and 
 run off to make a sandwich, and the game will have made it to October by the time you reach for 
 the mustard.           Expect a lot of off-season player movement.    

  Important league happenings are further highlighted in the Mogul Insider. Updated every day with 
 at least one story, this screen runs down the current headlines, complete with full newspaper-style 
 stories and photos. This feature, which has been with the Baseball Mogul series since its inception, 
 now covers more big-league happenings than ever, from hard-fought wins to noteworthy individual 
 achievements to failed negotiations and trades. It remains the most memorable part of your experiences 
 with the game, providing Basball Mogul 2002 with a lot of its unique charm and attitude -- you'll 
 enjoy being able to read about the exploits of your team and players in the newspaper.   

  The only significant interface miscue is an inability to track player movement around the league, 
 aside from just scanning the headlines for an announcement. Still, the game is very friendly to 
 beginners. This is a consequential achievement all on its own, considering the often confusing 
 interfaces found in similar games. Compared with most other baseball management simulations, such 
 as the ridiculously convoluted Diamond Mind Baseball and the unwieldy APBA Baseball for Windows, 
 Baseball Mogul 2002 is as accessible as a first-grade primer.    

 The actual gameplay is also easy to get into, both for beginners and sports management veterans. 
 Very little here will cause even the most fervent statistics worshipper to raise an eyebrow. A 
 number of simulated seasons reveal nothing amiss... aside from the depressing ability of the Atlanta 
 Braves to make the playoffs for six years in a row. Dominating pitchers include usual suspects 
 such as perennial Cy Young winners Pedro Martinez, Greg Maddux, and Randy Johnson. Pitcher win 
 totals, strikeout numbers, walks, ERA, and so on are all within the expected parameters. The same 
 can be said of batters, who perform pretty much exactly as can be forecast at the plate. Alex Rodriguez, 
 Frank Thomas, Mike Piazza, Vladimir Guerrero, and their fellow MLBPA unionists all hit just as 
 they should, in terms of home run numbers and batting averages. There is the occasional surprise, 
 like Homer Bush hitting .308 with 87 RBI in 2001, but nothing that challenges the game's credibility. 
           Player cards are more detailed than ever before.    

  A few weak moments can strain your attachment at times, however. Injuries are sometimes spelled 
 out, sometimes left vague. For example, while you're told that Chan Ho Park has a "wrist stress 
 fracture" and is gone for 33 days, Adrian Beltre might merely be "injured" and out for 19. This 
 happens just frequently enough to be irritating. Furthermore, setting your team's ticket price 
 is done on a sliding scale, with respect to the average pricing for the rest of league, so you 
 never have an exact dollar value on what you're currently charging. Actually, dollars aren't a 
 part of the game in any way, having been replaced last year by points. This abstract system, which 
 is used mostly to rate player salaries, remains somewhat difficult to grasp. Points do mean more 
 this year, though, as there is more player movement during the off-season. Teams often decide that 
 they simply can't afford some of their top veterans.   

  Player trading has been tinkered with a great deal, resulting in a system that is both better and 
 worse than last year. With the new trading block feature, you can designate a player to be shopped 
 around and then openly solicited -- it is a great addition in theory, but it simply doesn't work. 
 Aside from an annoying bug that forces you to leave the screen if you try to replace the first 
 player put on the block with another, it invariably generates terrible offers. Dangle a superstar 
 like Gary Sheffield or Barry Bonds out there, and you'll get nothing but motley collections of 
 prospects and longshots whom nobody this side of Gord Ash would consider accepting as fair value. 
 It's nice that the designers wanted to represent the current financial atmosphere that surrounds 
 most big transactions these days and make the computer AI tougher, but this goes too far in that 
 regard and makes trading a losing proposition almost all the time. Dealing face-to-face with other 
 GMs can result in superior deals, though even then, it's a little too hard to pull the trigger 
 on a move that will make a real difference in the August and September stretch run.           The 
 regular season even includes the All-Star Game.    

  Like most sports management games, Baseball Mogul 2002 lacks modern presentation values. Screen 
 resolution is fixed at a disappointing 640x480, and menu screens lack much in the way of added 
 pizzazz and color. Many of these screens haven't changed much since the early days of the series. 
 It's a shame that the designers didn't borrow some ideas from their competition at Out of the Park 
 Baseball 3 and liven up the display of data with a more vibrant palette and a few ballpark photographs. 
 Thankfully, they did take full advantage of the new MLBPA license by adding color photos of all 
 the players, including head shots with the player stat cards and action shots on the Mogul Insider's 
 front page. This adds a nice touch of humanity to the roster and, not to mention, a greater sense 
 of realism.   

  Audio is nearly nonexistent. Though there are a few basic sounds, like the crackly turning of a 
 page every time you open the Mogul Insider to check the headlines, you might as well be playing 
 with your system's volume muted. A few extra effects would certainly be welcome, though they wouldn't 
 be necessary.   

  Baseball Mogul 2002's greatest success, as well as most disappointing failure, is that the captivating 
 gameplay remains virtually identical to the first game in the series. That's a real plus for those 
 just discovering the game, but a real negative for longtime fans who have been managing their favorite 
 big league clubs since the debut of the original Baseball Mogul in 1998. Though some appreciable 
 innovations and improvements clearly make this current edition the best Baseball Mogul ever, it 
 remains similar enough to its predecessors that it's impossible to recommend it to those with last 
 year's model. But if you have yet to be introduced to this series -- or perhaps even to sports management 
 sims in general -- there's no better place to start than right here.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
