-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Baseball Mogul 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/baseballmogul2003/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  5, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 7.5, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 24 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Monkeystone
Developer: Sports Mogul
Genre: Baseball Management
Date:     Apr 30, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
What was once groundbreaking is now mundane, since this new sports management game remains largely 
 unchanged from what was so refreshing five years ago. 

 Baseball Mogul was a bit of a revelation when it showed up in 1997. The first text-based baseball 
 simulation to depict Big League life from the front office birthed many an armchair Steinbrenner. 
 Although the absence of a publishing deal kept the game out of stores, online sales allowed a cult 
 following to grow. Anyone who could tell the difference between Mickey Mantle and Mickey Mouse 
 was playing it by midsummer, and by the following January a number of critics had named it the 
 best sports game of the year.           Missing logos on jerseys means no Major League license. 
    

 But Baseball Mogul 2003 is a bit of a disappointment. What was once groundbreaking is now mundane, 
 since this new game remains largely unchanged from what was so refreshing five years ago. Lead 
 designer Clay Dreslough and the rest of the development team at Sports Mogul Inc. have been in 
 a holding pattern for the past two editions of what's become a long-running series. New bells and 
 whistles -- such as an overhauled graphics engine and the return of a play-by-play mode that lets 
 you watch games as they take place -- do little to add depth or even alter gameplay in any appreciable 
 fashion. It's impossible for any Baseball Mogul veteran to play the new game without getting the 
 impression that it recycles elements of the old ones into a more attractive package.   

  Of course, looking and sounding good doesn't mean much to a sports management simulation. Baseball 
 Mogul 2003 does look and sound pretty good, thanks to good use of color, some nice atmospheric 
 sound effects, and official Major League player photos, but what really counts for a game like 
 this is what's under the hood. And in that category Baseball Mogul 2003 is woefully underpowered. 
 More-detailed rival baseball simulations on the market, such as Season Ticket Baseball 2003 (also 
 known as Out of the Park Baseball 4) , have put this game firmly in the rearview mirror. While the 
 game still lets you take over a Major League franchise in any city you want (just not one of  the 
  Major League franchises, because the game comes without the Bud Selig stamp of approval) and run 
 it however you want for as long as you see fit, many important elements are dumbed down or omitted 
 entirely.           Play-by-play mode makes a welcome return.    

 This is particularly apparent in player personnel moves. Just about everything involving your starting 
 nine is satisfying in one way and dissatisfying in another. The play-by-play mode, for example, 
 permits you to watch games but prevents you from making any in-game decisions. Although you develop 
 youngsters in the minor leagues, you typically carry fewer than 10 because of budgetary reasons 
 (there is no limit on numbers) , and these players are little more than alternates grouped alongside 
 benched big leaguers. The menu system lets you quickly access your roster, yet it doesn't support 
 drag-and-drop for such processes as reordering your batting lineup and calling players up from 
 the farm. Stat tracking collects numbers in at least two dozen categories, though you still can't 
 check the splits to see how a player is performing against lefties and righties.   

  These collected statistics are generally respectable. Major League players typically perform to 
 expectations. All of the stars are right about where they should be in every season, with only 
 a few exceptions that can be interpreted as career-best or career-worst seasons. It's commonplace 
 to see Pedro Martinez taking home the top pitcher prize, Edgardo Alfonzo putting up all-around 
 MVP numbers, and Randy Johnson fanning 200-plus batters every year.    

  Team performances are more suspicious. Strangely enough, it's best to start with smaller-market 
 teams when using the default rosters. They inevitably have a handle on their budget issues from 
 the very beginning, and it's easier to start small and build big than it is to start big and contract 
 to a point where you're financially solvent. Big-market clubs in New York, Los Angeles, and Chicago 
 generally have only a couple of years to go all the way before their expensive player salaries 
 catch up with them. And once the slide starts, it is very tough to stop. Go into the red at the 
 end of a season and you'll be unable to sign players making more than the league minimum, which 
 is typically everyone worth keeping around. Consequences are dire if this happens. You'll lose 
 a number of your best players immediately and see the rest hit the road over the next year or two 
 because your suddenly crippled team can't draw flies. And when you go into the basement in this 
 game, you really go into the basement; let things go for too long and you'll wind up jealous of 
 the Washington Senators' winning percentage, finishing up seasons with ridiculous (if not impossible) 
 records like 4-158.           Contract negotiations are too simplistic to be satisfying.    

 Odd financial elements might not cause eyebrows to rise as much as that above statistic, though 
 there are problems here as well. Considering that the game is called Baseball  Mogul , it's surprising 
 that the basic financial mechanics aren't on a sounder footing. For starters, money doesn't exist. 
 Rather than working with the cold hard cash that we all depend on in the real world, Baseball Mogul 
 2003 (like its two immediate predecessors) uses a points system. In place of salaried contracts, 
 players are awarded points according to their talents. Unfortunately, these points never correspond 
 with authentic values, meaning that Alex Rodriguez doesn't make 25 million points for a season -- the 
 equivalent of what he makes in dollars for the real-life Texas Rangers -- he makes 125 points (each 
 point apparently works out to $200,000) . This lends an abstract air to everything and presents 
 fans of Major League Baseball (presumably the target audience for this game) with an unnecessary 
 learning curve that turns out to be steeper than it looks.   

  Contracts are overly simplistic in another way. When a player's deal expires, his agent goes immediately 
 to his former team and sets out parameters for a new contract in terms of years and point value. 
 You can adjust the number of years, which in turn affects how many points the player wants to stick 
 around, or release him, but that's all you can do. This removes all of the drama from the signing 
 period, since you know what the player will accept right from the beginning, and there is no chance 
 of another club swooping in with a killer offer and stealing away his services.           Reading 
 the sports page remains a Baseball Mogul tradition.    

 How the game handles player contracts is crystal clear in comparison with how it handles other fiscal 
 issues. As with player management, slider bars are used far too frequently. So while you can freely 
 increase or decrease the number of points being spent on everything from hot dogs at your stadium 
 to how much you're devoting to expenses like scouting, you cannot do this by simply assigning figures. 
 Instead, every move you make is judged in comparison with what the rest of the league is doing. 
 If you want to charge more or less for a ticket, or for concessions such as drinks and ice cream, 
 you use slider bars. Everything is based on percentages above and below the league average. This 
 makes the bottom line seem a bit unclear, since you're mostly dealing with percentages in place 
 of exact figures.   

  Judging games based on preconceived notions of what they should be -- rather than what they actually 
 are -- may seem grossly unfair, but it's hard not to do that with Baseball Mogul 2003. Anyone who 
 came under the spell of the earlier releases can't help but feel let down that the series just 
 hasn't lived up to its potential. The first game could have evolved into a classic sports management 
 sim rivaling the likes of the UK's revered Championship Manager line. Instead, it's stuck in a 
 rut, and fulfilling all of that initial promise is as far away as ever.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jmymann
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 17, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  some major gliches, but other than that, not too bad. however, the gameplay isn't too deep. i loved 
 this game, but technecly speaking, it's a pile of s***. 
  
  value is null because you can download baseball mogu 2005 for free. but this on still costs money, 
 likewise for 2004. so my final advice is to pick up your free download of 2005, and wait for 2007 
 to come out. the comishioner mode is fun to play around with, but only minimaly. the game really 
 is "all flash, no substance, and that's not nice. anyhoo, just pick up 2005. 
  
  gliches: some stats don't work, you can't build new stadiums, you can't move your team etc. by 
 the way, all these things, you are supposed to be able to do them, they just don't work. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
