-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Batman: Vengeance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/batmanvengeance/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 11, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.8, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 126 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 8, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unless you happen to like frustration, or you love Batman fanatically, or both, you're better off 
 leaving Batman: Vengeance alone. 

 Batman: Vengeance is a port of a console game that was released a full year ago, but the game's 
 general appearance and sound hold up surprisingly well. Unfortunately, if you actually sit down 
 and play the game, you'll find that the game also has horrible problems with its camera perspective 
 and controls, so much so that playing Batman: Vengeance is an exercise in frustration. Unless you 
 happen to like frustration, or you love Batman fanatically, or both, you're better off leaving 
 Batman: Vengeance alone.           Some of Batman: Vengeance's graphics do a good job of staying 
 true to the TV show.    

  Batman: Vengeance is based on the TV cartoon that ran in the 1990s. Though the show drew inspiration 
 from both Tim Burton's blockbuster motion picture and the official DC comic series, the  Batman 
  cartoon distinguished itself with its outstanding voice acting (featuring the likes of Mark Hamill, 
 Roddy McDowall, and David Warner) and its distinctive look. All of the cartoon's scenery and characters 
 looked extremely simple -- Batman himself had a literally square jaw and a pair of triangles for 
 eyes, but he always looked great leaping into action against his enemies, thanks to the cartoon's 
 extremely fluid animation. Batman: Vengeance tries to capture the look of the cartoon series, and 
 in some ways, it succeeds. Its characters, especially Batman, look much as they did in the later 
 years of the cartoon show, and many of them, especially Batman, are animated extremely well.   
 

  True to the nature of the cartoon series, Batman: Vengeance's character models are simplistic and 
 are also textured simply. So are the game's various background areas; some of these do a good job 
 reproducing the dark, gothic look of the cartoon, but most of them are simply too plain and in 
 many cases too gray or too brown. Take even a brief look at the flat, unadorned walls of Batman: 
 Vengeance's warehouses, train stations, and docks, and you'll probably feel that the game would 
 have looked a lot better if it had featured cartoon-style flat-shaded graphics, like Sega's colorful 
 and innovative console game Jet Grind Radio, which was released two years ago. Fortunately, Batman 
 and his enemies are animated well enough, and Batman himself has a limited but decent-looking arsenal 
 of punches and kicks that he can use to dispatch his enemies at close range. When he's not fighting, 
 leaping, or tossing batarangs at his enemies, Batman and his sidekick Batgirl are uncovering the 
 game's surprisingly complex story, either in real-time, in-engine cutscenes that look about as 
 good as the rest of the game, or in splotchy rendered movies that are so blurry that you'll sometimes 
 have a hard time seeing what's going on.           Thanks to the game's poor camera, the Dark Knight 
 falls to his death. Again.    

  No matter how much of a Batman fan you might be, you'll be hard pressed not to start pulling your 
 hair out in frustration once you start taking on some of Batman: Vengeance's jumping puzzles. Batman: 
 Vengeance's control scheme is unchanged from the original 2001 console versions -- you can use the 
 gamepad or the W, S, A, and D keys on your keyboard, but you'll move in only eight directions (exactly 
 like a gamepad) with a fixed camera that will drastically change positions without warning. To 
 be fair, the game's camera doesn't suffer from some of the common problems that plague third-person 
 action games on consoles -- it doesn't get stuck behind the character, and it can be reset by switching 
 to the first-person view (which you use to aim thrown weapons or to use items from Batman's utility 
 belt, like batarangs or the batgrapple, an extending grappling-hook device that Batman used often 
 in the TV show) . However, the camera can't be moved manually, so you're generally at its mercy 
 when it decides to make a gut-wrenching 180-degree swivel after you fall from a height or descend 
 a stairway or when you're faced with a challenging jump over a seemingly endless series of bottomless 
 pits. These jumping puzzles might have been manageable if the game had let you rotate the camera 
 around Batman to gauge the distance between jumps, but instead, you're left to guess where the 
 nondescript gray ledge you're standing on ends and where the next nondescript gray ledge begins 
 and to try again and again before you can move on to the next area.   

  These camera problems are also an issue on terra firma when fighting thugs in hand-to-hand combat. 
 Though Batman can, in theory, immediately immobilize enemies by sneaking up on them with handcuffs 
 and disarm his opponents with a well-placed batarang, you'll generally find yourself blundering 
 headfirst toward all your enemies, even the ones armed with guns, since many of them will be placed 
 around corners and twisting corridors that simply won't let you see around them, thanks to the 
 game's fixed and arbitrary camera angles. You'll basically charge your enemies, hoping that you 
 don't get shot too many times before you get close, then beat them senseless. Though Batman can 
 eventually learn a few fancy special attacks, you can simply beat all of your enemies by alternately 
 blocking and then using Batman's default flurry of punches -- the game's fights aren't terribly difficult, 
 but they can become irritating if you're being pummeled by more than one enemy on more than one 
 side.           Thanks to the game's simplistic fighting system, most enemies aren't much of a 
 challenge.    

  And unfortunately, that's nearly all of Batman: Vengeance's gameplay. The game generally alternates 
 between fighting, jumping puzzles, a fight, a puzzle, then another fight. But it's clear that the 
 game's designers presented some of the game's most frustrating elements as "challenges" that would 
 make the game longer, because aside from its frustrating jumping puzzles, Batman: Vengeance is 
 a pretty short game. It's a safe bet that you'll find at least some, if not most, of the game's 
 jumping puzzles to be frustrating, but what makes them even more preposterous is that many of them 
 involve hopping over small distances or clambering up short piles of crates (or in one of the game's 
 most frustrating puzzles, giant mushrooms) -- distances that Batman would easily be able to cover 
 if he could actually grab onto that ledge to hoist himself up or use his batgrapple to save himself 
 from falling to his death. Yet you can grab only a few certain, arbitrary ledges and use your batgrapple 
 only in a few certain, arbitrary areas. The rest of the time you'll helplessly watch Batman fall 
 to his death repeatedly and for no other reason than that the game's designers couldn't think of 
 any way to challenge players or lengthen the game otherwise. Though you'll also be able to play 
 through a few very brief levels in which you'll pilot the batplane, ride in the batmobile, or control 
 Batman in freefall as he tries to rescue a falling victim, these are all relatively short and not 
 especially enjoyable, and the batplane and batmobile scenes can be difficult to control because 
 the game inverts your mouse or gamepad while aiming and flying.   

  Generally speaking, you'll find most of Batman: Vengeance to be un-fun work that you'll need to 
 try and retry repeatedly until you get it right. It's a shame, because the game features good voice 
 over from the actual actors of the TV show, as well as a surprisingly good orchestral soundtrack 
 reminiscent of Danny Elfman's compositions for both the  Batman  motion picture and TV cartoon -- though 
 the music can get repetitive and even annoying when you're repeatedly trying to complete a jumping 
 puzzle. Batman: Vengeance's frustrating puzzles and almost complete lack of secrets and hidden 
 items also ensure that you'll probably never go back and replay the game. Fortunately, if you're 
 just looking for a PC action game that you can use to test your reflexes, you have plenty of better 
 games to choose from this year.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 12, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  The games of Batman in some consoles like the PlayStation or the GameBoy are very good and entertaining. 
 But with the PC it is a different strory. It always was.
  
  In vengeance, you will fight the chaotic criminals of Gotham city, home of the Batman. Hunted not 
 only by all the criminals of the city, as the target of a massive conspiracy, but also by the police 
 department of Gotham, Batman will have to defeat Joker, the mastermind behind all these, and save 
 the city once again.
  
  The gameplay is not as complex as a batman game demands, nor it is simplistic. Sometimes it gets 
 too complex and too rough. The missions you have to do are sometimes unexplicably deep, requiring 
 long and tiring quests in order to progress.
  
  There are also poor controls and an even worse camera which frustrates you enough to drop this 
 game in a rubbish bin.
  
  But the graphics are good. They are complex as they should, supported by a magnificent concept 
 art taken from the series. The voice talents are also satisfying.
  
  Batman Vengeance is really not a game worth of playing. Besides, it will tire you that much that 
 you won't want to see this disc ever again. But the Batman fans may find some pros in this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baghdig
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  This game is great for Batman fans. Because it has all the moves that batman uses. There are a 
 short number of villains and the story is short but it's still a game to play at least once. The 
 controls are hard and the graphics aren't so great but it's worth playing. After you have finished 
 all the levels the only thing that is left to do is getting a better score in each level. Besides 
 that it's always the same thing. So once you've played it you wouldn't want to play again because 
 it's always repetitive. The characters all respect their voices. The game contains the same insanity 
 as The Joker and Quinn. Batman has lots of gadgets to use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visor123
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  I really looked forward to this game sometime in 2002 when it was just out. However there was no 
 PC version which disappointed me. Then later on, Ubisoft released a PC version. The game is fun 
 but it is a clumsy PC port. You couldn't play it if you didn't have a Geforce 256 graphics card. 
 Also, the game has some clipping issues and bugs. Like during the Freeze copter chase scene; it 
 looks as though the chopper goes through clipped buildings which looks pretty ridiculous. Otherwise, 
 the controls aren't bad. The camera angles are bad however and you can't move the camera. The combat 
 in the game is fun. The sounds are nice. The voice acting is great since it has voice talent from 
 the animated series. The music is cool. The game can be hard at times especially with some puzzles 
 when you play for the first time. Also the chase scenes can drive you crazy if you lose easily.
 
  
  So overall, despite being a clumsy PC port, Batman Vengeance can satisfy you if you're a fan of 
 the caped crusader.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaterofGames
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  This is the PC port of a game on the PS2, XBOX, Gamecube, and the Game Boy Advance. Due to the 
 gigantic competition, and the fact that this game was released a year later, you would expect it 
 to be so much better. It isn't. Before we look at what's terrible about this game, let's cover 
 the good things. The game has a mildly interesting plot, one that will keep you interested in the 
 game enough to finish it. You see, it appears that Joker and his henchmen seems to be after a woman 
 named Mary, and has captured her son Toby, later they do capture Mary. So you have to locate Joker 
 and rescue them both. Some games leave you blind, and you more or less have to guess the plot. 
 The game has plenty of cut scenes, which are full of beautiful voice acting. Fans of the animated 
 series will find the voices to their liking. Even Alfred, whom they couldn't bother to model and 
 actually put into the game has a voice that matches the animated series quite well. The music is 
 great, it matches up with the animated series quite well, and often fits with what's going on in 
 the game. However the sound effects are usually awful, such as the gunshots.
  
  Despite the fact that the graphics most of the time do look like the animated series, it's easy 
 to become disoriented and not have a clue what you are doing and where you are, because everything 
 is so simplistic and all the colors look the same. No detail seems to have been put into any of 
 the graphical part of the game, it all just looks flat. In addition to that, sometimes they seemed 
 to just add parts of the game in for no reason at all, for example when you are trying to find 
 the henchmen that kidnapped Mary, there is a flat door, that you can't even try to open. It's just 
 there. An extreme annoyance is that the REAL door that you need to use is RIGHT by that fake door! 
 So you could think that both doors are just part of the scenery, and end up s
  
  
  pending a good twenty minutes searching for the door you need to go in. The camera angles are crazy 
 in this game. They shift wildly, and it becomes nauseating after a while, especially if you are 
 fighting. In addition to this, sometimes the camera shifts to an opposite direction than you want 
 to go, so you could get hit by potshots by your enemies, that are equipped with guns. After a cut 
 scene, you need to tap the space bar twice to enter back into the first-person point of view. This 
 takes time, and it's annoying, especially when you are doing a chase sequence. The graphics and 
 camera are poor, and end up harming your enjoyment of the game, rather than increasing it. As for 
 the gameplay and controls, it's just as bad. The game uses obscure keys like the End key, the Delete 
 key, ext. for main functions. I haven't heard of a single game that uses those keys and is good. 
 The hit detection is awful. Sometimes you'll find that it takes a couple tries to actually handcuff 
 your enemies, due to the fact that it didn't detect it the first time. There is a yellow indicator 
 of where to grapple, yet sometimes, for no reason, it doesn't appear for no apparent reason. Sometimes 
 when you are trying to use the stealth mode, it doesn't even work. Not that it really matters because 
 while I'm at it, the enemies see you, no matter if you hide behind a wall, they know exactly where 
 you are, and they get their cheap shots, as I stated earlier. It gets worse when you're fighting 
 the final battle with the Joker. The joker has a move where he restrains Batman, and you are supposed 
 to rapidly shake the A and D keys repeatedly. Yet no matter how much I try, I can't break it. I've 
 tried the keyboard, I've tried my gamepad. The controls don't work. You can't break the move. And 
 he uses it almost every time you move away from the Joker, so you just have to watch as he yells 
 at you and keeps punching you in the face over and over when you get caught by it. It gets so ANNOYING 
 after a while. The only thing you can do to keep from automaticially losing the game is to avoid 
 the move completely. So it becomes a close-up punching match, which you should win easily. However 
 there is also fireworks the Joker shoots, which you need to move AWAY FROM THE JOKER to avoid! 
 So you have to dodge the fireworks by basically praying that the Joker won't restrain you while 
 your dodging the fireworks.
  
  There's more, but I won't go on. You see my point. The gameplay, and controls are broken. The music, 
 as I've already said is awesome and fits the series, but despite that, after you've died several 
 times due the controls, the music is tedious and gives you a migraine, and you just want it to 
 stop. So the music is just as bad as it is awesome in this game.
  
  There is no replay value in this game, except for listening to the voice acting again. There's 
 no special levels, no secrets to unlock. nothing.
  
  As for the ending, it's satisfying, if short, and it does follow the series. I won't spoil it for 
 you, in case you actually decide to buy the game eventually. The game itself is great. Get the 
 XBOX version. Get the Gamecube version. JUST DON'T BUY IT FOR THE PC. Please. I simply don't want 
 you to have to suffer, the way I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Game_hi5
Rating: 4.2
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Batman: Vengeance is a game. A bad game. The action ???? Booooring. Batman doesn't have too much 
 moves, doesn't have cool enemies and the whole game looks like a **** up cartoon. It should be 
 like a movie. The enmies are only 4 types. The game is based on 5 chapters. Boooring. Well I like 
 the gadgets but even they are disapointing!!! I also like 2 levels in wich you fly the Batplane (not 
 too cool but it will do) and drive the Batmobil (not too bright either) . I can't say too much about 
 to say about this game. It's short!!!! It's really hard to defeat this game but I've done it twice. 
 Well Bye-Buy and see U again with a cooler game ( I hope ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 2.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  Batman: Vengeance
  
  By,
  
  Scorpio_gamer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  
  The game is very disappointing as the its real boring. The story is a big crap actually the 
 games name should be monkey man because he just does the same thing but nothing else. 
  Gameplay:-
  Actually im very sorry but I just dont have any thing to say about the gamehowever 
 he has dozens of gadgets which he uses during the missions and there is no check point save or 
 anything like that. You just have to finish the stage by stage. Turning during the game is horribly 
 tough and multiple enemy attack sucks!!
  
  Graphics:-
  
  Graphics.. eh?? What does that mean??? The game is fully cartoonish.
  
  Sound:-
  
  Sound 
 is just .i cant describe it!! And I guess you will not wont want the explanation.
  
  Conclusion:-
  
  Conclusion .its simple just dont ever play this crap. Its the most annoying 
 game ever made!! Ok and leave now I cant insult a game any more!! Im sorry if I did anything wrong!! 
 
  
  Graphics -5/10
  
  Sound-2/10
  
  Gameplay-4/10
  
  Story-Line-2/10
  
  Overall-3/10
  
  
 
  
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookiecutter
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 13, 2004 1:24 pm PT
Review:  There can be no doubt that Warner Bros' excellent animated Batman series pulled the whole Batman 
 "franchise" out of a very deep hole. This game, a PC port of a PS2, X-Box and Gamecube game released 
 in 2001, does its level best to throw it back in. While nowhere near bad enough to succeed, it 
 certainly does enough to solly the name of Batman, already smarting over the dreadful fourth film 
 in the Batman movie series.
  
  From what should have been described as a brilliantly worked and scripted opening sequence, we 
 are given horrible, grainy video in which you can barely see what's going on. On any of the other 
 platforms these would have been made to look pristine and colourful, so why the developers chose 
 to present us with this choppy mess is anyone's guess. It's a shame really, because otherwise, 
 they're really good cutscenes, full of action, drama, and humour.
  
  The controls are almost criminal, like the Joker himself wrote them. And don't get me started on 
 the camera.
  
  When players see the instruction "Press the spacebar twice to return the camera behind Batman", 
 they have an automatic right to put the disk back in its box, and return it to the place of purchase. 
 It simply isn't good enough to implement such a lazy workaround and present it as world's best 
 practice.
  
  It doesn't always work, either. Batman: Vengeance has one of video game history's worst ever cameras, 
 leading to some completely unnecessary frustrations on the player's part. Far too often, the player 
 will plunge to his/her death, for no other reason than they were trying to get a better point-of-view.
 
  
  The meat of the game, the combat, is well handled. The whole business of having to handcuff criminals 
 that you knock down lest they get back up is rather ridiculous, cheapening the Dark Knight's ability 
 to lay the smackdown on dem criminals. The puzzles are functional enough, but some of the solutions 
 aren't the slightest bit apparent. The haphazzard camera provides yet another hurdle to this problem, 
 as key jumps and objects are hidden where the camera doesn't want to go.
  
  As stories go, it's not too bad - a branching, overlapping tale of conspiracy, kicked off by a 
 mysterious woman strapped to a bomb, claiming her son has been kidnapped by the Joker. The selection 
 of villians is well picked, although perhaps they should have thrown a curve in with the usual 
 suspects, like the Penguin, Scarface, Bane or Clayface.
  
  Alas, a lot of the twists and turns can be second-guessed by the player, so you can pretty much 
 guess how the story will unfold. When there's a mystery to be had, you'd think that the cards would 
 be held close to the chest, but the clues appear too thick and fast.
  
  The game's saving grace is the excellent voice acting. Fans of the animated series will be please 
 to hear that the whole cast is well represented. From Batman's world-weary tones to the Joker's 
 insane banter, to Harly Quinn's "New Yoiker" worblings, everything is exactly as you would find 
 in an episode of the animated series.
  
  Unfortunately, this is NOT an episode of the animated series, and as a game it fails in its most 
 basic requirement - gameplay.
  
  How much of Batman: Vengeance was broken before it got to the PC is unknown, but instead of fixing 
 those problems, the programmers decided to add their own to the mix. It's a sorry state of affairs 
 and one that does not bide well for the future of console-to-PC ports. If the PC version was going 
 to be to much like hard work, maybe it shouldn't have been made in the first place.
  
  All in all, Batman: Vengeance is a poor inditement on the Batman name and of ports in general. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
