-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlefield 1942
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/battlefield1942/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 16, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.9, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 7,918 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Digital Illusions
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Sep 10, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is a pick-up-and-play action extravaganza, a comic book version of WWII. 

 It started as a buzz and grew to a roar. When Digital Illusions' Battlefield 1942 was first announced, 
 it looked pretty much like just another in a seemingly endless supply of World War II-based games. 
 But thanks to leaked and official demos, Battlefield 1942 soon became one of the most highly anticipated 
 games of the year. That's hardly surprising, given its ambitious design. Here's a game where dozens 
 of players can fight online together on expansive World War II-inspired battlefields while controlling 
 planes, tanks, and even aircraft carriers with ease. Other than some frustrating technical problems 
 and bugs that should have been fixed before the game shipped, Battlefield 1942 is one of those 
 games that actually lives up to most of the hype surrounding it.           Germans storm across 
 a bridge before the Americans can strike back.    

 Battlefield 1942 can be a lot of fun things to a lot of people, but first it's important to tell 
 you what it's not: The game definitely isn't a realistic WWII combat simulator. This is a pick-up-and-play 
 action extravaganza, a comic book version of WWII. The fact that any player can casually hop into 
 a tank, drive around, hop out and pick off an enemy soldier with a sniper rifle, hop into a plane, 
 parachute out, and then call in artillery fire (within the span of a few minutes) should tell you 
 a lot about the game -- and a lot about what makes it so much fun.   

  In Battlefield 1942, you can fight offline with decent but unspectacular computer-controlled bots. 
 Online, you can play in four different game modes against up to 64 players at a time. Realistically, 
 you'll usually find servers capable of handling only 32 players, at most. Even with that reduced 
 number, and even if you have the game's first patch installed, have a cable Internet connection, 
 and get a ping in the 50s or 60s, there's a good chance you'll experience some lag or choppiness. 
 Trying to shoot bazookas at tanks, which will suddenly appear elsewhere because of lag, isn't exactly 
 enjoyable.   

  But when you manage to make a good connection to a powerful server, Battlefield 1942 has lots to 
 offer. For instance, the game's popular conquest mode, where each team tries to capture and hold 
 various control points on the map, can be great fun. The control points are set at strategic locations, 
 like ruined villages or outposts with bunkers or heavy machine-gun positions, making them a challenge 
 to occupy.   

  Bodies will quickly start filling the fields and streets, which leads to one of Battlefield 1942's 
 more interesting features. Each team is allotted a certain number of tickets at the beginning of 
 the match. You can respawn within a few seconds of dying (the exact time varies) to reinforce your 
 team, but for every death, your team loses tickets. When the enemy holds a certain number of control 
 points at once, your team will also start losing tickets. When your team runs out of tickets, you 
 lose the battle. This system is a welcome compromise between some of the other death-and-respawn 
 systems found in other shooters. In Battlefield 1942, you don't have to sit out around and twiddle 
 your thumbs when you're "dead," yet you're still usually penalized by a brief wait, and because 
 of the ticket system, every death ultimately affects the outcome of the battle.   

  Every time you enter the battlefield, you get to pick your respawn location. At the minimum, you'll 
 usually get a main base that always remains under your team's control, but you can also respawn 
 at control points that currently belong to your team. Each time you respawn, you also get to choose 
 from five character classes, each with a number of distinctive weapons and abilities. The scout 
 gets a sniper rifle and can help direct long-range fire from the big guns with his binoculars. 
 The assault class gets a powerful light machine gun or assault rifle. The antitank class gets a 
 Panzerschreck or a bazooka. The medic wields a submachine gun and can heal himself and his comrades. 
 The engineer can lay mines and explosives and repair vehicles and stationary weapons.          
  Preparing to blast bridge traffic sky high.    

 Overall, these classes complement each other well and provide just enough diversity without bogging 
 you down with too many choices. And while the engineer and antitank classes sometimes tend to be 
 unduly favored because of their relation to the vehicles, don't underestimate the power of a few 
 good assault and medic troops working together, particularly in dense terrain where tanks are at 
 a disadvantage.   

  But one thing you'll quickly notice is that Battlefield 1942's small arms seem pretty inaccurate, 
 lag or not, which can be frustrating. The fact that some maps offer little cover other than some 
 slight slopes can take even more of the fun out of fighting on foot. Overall, infantry combat in 
 the game is rather weak compared to many online shooters. Hopefully a future patch will tweak the 
 weapons to put more life into them.    

 As it stands, the real focus and the major appeal of Battlefield 1942 is its vehicles. The game 
 puts a full 35 of them at your disposal, which respectively belong to each of the game's five nationalities 
 (US, UK, Germany, Japan, and the Soviet Union) . You'll get to control Tigers, Shermans, and T-34s; 
 Stukas, Zeros, and Spitfires; aircraft carriers, destroyers, landing craft; and a lot more, though 
 for some reason, the Japanese are largely outfitted with German vehicles, like the Kbelwagen jeep, 
 Sd Kfz 251/1 half-track, and Wespe self-propelled howitzer.           A view of Stalingrad from 
 inside a T-34 tank.    

 Nevertheless, Digital Illusions has done an excellent job of implementing vehicles into the game. 
 Hopping into one and switching among its unoccupied positions is a breeze. The number of positions 
 you can occupy in most vehicles is actually quite limited, and even if a vehicle offers multiple 
 positions, usually just one player is needed to operate the core functions of the vehicle. This 
 means you alone can drive a tank and fire its main gun and coaxial machine gun, even though the 
 real-world equivalent of the tank might have been operated by a team of five men. That may sound 
 unrealistic, or even silly, but anyone who's played last year's Tribes 2 and waited in vain to 
 assemble a skilled tank or bomber crew before setting off knows how frustrating it can get when 
 you're forced into total dependence on your teammates. And in Battlefield 1942, you won't always 
 lose a whole vehicle full of teammates at once because of one unskilled driver or pilot.   

  Still, the limited seating can sometimes mean waiting around for a tank or plane to respawn so 
 you can use it, and running on foot across the huge maps isn't exactly a fun alternative. Also, 
 the secondary position found in many tanks isn't one you'll be standing in line for. Instead of 
 letting you sit in the hull gunner/radio operator position where you'd be protected by armor and 
 could still fire a machine gun, the secondary position puts you in the tank commander's cupola. 
 You do get to use a mounted machine gun that can be fired in any direction, which is useful for 
 covering the main gunner's blind spots. However, you can't button up the hatch, so you'll be a 
 real bullet magnet, easily picked off by infantry.   

  One of the best aspects of the game's vehicles is that you work them with a set of largely universal 
 controls. To operate a tank, just hop in and use essentially the same movement and firing keys 
 you would as a foot soldier. This keeps the game accessible and keeps the emphasis on the action, 
 not on trying to remember how to get your Panzer out of first gear. The only vehicles likely to 
 give you trouble are the twitchy planes, which are rather hard to control smoothly with the keyboard 
 and mouse.   

  Like the controls, the vehicle physics are simplified. They work well in practice, and the handling 
 does vary noticeably from vehicle to vehicle. You can zip around in a jeep like you'd expect, while 
 the formidable German Tiger tank handles like... a tank, with slow acceleration and turning. All 
 that firepower rightly comes at a cost.   

  For that matter, the firepower is also simplified: Main guns on AFVs fire just one type of shell 
 that combines the functions of both high-explosive and armor-piercing rounds. You'll find aiming 
 to be a bit odd, too: For all the big guns, you get just a tiny crosshair instead of the more sophisticated 
 reticles of the real tanks that helped gunners estimate lead and range. To hit distant targets, 
 you'll have to rely on practice and feel to know how high to elevate the gun to get the right trajectory, 
 though it doesn't take long to get the hang of it.           Preparing to hop in a Panzer IV.  
   

 Whether battling on foot or flying a plane, you'll get to fight across 16 huge battlefields inspired 
 by real ones, like Iwo Jima, Midway, El Alamein, Omaha Beach, Kursk, Stalingrad, and Berlin. Each 
 map features its own unique tactical challenges, thanks to the terrain, base and control-point 
 locations, vehicles allotted to each team, and positioning of stations where you can heal yourself 
 or grab more ammo for small arms or vehicles. Battlefield 1942's maps are surprisingly varied. 
 In fact, playing different maps can almost seem like you're playing different games.   

  It's easy to quibble about issues of balance on certain maps, but overall, the maps tend to be 
 laid out well and are a joy to play, with impressive tactical diversity. You'll take part in ship-to-shore 
 combat on the Pacific maps, with massive coastal batteries thundering while landing craft race 
 to the beaches. You'll engage in tank duels in the wide-open sands of North Africa, with Tigers 
 and Shermans trading shots at long range. You'll struggle for the bridges at Arnhem, while planes 
 roar overhead and AA batteries furiously pump rounds high into the sky. In the ruins of Berlin 
 and Stalingrad, you'll crawl through the rubble to get the perfect sniper shot or sneak up behind 
 a T-34 tank and blow it to bits with a demo charge. Perhaps the only thing missing from these maps 
 is some significant indoor combat. A massive factory complex in the heart of the Stalingrad map, 
 for example, would have been an appropriate and welcome change from all the outdoor combat.    
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (220 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: akinburak
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2009 2:10 pm PT
Review:  The campaign mode is not very difficult and the pleasure is high. The atmosphere is very well designed.
 
  
  The most important point is the multiplayer option. It works great and you spent hours on it.
 
  
  The maps are very huge. I mean you can not find the end of the map. Once I tried to go to the end 
 of the Al-Ameen desert. But failed. Because after 10 min time, I was having some distance but the 
 end was not near.
  
  Actually, when you are n multiplayer game, the game warns you if you are about to leave the 
 playing araes. It is good.
  
  The campaign mode is not very difficult and the pleasure is high. The atmosphere is very well designed.
 
  
  The most important point is the multiplayer option. It works great and you spent hours on it.
 
  
  The maps are very huge. I mean you can not find the end of the map. Once I tried to go to the end 
 of the Al-Ameen desert. But failed. Because after 10 min time, I was having some distance but the 
 end was not near.
  
  Actually, when you are n multiplayer game, the game warns you if you are about to leave the 
 playing araes. It is good.
  
  The campaign mode is not very difficult and the pleasure is high. The atmosphere is very well designed.
 
  
  The most important point is the multiplayer option. It works great and you spent hours on it.
 
  
  The maps are very huge. I mean you can not find the end of the map. Once I tried to go to the end 
 of the Al-Ameen desert. But failed. Because after 10 min time, I was having some distance but the 
 end was not near.
  
  Actually, when you are n multiplayer game, the game warns you if you are about to leave the 
 playing araes. It is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeWierd20
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 was released some time ago before Half-Life 2 was released. It was amazing. The 
 graphics, sound, and gameplay were very unexpected but so amazing from one of the very first in 
 the series. It had decent AI and classes similar to those of Team Fortress Classic. It was a big 
 hit and it included campaign and multiplayer mode. But I didn't play the game at it's release. 
 I've tried it out only a month ago, and here's what I have to say...
  
  My friend once called me up saying his grandma found an old PC game left at her house and she let 
 him have it. It was called "Battlefield 1942" he said. He let me install it on my computer and 
 let me have one of the two installation disks so I could play it whenever I wanted. It came slowly, 
 but soon I was addicted to this masterpiece.
  
  The first thing I noticed was how detailed the intro was. It showed a high quality movie file showing 
 tanks, planes and infantry going out to war. Considering this game existed just before Half-Life 
 2 made me respect it even more. The intro movie was exciting and even though it was worth seeing 
 only the first time, almost lied out in front of you what the game will be like.
  
  When I started a new game I found that there was 5 "infantry classes". They were Scout, Rifleman, 
 Anti-tank man, Engineer, and Medic. Anyone who has played a Team Fortress game before might have 
 immediately noticed how much some class's name brings the idea that BattleField is just a rip-off 
 of Team Fortress. Well not really. They are much different. For one, the scout's ability isn't 
 to run at high speeds or anything. All the classes are equipped with a special weapon/item (s) , 
 a glock (handgun) , a knife, and a couple 'frag' grenades. Let's go over the 'classes'.
  
  The scout: The scout's special weapon is his sniper rifle. He also has a pair of binoculars that 
 help him see far distances. However, even if the binoculars don't see as far as the sniper rifle, 
 they can make him radio in for a missile request (which is useless in Campaign mode since the AI 
 doesn't follow any orders you give them) .
  
  The riffle man: His special weapon is a riffle (doy!) that is slightly more powerful than that 
 of the medics and engineers.
  
  The Medic: His weapon is a riffle much like that of the riffle man's but is not as powerful is 
 seems. He is also equipped with a 'med pack' that allows him to easily heal nearby team mates, 
 and if he chooses so, himself. The healing meter that detects how much longer he can heal someone/himself 
 depletes as he heals, but slowly rises back up to full.
  
  Anti-Tank man: The thing that makes him so easily to recognize and distinguish from all other classes 
 is the large rocket launcher he holds on his shoulder. The rocket launcher can only shoot a certain 
 distance, as the path of the rocket travels in an arch shape from the direction you fire it in, 
 to slowly reach the ground.
  
  Engineer: Not an especially popular class, but he is valuable to have along the sides of a tank. 
 His special weapon is a land mine that can be set on the ground and when an enemy steps over it 
 *Ka BOOM!*. His other weapon is a riffle that is the same as the medic's rifle. His special item 
 is a wrench that he can use to repair tanks/planes/vehicles/mounted weapons. So if a tank is about 
 to explode with the next rocket that gets shot at it, an engineer can run over and save the tank.
 
  
  The maps are all based off different wars and battles fought between the 'axis' and 'allied'. Depending 
 on the map, the team's country (the characters appearance, voice, and weapon appearance) terrain, 
 objective and briefing are all varied accordingly. It gives a great sense of variety, taste and 
 theme.
  
  The gameplay is simple: Reach the other team's control points and claim all of them until the other 
 team is completely wiped out. Simple? Yes, and extremely fun.
  
  The game is cranked up to be a great war based first person shooter with good variety and gameplay. 
 The graphics are detailed and the terrain is amazing. Maps are gigantic in size, great in layout.
 
  
  I'd recommend getting this game regardless if you're playing online or solo style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  On the strength of the demo alone, anybody here at IGN would have to name Battlefield 1942 as one 
 of the most enjoyable games we've played so far this year. Some of us would even say it's one of 
 the most enjoyable games we've played in any year. As Ivan pointed out in his first impressions 
 piece last week, it's gratifying to see so many people who normally just lounge on the fringe of 
 PC gaming become so passionate about this game. But while the fun of the multiplayer sessions has 
 us effectively chained to our desks pleading for "just one more match," the single player game 
 leaves much to be desired.
  
  For those of you who don't know, Battlefield 1942 is the latest game from DICE and EA and one that 
 we haven't been able to stop playing. Equal parts Tribes and Medal of Honor, Battlefield 1942 is 
 a team-oriented shooter that puts the emphasis on action and puts the action in the various theaters 
 of World War 2. Spread across the four main theaters of the War, the game lets you join up with 
 one of the five major combatants -- the Americans, British, Germans, Russians and Japanese.
  
  Each theater has four missions pitting a pair of opponents against each other. Your team is 
 tasked with occupying and defending a few flag points located on each map. The teams each start 
 with a certain number of tickets (which is apparently what they called "points" back in the forties) . 
 By holding a certain percentage of flags, you can force your opponents' tickets to decrease. Once 
 a team's tickets reach zero, they loose.
  
  Various player kits and vehicles let you dictate the role you'll play in the coming battle. At 
 each team's base of operations (and many of the smaller bases gathered around the flags) , there 
 can be a number of tanks, planes or ships that you can jump in and pilot. Some maps even place 
 a given team in the midst of a flotilla of ships that can be driven and commanded by players.
 
  
  It's this freedom to jump in and out of roles in the midst of battle and adapt to the ebb and flow 
 of the battle that makes Battlefield 1942 so accessible. The somewhat sim-heavy aspects of games 
 like World War 2 Online or Operation Flashpoint are done away with here in favor of a more elemental 
 (some would say generic) control system. While the Shermans are distinct from the Panzers in terms 
 of performance, the basics of their operation are exactly the same.
  
  Battlefield 1942 also benefits from a relaxed yet sensible spawn system. Players can respawn at 
 any flag controlled by their own team. But the spawns come in windows so you may find yourself 
 sitting out of the action for anywhere from a few seconds to half a minute. Respawning also deletes 
 your team's tickets thereby making constant suicide attacks ultimately self-defeating.
  
  This constant but controlled spawning makes the game seem larger than it is. With a group of ten 
 or twelve soldiers on a side, the action expands to seem like part of a much larger battle. You 
 get a real sense of waves of opponents coming at you, but the fact that each new wave is composed 
 of guys killed in the last one, gives the game an intimacy and familiarity that puts a face and 
 name on the conflict. It works much the same for your own teammates as you join up with small squads 
 and take the fight to the enemy.
  
  For me the best parts of HALO or Medal of Honor were when you found yourself side by side with 
 friendly soldiers. The sense of teamwork and opportunity for cooperation added immeasurably to 
 both games. Battlefield 1942 is full of exactly this kind of enjoyment. Thankfully the effectiveness 
 of individual players isn't hampered by the team-based format. Since a single soldier can take 
 a flag, a single soldier can win the war. I think this practically eliminates the need for an extra 
 player to direct the action in some sort of traditional RTS format. Part of the fun is in being 
 free to do what you want to do while also realizing that your best bet is to stick close to your 
 teammates and work towards a common goal.
  
  Individuals will also find that, despite the strengths and weaknesses of the classes, there's a 
 way to stay competitive in all but the most hopeless of circumstances. Scouts keep enemies at a 
 distance, picking them off with sniper fire and calling in artillery strikes. Medics heal friendly 
 soldiers (and themselves) while engineers can repair vehicles and place demolitions. While the 
 basic anti-infantry and anti-tank kits, equipped with either a machine gun or bazooka, provide 
 the bulk of your forces, the other three specialties can be just as influential in turning the 
 tide of a battle. And since you can jump from one specialty to another between spawning, you can 
 change your role if you don't like it.
  
  We expected that the title would live or die purely on the strength of multiplayer, but we were 
 still a bit taken back that the offline single player campaign is so unrewarding. Even if it wasn't 
 overshadowed by the game's stellar multiplayer offerings, the single player game stands in need 
 of drastic improvement before it can begin to draw players away from the current crop of shooters. 
 Given the team-oriented focus, you'd need strong tactical and strategic AIs. The bots in single 
 player seem oblivious to your needs, frequently speeding away as you call for pick-ups. Or, as 
 in a few cases we've seen, simply sitting in the driver seat in the face of a visible and immediate 
 danger.
  
  Worse yet, the amount of PC power required to think for these poor slobs is too high. It's the 
 first instance I can recall of a game that runs worse offline than it does online. The game lags 
 so badly in single-player mode that we've almost all since given up on it and resigned ourselves 
 to online only matches. Still, jerks that we are, we'd have faulted EA for omitting some sort of 
 single player experience, no matter how rudimentary, so the fact that it is included at least gives 
 them some credit.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  *** BATTLEFIELD 1942 ***
  
  THE GOOD
  -Excellent multiplayer
  -Great team builder
  -Superb Graphics
  -Great sound effects
  -Beautiful level design with nice historic reference
 
  -Solid controls
  -Wide variety of soldier classes and vehicles
  
  THE BAD
  -The online lag is terrible at times
  -Some maps, under the right circumstances, make it easy 
 to "spawn" kill
  
  OVERVIEW
  Battlefield 1942 is an extraordinary World War II shooter. The game takes place during World War 
 II in the European and Pacific theaters. Battlefield can be played with up to 64 total players 
 each on two sides (Axis or Allies) . There are four different types of game modes to play which 
 are Conquest, Co-op, Team Death Match and Capture the Flag. The objective varies between each game 
 type and the playable maps are taken straight from the history books with a few modifications. 
 You'll get to participate in real life combat zones like the skirmish for Wake Island and the infamous 
 Battle of the Bulge.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  There are many things to talk about in Battlefield so I'll first start with the different game 
 types. Team Death Match is a very simple game where you have to kill your opponents more times 
 than they kill you. Capture the Flag is pretty self-explanatory. Conquest (Co-op is Conquest but 
 against the A. I.) is probably where you'll spend most of your time. In Conquest your team's objective 
 is to reduce the other team's ticket count to zero. Now you're probably wondering what a ticket 
 is so I'll tell you. Tickets are your teams combined respawn count. When you or your teammate dies 
 and respawns, your team's ticket count decreases. You can also reduce the ticket count by capturing 
 control points (respawn points) on the map. These control points are the only places where you 
 can respawn so protect them. So, a good team strategy would be to work together to eliminate your 
 opponent's forces and take over their respawn spots. With that said, Battlefield 1942 relies heavily 
 on teamwork. With up to 32 players on each team it makes it very difficult to try and "Rambo" your 
 way through the enemy lines. That is why this game is such a great team builder because if you're 
 playing with other team players you'll most likely have an awesome gaming experience.
  
  The controls will have you using many of the keys on the keyboard but don't worry because after 
 a few times playing you'll become familiar quickly. There are many different control schemes based 
 on what you are doing. For instance, in Battlefield you have many vehicles to pilot like Battleships, 
 Fighter planes and Tanks. Each vehicle utilizes different control methods and yes you can use a 
 joystick for flying. When you're not traveling or fighting by vehicle, you have five different 
 character classes to choose from which are the Scout (Sniper) , Assault, Medic, Anti-tank, and Engineer. 
 Each class is different in regards to weapons and equipment. The Scout is used to take out enemies 
 from a distance and spy on the opposition. The Assault class is your basic soldier build with above 
 average fire power and explosives. The medic can heal himself and other wounded comrades on the 
 battlefield. The Anit-tank guy is just that, a vehicle stopper. Lastly, the engineer can fix vehicles 
 and plant land mines. Each class has its strengths and weaknesses and depending on what map and 
 where you are on that map will determine which class you should pick. With a nice selection of 
 vehicles and character classes, you have many different ways to play the game which keeps it from 
 getting repetitive.
  
  The level design is probably one of the best aspects of Battlefield 1942. Each level is built to 
 resemble the actual battles taken place in World War II. You'll really get a good feel for what 
 the soldiers went through during the War. However, there are a few maps that lend themselves to 
 making it easy to spawn kill which can get frustrating at times, but for the most part the maps 
 are top-notch.
  
  GRAPHICS
  If you have a good video card then the graphics are awesome. If not then you will definitely want 
 to pick one up because this game is beautiful. With the excellent detail in the terrain, vehicles, 
 and buildings, Battlefield will leave you in awe on how exceptional the visuals are.
  
  SOUND
  This game does a great job of making you feel like you're really in the trenches during 
 World War II. From the gunshots to the explosions, the sound effects greatly enhance the gameplay.
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  Battlefield 1942 with its massive size and quality is an excellent PC game. You might experience 
 some lag with the larger games but it's not enough to hurt the gameplay that much. If you're a 
 fan of a more team related shooter game then Battlefield 1942 is a recommended purchase. World 
 War II was an epic struggle between the Axis and Allied powers and Battlefield 1942 proves that 
 you can make a dynamic game during this era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barfthecaveman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  It`s a great game for modding and singleplayer but it`s also very hard online to get used to if 
 your a begginer. 
  
  These are just some of the problems I want to list:
  
  #1 You need to patch your game to the right version to play on different servers (common for most 
 fps`s) .
  
  #2 Unless you have a fast computer the lags on some servers ( mostly the ones in different country`s) 
 are killer.
  
  #3 Also It`s very hard to make your shots hit anything if you have a high server ping this is usually 
 because of the location of the server.
  
  #4 The game is very unrealistic in some areas, like your soldier can take bullet after bullet of 
 enemy fire but he can`t climb up a hill no steeper than one that you would use for sleding, or 
 that when you jump off of that hill he takes an insane amount of damage somtimes even a fatal amount 
 for doing it. does this sound realistic to you?
  
  #5 And Finally the game is too hack prone anyone could find a website download some hacks and run 
 them. 
  
  
  Apart from that, this is a good game and arguably the best one out of the intire battlefield series.
 
  
  By the way if you see me online my username is mr. cookie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathHeart95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Ah... Battlefield. Battlefield Vietnam was one of the few games to go into 'Nam, Battlefield 2 
 had some of the best multiplayer ever, Battlefield 2142 added new multi-player modes and was set 
 in the future, and Battlefield Bad Company raised the bar for the series by adding an actual story 
 mode. This game is what led to all those, and it's still worth picking up and playing.
  
  Okay, let's try to not focus on the single-player. It's basically non-existent in this game. You 
 play through all the maps and that's pretty much it. Now the multi-player, that's a different story. 
 The multi-player is fantastic! Driving the vehicles is still good as ever, as it actually gives 
 it the angle that you would see if you drove a car or plane or boat in real life. Driving a plane 
 takes a while to get used to though, but at this point, there are plenty of people who are experienced 
 enough to fly the planes with you on-board.
  
  The maps are just plain massive for a game this old. You can run around on the island just shooting 
 people, you can drive a boat with a passenger who shoots at people on the island, you can snipe 
 from a much smaller island off the coast of the big island. There are just so many ways to play, 
 you'll want to keep playing until you experience them all!
  
  This game does have two expansion packs, The Road to Rome, which mainly adds five to six maps if 
 I remember correctly, and Secret Weapons of WWII which adds a couple of maps which have new vehicles, 
 weapons, and jet packs! Get them both. It's worth it.
  
  This game is one of the few (along with Call of Duty) that can last many years and still be a great 
 game. Plus, it started a series that has never had a bad game. You need this game in your collection, 
 especially if you want to be a veteran in Battlefield Bad Company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: William6058
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  Pros: Good Single-player, campaign, and enjoyable if you have high speed internet connection. And 
 also not too unstable.
  
  Cons: Most of the times the online play is laggy which renders it unplayable for some servers. 
 Also the security and the environment of this game is terrible.
  
  I'll list the cons first. Online play is great when you play it without lag, but it's terrible 
 when you have high ping, low FPS, and even if the internet connection is flinched. So some servers 
 are unplayable. Also even if you get a server with good connection, the environment feels unfriendly. 
 People calling names to each other, stealing vehicles when they're not your enemy, killing each 
 other, and like that when they're all waiting for a plane, huddled up.
  
  But there are more pros then cons, fortunately. The AI still leaves much to be desired, but they're 
 smart enough so you could find it enjoyable. The campaign also is pretty fun. Also, the patches 
 were very much improving the game over another, which makes is quite stable.
  
  Two more expansions were released, and they take it farther, although I'm not going to take the 
 trouble of writing all of them.
  
  Some servers, unlike others, could be friendly and communicate and help each other. It's like you're 
 in Midway and you're controlling a destroyer near the Airfield. Then a scout on the other side 
 warns by radio to see that a submarine is coming toward the Prince of Wales. So that allows me 
 to completely understand every part of the game, and go when it is necessary.
  
  Overall I think Battlefield 1942 is a good, solid game which could be enjoyed my many players. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePaTstER
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a game set in WWII. Sure, you think that this is just another WWII shooter, 
 but out of the hundreds of WWII shooters out there, this one sticks out like a sore thumb. I've 
 never seen a shooter with so much variety. I will explain why in my BF 1942 review.
  
  Battlefield 1942 has a lot of maps but only a few gameplay modes. Most of the maps have conquest. 
 The Objective is to eliminate your opponent's soldiers until their tickets run out. You can set 
 how many bots you want in each game, and that means more tickets. There are some missions that 
 require you to bomb certain things like radio towers in the Battle of Britain mission. The first 
 problem about the game (well, the bots) is that they are totally dumb. The AI is incredibly stupid. 
 Some of the bots stand and do nothing, some just spin around, some just go prone and stay prone. 
 The AI is so dumb that whenever I stand in front of an enemy soldier, they don't shoot, which is 
 odd. If you want a real challenge, go on multiplayer.
  
  Now one of the best things about BF1942 is that there is variety, as I said before. There are lots 
 of things you can do. You could be a scout that snipes and sends out artillery or you could be 
 an engineer that lays mine and explosives. There is always something to do besides walking around 
 and shooting dumb bots. You can also pilot a plane, drive a jeep, commandeer a tank or ship and 
 more. You can also use AA Guns to take down enemy planes, which I find pretty fun.
  
  A problem which I find quite annoying is the intro, it just goes on forever. You can stop it, but 
 some parts you have to sit through. Same with the load times.
  
  BF1942 is not good on the graphics. On some graphics cards the textures go all glitchy. There aren't 
 any lag problems. I can't really comment anymore about the graphics, they're pretty basic.
  
  The sounds are also pretty basic. Boom Bang CRASH thats pretty much it.
  
  BF1942 is an 
 all round good game. Shooter Fans will enjoy this. If EA can fix some problems, this would of been 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  I had a lot of fun holding lan parties when this game came out. We held countless co-op battles 
 - it was a real blast!
  
  The best features:
  
  1. Large range of vehicles, including aircraft
  2. Various player roles
  3. Easy to mod
  
 4. Multi-player co-op - bots are not that smart, but OK
  
  I had a fairly high-end system at the time this game was released, so I found some tools to mod 
 the view distance and extend it out a lot further. I also messed about with how the objects rendered 
 over various distances and tweaked the speed of the aircraft and tank ballistics. I ended up with 
 a much more realistic mod of the game that we played to death!
  
  Some very cool people added a mod called "Desert Combat" that altered the theater and time-line 
 into modern times. This is such a cool mod that it totally transformed the game and really gives 
 the game great value as you can play it in the past or present.
  
  You can get the game and all the expansions for under $10 right now (July 2008) , so if you don't 
 have this, I recommend that you grab a copy or two and add it to your collection. This is a game 
 you can return to in the future and is great fun for lan sessions, even today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shekeb150
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  I have Call of Duty 4 and I have played it online. But Battlefield 1942 has the same feeling as 
 it. Great gameplay and fantastic single player. The online is even better. Controls are simple 
 to get. The even better part about Battlefield 1942 is that you can update it to modern mods. You 
 can ride any vehicle and contol ships and planes. Its a really addictive game to play. I hope you 
 like this review and please get this game its worth it. Its only 10 bucks. Its easy to install 
 and has tons of maps. You can even create your own map. Thats insane Very easy to understand the 
 gameplay. its was so awesome I actually felt like I was in a real war. Working with teammates that 
 played well made it greater and memorable. For any of you who have not ever tried the game I urge 
 you to give it a shot its really that good just give it a chance. It will still be one of my favorite 
 games of all time . It was such a special game I'll never forget it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viiin2
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is so special first off Its one of the first games to actually have tanks, planes, vehicles 
 for you to use in a online game . Up to 64 players in a game? Hell yea if you can get alot of people 
 in a online game it will light up your eyes its a really special game. Theres so many things you 
 can do one of my favorite moments was with the desert combat mod where you had the helicopter and 
 I had the gun position while there were 3 guys one piloting and two just as passengers we took 
 off on the carrier ship and we had to fly over the ocean a bit before we got to the island .its 
 was so awesome I actually felt like I was in a real war. Working with teammates that played well 
 made it greater and memorable. For any of you who have not ever tried the game I urge you to give 
 it a shot its really that good just give it a chance. It will still be one of my favorite games 
 of all time . It was such a special game I'll never forget it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Private_Adam
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a fun shooter that anybody can enjoy. You can play with your friends online 
 or single player. You can play up to 64 players in a server. In single player you can choose the 
 difficult, how many bots you want, and the map that you would like to play. 
  
  There are eighteen maps that comes with battlefield 1942. Some of the maps are Wake Island, El 
 Alamein, Iwo Jima, Coral Sea, Market Garden, and Berlin. A lot of the maps that are in 1942 are 
 very fun. You can go into some building and hide and look for the enemies. 
  
  In battlefield 1942 you get to play as Russian, American, German, British and Japanese. Every time 
 you will use the commands your soldier will say the language that your team in. For example, you 
 are in Russian team and you will use the command to request for a pick up then your soldier will 
 say it in Russian. It's like that for every team.
  
  The vehicles are balanced, I have not seen a vehicle better then the other one. Some of the vehicles 
 in this game are M4 Sherman, P51 Mustang, SBD-6 Dauntless, B-17, Bf-109, Mk. VI Tiger, T34/76, Yak-9 
 and M7 Priest.
  
  There are a lot of mods that you can download for this game. Also you can download maps that you 
 want to play. One of the most popular mod for battlefield 1942 is Forgotten Hope and Desert Combat. 
 There are still people playing those mods that I have listed.
  
  This game is cheap so if you have nothing to do and enjoy World War II games then you should give 
 this one a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Webber1000
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  I have played this game for over 4 years now and it continues to bring satisfaction whenever i'm 
 compelled to play it. Although the single player mode is long left behind, it still gave some entertainment 
 before my knowledge of online-gaming. Battlefield 1942 has a variety of maps, guns, machines and 
 sounds. Fight on the beaches of Normandy, the dense cities of Stalingrad or Berlin, the islands 
 of Midway, Wake or Iwo Jima, the sand seas of Tobruk or El Alamein or the open fields of France. 
 There are five possible armies to play as, spanning across the globe - The British, The Americans, 
 The Germans, The Russians and The Japanese. To call this game "deserted", as so many reviews have, 
 would be a complete disregard for the amount of people who still use it in Multiplayer action.
 
  
  In conclusion. This game is the greatest World War 2 video game ever made available to the public. 
 Its consistant playability outweighs the Medal Of Honour series, EA seem to release a new MoH every 
 6 months. If you're thinking of purchasing this game but you're nervous about it being not up to 
 standards, you can either save your $20 and refuse to experience the gameplay of a game that had 
 the best graphics for a fighting simulator for over 3 years in a row, or you can try the game that 
 takes both skill at playing and a good mind for enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: novakattak
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 12, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  sucks. everything about it. gameplay is terrible. single player is boring, and multiplayer is just 
 a mess. everything is buggy and inconsistent. avoid it. that's all i have to say. avoid it. have 
 a reached 100 words yet? no? damn. there's millions of better games out there. like team fortress 
 2. or counter strike. and they just came out with a twisted metal port for ps2 so play that. anyway, 
 bf 1942 graphics are not that good. the guns have no power and no consistency-you can shoot someone 
 in the head one time while theyre standing still and hit them, and the next time, under the very 
 same circumstances, you can't. no where near realistic. the classes are terrible, every thing seems 
 real sluggish. flying planes are chores. the game blows. sucks sucks sucks sucks. plain and simple. 
 i don't know why people like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssman0017
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  When i saw this in the store I looked at it and said i want this. This prediction turned out to 
 be one that was all truth. The start of the game is excellent, to see the intro movie is very cool 
 and gets your heart pumped, not to mention the music is good too. The graphic are not the best 
 but good non the less. The sound quality is very good, they acutely made the sounds of the guns 
 life like. And the option to choose which side your one makes this great. Now to the game play. 
 With tow sides to choose from (Allied, and Axis) this game gives fair play to both sides. Each 
 side has its own historically accurate tanks planes boats and weapons. Thats what I like about 
 BF1942. Another thing I liked was that you could customise your game play difficulty. the rest 
 of this is fluff to get it submited ddjjjddd jjjdddjj djdjjddjdj djdjd djdjjj djdjjdd djdjdd ddd 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samthecyber
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  You can speed across open water with shore gun-batteries firing 6 pounder shells into the water 
 around you, you can then land on the beach and run as fast as you can across the expanse of open 
 ground trying to hide behind cover as machine guns and snipers fire from inside of bunkers. Crawl 
 your way past the defenses and throw a well aimed grenade through the window of the bunker and 
 blow your enemies sky high. Then you steal an enemy jeep, race across the island and steal an enemy 
 plane and use on their own men. You then get shot down through AA fire, but you jump out and parachute 
 to safety. You can do all of these things, in the time of a couple of minutes. If your playing 
 multiplayer then you might be fighting 32 online players with your other 31 teamates. 
  
  There are loads of maps, from The Bulge to Stalingrad to Iwo Jima. Fighting for the Brits, Germans, 
 Russians, Japanese, Americans and the Italians in the expanision Road to Rome.
  
  If you like a WW2 game, or just multiplayer fighting or just like the idea of blowing up tanks 
 crossing a bridge with some good old fashioned TNT, then this is your game. 
  
  You can be a variety of soldiers, from Anti-Tank to Assault trooper to Medic to Engineer you can 
 use a variety of different specialtities for every class. 
  
  The game also has specialized vehicles for every country, like the German Panzer, of the American 
 B-17 Bomber to the Japanese Kamikze Zero and the great submarines and battleships of the sea.
 
  
  Love the Game, Love the Fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesolateGrave
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt, this game is definitely an instant classic. It's originality that was put aside 
 from your basic First-Person Shooter was what led to the great game it had inspired.
  
  Just like Battlefield 2, the game certainly lacks Single-Player depth. Although there is a "campaign" 
 to it, it simply does not have much to offer. It's Single-Player can be fun at times, but the single-player 
 mode alone will simply not give you the experience you would recieve from Multi-Player. What makes 
 the online mode so much better? It is simply this, challenge and interaction. The main thing that 
 makes this single-player so bad is its terrible AI. The enemies have basically no intelligence 
 whatsoever, and your team mates certainly aren't helping you much either. For example, even on 
 hard mode, you can stand in front of an enemy for several seconds and he won't do anything. The 
 main focus of this game is team work, which is not to be expected from Single-Player. With the 
 AI single-player has, team mates are often more of a nuisance rather than a help.
  
  Even though the graphics in this game may look dated when you look at them now, they were great 
 for their time. They had detailed textures, a fairly good view distance, and more. Unfortunately, 
 there were many computers that couldn't even handle the game. If you want to have any luck playing 
 it, expect your PC to be better than what the system requirements lists (though they are extremely 
 low these days) . Like the graphics, for its time, the sound was good as well. It featured nice 
 music and good overall quality.
  
  After playing Battlefield 2 and looking at all the major improvements it has made, you might not 
 even want to go back to this. And even if you do prefer this one, single-player has barely anything 
 to offer. Nevertheless, Battlefield 1942 is a fantastic game that will never be forgotten by First-Person 
 Shooter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingBoy2009
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a WW2 game were you get to play as a soldier on any side: allies and axis. 
 There is a single player campaign but the game mostly focuses on multiplayer. You can play as different 
 classes of soldier such as scout, assault, engineer, etc. There are 5 armies in this game that 
 you can be apart of: Americans, British, Soviets, Japanese and Germans.
  
  Battlefield 1942 is possibly the best multiplayer game to come out ever. You play as any of the 
 major armies of WW2, up to 64 players online, and lots of servers, even though it came out in 2002, 
 it still has a huge online base. The single player campaign is fairly decent. You play through 
 dozens of missions, spanning through 4 different theaters of operation: Western Europe, Eastern 
 Europe, North Africa, and the Pacific. You can use a lot of weapons including the BAR, MP40, KAR98, 
 Colt .45 and many more. Along with that is 35 drivable vehicles including jeeps, tanks, ships, 
 and airplanes. 
  
  The goal of the game is to reduce your opponents tickets to zero. You and your opponent start out 
 with a certian number of tickets and when you or a teammate dies, you lose a ticket. There are 
 also a number of control points to capture, if your team captures and holds the majority of the 
 control points, the tickets will slowly drop. Its hard to do this in single player mode because 
 of the stupid AI. But the online play is even more difficult because your playing against real 
 people. Tactics are required to beat your opponent, which is very fun because when you charge an 
 enemy position, you can have one person drive a tank to cover your teamates playing as infantry 
 while you have another person dive bomb the enemy position. The online play is very addicting and 
 fun.
  
  The graphics are really good for 2002. There is a lot of detail on the soldiers, the vehicles and 
 the environment including the foliage and the trees. The sound is also very good. There is no music 
 on any of the levels which brings out some realism because in real life, there are no music on 
 the battlefield. All you hear are explosions, gunshots and ambient noises.
  
  Despite these good things, there are some bad things: There are some historical inaccuracies. One 
 of these is that the Japanese are using German weapons, in real life they had their own weapons, 
 its the same thing with the British and the Soviets, they are using American weapons. (Fortunately 
 a patch was released that gave these armies their own weapons which brings more realism) . The AI 
 in the single player is bad. I wish they would have made the single player better but the multiplayer 
 greatly makes up. Also, you cant aim down your sights like most other shooters do.
  
  Overall its a great and fun game. If you dont have this game and you like WW2 shooters and fun 
 online play, then get this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falcon159
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game late in its life-cycle, about the time Battlefield: Vietnam came out, and 
 did not devote a whole lot of time to the real action this game can provide. However, I got a good 
 feeling of what it's all about. 
  
  By no means is this a single player game, the draw is all about multiplayer; there are missions 
 you can do without dialling up, but they are all the same, and the AI is absolutely horrendous. 
 15 minutes of the single player action will leave you bored beyond belief and you'll want to walk 
 away. When you get online, you get the basic action that most online shooters provide: team based 
 CTF type action, though this one is where the others got the idea to start with.
  
  Some draw backs include maps that are quite large and difficult to get around on foot. Because 
 of this you need to really cooperate with your team and use vehicles, but for the novice player 
 this can be a difficult since getting a helping hand is not a huge part of the online gamer social 
 culture. Thus the best enjoyment for casual players will probably come from playing with a known 
 group of friends online or in a LAN party. The best way find if you'll enjoy the game is to try 
 it first since the overal experience might not be for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetehhaloz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Battlfield 1942 is one the best WWII shooters to date. The game features many vehicles including 
 aircraft, tanks, jeeps and even boats and ships. Five years after its release, Battlefield 1942 
 is still going strong with a multiplayer community that still hasn't left the WWII theater into 
 modern combat (Battlefield 2) . Battlefield 1942's engine however, shows its age with character 
 modeling that rivals Grand Theft Auto 3. This shouldn't put you off from trying it out since the 
 perfect combination of non-linear tank and infantry combat makes for a real great gaming experience. 
 Its that simple; you can choose any of the different character classes (Sniper, Officer etc.) and 
 immediately hop into any vehicle you see; like a tank of airplane. Its "singleplayer" features 
 different maps with their respective teams like the Axis and the Russians on Kursk and the Axis 
 and the Americans on Iwo Jima and Omaha Beach with bots. The bots aren't the brightest of things 
 and do really stupid stunts like standing in the path of an airplane taking off or randomly throwing 
 grenades at a tank with their teamates nearby. Multiplayer is where the real fun starts; the openess 
 of the maps and the variety of vehicles and weapons will provide a classic gaming experience that 
 any player will enjoy. 
  5 years later, Battlefield 1942 earns itself an excellent score of a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FLuXx23
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  The main part of this game is clearly the multilayer aspect. Even if the normal game play gets 
 boring after few hours (many hours for most) there are a few mods that make this game worth buying 
 on their own!
  To name a few there are Desert Combat, Eve of Destruction, and Forgotten Hope. The game seemed 
 to make up a new genre for multilayer shooters. Previously the best chance of playing with other 
 people online using tanks and planes and such were the pay-as-you-go MMO games, this made it more 
 realistic to play and don't have to spend months building skill points to play other classes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 15killer15
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  very cool game very cool game very cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool 
 gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool 
 gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool 
 gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool 
 gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool 
 gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool 
 gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool 
 gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool 
 gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool 
 gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool 
 gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool 
 gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool gamevery cool 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassySloth
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  Well, you could say the World Wae 2 genre is a bit overrated and beat to death, with everyone and 
 their mother making a game about the ETO (European Theater of Operations, for all you boots ) . 
 However, Battlefield 1942 is so original and innovative, it can add years, (yes, YEARS) of gameplay 
 to the genre. I've had this game for at least 2/3 years now, and I cannot stop playing it. No matter 
 how many times you play it, the game is always different. You could use the same kit over and over 
 and over again, and sometimes win, sometimes lose. It all depends on your speed, accuracy, and 
 skill. You could always dumb down the AI to an intolerable level, but where's the fun in that??? 
 The two best features of the game were its online play and the wide amount of mods you can make 
 for it. With those two choices right there, you can have this game for FIVE years and not get tired 
 of it. It is truly a gem that any basic gamer should own. If this is any indication of what can 
 be done with games, we have a bright gaming future indeed. Such a basic formula, combined with 
 good graphics (not the best, but nice ones) , exciting gameplay, and many vehicles/weapons. For 
 example, on the Wake Island map, one game you could win as the Japanese by having your aircraft 
 maintain air superiority and strafe troops, and have your battleship pummel main positions, and 
 have a few sneaky troops capture the flags as the enemy hunkers down. Then the next game, you can 
 go fully infantry, using tanks, jeeps, and anything else you can steal. It's really all up to you 
 and your teammates. the only thing that peeved me was the occasional lag, but other than that, 
 it was excellent. Some voice chat would've helped a bit. I would reccommend this game any day. 
 Check the bargain bin! Battlefield 1942, all of its expansions, AND Battlefield Vietnam for $19.99! 
 I swear to God I've seen that. It's a steal!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrawnkkar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Remember when this play format and style didnt exist? A whole game based on the nets where you 
 capture and hold flags to knock points off your opposing teams total? There was a time when it 
 didnt, and this game brought it to us, like Moses bringing the Ten Commandments down from the Mount. 
 When I first played this game, I was crawling up to a hill top as a sniper, just about to crest 
 when I heard the rumble of a jeep, just as it flew over my head fully loaded, soon to be followed 
 by the enemies jeep, which also flew right over my head.
  
  I turned around to see them trying very hard to kill each other just as a plane swooped in and 
 blew up the first Jeep, sadly, its pilot crashed into the second jeep, ending thier lives as well. 
 Its things like this that make this game what it is, the crazy, unscripted battles that unfold 
 when you add in Air, land and Sea battle to a huge map are mind numbing. I feel that the series 
 might have lost its roots now, going to larger and more detailed maps, taking the no where to hide 
 feeling of the orginal away, but theres always 1942 to come back to, and have your own whacky stories 
 to tell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blairstheman
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, except for a few bugs. Well a lot of bugs, but the patches fix most of that. 
 The graphics are fine, but they could have been better. Sound effects are great ( especially sound 
 of screaming while free falling from high up) . There are five different soldier classes in this 
 game (unlike 2142, with only 4) . The Scout who is armed with a sniper rifle, Colt 45 (all soldiers 
 have Colt 45 so im not going to mention it every time) , grenades, and binoculars for marking artillery 
 shots. The Anti-Tank is equipped with a Bazooka, and grenades. The assualt is armed with a machine 
 gun and grenades. The medic is armed with a SMG and grenades, along with a medic pack. The engineer 
 comes with a rifle, wrench for repairing vehicles, mines, and detonation packs. The major chunk 
 of awesomeness in this game is the game play. Its the funnest of its day, and with all the vehicles 
 and weapons there's no time to get bored because your always doing something different. Dogfights, 
 tank battles, jeep races, para shooting, and many more all add to the extraordinary game play, 
 like naval battles. ( its awesome when the boat your on is sinking and the horns come on) . My personal 
 opinion of which part of the game is best, I would have to say sniping. There's nothing like picking 
 off enemy's when they don't even see you. And wait, there's one final thing I love about this game. 
 There's actually a map where you get to be Canadian!! WOOT. Thats my review on Battlefield 1942, 
 I hope you liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspeck_1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is obviously multi-player focused. It is apparent that while the freedom of this game 
 is there, scripting is sometimes key. (which makes the upcoming Battlefield: Bad Company game look 
 so awesome) What this game does not have in scripting it has in the wealth of weapons, vehicles, 
 maps and freedom, as well as a mix of player-created mods, two official expansion packs, and... 
 Fun. All for only.. whatever it is in your local bargain bin. The fun thing about this game is the 
 SP Campaign. The maps/battles may be familiar from other FPS WWII games, (Omaha, Stalingrad, etc.) 
 but there is a couple paragraphs that sum up what you are supposed to do, (as a collective goal, not 
 a specific one) and more importantly, a tidbit of history. The scenarios at the conclusion of each 
 map varies on how you played it (good, better, best, bad worse, pathetic) and just because you did 
 not win a level, it does NOT mean you have to restart the level, giving in to a bit more realism. 
 Of course, if you die in the levels you re-spawn, as you do Online/LAN,. Finally the truth can 
 be told: The AI bites. On a comparative level, the AI is that of COD, or MOH, but the fact that 
 you, the opposable thumbed monkey-descendant, can do anything to win the battle, the AI is dumb, 
 often doing things that, well, should not be done... (Yes Mr. Japanese AI, lets man that AA gun, even 
 though the battle is concentrated on the other side of the map and you control the only place where 
 airplanes are accessible!)
  Overall a worthy game, much better than it's successor, BF: Vietnam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I loved Call of Duty. It was an awesome game. I bought Battlefield 1942 thinking that it would 
 be the same, but I was wrong.
  
  Battlefield 1942 delivered multi player only game play. The single player was only against bots 
 and that got boring. The game makes you feel like you are going through a single player campaign 
 because after you win a battle you unlock a new level to play on.
  
  The graphics are good and there are some good looking sections of the game.
  
  The sound is 
 also good and sometimes the game can sound pretty realistic.
  
  Over all I would skip this game for some one that likes single player games, but for a person that 
 likes multi player games, you may find some enjoyment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmoq
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  One of the best historical FPS.
  Decent AI, good graphics and some minor bugs. It's great cause you can play it from both perspectives 
 and it's pretty close to real (historical) events.
  One minus is air battle. Airplanes are a little to hard to control (compared to other vehicles) . 
 Fortunately you don't have exclusive air battles.
  Ships and boats are used only for transportation. No naval fights here. Getting out of the boats 
 can be, sometimes, tricky. Playing in easy mode it's... too easy. So a medium difficulty level 
 should be normal to start with (specially if you are an experienced FPS player) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  You log on to a game and find yourself on the deck of a U. S. Navy carrier off the shore of Iwo 
 Jima. The guns of a nearby battleship pummel Japanese positions on the island. Youve got a choice 
 between piling into a Higgins boat with several squadmates and setting off for a beach assault, 
 or climbing into a Hellcat fighter and heading up for a dangerous strafing run against island bases 
 guarded by anti-aircraft cannon.
  
  And all of the above manned by other live humans in a magnificent 64-player multiplayer environment.
 
  
  Thats just the tip of the heaven-sent iceberg that is Battlefield 1942. Its 16 maps cover an astonishing 
 breadth and depth of WWII operations, including infantry pushes, tank charges, artillery bombarding, 
 anti-aircraft guns, fighters, bombers, amphibious assault, naval warfare, and even submarines. 
 There are 35 vehicles in all, plus 20 different weapons ranging from rifles to BARs to bazookas. 
 All of these roles can be played in the game, most of them cooperatively in conjunction with teammates 
 (i. e., a driver and a rooftop gunner for heavy tanks, or a pilot and a gunner for bombers) . In 
 a team-on-team multiplayer battle on the well-designed maps, you may well find yourself kissing 
 your monitor out of sheer joy.
  
  American, British, Russian, German, and Japanese forces are all modeled. Each map pits two forces 
 against one another in a re-creation of a historic battle. The scenario designers took every conceivable 
 opportunity to model elements of warfare that applied to the real setting  so, for example, tank 
 maneuvers rule the El Alamein map, while beach assaults and aerial jousting feature heavily at 
 Midway, and Stalingrad is nothing but a street-by-street urban meatgrinder of hand-to-hand killing. 
 Each will teach you its own hard-won lessons in fighting, as you discover that tactics that work 
 well on some maps will only get you massacred on others.
  
  CAVEAT EMPTOR
  
  But before I continue gushing about the fulfilling achievement that is Battlefield 1942, there 
 are caveats to get out of the way. First: youll need a broadband connection to derive any pleasure 
 from the game whatsoever. (I suspect history will look back on this title as the one that finally 
 drove every PC action gamer to broadband.) Even with a DSL connection, youll still encounter a 
 few servers fumbling to keep up the packet push. But the good news is that DSL is enough to get 
 the job done on 90 percent of servers. Lag can crop up, but it hasnt been a consistent problem 
 for me.
  
  The other caveat is system specs: youll want to play on at least a PIII 800, and preferably something 
 over 1GHz. Even if youre only planning to play the included single-player campaign and bot modes, 
 Battlefield has a lot of AI routines to run simultaneously, and theyre a bear.
  
  Provided youve got all that in order, youre in for a real treat  the realization of a virtual 
 combat environment that ranks with any weve seen before. Its never difficult to get into the 
 swing of the fight. The vehicles are simple to commandeer and employ arcade-style controls (there 
 are no sim elements in this game) .
  
  One last warning I have to make is about the sound. Noticeable and distracting audio bugs cropped 
 up on every system on which I tried this game. Theres rarely anything so bad that I had to quit 
 out (though a few folks around the office experienced never-ending machinegun-noise loops that 
 required a restart) . But sound issues are a definite headache, and I fervently hope that patches 
 resolve them.
  
  The single-player option is a fairly rudimentary affair. The campaign mode lets you slug it out 
 against bot AI, and is a good way to learn the maps and appropriate tactics for each battle  but 
 its battles without real purpose. More useful is a single-player mode that lets you play single 
 battles against bots, with options to select the number of bots and to adjust the effectiveness 
 of their AI.
  
  Bot AI is a mixed bag. Some behave with extraordinary tactical soundness, particularly in vehicles 
  plenty of pleasure can be derived from the armor battles in single-play. The infantry leave more 
 to be desired: its not uncommon to find squads stuck running into sandbags, and even the occasional 
 tank crew staying put at their base, seemingly refusing to roll out.
  
  But honestly, you wont spend much time at all in single-play. The whole raison detre of this 
 game is online multiplayer combat alongside and against human opponents.
  
  MULTIPLAYER HEAVEN
  
  So on to the good stuff. Connecting to a multiplayer game is relatively 
 painless through EAs GameSpy server menu. Every now and then youll encounter a cannot connect 
 issue, but its never a great problem.
  The 16 maps represent theaters of conflict spanning North Africa and the Pacific to Western Europe 
 (D-Day and the Bulge) and the Eastern Front. Some of them are claustrophobic death struggles, like 
 Berlin and Iwo Jima, in which forces claw for control of a relatively tiny, cluttered piece of 
 territory. Others are vast, expansive, slow-developing wars of attrition, as with the tank battle 
 at El Alamein, which unfolds over massive swathes of empty desert.
  
  Each is its own pleasure. Sometimes youre in the mood to jump right in the belly of the beast, 
 in which case Stalingrad is your answer. Other times, you want to be part of a combined-arms set 
 piece battle, in which case you might settle on a map of strategic and tactical complexity, like 
 Market Garden. And any time is a good time for Omaha Beach, where shore bombardment, amphibious 
 assault, and street fighting all come into play.
  
  Five classes are available to pick from when you join in a battle. Scouts have sniper rifles, as 
 well as field glasses with which they can spot targets for artillery further back. Assault troops 
 get a very useful automatic rifle, and are the most effective in close combat. Anti-armor specialists 
 hoist bazookas into battle, and make effective tank-killing infantry, though their reliance on 
 a backup pistol makes them less than desirable for shootouts. Medics can patch up both themselves 
 and wounded comrades, and engineers can repair vehicles and lay mines and detonation packs.
  
  There are a few different multiplayer modes, but only one worth playing. While capture-the-flag, 
 team deathmatch, and deathmatch (ugh!) are all available, Conquest is the only mode most people 
 are playing. In these battles, the two opposing sides start off on opposite ends of the map, with 
 unclaimed flags at the maps key strategic points. Control of a flag adds points to your teams 
 running total, and you snip points from the enemy team with each tick of the clock that a flag 
 is in your control. Control them all, right up to the enemys base, and you win a Major Victory.
 
  
  I guess I also need to throw a bone to the co-op mode, in which all the humans play on one side 
 against an enemy AI force. This mode forces you to act in cohesive units, and makes for a very 
 engaging exercise in teamwork against the soulless armies of the computerized future.
  
  The whole framework delivers a plethora of gaming experiences. Dive for cover as a fighter-bomber 
 strafes your position, only to see the plane chopped up and brought spiraling to the ground by 
 an APC-mounted machinegun. Watch two guys slug it out in a tank duel, and then knock out the winner 
 with a few well-tossed hand grenades. Charge from your Higgins boat onto Omaha Beach and snipe 
 the Nazis in their hilltop machinegun bunker, only to get blown sky-high by inland artillery.
 
  This review can really only offer a slight survey of the gameplay available  suffice it to say 
 that the possibilities are almost limitless, and all of them impact strongly on the team-focused 
 battle.
  
  Battlefield 1942 is a special and wonderful game. Its not a sim in any way, shape, or form, and 
 yet it feels like a murderously lifelike slice of WWII. If youve been waiting years, like I have, 
 for the emergence of a truly multi-faceted shared-world action/wargame, itll light up your eyes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rontor
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 took alot of its gameplay from the Halo series and integrated it into the World 
 War 2 setting perfectly. This game has so many great maps and moments that I will always cherish 
 as great times in gaming. I hope that one day this game gets remade with better graphics and more 
 gameplay. Until it gets remade, I will always consider this the best World War 2 FPS ever. The 
 game is perfect but they could add some single player to this to add to the experience and it would 
 exceed the 10 rating. The Mutliplayer is just that good and still is 5 years later. Battlefield 
 1942 is an amazing feat and should be regarded as one of the greatest of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathan94
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is an amazing arcadish world war 2 fps that really immerses you in the battle. 
 On this game you feel like you make a difference unlike a game like joint operations. You could 
 sink the enemy aircraft carrier with your torpedo which woud be devestating to the entire team. 
 Another great thing in the game is vehicles. These are the best implemented vehicles in any game 
 so far. Its easy to control vehicles but if you have mastered a vehicle you could cause alot of 
 damage to the other team. Its a great game just go ahead and buy it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_slim2004
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I dunno whats up with gamespot and there so called sound issues battle field 1942 sound is the 
 buisness thats all i have to say about that. Are poeple hearing what im hearing im highly doughting 
 it forza has near perfect sound basically what i thought let it down was the music deserved at 
 least 9, same with counter strike source the sound on that is insane, gamespot need to get there 
 ears checked clean them what ever same with alot of people who do reviews on this site. Anyway 
 they arnt stopping from buying it ea has made trillions these guys are just jeulous because they 
 cant get a real job developing so they flame the greats thats how strongly i feel they scrooged 
 this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liden11
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  its just so amazing the best is the multiplayer thats good and has a price that is reasonable even 
 though i got the battlefield collection thing with every thing in it plus in the game , you can 
 blow stuff up, and shoot stuff till they blow up, it very addicting and the planes are fun to drive 
 the maps are cool and the weapons they are the best my favorite thing in the game are the snipers 
 and engineers because shooting the people while hiding is fun and blowing up stuff is fun and jumping 
 out of a plane and and landing in the middle of the enemies base and running and hiding then putting 
 mines under the cars and shotting the people come on who doesn't like that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a multiplayer game. The Single player option is an afterthought, but you can 
 use it as a means to practice flying or learn some tricks. The heart of the gameplay contains a 
 living, breathing battlefield that allows for endless options in an immersive World War II environment. 
 Battlefield 1942 should appeal to history buffs, First Person Shooter fans, online gamers, and 
 strategists. In other words, most gamers will find this to be one of the best online games ever 
 made and possibly the best game ever made. It is that good, that immersive, that entertaining, 
 that exciting, and a work of art. There is really no reason to pass up this title. The sheer size 
 of the game can be overwhelming at first with different unit classes and many vehicles on land, 
 sea, and air. That's right, you can control planes, tanks, jeeps, boats, battleships, aircraft 
 carriers, submarines, and other vehicles. This adds many options for you to participate in the 
 success for your team. Identifying a need and accepting that role is at the heart of Battlefield 
 1942, and at the core of war.
  
  Bullets whiz by as you traverse hostile terrain trying to gain position on the map. Planes sound 
 closer as their propeller nears and the strafing begins... you can kiss yourself goodbye. Bombers 
 bombing, warships blasting hillsides, machine guns firing, and tanks battling are some of the sounds 
 that you will hear. There is a warlike realism that provides an encompassing experience. The explosions 
 are huge, and all the little details make this game feel great. All the sounds heighten the gameplay 
 and make you come back for more. Also, the music is a simple but fun song that creates a mood for 
 the game.
  
  The main online game is called conquest. There are other game options like capture the flag, but 
 conquest is where this game really shines. The object of conquest is to capture spawn points on 
 the map highlighted by a team flag. Each team has a home base spawn point, but there are advantages 
 for having more. For example, when a team controls over 50% of the spawn points, it will remove 
 tickets at a faster rate from the enemy. Tickets are points that countdown to zero in order to 
 end the game. Each team starts with a certain number of tickets dictated by the server, and 300 
 is very common. This system encourages players to stay alive, because the team loses tickets for 
 each death. This gameplay element adds a unique balance between killing and dying that makes the 
 game interesting and challenging. The best way to stay alive is with stealth-like movement avoiding 
 main paths. Also, finding health lockers and ammo bins are important for replenishing your health 
 and ammo. Another need for capturing spawn points is to gain access to the resources there like 
 vehicles, planes, guns, ammo bins, and health lockers. Furthermore, your team will have the ability 
 to spawn at the new spawn points... hence the name. Like most strategy games, map control is important. 
 There are 5 classes to choose from. Infantry, scout (sniper) , medic, engineer, and anti-tank. They 
 all have a need and play a role in a rock-paper-scissors gameplay element similar to what you find 
 in a real-time strategy game. Furthermore, each class has a variety of weapons that add another 
 layer of rock-paper-scissors gameplay for various situations. For example, the anti-tank class 
 has a bazooka for shooting tanks, but may need to switch to a handgun for close combat. Also, an 
 engineer could fix things, but may have to switch to a rifle for close combat or lay mines on bridges 
 to stop tank advances. Many of these counters are discovered as you play the game, and keep you 
 thinking about how to tackle different situations. When you die, you have the option of spawning 
 as any class in an immediate need. It is easy to change classes by swapping packs with one laying 
 on the ground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LombardiCO
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Great game and wasted a lot of my life playing it .This is a great game, and the first fps i ever 
 played and now I am a big fan of them because of BF 1942. For those who say this game sucks, DUDE 
 WTF, this game is old, but games like Battlefront are based on this. The music was superb, it was 
 like dun dun dun, and it hyped you up. It made me feel, Yeah, lets kick some limey's butt. The 
 dogfights were the best part. The airplane controls were easy once you tweaked the controls. ;) 
 Doesn't work on vista so that bums me out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katsaf
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 9, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the best ww2 games I have played. I really enjoyed the complexity of all 
 the features and it was truly much different than any other game I had played before. That being 
 said there were a number of issues which made some of the game playing frustrating. If you used 
 too many bots in a single player mode campaign it would really begin to bog down. Flying the airplane 
 was a real challenge, it just did not seem to have any real flying capabilities like you would 
 find in a combat sim, they should of left it out completely. The graphics were good but not as 
 good as I expected them to be, according to some reviews I read. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: libbi68
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 6, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 truly got me onto the PC to play first person shooters. Now a days there are some 
 better first person shooters but this game created a new way of playing in that genre with all 
 sorts of vehicles and great focus on team work. This was also the first game to really incorporate 
 vehicles in successfully and made it a lot of fun to pilot them. Theres just something about jumping 
 into a plane and dive bombing your enemies only to parachute out over an enemy base and jump into 
 an enemy tank and take it over! Visually it wasnt the prettiest game of its time but it still 
 looked good enough. The environments didnt have too much detail, but the guns and vehicles looked 
 and sounded great. The music was also perfect for a WWII game sounding epic and heroic. While the 
 single player is nothing more than a practice session for the multiplayer portion of the game, 
 its still always fun to just beat up on the computer along with trying new strategies and such. 
 All in all this is one of the greatest first person shooters of all time with great replay ability 
 and the expansions, Vietnam, and Battlefield 2 are solid and add a good deal of content to spice 
 the action up. Definitely a must buy for any PC and/or WWII fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectJones
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a game that broke all of the boundaries. I mean lets face it, when many of 
 us look at games we want to see a diversity of playing that the game permits. Up to Battlefield 
 there pretty much wasn't anything as diverse. Games would always limit what you could do, which 
 vehicles could be driven, what areas of the map were open to play in, etc. Battlefield challenged 
 this whole limiting formula by allowing complete openness. There's pretty much nothing you cannot 
 do in this game. And if you like it in a different style or setting there were tons of mods made 
 for it that allow just that. The negative aspect of Battlefield though is its single player and 
 computer AI. Both keep you entertained for a little while but not as much as the multiplayer; they 
 really served just as practice and filler. To be honest the game might be too open to the point 
 that there is too much vehicular warfare going on and not enough infantry battles. But that is 
 easy to forgive once you get going and get good at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesehead456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  People who give this game a bad review should be thrown into the sun!! People are so picky about 
 the smallest little flaw in a game that they loose sight on the entire picture. The game isn't 
 meant to be too realistic either. If it was then this game may not have been as enjoyable as it 
 is. This game is a great multi-player and that is the way it is meant to be played. The single 
 player is fun for quick games when you don't have the time to jump into multi-player and you can 
 change to number of AI and increase the AI difficulty. The AI isn't always smart but they can kick 
 my but some times, but that is when I most screw around in a plane or something. Flying the planes 
 is great. It takes some time to get use to but some people are impatient to learn how to use them. 
 I would still recommend this game to gamers who are looking for a cheap multi-player FPS!! Also 
 I would recommend getting the expansion Secrets Weapons of WWII, its great!!! Still the new Battlefields 
 are better but this is the one that really started it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devidra
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed it from a friend with high expectations - what I would imagine would be Battlefront 
 2 just with WWII. I was totally shocked - this game was a disaster.
  
  The options for custom were so few that I felt there was only around 8 different ways to play the 
 game, along with a boring campaign that was no different than a collection of instant action maps.
 
  
  The battlefields had interesting and nice terrain but no action - 16 soldiers total in a mile wide 
 battlefield simply is boring when you walk for 20 minutes, kill a guy, then repeat. The developers 
 completely underdeveloped this. If they doubled or tripled the amount of AI Players in a single 
 game, this game would be much better.
  
  On the bright side, there was great music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 9, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is such a great game. There are over ten different battles spanning all across the WW2 
 battlefields. From Omaha Beach to Wake Island. There is multiplayer, but the single player is just 
 as good. It is kind of like COunter Strike where it prepares you for online battles. The game itself 
 is basically a capture the flag with more than one flag and each flag is a spawn point and you 
 have to kill every one on the other team. And there are like 100-200 men on each team. You can 
 also pilot every vehicle from a tank to an airplane. The graphics are great for a PC shooter. The 
 sound is there too. Like most WW2 multiplayer games you can choose exaclty what you do in the battle 
 from medic to scout. The controls are average for a PC shooter. I think that this is one of the 
 best WW2 shooters out here for the PC just behind the all mighty allied assult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 8, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  One of my short reviews:
  
  I heard from several people that BF 1942 sucked and or was overrated . I couldn't disagree more 
 when I received this game for a low price. In my view, it's quite original.
  
  Online Conquest mode is what really shines here. Perhaps this is the only bright spot in the Battlefield 
 series. The single player is worthwhile for only practicing if you're a newbie. BF42 is loaded 
 with large maps, vehicles and weapons that is more than enough to keep you occupied. The downside 
 to BF 1942 is how banausic the game starts to become if you find walk/shoot/capture node boring.
 
  
  Be forewarned about issues with bugs/lag/crashes as all Battlefield games are excessively plagued 
 by this (It's EA... what do you expect) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jac494
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 18, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  I cannot begin to describe how fantastic this game is. It really allows you to do anything. You 
 can spend your time as a soldier, a tank driver, a pilot, or a ships captain. You can spend hours 
 addictively fixed into this game. You can enjoy countless maps, and never get bored playing it. 
 Battlefield 1942 is by far one of the greatest games of all time. Its expansion Road to Rome is 
 great as well. It also has multiple mods that I can recommend, one being Desert Combat which takes 
 you out of 1942 and straight to modern day Iraq. The other is Eve of Destruction which puts you 
 into the Jungles of Vietnam, somewhere you wouldnt want to visit unless it was a video game. All 
 the high marks on this game are well justified. So get and love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 came as a surprise to me. I had just played Call of Duty and got hooked to WW2 
 based games suddenly when I found this one, I think in mid 2003. Trusting it as a EA Games publication, 
 I started the game and discovered a whole new flavour of WW2 game.
  The idea of fighting human enemies in a war field with weapons modelled after real WW2 arms always 
 attracted me. No real blood is shed, no real tragedy of war -- yet you enjoy the war game innocently 
 like a child. And this game delivers an open ended package that's best suited for multiplayer mode. 
 But I play alone at odd hours for professional reasons. So whatever impression I got from this 
 game, is from playing it on singleplayer mode. I enjoyed the game for six months or so -- played 
 all the maps over and over again till I craved for more (luckily they released two rounds of expansions 
 to fulfill my expectations) .
  The huge maps of the game are so well implemented that it simulates the feeling of a soldier lost 
 in a wild war. My decisions often will lead my team to victory -- but sometimes my team might loose 
 despite my best performance. The easy use of all kinds of war vehicle was another attractive part 
 of the game. The title music, that has now become the signature tune for all Battlefield games, 
 is brilliantly war-like and turns up the mood for the game. I experienced no glitches and the controls 
 of the game had been smooth. I strongly recommend this game for all FPS lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmichaelc15
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  If anybody who plays this game came across 101st Ace Pilot, then maybe you've stumbled upon me 
 :] I bought this game the very date of its release and have played everyday for 3 years after that. 
 Very addicting game that has the best gameplay and replay value EVER. Every map was so unique and 
 straight up fun... nothing was ever boring in this game. Even taking controls of a jeep could turn 
 to fun!! Hah! Well, after so many great years with this game it seemed to finally die down with 
 the release of BF2, which I hate, and that makes me sad. This game will truely be missed but this 
 is also one game I will never forget about... I had so many memories with my clan and friends that 
 its too many to name. If you ever wanna have a lil' fun with a great all-around WWII fps then I 
 highly suggest you pick this up even for the single player. BF1942 is truely a game that goes down 
 in history to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkthewindow
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  The Battlefield series is a PC gaming classic. Going from a little known WW2 title at it's start, 
 and then becoming one of the most-watched titles of 2001, Battlefield 1942 is a classic. The game 
 became famous because it allowed you to fight on all fronts, with all types of weapons, and with 
 all sides.
  
  The game play is great, and original, which makes it a good buy, because of it's value, which makes 
 it very cheap. You can pick it up now for $20 (Australian) and even cheaper on Ebay. The game play 
 consists of tank combat, infantry combat, air combat, and combat in general. You can fly historically-accurate 
 WW2 aircraft, which do roles from fighter, bomber, dive bomber and torpedo bomber, in all types 
 of battles.
  
  Air combat is fun and great, but if you are on the ground, the air power can become annoying, as 
 a single plane, can take you out, when you have just spent 5 minutes walking across the map at 
 Market Garden, to capture that flag, and you have no defense against them (except for cover (if 
 you can find it) and AA (if you can find one.) Ground combat is no so messed up. Although there 
 is a order (assaults and medics own close-up, snipers own anything but close-up, anti-tanks suck 
 for everything but anti-tank) which can be kind of annoying if you find yourself getting raped 
 by sniper campers, or if someone leaves explosives all over the place, but the community is quite 
 good, and that sort of stuff is uncommon. Tanks own everything, but AT is there to balance that.
 
  
  Naval combat is annoying, as you hardly ever get a ship, but when you get one, it is a blast, and 
 dueling other ships is also a great waste of time. The graphics and the sound are 2001 quality, 
 so buy this game for the great gameplay, not for the graphics and sound. That said, the graphics 
 do not downright suck, but they are not up to 2007 standards, so if you want good graphics, get 
 a newer Battlefield. The game, as I said is good value, and for $20 ($50 for all expansions) it 
 is a great buy, if you want something to hold you over to the next great next-gen title that is 
 out. It will last you a while, like a year on-off.
  
  Battlefield 1942 was great in 2001, and now it is still good, but the graphics, and the sound spoil 
 one of the best WW2 FPS's around. Let's hope that EA does a DX10 remake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a nice World War game, where you can play as different factions, like Germany 
 and the British.
  It features decent graphics and sounds mixed with good gameplay.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Great amount of replayability
  +Multiplayer is even better
  +64 player limit!
 
  +Some nice maps
  -Playing with 63 bots really lags
  -Bots suck
  
  Graphics:
  +Graphics look decent, but i dont like the special effects.
  +Does not require a uber computer 
 compared to BF2
  +/- Explosions look rather fake
  -Slight haze in graphics
  
  Sounds:
  +Good music, not a lot though
  +Sniper rifles sound really cool
  -The general sounds 
 are a bit dissapointing
  
  Value:
  +Good mod community
  +Great multiplayer and replayabiltity
  -Really need internet for this game, if you dont have 
 it get it!
  
  Tilt:
  +I like the intro movie
  +Music is good
  +No tutorial needed, just strategy
  -Flying vehicles are a pain in the ass
  
  If you like 
 playing with a lot of people, you have to try this game.
  Goodbye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daytona_178
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that you will probably notice about this game when you start playing is that its 
 not the most realistic of shooter experiences available today. But chances are you wont really 
 mind because the simplified controls and the ability to jump from vehicle to vehicle bring a nice 
 change to the WWII FPS genre. Although the single player doesen't have any story mode as such, 
 you can create custom campaigns which are effectively just multiplayer matches with lots and lots 
 and lots of bots. But really if you was to speak to most Battlefield 1942 fans they will talk mostly 
 about the online multiplayer mode which gives you a very unique experience in terms of scale and 
 action. All in all this game is a great buy and worth a try!
  
  If you found my review helpful please recommend me. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_war_ranger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  This game had so much replay value. It was the game which revolutionized the FPS genre, adding 
 elements which games in the previous past did not venture into. Vehicles added a different aspect 
 to gameplay altogether. Jumping out of moving aircraft and parachuting yourself into enemy territory, 
 rushing an enemy flag with a group of other players online who you've never met before, having 
 the epic feel of standing on an aircraft carrier with planes taking off left and right all added 
 to the atmosphere. The 32 vs 32 player battles were outstanding. I loved how you could strategize 
 with other players and ask for support whenever you were getting shot at. Players don't come to 
 the rescue all the time and sarcasm is always used.
  Overall, it was a great game and first time players to the battlefield series can pick this game 
 up for a small price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to WW2 games, they are almost all good. But BF 1942 was revolutionary. It introduced 
 a good campaign with Extremely good multiplayer, and forever went down in history as a classic, 
 forming the base for many other online games to come. Though the campaign was overall pretty good, 
 sometimes you would get extremely frustrated by the AI as they took the tank you wanted and then 
 drove around in circles with it for a couple hours until they died. But the game was made in 2002, 
 and so you can't expect that much from it, and it deserves a lot of credit for allowing you to 
 go on sea, land or air with a variety of vehicles from WW2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACESandElGHTS
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 6, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is like the Oasis of PC gaming. Noel Gallagher once claimed that the title of 
 Be Here Now was appropriate because that first week after the release of their biggest album was, 
 according to him, the most exciting period of the bands short life.
  Where you into Battlefield 1942? I think it was the first FPS that took multiplayer gaming to a 
 whole new chaotic level. Tanks, jeeps, airplanes, AA guns, machine guns, mortars, artillery, land 
 mines, snipers, bazookas -- it had it ALL and if you weren't on top of your game, you were sure to 
 be dead within 10 seconds. Which was OK, because you'd be right back in the action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  One of the first words that came out of my mouth playing this game was WOW. I watch a lot of 
 movies especially action movies and this can almost be one. The graphics are nicely detailed, from 
 the tanks and landing crafts to the ridge line detail. This is a beautiful game. Story line is 
 simple pick a historical scenario, pick a side then pickup your weapon and away you go. The AI 
 when set to difficult can be rather challenging. The computer will not rush when not needed, this 
 makes you think a little than simply rushing in. The sounds are astonishing with machine gun fire 
 echoing from walls of crumbing buildings. One sound I like is the zing ping or snap sound, you 
 can tell if bullets flying near you are close or very close. The multi player is fun, almost like 
 a paintball match with each side seemingly wanting to rush each other. In all I found this to be 
 a fun game mainly on multiplayer even though you can play it alone it isnt that much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kebn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  As a newcomer and retired Battlefield 2 player, I actually wasnt expecting a whole lot out of this 
 game, just another world war II game right? Well i was astonished upon playing this game to find 
 that it is one of the finest fps available. The game itself is brilliant, but the true value is 
 in its mods, bf pirates and desert combat being a few among many of the fantastic conversions the 
 game, and at under 20 bucks the game (including expansions which nobody plays) is an absolute steal.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Unlike the battlefield games that followed this game relies heavily on teamwork, no longer 
 is every second player a lone wolf trying to get a new badge. Without a ranking system the game 
 is actually more enjoyable and more relaxed overall. The amount of maps is unbelievable after having 
 played the 10 or so bf2 had to offer, and with the mods you'll stuck for choice. There are countless 
 vehicles in this game, which makes up for a lack of weapons in the game. The game takes place over 
 5 fronts of world war II, historical accuracy isn't really an issue in this game, as gamespot said 
 this game is like a comic book version of the war. The mods change the gameplay completely, from 
 the heated firefights of dester combat to the hillarious and cantankerous pillaging and booty snatching 
 of battlefield pirates. The possibilities are seemingly endless.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are surprisingly good, not as good as bf2, but theyre not far off, not to 
 mention lag isnt much of an issue if you have a decent pc. SOUND: What can i say, in both the game 
 and its mods the sound is just fantastic, from the wailing shells to the distant rumble gun fire 
 the game sounds like a battlefield, if you have a head set the sound is even better.
  
  VALUE: You dont get any better than this, you will clock up hours reaching triple digits in no 
 time, all for a a budget pricetag. Play it with friends and open fire!
  
  PROS: The price, the vehicles, the mods, the maps, perfectly balanced, ingenious artillary system 
 (actually requires teamwork and skill)
  
  CONS: Lack of weapon variety, no squad organisation, no voip (ventrillo does fine though)
  
 
  I strongly urge you to play this game, give it a chance and i'm sure you'll enjoy it as much as 
 i have. Thank you for reading my review, i hope you enjoy many hours of fun if you choose to purchase 
 this game.
  
  (i apologise for any spelling mistakes i have definately made along with many other grammatical 
 atrocities and a total desecration of the english language in the course of the writing of this 
 review - have a nice day!)
  
  - kebn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SturmGeschuetZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  This game is legendary in every aspect. Countless hours I have spent playing this game and it has 
 never gotten past me. This game is that classic Axis Vs. Allies but Dice did it so well in this 
 game, just perfect integration of Aircraft , Vehicles and weapons. This game has been modded like 
 crazy from battlefield 1918 to Desert Combat this game is a must have , its like not having the 
 game checkers , or chess , or monopoly for that matter in your closet. This game even in its ripe 
 old age to me is still better than 2142 and battlefield 2. It is just more immersive and entertaining 
 when your playing with your friends online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darussell1958
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 25, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 stands on new ground. Where no game has gone before. 64 players per server make 
 the battles as close to real as ever before. Although, it's still way off, with people running 
 around jumping in and out of planes, tanks, jeeps, etc. it feels a lot more unrealistic than other 
 games in the genre. But to be as fun as it is. It's necessary. There are plenty of maps and next 
 to Half-Life it has the best mod community for a game. Dozens upon dozens of maps with plenty of 
 great mods. Some are bad, but you have to dig through the dirt to find the gold. Games like Desert 
 Combat and Eve of Destruction take the game in new places and make it instantly replayable. Although 
 not all is well with BF. There are some problems like the TKers and jerks online. This is in every 
 game and vote kick is useful. Admins can't be as cruel and abusive as in Counter-Strike but with 
 such a large community, there are a good number of jerks on there. Also, these jerks like to exploit 
 glitches and use them to their advantage, and some even like to get cheats. Even with an anti-cheat 
 system, cheatersare ablee to find a way through and hack up your game. The game also is meant to 
 be a tactical game but people ahve such a craving for vehicles and mayhem that no one really forms 
 strategies or carries them out. It's just a melee attack where everyone shooting in every direction. 
 It's frustrating at times. But on the technical side, the patches have fixed most problems, although 
 the game still lags on large servers because of the huge amount of players and the over-sized maps. 
 Overall, with tons of mods, great gameplay. I mean who wouldn't want to drive a tank, plane and 
 jeep to capture a base all in one run? It's clean and simple fun. The inevitable problems online 
 with player conflicts and some major frame-rate issues drag the game down but it remains an outstanding 
 online epic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmandes
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942, is perhaps the first of it kind of first person shooter game to actually focus 
 on the multiplayer option, rather than just a role player game that bring a character through my 
 stages of shooting. As a first person shooter game it is also very comprehensive in details, allowing 
 player actually not just to shoot a variety of small arms, but also to play different roles such 
 as medic, scout (with sniper ability) , anti-tank trooper, engineer &amp; etc. In addition to all 
 those, player can even commandeer vehicles, like tanks, jeeps and even planes, some vehicle like 
 tanks would even allow passenger riding on it to take command of the weapons like machine guns 
 on the vehicle. With all these in mind, there is a galaxy of opportunity for players in multiplayer 
 game to cooperate to overcome the enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  Battlefield almost flawlessly integrated vehicular combat into a first person shooter where you 
 could wage a war with your machine gun and grenades and instantly jump into your own or an enemy's 
 vehicle (be it airplane or tank) and commence to dispense destruction! Battlefield also opts to 
 balance the experience by using soldier kits like assault troops (with machine guns grenades and 
 such) , medics, scouts (or snipers) , anti-tank troops (with rocket launchers) , and engineers (with 
 explosives, mines, and the ability to fix vehicles) . These kits even the battlefield and add an 
 element of strategy to first person shooters that is definitely absent in most games. Each kit 
 has different equipment that has its advantages and disadvantages. Engineers, anti-tank troops, 
 and scouts are virtually useless in close combat when compared to the machine or sub-machine gun 
 toting medics and assault troops. Still, Scouts are great at long range and anti-tank troops do 
 just what their name implies. Engineers can be devasting if they are protected and careful. With 
 their mines and explosives, they can surprise enemy armor and infantry alike. Now I know what you're 
 thinking, what if I choose one kit and realize the need for a completely different one later (like 
 when you're staring down the barrel of a German tank muzzle) . Well, in those frequent times, you 
 are able to find and use the equipment (or kits) of deceased friends AND foes. You'll also see 
 the difference between the weapons that each nation carries. Each weapon has its own unique range 
 and accuracy. As you buy the expansions you get more weapons and vehicles from other nations to 
 add to the variety. As you can see, the person who likes strategy AND first person shooters is 
 in heaven in this game. It requires tactics, teamwork (to some extent) , and skill of course. The 
 game sets up each battle with a number of 'tickets' for both sides. As each side takes casualties, 
 they loose tickets as reinforcements come (i. e. dead players respawn) . First team to 0 tickets 
 looses. The degree of the defeat is determined by how many tickets. So, die as many times as you 
 like... just make sure you take more of them out. Also, you'll have a small map and it will show 
 you friendly units so you can determine where you need to go and such... but don't expect to see 
 any enemies on that map. All your searching has to be visual if you wish to locate bogey's. Luckily, 
 the terrain is beautifully rendered and the graphics displaying explosions, terrain, water, and 
 such seems to add to the atmosphere of the setting you are in. The replay ability is almost infinite 
 though. This game has a great engine and mods began popping up all over again. Want to use the 
 Battlefield concept in the Star Wars universe? Well, a group of modders made a package called Galactic 
 Conquest mimicking the Battle of Hoth (and probably some other land based Star Wars battles) . Another 
 popular mod, given our world and country&amp;#8217; s current situation, called Desert Combat has 
 also become just as popular. Many many more mods are added as the months go by for this 2002 Game 
 of the Year and it is over 4 years old and still bringing in new gamers and entertaining old ones! 
 So, now you've heard the good... lets discuss the bad. Well, the game itself, though it follows 
 the course of WW2's battles just doesn't leave you the feeling from mission to mission that you 
 are affecting anything. Losing one mission (be it major or minor) doesn't seem to have an affect 
 on the next or any other following missions one way or another. Nothing (besides history itself) 
 really ties the game together and makes you really feel like a part of a major war campaign. When 
 you are actually in missions (single player) , the AI is simply horrible. Soldiers will stay at 
 gun stations after seeing you run around behind them. Tanks will do the same. Not to mention the 
 questionable piloting of sea-going vessels. That combined with the fact that you really have to 
 search for the enemy in certain missions really slows the action down. Sometimes it will be almost 
 a minute into the mission before the first target appears in your scope. That coupled with the 
 fact there is no soundtrack beyond the first menu and the loading screens. You are left with only 
 the silence of battle and a battlefield far from filled with opponents OR teammates. This is even 
 true during the multiplayer experience leaving you feeling like you were dropped into a virtual 
 arena (which is actually true!!) rather than a WWII battle. I tell you what though. Despite the 
 minor flaws, you will find yourself drawn to the limited strategy and hoping to one day be one 
 of the top 5 soldiers on a multiplayer mission online. It is a great feeling&amp;#8230; and a great 
 game. So, what are you waiting for soldier?! Suit up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxR0gu3Go0sexX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This was the First FPS that I ever played and It was also the First Online game that I ever played... 
 With that said I was blown away when I first played it.
  
  It has been a long time sence I have put it in and now I have grown used to games like Halo 2, 
 Counter-Strike and all those newer FPS's, but I still feel that this was a great game.
  
  Before I got into it I was into games like FF and those types, so I did not think the graphics 
 were ground braking, but that does not mean they were bad.
  
  The Gameplay was also really fun for me becuase of the Online. I had never played Online so I may 
 be a little Biased for how good it was, but We all have to start some where.
  
  And the Online is bound to keep you playing for hours on end with all the planes and vehicals you 
 can uses... If you find this game I think you would like to give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiscGuru101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first let me say: I am not a big fan of shooters. This review is motivated out of shock that 
 I played Battlefield 1942 for several hours last night and lost all track of time as we know it.
 
  
  I find many games dont sufficiently distract me away from the trials of life often times. Battlefield 
 1942 is not one of them. This baby eats up downtime. The Complete Collection is $20 and that is 
 why I am giving it a value of 10.
  
  Gripe: Huge maps that you have to walk across. But hey, its war.
  
  Bottom Line: One of the 
 few EA collections to reach must have status. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fixer38
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  Many games that follow WWII are often realistic and violent. Battlefield 1942 is the king of the 
 hill on presenting WWII in a friendly way were you realy don`t care about killing anyone. I honestly 
 like realism in games but Battlefield 1942 you see cartoony-looking soldiers, unrealistic battles 
 and many things like jeeps road-killing soldiers. While the singe-player is the same as multy-player 
 only with bots, multy-player dominates in this game. Servers that are full realy get your atention 
 when your in a battle or alike. The easy to learn rules of the game make this even more fun to 
 play. Reloading is fast and unrealistic, jumping is a everyday sight, bazookas don`t insta-kill everything.. well 
 all the works to be short. If you are looking for some game you woud gladly play after a long day 
 at the office, battlefield 1942 is a good choice. This game also features the BEST soundtrack in 
 the loading screen you will EVER hear... in your life. Overall battlefield 1942 is fun and adicting 
 in its own ways and will give you no doubt a good FPS experiance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drumpants
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  The great world war. Yes, Battlefield does it for the most part. Giving us fun gameplay and some 
 pretty hilarious moments when AI steps into the world of explosives and shelling. I like ths game; 
 it grows on you. It is for the most part pretty addicting if you know the gameplay and are familiar 
 with the whole open and wide kind of war games. Free roaming unlike Call of Duty. It gives you 
 places to explore, but there could be more weapons in it. The people that like boats, you got 'em. 
 Airplanes? Got 'em. Infantry, tanks, jeeps, armored transport, w/e! The difficulty depends your 
 experience level. Me. Myself, and I are adept at playing FPS and hardcore names in the FPS family. 
 New names also. Noobies make it around in our town. Overall this game does provide entertainment 
 and a pretty good campaign. Eventhough it is the same thing over and over again, the game lets 
 you go to Omaha Beach. Which is sadly, poorly, and horriblyincorrect looking. The beach isn't wide 
 and you get a good range of fire for us snipers like myself. Iwo Jima doesn't look anything like 
 its accurate portrayal in Flags of our Fathers, but yet the game does a good job. There are many 
 glitchy looking things but all of it is relative so the game isn't horrendous. I'd recomend it 
 for anyone that wants a break from hardcore MOH or COD. Take a break with BFV or 2142. Play GOW 
 also; nice campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zorbrak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt, this game is definitely an instant classic. It's originality that was put aside 
 from your basic First-Person Shooter was what led to the great game it had inspired.
  
  Just like Battlefield 2, the game certainly lacks Single-Player depth. Although there is a campaign 
 to it, it simply does not have much to offer. It's Single-Player can be fun at times, but the single-player 
 mode alone will simply not give you the experience you would recieve from Multi-Player. What makes 
 the online mode so much better? It is simply this, challenge and interaction. The main thing that 
 makes this single-player so bad is its terrible AI. The enemies have basically no intelligence 
 whatsoever, and your team mates certainly aren't helping you much either. For example, even on 
 hard mode, you can stand in front of an enemy for several seconds and he won't do anything. The 
 main focus of this game is team work, which is not to be expected from Single-Player. With the 
 AI single-player has, team mates are often more of a nuisance rather than a help.
  
  Even though the graphics in this game may look dated when you look at them now, they were great 
 for their time. They had detailed textures, a fairly good view distance, and more. Unfortunately, 
 there were many computers that couldn't even handle the game. If you want to have any luck playing 
 it, expect your PC to be better than what the system requirements lists (though they are extremely 
 low these days) . Like the graphics, for its time, the sound was good as well. It featured nice 
 music and good overall quality.
  
  After playing Battlefield 2 and looking at all the major improvements it has made, you might not 
 even want to go back to this. And even if you do prefer this one, single-player has barely anything 
 to offer. Nevertheless, Battlefield 1942 is a fantastic game that will never be forgotten by First-Person 
 Shooter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alejoshadow
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  BF 1942 is an awesome game to play (especially with the expansion packs) . However, the AI is stupid, 
 and will stand their until you shoot them half the time. Also, the movements of your player are 
 pretty basic. There is not somersaults (rolls) across the ground. The weapons are sufficient, but 
 there is no secondary weapon, so you have to swicth your gun for a grenade ) (etc...) . The bots 
 on your side do not respond to any of your commands. But the reaction to your shooting them is 
 pretty cool. My favorite is when you throw a grenade right under their feet, and it explodes, shooting 
 them into the air with their arms flailing around. This game is very addictive and is a blast to 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gollum007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 18, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a very enjoyable game, for both ww2 fanatics and non-ww2 fanatics. It is very 
 addicting and pleasing to use the vehicles in this game. Although the infantry part of this game 
 isn't that great, other things such as flying and driving a tank are very fun when engaged with 
 enemy tanks or planes. Dogfighting in this game is also a big plus, in fact i think that without 
 the planes, this game might only deserve an 8.2 or something like that. The big downside to this 
 game is that there's no weapon customizability and the infantry part can get boring and repetitive. 
 The gameplay is great and immerseful in big online servers. The graphics are good and sometimes 
 great. The sound is good but not great. Overall, i would rate this game at about a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephirothrulez9
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  This game wont dissappoint you!!!
  
  Gameplay: This game has great WWII maps. Cool weapons for each side ( axis: japan/germany, and 
 allie: russia, USA, britian) . It has soo many vehicles to drive land, sea, or air the game has 
 it! Graphics: the graphics are pretty good compared to similar games. Maybe the water, and terrain 
 needs working but thats about it! the graphics on the vehicles and guns are pretty tight
  
  sound: great gun-fire and explosions, now if only i had surround sound.....
  
  side notes : 
 this game is AWSOME to play online ( go to the website to download the latest patch 1st, if you 
 have any problems conact someone or me ) AND I REALLY REALLY RECROMMEND GOING ON BATTLEFIELDFILES. COM 
 AND D/L THE MODS THEY HAVE !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyamericansn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  EA's first ever battlefield series, was one that was fun and exhilarating. When it first hit the 
 markets, it was ground breaking. The ability to throw in 64 players into a server, and play the 
 various gameplay modes, thrown in with armor and aircraft, helps to be the for-fathers of many 
 games out there.
  
  If being able to play an arcade-ish style game with many people, then the Battlefield series is 
 defiantly for you. But despite that fact, many of the games that came after this have been a let 
 down. EA has turned its back on many aspects that have been overlooked in development, including 
 that of bugs, and the buyer.
  
  Being EA's first, Battlefield 1942 has been the least buggiest of the series. Mainly due to the 
 fact that it had to hit the crowed with such an impression, as it was making ground breaking gameplay. 
 From the single player to the mutliplayer, it is a well thought game.
  
  After the gameplay, comes the mod community. BF42 has one of the biggest mod communities then most 
 other titles. Mods like Forgotten Hope, Desert Combat, Eve of destruction, Experience World War 
 II, etc.
  
  Some of these mods have been with the game since the beginning, and probably the most commemorated 
 is Desert Combat. Due to the fact the the developers of Desert Combat, helped EA produce BF2.
 
  
  BF42 will soon be totaly phased out by the onslaught of new titles in the Battlefield series. But 
 most will remember were it all started, and that were EA did not screw up. The fact that EA has 
 done wrong to the series, it will not leave BF42 as one of the greatest predecessor to many titles 
 to come.
  
  -Opi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henryfox
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 31, 2006 1:00 am PT
Review:  While Battlefield 1942 is on an ageing platform, it still gets great points for the sheer fun of 
 playing the game. The battles can be as relaxed or intense as you like, with a reasonable variety 
 of options of how to deal with the various challenges of the game.
  While some of the maps are not quite accurate recreations of the battles they are proposing to 
 represent, the weapons are top-notch in their realism with regard to accuracy and feel. There are 
 some issues with the realism of the damage from the weapons, but in many ways this enables the 
 game to be more fun. This being said, one shot to the head of your target is usually enough to 
 put him down for the count.
  It is the flexibility of this game that is one of its greatest selling points, all of the battles 
 can be fought from either side of the conflict and from the point of view of different members 
 of the conflict. With the addition of mods to the game, it can be transformed into everything from 
 Desert Shield, to the Hoth Ice Station of Star Wars. This game should be seriously considered as 
 a contender for the serious gamer and the newbie as it has elements for both to play with and to 
 have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marolia
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  This game has something..... i dont know anyways i know this that this game is the best world war 
 2 mutiplayer game i ever played.
  U can make it as real as u want.......
  This game is now old there are better battlefield games than this one but this game reminds me 
 of old school.
  The Levels, Maps are awesome count the Beach part.
  
  Playing this with your friends is just danm fun.
  The graphics are good, the gun look O. K the 
 sound of the guns are O. K too
  I would say this game is worth the play even if its boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shooter94
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 21, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a groundbreaking video game that will always be in my collection. It has changed 
 the way I and many friends play games. In fact, it is the first PC game I had ever played and it 
 has changed a lot of people's lives that I know.
  
  It all started in 2003...
  
  It was the opening day of the newly opened lan center near my house. About 8 of my friends and 
 myself had arrived, not knowing what to expect or what to see. Our lives would be changed very 
 soon.
  
  We got in, took our seats, and booted up the first interesting looking game. Battlefield 1942.
 
  
  We were first amazed at the gameplay. It ran so smoothly, with levels roughly 10 miles in circumference 
 and multiple mountains and bodies of water everywhere. With 9-12 of us in there, we were having 
 a blast. From the old WWII bombers to the tanks, we had every weapon we needed to fight the war. 
 A
  
  After leaving my carrier with a couple of friends, I noticed something. This game looked amazing... with 
 the sun beaming down on the plane, making it glisten. With the land mass peering into view, tiny 
 soldiers seen transporting back and forth... this game looked great and seemed to live.
  
  I have to admit, the sounds are basically what you hear in every other war/fps. Boom, boom, crack 
 whatever you expect. However, the rest of the game makes this one of the best games ever.
  
  With some of the best gameplay mechanics ever, and some ADDICTING online multiplayer, I will 
 put this one on my Greatest Of All Time list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  BF1942 is a simple an arcady game. You can find that almost all of the weapons, units &amp; vehicles 
 are historically incorrect. For example, the Japanese used Katanas not knives, they certainly did 
 not use scoped Kar98s. Russians used the PPSH-41, not some phoney other SMG. Overall, gameplay 
 is fine. I like the vehicles and planes. But I strongly suggest that you get Forgotten Hope which 
 is a mod for BF1942, It adds several historically correct articles to the game. Yeah BF1942 is 
 better then BF2 is some ways. BF1942 is like DOD: S on drugs. BF1942 is an arcade version of Red 
 Orchestra. Graphics is decent considering it came out some years ago. AI is somewhat pleasing, 
 weapon sounds are cool. Expansions for the game like Secret Weapons of WW2 and Road to Rome are 
 good too. Sucks that they used some of Medal Of Honour's sounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rysing_Furi
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 25, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game, I brought it under false pretences. I chose between this and Medal of Honor. 
 BIG MISTAKE. I soon became increasingly frustated with this game. Why? The gameplay, pure and simple. 
 For starters, I have a crap internet connection, which means no multiplayer, but that's ok the 
 game has singleplayer right? True, it does. However, there is only one mode of gameplay and that 
 is a capture the flag remake. What irritates me about bf1942 is that the game is good, there is 
 plenty of action and its so cool getting in a tank/aagun/jeep etc etc, but just when it's getting 
 so awesomly cool, the game ends because you've won the ticket count. Oh Joy, I just saved the world 
 because I won tickets, how fantastic! So you can imagine how break the monitor with a baseball 
 bat this game gets. On one hand, the game has great action, but on the other hand, the game is 
 so infuritating that its just not worth jumping up and down for. I brought MOH, and I haven't touched 
 BF1942 since, wish I could get my money back though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payforaday
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 9, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 was that game that made the big leap. It was the first game to join beauty and 
 flawless, spectacular gameplay with large scale war on massive maps. Back in 2001 this was one 
 of the best games in my book and still is. The game itself is awesome (played it for 3 months) 
 but the amount of mods that are out for this game just make it have even more replayability. Gameplay 
 - 10 - The gameplay is unbeatable. You get an outstanding amount of ways to earn points and all 
 are effective in there own ways. The online is the only way to see this game in its full potential.
 
  
  Graphics - 9 - Had the best graphics in 2001 and still keeps on par with games that are coming 
 out now also. Easily gets a 9.
  
  Sound - 10 - The sound effects are directional, have a distant sound when heard from a distance, 
 and make it so that EVERYTHING has a unique sound.
  
  Value - 10 - Still worth it in my opinion even after 5 years of playing. I play it atleast 4 times 
 a month which is testament to its replayability. The mods for it also keep me coming back for more 
 (Forgotten hope is the best :) .)
  
  Downsides - The modding capability is very low. Mods can't create custom animations easily so most 
 don't have them. Also the sound without a mod can be kind of bland after awhile.
  
  If you can get this game for cheap or just want a good WWII game then this is for you. Easily keeps 
 up with newer games in every aspect of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commandercow011
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  my first computer shooing game was way more than i expected. and the neatest part is that i had 
 dial up at the time and it still worked very well online. one of the greatest first person shooters 
 for the pc. works ok with non high quality computers to. i used to play this at a computer store 
 with 35 computers all on a LAN connection. and for $20 you could play from 12 pm to 6 am. it was 
 really cool. anyway the game has ok graphics for 2002 and has great sound quality. anyway if you 
 are looking for a good game i would go with this game. i think my keyboard battery is dying because 
 it is starting to skip letters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saw100
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 12, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a WWII game (duh) which offers some good graphics, vehicles and soldiers. There 
 are many soldier classes and weapons, single player and multiplayer are both good, but you can 
 get bored for single player very quickly, so it would be good if you have internet connection. 
 Multiplayer is quite good. Once you start the game and play it, you will either keep playing and 
 playing until someone says that it's time to quit, or you will just say: "What a crappy game". 
 
  
  BF 1942 will be great game if you like FPS games. So if you do like, go to the shop and buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paganinio
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 4:13 am PT
Review:  following paragraphs are unsorted.
  Gameplay, the Good:
  -the actual gameplay is as variable as it gets.
  -you do run out of ammo frequently. This forces 
 you to use every bullet efficiently and use pistol often. Pistols are as important as primary weapon 
 since it ALWAYS saves your life when enemy out-ammo you. When enemy's reloading you switches to 
 pistol and he's dead after 3 shots.
  -machine guns can take down airplanes and parachutes.
  -multiple positions in most vehicles. Oh, did i mention you alone can use every vehicle in this 
 game?
  -You die. Then you respawn after a few seconds.
  -five distinct classes to play.
  
  Gameplay, the Bad:
  -if you wanna pick up ammo or weapon from dead soldiers, you have to 
 throw all your equipment and pick up all his. There's only one type of ammo box, which offers you 
 everything infinitely.
  -stationary weapons are weak.
  -walking takes time when vehicles are not around.
  -get repetitive quickly, after that it's still 
 plain fun, but plain fun isn't my gaming standard.
  
  Graphics, the Good:
  -picture perfect views.
  -The maps cover a huge variety of destinations around the world. You 
 can just wander around without fighting and it's already worth the time spent. It's like travelling 
 all around the world in one game. In fact you do get to move long distances on the map, whatever 
 your strategy is.
  
  Graphics, the Bad:
  -nothing bad. I gave it a 10.
  
  Sound, the Good:
  -two superb theme tracks. And you can hear another great track if you lose 
 the battle. 
  -radio signals can be heard in three languages.
  -the walking sound is cute.
  
  Sound, the Bad:
  -no music during gameplay. Though i don't 
 think any music would suit this game's style.
  -sound quality can get real ugly at times.
  
  Value, the Good:
  -Huge maps with both outdoor and indoor locations. Each map is distinct. 
 As the Gamespot review says playing different maps can almost feel like playing different games.
 
  -Different locations on the same map look very different too. Let's say playing a full map can 
 almost feel like playing a full game, graphically.
  -Very original. Even if you have played 20 FPS games, this one is worth a try.
  -GTA fans: you 
 will find this game familiar. Just remember to press "C" after you "steal" a vehicle to change 
 camera. You can't steal it if someone else is driving it though.
  
  Value, the Bad:
  -only one mode to play. No single player missions. This is the bottleneck of the game. It reminds 
 you that wars are very boring, you have to play for the same goal over and over again, which is 
 kill enemies, stay alive, and capture positions, nothing else. It's as repetitive as any game can 
 get.
  - this game does not have single player missions, but it claims to have Single Player "Campaign". 
 Ignore it. It's a bad duplicate of "Instant Battle".
  -cannot save/load!
  -it doesn't have any heart-moving video clips or stories or anything to give you an epic feeling 
 about the war.
  -You feel absolutely the same when playing Axis and Allied. There are minor weapon changes though.
 
  -Update patches are too big, from 40MB to 250MB. I never managed to download any of them. And 
 you need to download about four of them to get the newest version. That's already as big as an 
 expansion pack, and without those you can't play on most servers.
  -There are multiple floors in many buildings, but the upper floors almost are useless because the 
 maps are too big.
  -very limited types of guns.
  -lack many important settings, such as ticket number, bots config, friendly fire.
  -only several 
 cheatcodes. and cheatcodes don't improve your gameplay.
  -maps can't be edited. Everything on the map is the same if you play again.
  
  Tilt, the Good:
 
  -The design of 5 classes (actually there's one more: airplane pilot) is superb.
  -Zooming (maps and guns) is neatest and most effective I've ever seen. It also makes right mouse 
 button as important as the left one.
  -useful tooltips can be turned on and off instantly.
  -Radio (the one you use to keep up with your teammates) is superb. I'd say perfect. You needn't 
 type in multi-players.
  -perfect interface design.
  -each in-vehicle camera has its uses. Pretty much everything in this game has its uses.
  -You 
 can crawl and crouch. They have different uses, as always, and another difference: crouching is 
 a temperary state only. This provides great pleasure.
  
  Tilt, the Bad:
  -Bots don't listen to and don't send radio signals. They don't wait for you on vehicles. So radios 
 aren't useful in solo gameplay.
  -At last, the airplanes~~~how can anybody manage to use it to attack?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lsd911
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 28, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Well i love this game but the only problem i have with it when i bought it was minium specs it 
 said it was able to run a 500mhz machine with 128megs of ram and a 32 meg v card well i have a 
 1.5ghz machine 1gig of ram a 128meg radeon 9600xt vcard and i still have to run this game on everything 
 on low and it still have frame rate issues ect but ive played it online and stuff its a fun game 
 if u have a pc to run it there u go but iam over 3x the specs and cant even run it bearly so i 
 think they should really test the specs out more ps. i did defrag my hd and everything else i knew 
 possible to make it run better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  The good: Just blasting your guns and shooting everything up.
  
  The bad: I have trouble looking for enemies!
  
  Battlefield is a classic shooter game. In fact, 
 Gamespot put it as number 10 in the best 1st person shooters ever! This game deserves to be in 
 the top ten. It sort of reminds me of Star Wars Battlefront with all the different soldier types 
 and gameplay. This game is easily recommended for every WWII games fan!
  
  I'm not sure about others, but I can't find too many enemies, so I'm stuck killing my own guys! 
 It's darn fun killing your own guys though. The title of 2002 game of the year is a well deserved 
 one.
  
  In this game, there are so many maps to choose from, and different teams to choose from. Would 
 you like to fight the Japanese troops in the Pacific Islands with the Americans. Or would you rather 
 take on the Germans in Europe? Battlefield 1942 also has a fun single player campaign.
  
  My suggestion? Buy it now while you still can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakov_the_Great
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 23, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  bf 1942 was a good game, but with a few flaws: 
  1. The gun models. OK the gun models werent all that great, especially the rifle allied (and maybe 
 axis) engineers carried. What was that?! It looked like the barrel of it was 2" wide! That was 
 NOT an M1 Garand or a M1 Carbine, not even the WWI era Springfield! 
  
  2. The tanks and other vehicles. Ok so the Sherman looked alright, and maybe the planes too, but 
 what was that 2-story behemoth of a tank destroyer? I have been to the Imperial War Museum in London, 
 and they have the basic tanks and planed used in WWII by the axis and allies, the tank destroyer 
 they had there was no near as tall! It was longer with a longer barrel, not 30-ft tall and a barrel 
 2 feet long! Tell me if I'm wrong but I think they went a little wacky with some of the models.
 
  
  Alright, bf 1942 had some flaws, but still it was a great game! Battle of Britain still my favorite 
 level! Please tell me if you have and argument or comment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:43 am PT
Review:  This game is the starting game for the Battle Field series of games. It is good for a starter game. 
 Multiplayer is better than the singleplayer as the AI bots aren't the smartest enemies you will 
 face on the battlefield. It has nice historical battlefields with different countries. The graphics 
 and sound are OK, the worst thing is that you don't have an auto-reload for your weapons (except 
 your rocket launcher) so you have to press the reload button each time to reload. Also bad AI skill 
 unless you play on hard diffuclty. The battlefield communitacion buttons are too compicated in 
 this game. Otherwise it is fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boocow
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 8, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty good on single player but way better on Multiplayer while online. It is not 
 a game you would want to buy if you have no internet. There is no main objective other than to 
 caputure the enemy post like in Unreal Tornament games. You work as a team and send out orders 
 and get ambushed and the action is great and so are the graphics and also it is worth my $20. Sorry 
 for the run on sentence but it is just that good! You can't expect anything when you go into multiplayer. 
 just expect to get you butt beat a few times. People on there have been playing for years and some 
 are new. The vehicles are great and can be made better by downloading mods from yours truely gamespot. 
 The same with weapons and guns. As a faithful everyday player I recommend this game for anyone 
 who breathes or even eats first person shooters. Even if you've never played a first person shooter 
 it is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsdaydave11
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  It is a really fun game to play, especially online. The campaign is too quick to finish though. 
 Easy to learn to play and once u finish it on normal, u can come back and try to beat it on impossible, 
 just like Halo. U can also choose if u want to play for the Axis or the Allied, and if u lose too 
 many important battles, u lose the war. It has weapons sets (i. e. Anti-tank, Scout, etc.) so u 
 cant have a machine gun and a bazooka at the same time. Each country has the same basic types of 
 weapons, but are slightly different: the German Panzer is much better than the American Sherman, 
 and the Russian assault rifle has a huge clip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  battlefield 1942 :) one of the worlds most greatest FPS ever to hit stores in 2002... this game 
 even tho its going on 5 years old its still a great game graphics a high are really almost like 
 bf2 if not a bit less and the gameplay is great if you really sit and think about accuracy sound 
 and just the maps are HUGE!!! EA games reallyput them selfs out there with this game i think i 
 still play it... even tho i own all the battlefields... sometimes ill grab a beer sit down and 
 play online on some of the greatest online maps ever made and try to kill lol now that really good 
 players with high performance PC's are playing wich kinda helps me in ways to become better in 
 BF2 since they changed alot in accuracy in that game wich i put down as a review... 
  
  this game i think should and is a 9/10... may be a bit old but oldschool games sometimes are better 
 then the ones we play today 
  
  there is also a huge package you can grab that has this... road to rome the expansion and vietnam 
 with the WW2 mod its amazing how many servers ull find playing this game :) ... also if you shoot 
 ure teamates up close ull see there face move and act like a real person would and kinda curse 
 at you ... hehe
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  there is so much more to say about this game... really and if you own BF2 you will know what i mean... 
 not to scare any of you ppl interested in getting BF2 meanwhile 2142 is around the corner... pick 
 up the package first and ull see what i mean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-mE_16
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  battle field 1942 is the original from the newest one battlefield 2. it takes place obviously in 
 1942 when world war 2 was in place. it is a very fun game still with lots of the samew action as 
 it battlefield 2 and still has some good kits. it has almost all the same kits as in battlefield 
 2. there is assault, engineer, sniper, anti tank, medic, and one more icat remember. if you were 
 to go to the store now and but a copy and couldnt choose between battlefield 2 or battlefield 1942 
 i would say to choose battlefield 2 scince its more new 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TVR_Fan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 7, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  Yes this game is still one of the best FPS's around to buy. Also you can play it on most PC's with 
 no problem.
  
  But a lot of PC's around about 2-5 years old can play it in high most of the time. In other words 
 totally maxed out settings, this game seems more fun then BF2.
  
  While not having as many bugs as BF2, the fine points in this game are. Well the control points 
 mode and the amount of fan based community content.
  
  If you looking for a great game, then buy it. There is tons of stuff out for it, 98% of the bugs 
 have been fixed. And it is a bargain.
  
  Oh and there is plenty of mods, which will allow more replay value.
  
  Pros: Great Gameplay, 
 good fan content, bargin of a game, Still is better then BF2, 98% of the bugs have been fixed.
 
  
  Cons: Graphics may be a bit dated, but it is still better looking then some other games. Like Quake 
 3, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LPDisciple01
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 30, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  There are alot of WW2 shooters around, but this is still definitely a great game. You can play 
 alot of battles, from both sides of the war. The campaigns are very easy on easy, but you can still 
 up the difficulty and it gets very challenging. The load times are very short, especially for the 
 quality of the game. There are enough kits to provide a fun change of pace when you want to switch 
 it up and suit up as someone else. The maps are detailed and the game is pretty fair, it's not 
 like you get killed by the stupidest things. One bad thing is that the planes are extremely hard 
 to fly, but it's still a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murrayftw
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 28, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a groundbreaking video game that will always be in my collection. It has changed 
 the way I and many friends play games. In fact, it is the first PC game I had ever played and it 
 has changed a lot of people's lives that I know.
  
  It all started in 2003...
  
  It was the opening day of the newly opened lan center near my house. About 8 of my friends and 
 myself had arrived, not knowing what to expect or what to see. Our lives would be changed very 
 soon.
  
  We got in, took our seats, and booted up the first interesting looking game. Battlefield 1942.
 
  
  We were first amazed at the gameplay. It ran so smoothly, with levels roughly 10 miles in circumference 
 and multiple mountains and bodies of water everywhere. With 9-12 of us in there, we were having 
 a blast. From the old WWII bombers to the tanks, we had every weapon we needed to fight the war. 
 A
  
  After leaving my carrier with a couple of friends, I noticed something. This game looked amazing... with 
 the sun beaming down on the plane, making it glisten. With the land mass peering into view, tiny 
 soldiers seen transporting back and forth... this game looked great and seemed to live.
  
  I have to admit, the sounds are basically what you hear in every other war/fps. Boom, boom, crack 
 whatever you expect. However, the rest of the game makes this one of the best games ever.
  
  With some of the best gameplay mechanics ever, and some ADDICTING online multiplayer, I will 
 put this one on my Greatest Of All Time list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake289
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 28, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  BF 1942 started the battlefield seris and was populer because of the mutiplayer, yes most of the 
 players have gone to bf 2 or desert combat mod but if there was no bf 1942 mutiplayer games could 
 be a bit boring the only good online game we would have is cs 1.6 and source, theres a mutiplayer 
 unscriped campagn but because its unscriped it seems like mutiplayer with bots... the best part 
 of the game is mutiplayer like in all bf games playing online with up to 64 players on some servers 
 is a blast, theres land, sea and air veacals in this game which is cool (this was the first FPS to 
 do all those i think) the controls are a bit bad on some veacals (planes bla bla) but once you get 
 use to it your alright, this game is still played by quite alot of people but if ur thinking of 
 getting this dont get bf 2 its a better game but if u dont have the grapics card to play bf 2 get 
 this and download desert combat mod its a great mod its a bit like bf 2 on bf 1942 engine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajca
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 22, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  For its time this was a great game. Now, its kind of lame. The levels are repetative, there is 
 no point in using a gun if you can find a jeep to run people over. In an attempt to make the game 
 realistic they made sniping practically impossible. In all fairness, I'm bad at the game, yet I 
 get together with a bunch of friends ever other month and ram each other's jeeps and put explosives 
 on the planes.
  Its not a bad game, but not a great game. (not to mention its only-decent stability) Its just one 
 of those transitional games in the years of fps evolution. 
  
  Its got an amazing amount of content and maps, but they all are kind of lame, and mediocre.
  
 
  Looking back, it was a great game, and it will go down in history as a classic.
  
  (my ratings are comparing it at its golden time 3 yrs ago) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurricane04343
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 21, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  OMG! This game is pure sweetness. Forget DOD, RTCW, MOHAA,. This is THE WW2 game. You get to drive 
 tanks, planes, ships, trucks, and it's all done perfectly and integrated seamlessly. I have never 
 seen a game that combines all these elements so perfectly. A blast!
  
  Gameplay:
  I'm limiting this to the multiplayer as it is the one that counts. The game is team based (axis 
 and allies) and consists of taking and controlling control points (flags) . You can choose from 
 a number of classes including assault, scout (sniper) , medic, engineer. Each class has it's own 
 weapons loadout and several special abilities. For instance, engineers can lay mines and dynamite 
 charges and can repair vehicles. My only real complaint about the game is the lousy weapons that 
 infantry has. Especially the BAR for the allies Assault class. It is worthless and you will find 
 that most players will choose Medic instead as the Thompson is a much better weapon. But the real 
 jewel in this game is the vehicles anyway. This one of the only games I have ever seen that smoothly 
 integrates vehicles and 1st person shooter, as well as a great flight simulater into the game. 
 You will have a blast when you are in fligh. You can individually set up the controls for each 
 element of the game (infantry, flight, sea) and they dont interfere with each other. Also you can 
 maneuver ships and use their onboard artillery to batter enemy positions as well as using them 
 to launch landing craft for beach assaults. Also there are anti-aircraft batteries which can be 
 manned to battle enemy aircraft. The flight sim is full featured without being overly complicated. 
 You can choose pure fighters as well as torpedo bombers and dive bombers. Really, there is so much 
 to do in this game that the strategies are endless.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics a very nice and true to the era. As I mentioned above, I have never seen a game that 
 integrates flight sim, vehicles, and 1st person so seamlessly and smoothly. It is especially satisfying 
 to sink the ships as the sinking animation is very well done. So are the aircraft explosions when 
 you shoot them down. The engine has very nice graphics considering that this is mostly a multiplayer 
 game and bandwidth has to be a concern. They are not as good as some games but they are still awesome
 
  
  Sound:
  Sounds are very good and very true to the era. When you are flying and someone is firing an anti-arcraft 
 gun at you, you can hear the muffled bursts as they explode around you. The big guns on the battle 
 cruiser are especially satisfying as they actually sound big guns! The game works well with surround 
 sound and you are even able to here the direction of approaching aircraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adamrocks56
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 21, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 could possibly be the best war FPS (First Person Shooter) that was ever made. 
 Amazing game with pleanty of tanks, and planes to jump into. Well now that all the good stuff has 
 been said, lets move onto the bad stuff. A. I, aka Articial inteligence, of the bots or whatever 
 you want to call them is shocking, do u really think that in a war a guy with a rocket-launcher 
 would come up to your face and shoot it in a small area, or a guy would start proning if u were 
 standing right in front of him. But other then that great game definetly worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billypooped
Rating: 5
Date: May 20, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I really didnt not like the control set-up i think it gets to confusing and i dont have room on 
 my gamepad for all em controls lol. Cod is better but i think i would have liked it more if you 
 could drive vehicles. The vehicle driving /flying is cool in battlefield the mods are cool but the 
 game play and the control made me loose interest fast. I dont reccomend thsi game to any serious 
 gamer who still likes ww2 games. or modsd like the star wars mod i got. I think with this mod that 
 the game is a little cooler but still not a good game, I think it should have been worked on more. I 
 am not saying that Cod is bug_free becasue i know Cod has it's fair pay of bugs but i reccomend 
 it more then this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x9mastachief9x
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 19, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is not only a perfect game, but it sparked the fire for many games. There's the Star Wars 
 Battlefront series, and so on... The mods for this game are fablous, the map maker is easy and can 
 be used by anyone. The gameplay is uber superb, the sound is awesome but it could use a little touch 
 up, the graphics are still amazing and it's worth every penny! I mean, how can you go wrong with 
 this game? It's simple. You choose a class, you take authentic vehicles and try to duke it out 
 while capturing bases with 64 people or bots! What unique gameplay! On top of that you don't need 
 a demanding system! Did I mention it's very cheap? It's easy on your pockets too! Getting bored 
 of World War 2? Well play Desert Combat if you can't run BattleField 2 on your system, try the 
 Homefront mod, the Star Gate Mod, The Star Wars Mod! It's perfect for LAN parties! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfaction_fast
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  now this is one of the al time greatest games, havin tank on tank action, tank vs guy with rocket 
 launchers, tank vs planes, boats and subbs, paratroopers dropping in from high above, planes bombing 
 tanks and boats, apc supports and transports cruising around, close combat and far combat... there 
 is alot to do in this game, its your choice if you wana do some camping and snipe out a few people, 
 or go in with your guns full fire, or take a tank in and blow up everything in sight :P
  the gameplay is good, but the bots in missions always know where you are, how to shoot you, and 
 when to launch a rocket when you moving in a tank : (... but all in all its a very good game, (after 
 a wile you learn how to dodge rockets in tanks, how to shoot them before the know your there such 
 as such) :P
  have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamonkey872
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 13, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  The games gameplay was good but the fact that it was too easy in campaign mode. I liked how you 
 went to every battle but it can get boring after a while just doing the samething. I never got 
 to expierence the online play because of a patch or the fact nobody plays it anymore but the game 
 itself was pretty good. The guns were alright but I liked how you can drive vechiles like jeeps 
 and airplanes etc. The campaign was good other then the slow pace of it. Sound was alright and 
 the graphics very good. It was a sorta a let down and sorta not but other then that I really enjoyed 
 the game with the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtrmgamer206
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a fun game. Set in WWII, you have to destroy the enemy, by spawn killing! Seriously, 
 the game is not challenging at all! The sounds are not realistic at all! The graphics are a little 
 bit too cartoony.
  
  Now, the game is set up very cool. The map where you choose where you want to go is fun. Also, 
 character classes add a little role-playing element to it. The only bad part is, it doesn't really 
 work. You go to an enemy camp and try to take it over, while 5 guys burst out of thin air and shooting 
 you!
  
  Multiplayer, however, CAN be fun, intense, and there are some good team players.
  
  Overall, this game is not what hardcore gamers are looking for. It's more of a go over to your 
 friends house to play every once and a while game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meweus
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 3, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is not as good as thay say!!!!!!
  
  first this game gots some cons. 
  like you you cant carry a rifle and an mp44. you can only carry one kind. 
  not very realistic 
 (you cant blow a tank with nades) !!!!!! 
  arcade kind of single player. 
  and bad AI. 
  
  multiplayer is realy good!!!!!!!!! 
  alot of historical stuff!!!! 
  you can drive anything 
 that can move!!!!! 
  
  sound is ok. 
  but just ignore this game!!!!!!! 
  targeting needs practice too!!!!! 
  
  ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok 
 ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok 
 ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok !!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 30, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  The Good: couple of good weapons, quite good graphics if having a high-end pc or little bit good 
 graphic on midrange pc and very little bit good graphic on a low-end pc. the sound is still quite 
 good.
  
  The Bad: it could have more weapons. the graphics could be a lot better.
  
  The Bottom Line: the game has kinda quite good graphic but just few weapon classes but quite a 
 lot of vehicles make it a good game or i mean between mediocore and good. do you know why i say 
 it cause i review it in year 2006 the end of april, 2006 that's why a lot of stuff is bad otherwise 
 this game is quite good anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a great game, with good graphics and sound, but could have been a whole lot 
 better if it weren't for the lag
  
  In Battlefield 1942 you get to control many types of vehicles, like the German Tiger Tank, the 
 Higgins Boat used to land men on the beaches of Normandy, or plenty of airplanes such as fast fighters, 
 kind of slow dive bombers, torpedo planes, and, of course, bombers. The multiplayer was great, 
 but the maps were a little too big, only a little. Well at least it had a lot of maps, which gave 
 you the ability to try out most vehicles in any terrain type.
  
  The graphics i thought were good, able to generate the huge maps and every little detail, but that 
 also made extreme lag. The lag would have you spiraling out of control if you were in a plane, 
 taking away much of the fun in the game. For this game to work without that much lag, you'll need 
 about 2gm of ram, a great video card, and all of the above.
  
  The sound was a little weird, it didn't really seem to give off the power of the gun, like the 
 BAR which is able to shoot out armor piercing rounds in full auto, reminded me of a tiddler hitting 
 a plastic hammer on a wooden table. The Tommy sounds like an automatic air soft gun and all the 
 other guns aren't too bad but not good either. The tank cannon, and planes sounded excellent though, 
 also the ships, it sounds great and gives yourself more sense of power.
  
  Overall i think it was a great game, though still the lag is aweful, dont buy it unles you've got 
 a lot of ram. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themc_7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 24, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  This is an exceptionally good game on all fronts. This game allows you to play both sides of the 
 World War 2 battles. You can play all the major battles that take you from Midway, to Africa, to 
 the European front lines. You also get to choose what type of soldier you play as during these 
 battles. Immediately once you begin the game you are thrown into the middle of an intense battle. 
 Depending which side you choose to play as you will either be defending your bases, or attacking 
 and taking over enemy bases. Throughout these extraordinary you have access to pretty much any 
 WW2 vehicle that your heart desires. You've got tanks, fighter planes, rocket trucks, jeeps, bombers, 
 landing crafts, turrets and even battleships. You can either beat the campaign (all levels available 
 to be beaten on allied or axis) or play quick battle, where you can chose which side you are on, 
 where the battle will go down, and more. Either way there's many hours of action packed, super 
 fun World War 2 gaming. This is an awesome game, I would definitely recommend that you pick it 
 up, you'll enjoy it thoroughly, guaranteed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superelite2688
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  bf 1942 is a excellent world war 2 fps.
  
  it has great environments and gameplay.
  bf 1942 allows u to choose from several kits every time u die if u want to change and these kits 
 themselves make the game more diverse.
  
  You can contro anything from a jeep to a destroyer. There area wide selection of maps including 
 el alamin midway and berlin as 3 examples.
  
  If ur not going to go play online then ur going to miss the best part of the game. Online is a 
 blast and is quite addicting being dedicated to game over time will make u very good at say for 
 example helicopters and this will give u a well rewarded edge i personally got very very good at 
 the jets.
  
  The graphics do their job decently the sound is decent and the game overall is solid mulitplayer 
 fun + all the mods there are for it these days
  
  bf 1942 in its day was the prenium online game for its style of play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simins4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  If you dont own this game, git it, it only costs $10, this game is a clasic, not as clasic as Half-life 
 or DOOM, but it is still amasing and fun to play. It lets you do whatever you want. want to snipe, 
 SNIPE. Want to fly plains? fly B-72's. want to battle for normindy, do that in 1/1000 of the time. 
 there is no story, jut you fighting other people. there are some miner downsides, one is that the 
 AI in the game is weack, easy is set on retartid, and hard is easy. but multiplayer makes up for 
 it. this is a solid and fun game with a strong mod comunity. I know it is revilutionar becase i 
 am still playing it after its release sevril years later, altho i still play battlefield 2 and 
 veitnom.
  
  Buy the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boomer195
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 16, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is one of the best multi-player games I have ever played. Even though campaign 
 mode wasnt all that great, playing on-line makes up for it. 
  In the game you can play as the Americans, British, Russians or Germans. You also can be four different 
 characters. You can be a Scout, Assault, Anti-Tank, Medic, or an Engineer. A Scout is your sniper 
 he can snipe people out or he can use his binoculars and call for artillery which is a good way 
 to take out armoured vehicles. An Assault is like your leader. He has a heavy machine gun. A Anti-Tank 
 is what its name is. A person who carries a bazooka to take out tanks or other vehicles. A Medic 
 is the person who heal your teammates. Although his main role is to heal your team his submachine 
 gun is a very nice way to take out enemies. Now the Engineer. The Engineer has many purposes. He 
 can lay or disarm mines also he can blow up or repair vehicles. Even though his rifle does not 
 have a good rate of fire it has good range and precision. An Engineer can be offensive or defensive. 
 In the game you can also pilot a variety of vehicles, like tanks, jeeps, half tracks, planes, and 
 ships.
  In Campaign mode there are two different game types you can run into. There is Conquest or Assault. 
 Conquest is when you have two teams that have roughly the same amount of soldiers and there are 
 multiple flags on the map, that start off neutral except for two that are bases for both teams 
 which cant be taken. The object is to control as many flags as you can and to make your opponents 
 soldiers reach zero. If you have more flags then your opponent or if you kill a soldier there number 
 of soldiers decrease and vice versa. You win the game until your opponent reaches zero. Assault 
 is where you have and a offensive team and a defensive. It shares same similarities as Conquest 
 except for a couple differences. In Assault the defensive team has all the flags at the start of 
 the game and the offensive team has more soldiers. The offencive team continues to lose soldiers 
 until they have captured one the enemies flags but if they capture them all the automatically win. 
 There is only one base and the offensive team has it.
  On-line has additional game types. It has CO-OP, Team Death Match, and Capture the flag but you 
 can still play Conquest or Assault. CO-OP is where you can get your buddies and play Campaign mode 
 with the AI. Team Death Match is where you kill your opponents while you try not to get killed. 
 Capture the flag is where the two teams go to the opponents base and take the flag and bring it 
 back to there base but you can only score if your flag has not been taken. If your flag has been 
 taken you can kill the flag holder and he will drop the flag, touch it and it will go back to your 
 base. AssConquest and ault have the same rules as in Campaign.
  Battlefield 1942 is one of the best games I have ever played and its great fun if you like killing 
 noobs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  The one and only classic from 2002: Battlefield 1942 literally needs no introduction! From the 
 deserts of North Africa to urban battlefields of Stalingrad and Berlin 1945, you and your internet 
 comrades take off in your P-51's or Shermans against Panzer III's and Japanese Zero's. 
  
  Replay value is at a maximum because of the HUGE catalog of user made mods out there! Of course, 
 DESERT COMBAT was the only huge mod that became a worldwide phenomenon in its own right! It took 
 another BF game (Battlefield 2) to almost practically take down the DC juggernaut that it was! 
 The community for that game has dwindled but I doubt that it is considered "dead" in any way.
 
  
  Back to BF:1942, you play as either the US Army, UK, Soviet Union, Nazi Germany, The Empire of 
 Japan, and in later expansions, Italy and the Free French. Jump into a tank and roll over enemy 
 infantry. Jump into a fighter plane and strafe a column of enemy. Heck, they even had a submarine 
 you could steer but I for the life of me never even saw that! This all made for a wild and whooly 
 online experience and HOURS of fun! 
  
  Sounds were dead on-Rumbling of a Heavy Tiger I tank and your speakers were BOOMING! Explosions 
 galore knocked a man out of his seat! The models for the vehicles were accurate and all had real 
 weight to them, feeling like you were really driving one. Planes were agile and easy to fly, attacking 
 for me was another thing though! Lol
  
  All that can be said about this absolute Gem has probably been said over and over again. Needless 
 to say, a big monster was unleashed on the world the day this got released and we have never been 
 the same since then!
  
  Just plain fun, buy it!
  
  "Cut it out, ya PALOOKA!"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWEToryu
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 5, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  When the game come out year 2002 i had no idea how great this game should be. We had no idea what 
 future will give us but now it has happened many things in this BF series and later in this fall 
 maybe BF 2142 will come out well if it's on time but lets get back to BF 1942 there all thing begin...
 
  Before BF 1942 come out we had played games like Medal of Honor series, then we had Return to 
 Castle of Wolfenstein, Quake 2 and arena 3 then BF1942 change many things in the way of FPShooting 
 game and this time you can drive a tank, airplane, jeep, battleship, destroyer and etc, that we 
 could not do in Medal of honor. Then we can chose many different class of soldier those who wants 
 to be a sniper or medic or another type of soldier but something we did miss in that class a solder 
 who could give us ammo that had been fun, right? (Well in BF 2 you can do that!)
  Oh place some mines for jeep or another and see them blows up..
  I did like the airplane many 
 types of different airplane like bomb planes like B-17, Dive bombers, torpedo and fighter planes, 
 have a dogfight to awesome. The sound is really great indeed, graphics is also great, the gameplay 
 is also great. The control of keyboard is good to, when you fly is really hard but your learn fast 
 in that to, and other too..
  
  Then we have multiplayer is awesome i must say!!! Nothing more to say there!... 
  
  If you 
 like these kind of games of WW2 then you shall play it, then you shall think in this way to no 
 BF1942 no BF 2 ok..
  
  Enjoy!!!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocker500
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Story- 8/10: It's not really a story, but more of a re-creation of famous WWII battles, and I'd 
 say it does a pretty good job of doing that.
  
  Gameplay- 9/10: It's a lot of fun to get into a plane, or boat, or jeep, or tank, or something 
 of that nature, but some vehicles are malarkey compared to others, like the Howitzer and the Wespe 
 vs. a Panzer or a Sherman.
  
  Graphics- 7/10: I think they could've done a better job in this area with a little more polish.
 
  
  Sound- 8/10: Not the best, but it still captures that WWII feel; it's not like it sounds like a 
 toy gun or anything.
  
  Value- 10/10: Like I said, you'll probably spend over 100 hours playing this game. But that only 
 goes if you don't have BFV or BF2. Or, if you have those games, but you don't like them as much 
 as BF42. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyboy04343
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  OMG! This game is pure sweetness. Forget DOD, RTCW, MOHAA,. This is THE WW2 game. You get to drive 
 tanks, planes, ships, trucks, and it's all done perfectly and integrated seamlessly. I have never 
 seen a game that combines all these elements so perfectly. A blast! 
  
  Gameplay:
  I'm limiting this to the multiplayer as it is the one that counts. The game is team based (axis 
 and allies) and consists of taking and controlling control points (flags) . You can choose from 
 a number of classes including assault, scout (sniper) , medic, engineer. Each class has it's own 
 weapons loadout and several special abilities. For instance, engineers can lay mines and dynamite 
 charges and can repair vehicles. My only real complaint about the game is the lousy weapons that 
 infantry has. Especially the BAR for the allies Assault class. It is worthless and you will find 
 that most players will choose Medic instead as the Thompson is a much better weapon. But the real 
 jewel in this game is the vehicles anyway. This one of the only games I have ever seen that smoothly 
 integrates vehicles and 1st person shooter, as well as a great flight simulater into the game. 
 You will have a blast when you are in fligh. You can individually set up the controls for each 
 element of the game (infantry, flight, sea) and they dont interfere with each other. Also you can 
 maneuver ships and use their onboard artillery to batter enemy positions as well as using them 
 to launch landing craft for beach assaults. Also there are anti-aircraft batteries which can be 
 manned to battle enemy aircraft. The flight sim is full featured without being overly complicated. 
 You can choose pure fighters as well as torpedo bombers and dive bombers. Really, there is so much 
 to do in this game that the strategies are endless.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics a very nice and true to the era. As I mentioned above, I have never seen a game that 
 integrates flight sim, vehicles, and 1st person so seamlessly and smoothly. It is especially satisfying 
 to sink the ships as the sinking animation is very well done. So are the aircraft explosions when 
 you shoot them down. The engine has very nice graphics considering that this is mostly a multiplayer 
 game and bandwidth has to be a concern. They are not as good as some games but they are still awesome
 
  
  Sound:
  Sounds are very good and very true to the era. When you are flying and someone is firing an anti-arcraft 
 gun at you, you can hear the muffled bursts as they explode around you. The big guns on the battle 
 cruiser are especially satisfying as they actually sound big guns! The game works well with surround 
 sound and you are even able to here the direction of approaching aircraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  When Battlefield 1942 first came out it was advertised everywhere. I wasn't going to buy into the 
 hype and get the game because everyone else was playing it. We started playing it at LAN parties 
 and the demo map Wake Island was not too bad. I don't mind the old school weapons, but sometimes, 
 it's just annoying with how old some of the technology is. The vechiles are not too shabby and 
 the planes move like you'd expect a WWII plane to move. This being my one major gripe...... sloooooow. 
 
  
  Then along came a little known mod called Desert Combat. THIS right here is your primary reason 
 for owning BF1942. This mod is one of the best mods made for a PC game and it's no wonder the developers 
 were hired by DICE to work on upcoming versions of BF games.
  
  Flying modern vehicles, using modern weapons, and utilizing modern tactics is a blast. The graphics 
 are done quite well and the sound isn't too shabby either. Gameplay is easy and LAN parties become 
 highly addictive for this game. We've been playing it for 3 years now and it never gets old to 
 some.
  
  Hats off to one of the first games to successfully integrate vehicle based combat into a game and 
 doing it right the first time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: girik9
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  Good:
  
  Wide and huge maps to play in
  Large Range of classes (infantry)
  Lots of airplanes and tanks to use
  Up to 32 players on-line
  Good stats tracking
  Low system 
 requirements
  Good depth of stratergy to an FPS game
  Controls are tight and responsive
  
  Bad:
  
  Don't even try the single-player
  AI bots are terrible
  Not really a lot of 
 in-game tactics
  Weapons are a bit unbalanced
  
  OVERALL: This is a very enjoyable game. The multiplayer is top-notch, and easily puts it on par 
 with the more recent Battlefield titles. If you computer cannot run the bug-infested Battlefield 
 2, then BF 1942 is an excellent budget option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewiegriffin78
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  EA has had good games and bad games. Sometimes, i just want to slap them, and other times, I am 
 very impressed. This game falls under the impressive category. The gameplay is great, the graphics 
 are great, the sound is great.... basically, everything is great. The single player mode may be 
 one of the very few not so great things about this game.
  
  Gameplay: If you haven't ever played a first person shooter, you have issues (or your Jack Thompson, 
 Hilary Clinton, or that Lieberman dude) . As with most first WW2 first person shooters, you are 
 put into the first person mode, with only a few weapons, and unlike most WW2 FPS, you don't get 
 much health. The damage model in the game is very accurate. Get shot five times, and you are probably 
 dead. The game has an interesting twist by letting you choose where you want to spawn, and what 
 class you want to spawn as (medic, engineer, scout.....) . Now, you can't spawn anywhere, you can 
 only spawn on your teams flags. Flags are basically camps which you can capture. At the top of 
 your screen you have a ticket counter. This counter shows how many reinforcements you have left. 
 Anytime someone on your team dies, you lose a point. If your opponent controlsall or most of the 
 flags on the map, your team starts losing reinforcements automatically. The multiplayer in the 
 game is great, with up to 64 people playing. It can be laggy when you first enter the battle, but 
 the lag usually goes away. The game also supports Punkbuster, which takes care of those jerks who 
 are racist/sexist/total douchebags, and kicks them. It sometimes isn't turned on, though, so you 
 probably will run into an @$$ sometime or another. All in all, the muliplayer rules. However, the 
 single player isn't that great. It has you fighting on two fronts, trying to win WW2. The problem 
 is that the bots are just too easy to kill, even on their hardest setting. Due to a lackluster 
 multiplayer, I give the Gameplay an 8.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in the game are great. The vehicles, planes, infantry, bascically everything 
 looks good. The enviroments are varied, and all look good as well. I give the Graphics a 9.
  
  Sound: I have one problem with the sound, and that is that there is no music during battle. 
 I love playing to music, and from what little music i do hear, I feel that EA could've done much 
 better. However, the weapons sound like real weapons, and nothing sounds better than hearing your 
 bomber sending little packages of death to Earth with a whistling sound, followed by a BOOM! I 
 give the Sound a 9.
  
  Value: Well, you don't get much value from a FPS like this. Other than the fact that yoou get tons 
 of multiplayer maps, and the fact that the gameplay is very addictive and solid enough to keep 
 you amused, you wouldn't be coming back. I give the Value an 8.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I love FPS. They are in my blood. I have to give this one a 10 from the Reviewer's 
 Tilt.
  
  Simply put, this game is great. Plus, you can pick it up for only twenty dollars. not too much 
 to ask, is it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HioMyMan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game, is really so much fun.. i bought it maybe year ago? and i still have alot of 
 fun even a year later, with the 2nd one out (that my computer will never run) .
  
  The story really isnt much of anything at all, you ethier pick the allies or axis, and then battle 
 until you beat the game... which doesnt take very long, and not to mention its pretty easy.
  
  The graphics are good, they arent amazing or anything, but theyre good.. (the game did come 
 out in what, 2002?) they get the job done as they are.
  
  Multiplayer is where its at, the greatest part about the game.. the main part of the game IMO. 
 Theres a few different classes to choose from, sniping is fun but takes a bit to get the hang of 
 it. Sometimes the servers lag like crazy, and there isnt really as much people playing it since 
 BF2 is out, but theres still a good amount of people around. Also, the difficulty deffently varies 
 online, you could do good one game, then do terrible the next. 
  
  Overall the game is great, its alot of fun, and probably everyone has it by now so there isnt much 
 to say like.. go out and buy it or stuff. I enjoy it, its alot of fun even though, it takes way 
 to long to load.. way to long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 manages to capture aspects of the World War II era and combine them with excellent 
 fast-paced action. The gameplay, centered primarily around capturing flags (spawn points) , allows 
 for fighting on foot, tread, sea, or air. Each map tries to center around actual World War II locations, 
 including beach assaults, air battles, and naval tactics. The mechanics are fairly solid and consistent; 
 if you shoot first, you usually win. The polygon counts can get fairly high, so many of the maps 
 are very open, with a tree here or there. There are a few exploits that may or may not have been 
 fixed, such as parachuting from buildings, entering a plane that is already in flight (saw a guy 
 enter the 2nd seat of a plane zipping by him at the top of a hill) , etc, but none of them deter 
 gameplay much. EA took a long time to get the game to the point where it was viably stable, so 
 be sure you have the latest update installed for the game. The graphics engine has some limitations, 
 yet is textured beautifully. The designers did a great job of utilizing the engine's abilities. 
 I was blown away when I first walked up to the fighter planes and saw the detail on the shell! 
 The game also plays well with multiple levels of FSAA and AF, with only a few issues with text 
 corruption. The audio lends to a greater level of enjoyment, supporting surround features and large 
 numbers of channels. You hear bullets ricocheting off armor, shots whizzing by your head, creaking 
 and screeching of tanks as they thunder by, and bomb whistles as they plummet from above. You MUST 
 play this game with surround sound at least once! If you do not have this game, it is STILL worth 
 a pickup. It is a best value for those who have machines that cannot run some of the latest games, 
 as you will still get a GREAT treat in this package. There are two expansions, Road To Rome, and 
 Secret Weapons, so you should have plenty of levels and vehicles to wage war in. Be sure to check 
 the RECOMMENDED specs before purchasing; the minimum specs really should be ignored. If you match 
 close to the recommended specs, then spend the $30 or so for the packaged collection set and get 
 going. There are MANY players still online to get into dogfights with, and the single player has 
 many missions to keep you busy for a while. At this writing, I already own Battlefield Vietnam. 
 I STILL go back and play 1942 from time to time. There is a free mod (add-on) planned by EA that 
 will introduce some WWII content into BFV, but it will remain to be seen if it will eclipse the 
 control and speed of 1942. Like I said, lower-end machines that match the specs for 1942 should 
 pick it up for a GREAT value. I played this game for MONTHS, and never got tired of it. As the 
 product stands, I appreciate features of it better than its sequel, judging the sequel by this 
 game as a standard. Have fun, and remember not to get angry if you are the Allies on Omaha Beach. 
 
  
  Cover Artwork ~B~ Action packed cover with an army dude. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phragit
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  The title says it all this game stole my life, or approximately 400 hours of it, I wasted my time 
 learning the ins and out of the game.
  
  First the gameplay, why I loved this in the first place, the only thing bad in this category is 
 balance, I'm a man that love infantry, I don't play in the tanks, that take a tole on me. Infantry 
 vs. infantry is stellar, plane vs. plane again stellar, tank vs. tank stellar. But this creates 
 a rock, paper, scissors effect, or would if Axis weapons wearn't so much better than their allied 
 counterparts.
  20/10
  
  Graphics, still beautiful.
  8/10
  
  AI: dont ask, their is a reason its only played online.
  5/10
  
  online play: Occasional 
 hackers, but not like in Call of Duty or other popular online games, and 64 man servers are great, 
 many are fast too, but hard on people with slow connections and no built in headphone speech.
 
  9/10
  
  Overall: Their is a reason this game was my life for a year, addictive as hell and now only $30 
 with road to roam, SWOWWII, and Vietnam.
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leelee_rocks
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  First person shooters don't come in a much better form than in the battlefield series and in this 
 worthy part of the series, you fight alongside several armies in many famous battles in world war 
 2. Battles include the battle for midway, the highly popular wake island, omaha beach, stalingrad 
 and many more. 
  
  This is the first game i got in the battlefield series and i just love it. It is unique from all 
 other world war 2 fps's because you fight along side an army not as a super soldier who takes on 
 the whole nazy army by himself but as a normal human being who can die just as easily as everyone 
 else but the lovely thing is when you die... you just don't care!!! just respwn and hit them back 
 harder than they hit you! 
  
  The only critisisms i have of it is that the game loading times are too long and you can't sprint 
 any faster than your normal running is.
  
  other than that, it's incredible!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whgresiak
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is EA's pride and joy on the PC. Even with it's Sequel now out. The original is 
 still nothing to overlook, especially if you're on a budget. Set back in WWII you can play as any 
 of the major players in the war. (Germany, Japan, US, Britain, and Russia) You attempt to capture 
 and hold spawnpoints and where down the enemy re-enforcements to nothing. The great part about 
 this game is all the vehicles. If it moves, you can drive it and use it to attack the enemy. The 
 multiplayer has a huge community where you can get down and dirty with players from all over the 
 world. This is certainly a great game and now down below $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerzrulez
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  GET THIS GAME NOW because it is really ADDICTING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! The gameplay is SWEET!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 You get to go to maps/battles that had been fought in WW2. This game is like Day of Defeat but 
 this game is way better!!!!! The graphics in this game are amazing and highly detailed. The envionments 
 are highly detailed and colorful. The sound is really amazing from the weapon sounds to the commands 
 and music. The value of this game will keep you playing for a long time. Plus this game has online 
 so you can play with your friends or with other people. I really recommmend you get this game  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: currenti
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  ah man this game is so great.. there really isnt much to it but fighting... actually thats all 
 there is. The storymode is just like 10 battles and you choose to be the axis (germany and japan) 
 or the allies ( american, british, and russia) and nothing special happens when you win or anything.. 
 its sort of a training until you play online mode. Online mode is really alot of fun and you can 
 hold up to like 64 people in one server. It deffently will make you mad after dieing alot.. much 
 like it did me. But now ive gotten better in it, and its so much fun. The grapics are pretty good, 
 but i guess they could be better.. oh well tho. A bad thing about this game is that it takes A 
 LONG time to load, and also sometimes when im looking for a game online ill click to go into it 
 and it will say the game is full even when it isnt. weird. Deffently buy this game, if you havent 
 already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoBBy_NiGhTmArE
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  good/not to bad this game is good but dead compared to other battlefield games. The battlefield 
 series hold some of the best games on pc. But 1942 the first one is still a good game but the Graphics 
 are crap compared to battlefield 2. i haven't played battlefield 2 because of my Graphics card 
 but i have seen people playing it and have looked it up.1942 is mainly a online game it has capain 
 and bots but online is the main part. I recommend it to people who can not play battlefield 2 or 
 get battlefield Vietnam. I am a first person shooter fan and when i played this it was a game i 
 was not going to stop playing but before u get it try it out like from a friend because this game 
 will not be favourites for all people so like all games try it out first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a great war online game. I mean choosing what soldier to be like a medic, engineer, 
 assault, scout, etc. And that you can ride vehicles, planes and turrets. And you can explore the 
 huge environments that the people actually fought in WWII. It's an awesome experience for multiplayer, 
 you would really enjoy it. Because if you tried single player, it is not fun really. Because the 
 A. I. is so retarded. You can jsut sit in front of one of computers playing against you and they 
 won't even shoot. They would just lay on the ground for 5 min until they shoot. Battlefield 1942 
 lets you choose from all sort of teams like the germans, US, japanese, russians, france and italy. 
 They each have different weapons and tanks. Whcih makes the game a little more interesting. But 
 if you have like 32 players playing on a map then that's when it comes to the fun part. It gets 
 really intense in the game so find a server with lots of people because it a heck a lot of fun. 
 So if you have internet, the game is great. If you don't then don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoothrj
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  this game is an awesome game. i got this game when it was released and im still playing it! i love 
 the radio system and the artillery strikes and the state of the art vehicles and weapons you can 
 use that took place in WWII.
  the AI in this game is kinda crappy, when u tell ur team commands in single player they just sit 
 there. thats why everyone plays multiplayer most of the time. this game is soo awesome. cant wait 
 to get bf2. this gaem is pure o o o o o o o o o w w w w w n n n n n n a a a a a a g g g g gg g 
 g e e e e e !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghost22
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 15, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I first bought Battlefield 1942 about 2 or 3 years ago after obtaining the demo in a CD from PC 
 Gamer. I got hooked on the demo and played it for awhile before actually buying the game.
  
  I had terrible lag at first because I played on Dial Up but that was fixed after I upgraded 
 to DSL. After that, I upgraded my video card which made the game much better.
  
  When I first started playing, I would play the Single Player mode because of my Dial Up. This is 
 about the worst part of Battlefield 1942. The bots in SP are terribly stupid and it's pretty pointless 
 playing against them. But that's not where the game shines. The multiplayer part is the best.
 
  
  It is great being in a large server with battles going on everywhere. Tanks firing at each other, 
 airplanes bombing bases, and also infantry battles. If you want to fly, grab a plane. If you want 
 to be in a tank, get in a tank. If you want to sail around in a ship, get in a destroyer. There 
 is something for everyone in this game.
  
  There is also a large selection of mods avaliable. If you do not like WW2, then maybe you would 
 like Desert Combat. It changes the game to more like modern combat during Gulf War. There are hundreds 
 more mods to choose from if you wish also.
  
  All this kept me hooked to the game for years. Since the release of BF2, the numbers of players 
 in BF42 servers has gone down but there are still alot of people playing the game still and I think 
 there will be for at least a year to come or probably more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russian8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is the same as all the other battlefields which were masterpieces and so realistic it 
 was actually hard at times.
  the graphics are surprisingly worse then battlefield 2 even though if you think the release dates 
 weren't that far apart from each other for such a dramatically good change like you see. I am not 
 saying it has bad graphics but they are good at the time and still here today.
  the gameplay is the same as any other shooter so not much difference but some how battlefield always 
 seem to make the basics seem even more revolutionized.
  the sound put into this game is also extraordinary with so much detail they must go out of there 
 way to make it great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3po8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 9, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in battlefield 1942 are amazing and the sound really fits with what you are seeing. 
 The music is very enjoyable but not very frequent in game. Even by today's standards, this game 
 can easily compare in graphics to games like call of duty 2 or battlefield 2.
  The game play is very laid back and enjoyable. Death in frequent but not brutal, and the style 
 of game play allows error, but you must try, to succeed. The on line portion is entertaining, but 
 not as good as in battlefield 2. Only the top players are still playing 1942 on line though, so 
 it can be a bit frustrating. Some gamers, who are only concerned with screwing around, are still 
 playing too, which adds to the frustration.
  The game really has no story, but the missions are never the same, and the maps are huge, and this 
 all adds up to make a game that will fulfill hundreds of hours of gaming.
  All aspects of the game really add up to make and almost perfect game. The game is short, but the 
 replay value is extraordinary. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 31, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a blast directly from the past. It is a very fun fighting game that puts players 
 directyl into the battlefield where the chaos is the main part of the fun. The online play allows 
 players from all over the world to interact with each other when they go head to head with each 
 other on the battlefield, shooting at each other to no end. From these amazing capabilities people 
 can easily compare this game in a way over to the Counter Strike series of games where players 
 run through highly specialized battlefields where they compete with each other for domination. 
 All aspects from the world wars are all implemented straight into this game which in a way can 
 be considered as an indirect history book. Within the game you can easily respawn instantly after 
 you have been elliminated you won't have to wait in order to get back into the action all over 
 again. For anyone who wants to have a fun time interacting with other people while slaughtering 
 people left and right with high powered weapons, this would definately have to be the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackOpsAce
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 30, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This game has something for everyone! The aircraft are realistic, tanks, everything!
  
  It isnt like Halo because you actually are like a person! You die very quickly and you spawn after 
 some time. It is very accurate and extreamly fun.
  
  I bought it the day it came out and years later im STILL PLAYING IT!!!!!!!!!!!!
  it is very hard 
 to get bored of and online there is always something to do!
  64 player max per game is a LOT for its time and stil is!
  You get better every day, flying is 
 one of the big things that takes a while to learn while you play and its REALLY FUN because you 
 start doing better manuvers and it makes it even funner.
  
  it is a MUST HAVE for people who like FPSs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chapski
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 30, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  The campaigns are pretty good. With lots of battles and maps before Berlin is yours (or the enemy's 
 depending on your preference) , this game will keep you occupied for a while. The easy levels are 
 pretty much a joke with AI laying in the middle of fields waiting for you to pick them off or even 
 go up and knife them if you are so inclined, but the harder difficulties can be quite fun and a 
 bit challenging. The best feature of this game has to be the online multiplayer gameplay. It's 
 just fun. You could get into it for hours helping allies, storming flags, and killing the enemy 
 as either infantry, anti-tank, a medic, a scout/sniper, or an engineer. The only setback might 
 be the unusually high number of not-so-nice players in the BF1942 community but just find one room 
 and a group of cool guys and you'll have hours upon hours of fun that'll keep you coming back for 
 years of play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Intro: BF1942 is just one of thosegames that as soon as you start playing it you know it will stand 
 the test of time. It is a very interesting and involving shooter that if you couldn't guess by 
 the title is set around World War 2. This game follows some of the majorbattles of the war and 
 you can play as Axis or Allied (or more specifically England, America, Japan, Russia, Germany) . 
 Each round you play involves a fierce battle between these two sides, but what will the outcome 
 be?
  
  Graphics 9/10:
  The graphics have been extremely well done. The character models are all very nice, if a little 
 plain and all animations flow nicely. Vehichles are likewise, all ver well done, but still maybe 
 a little plain. Scenery really pciks it up though and really fits well with the environment you 
 are in and the part of the world you are in.
  
  Gameplay 10/10:
  Gameplay in battlefield is really its best asset, which is a good thing. There are three modes 
 in BF1942: Campaign, Multiplayer, Instant Battle. The campaign is the one player mode and will 
 take you through many maps on each side of the war (Allied and Axis) and you must complete each 
 map, you can also set the difficulty level which just increases the enmies on the opposing team 
 and decreseases friends on yours. The one player campaign will take you quite some time, but its 
 also fun to go through and play again to beat your scores.
  Each round works very simply. There are many flags set over the map (more or less on some) the 
 idea is ou need to go capture those flags. You do that by getting over to them and standing next 
 to them until you take control of it. Whoever controls the mjaority of the map will make the opponents 
 tickets run down. Tickets are up in the top right hand corner of the screen and if a teams tickets 
 reach 0, they lose.
  Multplayer allows you to player over LAN or over the net, you can easily just pick a server and 
 jump in and join the game. Instand Battle is very similiar except it is 1 player. You can pick 
 your map, how many bots you want, what ifficulty level, what map etc. its just a single battle 
 (although you can set more) .
  
  Sound 8/10:
  Sound effects are great and really pull the sound up in the game, from gun shots to Aeroplane engines 
 they realy are great and very lifelike, except maybe for screams when you die, they're a little, 
 well not right, but thats probably a good thing. Background music, whilenot overly nescessary in 
 a shooter is good to set the feeling of the map and there is virtually no background music in this 
 game.
  
  Replay Value 9/10:
  Well it will take a while to complete the campaign, but you'll want to play it at the very least 
 once more through to improve yourself or on a harder difficulty. Then you have instant ballte to 
 test yourself on and after that you can go play multiplayerto your hearts content! Also, there 
 are plenty of downloadable maps off the net so theres alays new ones to try! You could also download 
 the official map editor and make your own for you and your friends to play! So theres plenty to 
 keep you going with!
  
  Conclusion 9.2/10:
  BF1942 is a great game and you definetly need to get it if you haven't yet. Even if your note a 
 shooter fan (i'm not) you'll still greately enjoy this game. It features a heap of maps to try 
 out stuff on and some great vehichles such as tanks and planes to go around in. Multiplayer is 
 great over the next and theres plenty to do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CAPITANMORGAN
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 27, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most INTENSE games on the market. Theres really not much more to say ... cept 
 that its AWESOME!!. This game allows you to play alone... host a game on line.. host agame on line 
 with bots.. host a game on line with a buddy with or without bots!! ( for training purposes) . an 
 the mods.?.... OH GOD.. the MODS! Theres so many mods.. where can i start? This games MODS are like 
 a whole new game in it self. Now ive playd them all.. i got em all.. i got it all!.. yesterday 
 my buddy can over an we played SECRET WEAPONS OF WORLD WAR II.. now i know every spot every map 
 every med cabin ever SPAWN POINT .. i even know the back ways in. My buddy was amazed at SWofWWII. 
 said it was like a whole new game.. i told em he aint seen nuffn yet. Sometimes alone we play the 
 DC mod. hes getting good you know. I might have to PROMOTE EM. You might wanna come checkout MY 
 GAME ROOM. we dont cheat.. we dont change spawn points we dotn HOLD BACK VEHICLES, we dont ping 
 or GLITCH.. using such codes cheats or hacks. only shows LACK OF GAME SKILL. OUR game room is lockd 
 so if you want the pass word, email me.. ASTRIANO.. at aol.. dot... com. EVERY friday i toss a LAN 
 PARTY. know what today is...:)
  
  HAPPY FRAGGN gamers
  
  AREA 51
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Monkdawg91
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 18, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Holy crap!!! This game is a heaping pile of garbage!!! I'll tell you why!
  Its so freakin slow and buggy whilst my pc runs cod and halflife2 and everything else smoothly.
 
  
  That's just the first of it. The A. I. is so poor. All the npcs are good at is laying prone on the 
 floor and sniping. It takes like 5 minutes for them to discover you while your right up in their 
 face.
  
  Ok, i know this is mainly a mp game, which at itsself is pretty soild. The big maps and lots of vehicles 
 are the two reedeeming factors.
  
  But it's marred severely by all the freakin technical problems.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Changhyuk
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 15, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I bought 2 copies of this and both of them didnt work on mutiplayer. I download the patch and all 
 but didnt work. I got it free so no worrys. I played the single player but the graphic is crap. 
 Maybe it is beucase it is a old game but still i hate this one. I have battlefield2 and that kicks 
 ass 100%. Dont get thsi game get the battlefield2. There is no story line so yea, dont worry about 
 missing the older verison. I hate this game period EA can suck my balls. : D E on my right ball 
 and A on my left ball. owned. Anyways. yea. crap game dont even spend ur money on this crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirian808
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 9/10
  There are five skills to choose from when you're respawning: Assault, Anti-Tank, Scout, Medic, 
 and Engineer. Assault is outfitted with a hard-hitting but innaccurate automatic, Anti-Tank gets 
 a bazooka, Scout is basically a sniper, Medic gets a more accurate but less powerful automatic 
 and the ability to heal your comrades, and Engineer gets a powerful single-shot rifle and the ability 
 to repair any kind of vehicle. There are quite a few maps to choose from, all of which are very 
 different. There are planes, boats, cars, turrets, anti-aircraft guns, you name it. Also, the single-player 
 campaign adds to the experience also. The whole game is then wrapped up in an arcade feel when 
 you have throw in respawn times. Also, the online multiplayer, though demonically hard, is pretty 
 fun.
  
  GRAPHICS: 7/10
  Everything looks great except for the people. Computer enemies will sometimes be seen pointing 
 a turret gun to their left and looking to their right. All of the people basicallt look exactly 
 the same. However, landscapes and weapons look beautiful.
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  Music is good, sound effects are great, voices are fairly good too. The only bad thing are the 
 irritating sounds soldiers make when you kill them. So annoying...
  
  VALUE: 9/10
  There is defininetly a lot of replay value here, what with all the levels and the online multiplayer. 
 You will be hooked for quite some time, unless you're one of the odd folks who think that this 
 game isn't very exciting.
  
  TILT: 8/10
  I applaud EA for their obvious effort on this one, Dice too. Very nice job on the entire project. 
 If you like WWII shooters, this is one worth looking at, or at the very least downloading the demo 
 of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qubit101
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 13, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is for just some unknown reason fun. You can choose from different kits, for example, 
 a medic, the medic has a sub machine gun, or assault, the assault kit always includes a high calibar 
 weapon, like a bar or a stg44. You can man any weapon or vehicle you encounter, a tank, a jeep, 
 an airplane, an aa gun or another mounted weapon. you can steal the enemys vehicles. You can even 
 make you own little plan For example, I set a crap load of explosives and anti tank mines on a 
 bridge, the only way for the enemy to get to us, got in a building and waited. the multiplayer 
 is great and the players when you report an enemy vehicle, or call for artillary. The best part 
 about the game is the multipayer. The sounds in the game suck but can be improved by downloading 
 mods or the official patches. like I said Its's just for some reason,  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnoutx1985
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  With the influx of games such as Medal of Honor, Return to Castle Wolfenstein, and Call of Duty, 
 World War II themed games have become increasingly popular amongst gaming publishers. Sometimes 
 it can be confusing then, to discern the differences between all of those games. Somehow though, 
 Battlefield 1942 manages to successfully create its own niche, separating itself from the crowd 
 of FPS games by establishing its own kind of ambience. Turn out the lights, crank up the volume, 
 and give yourself as little distraction as possible; you will quickly find yourself tensing with 
 a bit of an adrenaline rush as you strive to capture the next control point, or worrying about 
 being the victim of sniper fire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Battlefield game adn i bought the complete pack. The Gameplay in this game is 
 great you can almost custimize your AI settings and the world is sharp enoguh to fit your standards, 
 the airplanes controls are a bit tough at first but as you go along you will master the controls, 
 in this game it's either you know or don't their is no in between.
  
  Sound in this game is great you can send orders by pushing one of the F1, F2, F3 etc keys, I havn't 
 tried the online play in this game though, so i'm not sure if their is a microphone talk way.
 
  
  Let me continue with the controls, as i said trying to fly an airplane is tough, but ground and 
 veichle are the same controls just the tank and the APC controls are not sensitive enough like 
 Battlefield 2. 
  
  Battlefield and FPS fans must have. Like i said "The game that started it all." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt5thboard
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 9, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Well, for those who played other WWII FPS, this one is quite different. Well, you start of in your 
 own based on a grid map. What you do is capture other bases and fight until either 1 side's tickets 
 reaches zero. You can also choose which side your are playing (US, UK, Germans or Japanese) . You will 
 fight in many famous battle locations like Stalingrad, Midway and the most famous of all, Omaha Beach. You 
 can ,man MG, AA Guns, Planes, Boats, Tanks, Jeeps and APC's.
  
  Well, for the verdict, the gameplay is overall not that linear as other first person shooters. The 
 guns reloading system is not impressive because they count by clipping. So if you reloading when 
 you clip is half empty, there goes the half empty bullets. Graphics are decent but the characters 
 face really looks funny, especially the eyes (Don't believe me go to your teammate and see their 
 face. The sound is surprisingly very boring and uninteresting. A. I. in this game, I wonder if they 
 just finished nursery man, you can see them walk past you without killing you.
  
  Well, after this review I'm gonna see if the expansion pack does give improvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rammstein91
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  In conclusion if you just like a fast and easy pace game, this is for you. Personally, I was disappointed 
 with the weapon. All Allies have the same weapon, so is the Axis and Japanese. Later patches brought 
 M1 Garand to American, a new model machine gun for Russian and Japan, a new medic machine gun for 
 both Russian and Japanese. But M1 Garand are only usable in Pacific Theatre only, which is the 
 battles between USA and Japan. Rest of the time the American have Lee Enfield, a British rifle. 
 But beside the weapon, vehicle are quickly learn, beside plane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaeljetfire
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS A MUST FOR FIRST PERSON SHOOTER FANS, OR THE PEOPLE WHO LIKE WAR GAMES... THE WHOLE 
 SERIES IS A MUST FOR FANS OF GAMES LIKE THAT!!! well... for a start this game has got it all, guns, 
 nades, shanking, rockets, and thats not all... you get to fly many diffrent types of planes, control 
 a lot of land vehicles, and control boats and have sea warfare with submarines. this game has everything 
 a fps fan could ever ask for... unless they want a sci-fi shooter... but anyway... this game shows 
 all the fun for warfare for online gaming... this game i have to admit does have some lag on most 
 servers... but its not as bad as you might think... i mean the whole game still manages to run 
 faster than other games these days... its still amazing... and the graphics are top-notch for a 
 game like this... its simply amazing... this game is perfect for that person in your family who 
 can only think of war and explosions. so pick this one up and be prepared to be amazed by the warfare 
 in Battlefield 1942! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaulyNorth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Even tho its old it never bores me. easily THE best WW2 game ive ever played. There isnt too much 
 to the story mode at all.. just repetitive battles but all are great. I few of my friends and i 
 used to play it online.. but theyve stoped and i am the only one left playing it.. and have got 
 pretty good at sniping. Its really fun. Multiplayer is the highlight of this game.. its insane... 
 you can have up too like 50 in one server all together and its really fun. Also online they have 
 newer maps and stuff like that, that you cant play in storymode. Not as many people play it cause 
 of BF2.. but there is still alot of people who do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Only played the first three levels, if you have a joystick, a steering wheel, and a mouse and keyboard, 
 or joypad, you could have fun with all the fancy gear in your hands.
  
  You are a solider attacking the other team, hop in to a car, and use your steering wheel to drive 
 the car or truck.
  
  Fancy flying an aircraft, grab hold of your joystick and take flight.
  
  Anything else , like 
 speed boat, can be operated by joypad.
  
  Depends how bad you want to have fun with this game.
  
  You could just play the game with keyboard 
 and mouse, but i would be lieing if i was not to tell you that my idea of fun is plugging in all 
 the other USB deives and having a ball with this game.
  
  But got killed to many times as the configurations are abit slow or sentive and are more like to 
 die quicker in the game.
  
  The game method is up to you.
  I just find it more fun and more interactive with games with all the contollers plugged in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  unlike other WWII fps games such as call of duty, medal of honour and all the others which have 
 been obscured by the big runners, i think this is the most accurate of them all. ok, the whole 
 game is based around taking flags from the enemy but it is simply so much bloomin fun!
  i have MOH rising sun and i hate the fact that you basically destroy the whole of the japanese 
 army all on your own, firstly, its boring and secondly the realism is minimal. in this game however, 
 you die easier, but so do they, and when you do, who cares, you can respawn as a different class 
 if you want, for instance, your an assaault guy and all you have is a tompson, all of a sudden 
 a german tiger tank comes rolling along and loads a 14lb shell into your face, not to worry, you 
 respawn as an anti-tank guy and blasst em to bit until you iehter take all their flags or get their 
 "tickets" (or lives) down to zero, you really never get bored of this, especia; llsy as you can 
 defend omaha beach with nothing but a sniper and a few frags, its great. and with the option of 
 paying as either axis or allies you can play the same maps onm each team.
  the graphics are also decent, the gamplay is beautiful and the idea is rtevolutionary, so go and 
 buy this game now cos it owns, especially online too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: absintheguy818
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  The fact you can play as the germans , makes this better then medal of hornor, or all other games, 
 its a bit hard to learn as far as being able to last 5 seconds in a online match. Flying the many 
 aircraft you can be is esp hard to master but you can be a tank and survive a bit longer. This 
 game is just plain fun and theres no blocky or square graffics. The many mods make this getting 
 10 diffrent games, from ww2 to nam to desert storm. This game is a def. calssic.
  Dont spend the money t ger bf2, this is just about the same, and with the desert mod it can be 
 almost exactly the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andoZo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 3:33 am PT
Review:  Yeah... yeah.... where should I start.... First of all I want to say that BF1942 has a very, very 
 good multiplayer-mode!!! The singelplayer is not much to talk about. On multiplayer you can play 
 up to 64 player!!!! Something else that is really cool on BF1942 is the many mods that have been 
 made! Some of the coolest is Desert Combat and Galactic Conquest! The first one is a now-time version 
 and the second is a starwars-version! BF 1942 have very many maps to play on, and it's possible 
 to download many more! 
  
  I also mean that this is the best Battlefield game ever made! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlashyHit14
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 for me is the best online shooter. With it's great gameplay and authentic vehicles. 
 And of course you can get in the vehicles and shoot the crap out of the enemy. It has great online 
 gameplay but the AI for the single player is absolutely disgusting. They won't shoot you at all 
 even in difficult level. But the online just makes you forget about the terrible single player. 
 They great modifiications are also really good. This game never runs out of players! I love this 
 game and if you buy it you will love it to. Can't wait getting Battlefield 2!
  
  Great job EA for an astounding game that i will read forever and ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ma21212
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 17, 2005 3:09 pm PT
Review:  the idea of the game is kinda stupid but they make it fun in every way ... guns , tanks , planes 
 , jeeps etc. for the history buffs like me youll see many missions thats are true .... well their 
 all real missions ... any way you can do tons of stuff like you buddy could help set up a becon 
 and youd bomb it miels away in a destroyer or you could ride a boat like those in 
  D-Day and charge a beach or even bomb a place in air planes etc. .... this is a really good one 
 go get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer2core
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:06 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is another revolution in first person shooter. Unlike previous first person shooters 
 this game focuses on team tactics BF1942 is the latest point of evolution for action games, but 
 to simply call it that would be unfair.
  
  
  Like many first person shooters released over the last few years, the emphasis has been moved from 
 single player heroics, to team tactics. While that may adequately describe BF1942, it still would 
 not be fair to stop there. What developer DICE has produced is a role-based, multiplayer, tactical 
 online shooter that you can play with 63 of your closest friends, all of which is packaged beautifully 
 on top of a historical backdrop that offers a wealth of interesting tactical situations.
  
  The result is a gaming experience so deep and entertaining, it should appeal to all action gamers, 
 from deathmatchers to the most cunning tacticians. While technical issues, historical inaccuracies, 
 and unit balance problems do exist, they do not stand in the game's way of becoming a landmark 
 title.
  
  **gamer2core** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echota
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  BattleField 1942 and all its add ons if a fantastic game. If you like open ground where you can 
 drive a tank or other combat vehicles this is it. You like to snipe.. this is open to do that without 
 being called a "Camper".. if they do, they just don't understand "COMBAT" and never been in it. 
 
  
  You can slip into the enemy camp, steal a tank, steal a plane or just set up a fire site and keep 
 at it until they take you out, if they can. if you like to "run and gun" this is also the place 
 to do it all. Take no prisioners, but capture a post and try to hold on to it, if you loose it, 
 take it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twinkie417
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2005 8:06 am PT
Review:  I have to give BF1942 a 10 on account of never having gotten more play time out of a game ever. 
 I have played this game almost daily for the past several years since I got it. The multiplayer 
 is great and the single player story isnt bad. The different classes are all cool, however the 
 medic pwns. The only thing that would make the classes better was if the anti-tank unit had like 
 a glock. Overall though it rules. The only complaint I have is that if you're playing against vehicles 
 and you're an infintry minded player, you're pretty much out of luck. Everyone should play battlefield.
 
  
  Love,
  [WSEC] Grimalkin
  na. bftracks. net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boberson
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2005 7:28 am PT
Review:  This game was defintly the next step to the next best first person shooters. It lets you do lots 
 of different things such as fly planes, helicopters, tanks, jeeps and choose different men to fight 
 as. The graphics are really good but if you have the graphics at the max setting and have the max 
 amount of bots you will get a lot of lag unless you have a really good pc. This game is all over 
 the internet and lots of people still play it. The single player mode is not really that good because 
 you just play the maps agasint bots and it does not have any storyline. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 2, 2005 6:42 am PT
Review:  I write my first review in Gamespot and I started it with Battlefield 1942. 
  Why I chose this game because I am really big fan of first person shooter, especially World War 
 2 shooters. 
  This genre of games is most developed and most recently wanted. And every year developers are present 
 to us new and incredible WW 2 shooters.
  
  Battlefield for its own gameplay and 2 expansion packs were kept me up for next WW 2 shooter. As 
 we know game has been released in 2002, I have got this game around April of 2005. Even after three 
 years it was one of the most enjoyable moments I have felt during game process. I really did enjoy 
 it. 
  
  By level game was more interesting and more affordable. Game environment was incredible close to 
 reality, textures and other aspects of game was more likable and playable. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 1, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a multiplayer game that centers on World War 2. As you can tell from its name, 
 its all about fighting on the battlefield. Absolutely huge battlefields that are so big that unless 
 you have a vehicle, forget about it. Battlefield 1942 is a wonderful game mainly due to its great 
 multiplayer factor and up to 64 players online. The downside is, unless you plan to go online, 
 you have to put up with the idiotic AI thats on the offline section. There pretty brainless and 
 really bring the game down.
  
  Battlefield 1942 is highly addictive. It is so much fun that you can be playing it for months and 
 months due to the amount of people you can have on each level. Theres about a dozen levels and 
 you can either be the Americans/British/Russians or the Germans. Which ever one you choose, you 
 will start with your squad and be thrown into battle. The big problem with Battlefield 1942 is 
 its so huge that you can be wondering around for a long time without seeing a single foe or even 
 an ally sometimes. The game is all about capture the flag, stand next to a flag for quite a while 
 and it will switch from the enemys flag to yours. As it switches to yours, you can now spawn there 
 if you die and as you get more than half of the flags you can then take the points. The more flags 
 you have, the more points you get. Some missions however want you to only control the 4 or so flags 
 and if you lose even one then you lose the points being taken off the enemys side. 
  
  Some of the maps are all about taking all of the enemys flags, such as the raid on Guatemala and 
 when you do this, you have a few flags that cant be taken, and these are circled in red with a 
 line going through it to cross it off so you cant take that flag. This means you have to defend 
 your territory until you win or the enemy takes all of your flags. Another type will have both 
 sides with 1 flag and then in the middle is 1 or 2. All of them can be taken and this is the most 
 popular type in Battlefield 1942.
  
  The coolest part about the game is the driving parts. You have lots and lots of different vehicles 
 at your disposal. From tanks to jeeps to even trucks that have a machine gun at the top, it all 
 works, although many times you will need multiple people to do all of this since you cant drive 
 and shoot at the same time. 
  
  This is the biggest problem and the main reason why you should go online and face other people. 
 The AI on both sides is not too good, no matter what difficulty you have it on. Your allies will 
 do such things as quickly jump into your van to be the machine gunner just to leave and start running 
 on foot. It makes absolutely no sense and really brings the game down. Sometimes they will just 
 wonder around and not do anything, making for a pretty frustrating play that makes you quickly 
 want to go online.
  
  Another problem is the lag. You can have some serious slowdown online, but offline the game seems 
 to run fairly smoothly. The more people you have and the size of your machine all affects this.
 
  
  Battlefield 1942 looks pretty good. Not superb though. All of the environments are fantastic, but 
 the character models and textures are really bland and somewhat blocky, still this isnt a game 
 youll play for graphics, this is a game youll play for gameplay.
  
  In Battlefield 1942 you choose between 6 different classes. All of them are unique but I highly 
 recommend that if youre just starting out, use the rocket launcher and medic classes. Both of 
 them are good because they can destroy tanks or heal people. The other classes include assault 
 which you get a big machine gun, sniper which you get a high class nipper rifle or the unique engineer 
 where you can fix tanks and such. If you havent figured it out, each class has their pros and 
 cons and they can all work together bringing out the multiplayer aspect of the game really well. 
 
  
  The sound in the game is ok. The main theme that plays for Battlefield 1942 is fun to listen to, 
 but the weapon sounds arent too much to brag about, the voice acting is ok, and overall the game 
 doesnt have any music while fighting, making moments where youre just by yourself somewhat quiet 
 and oddly boring, since this game is so much fun.
  
  The places you all fight in are battlefields that were in World War 2 such as the fight of Berlin. 
 Battlefields all across the Pacific and Europe can be found in this game and you play as each of 
 the 3 allied forces or the Germans and their weaponry is all different, but the classes are all 
 the same. So for the machine guns, the Americans will have the Thomson while the Germans have the 
 MP 40.
  
  The coolest part about the classes is whenever you die, you can pick up other persons weapons, 
 which he might be another class, when he dies his bag of equipment will fall and if it has a wrench 
 sign on it for instance, and you know its an engineer. Its things like this that makes the game 
 lots of fun so you arent picking up a random type of ammo and equipment. Sometimes you have to 
 use smart skills such as being an engineer, but your tank that was following you to the flag you 
 were going to take blew up. Your then low on health and you have to pick up the equipment the medic 
 you just killed had and use his items, you then have to go back and switch out your medic equipment 
 to your engineer equipment to fix the jeep that is taking heavy fire. Its moments like these that 
 make Battlefield 1942 so much fun and thats the main reason why I recommend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jking197
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:26 am PT
Review:  This is such an incredible game, I bought it recently (I know, i goto get up with the times) thinking 
 I should give it a shot even though it's fairly old, and was totaly amazed with the gameplay. I 
 mean, the stock levels pretty basic, but the mods i. e galactic conquest etc. are just extrodianary. 
 Eat your heart out Battlefield 2, the free mods are a must to enhance the gaming experience! 
 
  
  P. S. The system requirements are low (I can play it on my HP Pavilion with 64MB graphics, 30GB 
 HDDrive, 256MB RAM (shared) . However it features exemplary gameplay as mentioned earlier.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:28 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games ever created, intense action in singleplayer and multiplayer.... The 
 bots are really dumb... dont know much,.... but its okay... Its really cheap now so go ahead and buy 
 the game, definetly worth the wait! REPEAT: This is one of the best games ever created, intense 
 action in singleplayer and multiplayer.... The bots are really dumb... dont know much,.... but its 
 okay... Its really cheap now so go ahead and buy the game, definetly worth the wait! REPEAT: This 
 is one of the best games ever created, intense action in singleplayer and multiplayer.... The bots 
 are really dumb... dont know much,.... but its okay... Its really cheap now so go ahead and buy the 
 game, definetly worth the wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Have you noticed that developers like to focus on the only WWII when they want to develop a war 
 game? It is difficult to figure out which WWII game is the one to play. If you are playing on the 
 PC, this is the one you want.
  
  While Day of Defeat (a mod of the game Half-Life) was a fun distraction for a while, I needed a 
 more playable, complete WWII game. Battlefield was the answer. The single player mode takes you 
 through the war, battle by battle. You get to command other troops for backup and support and take 
 down enemies with rifles, machines guns, pistols, knives, jeeps, motorcycles, trucks, and planes. 
 One of the most fun things to do and carpet bomb an enemy base or ship and parachute in to take 
 out any survivors. You usually have to take over base points, which will become spawning grounds 
 for your troops. You have unlimited lives, so battle away until you win.
  
  The multiplayer is one of the best sims that I know, except for the kamikaze pilots and traitor 
 soldiers. The Battle of Midway is a personal favorite.
  
  Play and enjoy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemasta456456
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 7:55 am PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest games ive ever played!! The variety of vehicles, weapons, kits, maps... 
 It is best online though. The single player gets boring after a while but the online is endless 
 fun.. Especially when you have the mods. The graphics are perfect The sound is good. 
  You can be a Sniper, Assault, Anti-Tank-, Medic, and an engineer. There are many great maps like 
 Omaha Beach, Midway, and of course Coral Sea (u need the update) . The veriety of vehicles land, air, 
 and even sea. How many games lets you be able to drive Tanks AND Ships no to mention planes. The 
 large variety of weapons adds the fun, when you master a kit like theSniper, you can play online 
 and make a snipopolooza!!! Some kits like the Engineer lets u repair all vehicles, special buildings 
 (objectives) like the factory on the battle of britan, and when u r a medic u can heal urself and 
 others.. Each side (Axis and Allies) has the same weapons on each army, except some of the weapons 
 are different, like the Americans Assualt having a B. A. R. and the Russians having a DP. If you 
 like war games and conquest games, i suggest u give this 1 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oskar_kympers
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I first played this baby at a friend.
  A couple of days later i want to my gameshop to buy this game.
  But.
  My pc is not fast enough 
 for great gameplay.
  The graphics of this game are awsome but the gamplay gets boring after a while.
  Its very cool 
 with the veheicles but after a week you get sick of shooting person without real missions.
  But there is still a very cool online play.
  Its a good game
  But watch out,
  your pc have 
 to be fast and new enough.
  Still its a very fun game and maybe you have to rent it first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gla001b
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 15, 2005 6:00 am PT
Review:  When I first saw battlefield 1942, I stared at the box for minutes.... then I decided. I played 
 the campaign first, and it ROCKED! The graphics were great and the gun sounds were spectacular, 
 the best part was that the patch gave me new maps and a few weapons. The vehicles were designed 
 even with the emblem of the Force they were being used by. 
  
  THe multiplayer was terific. and it had a COOP mode for 1 or more people to play the campaign, 
 or play CTF, conquest (like king of the hill) , or team deathmatch. My favorite is conquest. My 
 least favorite is CTF. So if you like WWII games, go buy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob7k
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2005 1:57 am PT
Review:  Imagine, 62 players fighting for no other reason that VICTORY! EA games best work is shown here, with 
 authentic wepons and sounds from WW2.
  all of your favorite tanks, the Sherman, tiger and more!!!. includes aircraft too! one rule, if 
 it looks drivable or piolitable, and the enimy isnt in it, you can drive it, APCs, Tanks, Patroll 
 boats, Shore Cannons, artilary, aircraft carriers, submarienes, tanks, planes and cars are all 
 added to the gameplay so it never gets old, this isnt just another FPS, its more teamwork, more 
 than Counterstrike. some maps are HUGE!!!
  if you havent played battlefield 1942, you are missing out, BADLY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vasquezinus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is an excellent game, the only thing holding this game back is its lack of constant 
 action at times and it's terrible control for the airborne vehicles. However, that's simply the 
 game itself. the technology running it simply, at least for its time, demands/demanded a high end 
 pc. to play the game, unless texture quality was put to 32 bit (slowing preformance dramatically) 
 and the game running at an 800x600 Resolution (which may not be a problem for most, people with 
 larger screens would still have to have the game change resolutions if the were running over the 
 800x600!) And if this wasnt enough, the resolution switch is made BEFORE the actual loading screen 
 is desplayed and the game is loaded, so if a cpu isn't in mint condition to handle the bit depth 
 and/or resoution change, this slows the loading process comapired to if the changes were never 
 had to of been made. Also, the changes are also made in the middle of the game to go to the main 
 menu. This beats a slow hardrive and/or cpu with minimal RAM pretty badly. However, if one day 
 this game can conquer its technical flaws tward slow PC's, it will be one of the best front line 
 focused games around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 13, 2005 11:15 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942, the first in he now successful series, is in my opinion, still the best. The 
 newer games in the series like BAttlefield: Vietnam and Battlefield 2 offer certain gameplay improvements, 
 better graphics, and all the usual additions you get with sequels, but they still don't match up.
 
  
  Battlefield 1942 had by far the best soundtrack of the two, I mean musically. The sound effects 
 may have improved from game to game, but that's to be expected. The music in 1942 though, was nothing 
 short of spectacular. For it's time, the graphics were good, although not amazing by any standard 
 but that wasn't what the game was about.
  
  What made 1942 more fun than it's predecessor's is simple. Map design. These maps were fun! You 
 learned them quickly, they were designed perfectly, there were certain places and chokepoints that 
 you'd have encounters at every time, and they were memorable. I still miss wake island, and omaha 
 beach map when playing the newer battlefields. The newer games map design is just sporadic, sometimes 
 too large and complicated and simply not as fun. All the games are great, but none of them have 
 given me as much enjoyment as the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've had this game from the very beginning of its time. And I still play it. But mostly now 
 for Desert Combat, but thats a different story.
  The game itself is amazing. The concept of massive online action play like this revolutionized 
 online play. Though the "single-player" portion is decent, you can tell that this game is focused 
 on the multiplayer aspect of it. 
  Gameplay is fast, furious, and massive for lack of better word. When you have 64 guys online duking 
 it out with tanks blasting forth, artillery raining down, snipers picking off guys, and planes 
 strafing lines of infantry, it is truly something to look at and experience. One downside, is that 
 some bigger maps turn into sniper fests, or vehicles (I. E. tanks) , can dominate a game. Plus its 
 not as much of a, "working together" online experience, more the lone wolf design which many people 
 have used to describe it.
  Back when it was released the graphics were good but not awesome, they are still decent. End of 
 story.
  Sound is the weakest part with some of the weapons originally sounding quite weak. I still prefer 
 how the Mg42 used to sound; it sounded more deadly. But sound is still fairly good.
  Value, its made for online play, so if you like that, then you will be playing for a loooonnnggg 
 time, especially with mods like Desert Combat.
  Overall an excellent game, and a must have if you want an online experience like no other (besides 
 the now released BF2) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Str8player16
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 5, 2005 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Is it especially a good buy since it is sooo cheap. This game is quite frustrating. You may have 
 problem's playing it if you have SP2, and there are various other problem's. The sound isnt that 
 good, and the graphic's are horrid.
  But amongst all this is is still a good game, because of the the awesome 32 player massive battles.
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Spec's you should have to play this at maxed out setting's.
  512 MB ram
  Decent CPU
  6600 128MB
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Like I will tell you for almost all PC games, don't even attempt to play this on a integrated 
 GPU. 
  
  THE BOTTOM LINE:
  Get this game, it is good, and you can't beat the price.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 4, 2005 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is great!!! This is probably the best game i have ever played. I have had this game for 
 2 years and I still play it. The weapons are amazing and have great texture. THere are different 
 classes to choose from. Sniper, assult, medic, engineer and anti tank. Everything in this game 
 is great except for one thing and that is the snipers. They are very unaccurate which makes it 
 hard to get a guy in the exact place you want to with ease. Although they do work well while laying 
 down. This game is great and is definaetly worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jple88
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game when it first came out. The problem with that was my computer could hardley 
 run it at the time. To load a single map it took about half an hour. Though I usualy found it worth 
 the wait. Now I have a better computer, and alot of free time. To me nothing is better than a game 
 that lets you play as a kamakazii bomber. I felt like this game gave me alot of power, when it 
 came to vechicals. But the one problem i do have with this game is the normal infatry unit seems 
 stronger then every other unit. Thats the only down side I really see to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apokilipse
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 1, 2005 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is the best War game that I have ever played. The variety of modes as well as 
 the strong online focus makes playing this game a very enjoyable experience.
  
  The game features a veriety of realistic WW II vehicles and weapons that create a realistic experience. 
 You can fight on land, sea, and in the air, which is unique among most war games.
  
  Also unique is that the game does not focus on a compaign, but instead you select from one of many 
 battles and play through it. The game also has a wide selection of mods that greatly improve the 
 fun factor (Desert Combat!)
  
  The only complaint that I can voice about this game is the braindead AI. This really kills the 
 singleplayer experience, but the Online more than makes us for this.
  
  I would wholeheartedly reccomend this game to any fan of WW II games or shooter and I hope to see 
 you online playing it soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wenetnio
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2005 4:41 pm PT
Review:  este juego lo tiene todo no solo en historia sino en graficos y entretenimiento, ya no solo es andar 
 con armas si no tambien puedes usar vehiculos tales como aviones  
 de desembarco, buques de  juego es de verdadera accion para 
 todo aquel que lo juegue. ademas de tener campaas en singleplayer tambien posee mapas per jugarlos 
 en multiplayer ya sea a travez de una lan o de la red. tambien tiene una muy buena colecion de mods 
 y mapas este juego esta excelente. ademas de poder hacer clanes cuando lo juegas. ah y por cierto 
 la modiicacion del desert combat es la mas usada he de ahi donde sacaron battlefield 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llamafett
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 16, 2005 3:11 pm PT
Review:  if you are into WWII games then this is the one, the sequals only better
  
  the only problem is sounds being cut out, eg when a grenade goes off you gun wont make a noise, 
 but you get over it
  
  having dogfights and blasting a hole in someones face with a mg42 is quite enjoyable. 
  
  very 
 popular means there are still 2000 people playing online, most games lose there appeal after 3 
 years, but not this one.
  
  if you do not own a copy get one, its taking me 3 years to get the game and it rocks.
  
  excellent 
 game if you you are into realistic war games and dont mind that you die easily, which is the way 
 it is meant ot be, in real life you cant get shot 20 times and live, in batlefield you are lucky 
 to live after 2 hits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 5, 2005 6:43 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are great, and feature some fantastic drawing distances. The visually details is also 
 pretty good, and the game is very realistic also in the visual part. 
  
  The sounds are realistic and features some fine sound effects. The tank and plane sounds are realy 
 good and is nothing but fantastic. The title music is more than good, it's fantastic. You feel 
 like being right where the war is. 
  
  The best feature in Battlefield 1942 is the gameplay. You can drive every vehicle and use very 
 weapon. There are huge AA-guns and much more. There are so many soldiers to shoot down on each 
 mission you won't believe it. The multiplayer is also fantastic. 
  
  + 
  The huge levels, and great amount of soldiers is fantastic. The game has some great graphics, that 
 realy impress. There are some fine tunes that realy rock! 
  
  - 
  A little bit to easy single-player. Not so huge variaty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Battlehead90
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2005 8:37 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best World War II First Person Shooter ever made! The muiltipalyer is amazing 
 there are also people on playing it. The single player isn't bad either it helps you to get better 
 for playing muitipalyer i. e. flying, aiming, and getting to know the maps. The game has everything 
 that World War II lovers want in a game vehicles! You get to drive jeeps, Half-Tracks, Shermans, 
 Panzers, Tigers, and many more! You also get to fly Stukas, P-51s, Zeros, Achi-Vi, B-17s, ME-109s, 
 HE-111, and many more. There are also Subs, Carriers, and Destoyers you can deive too. The weapons 
 are excellent including the Thompson, StG44, Sten, M1 Grand, Walther P38 and many many more. You 
 get to battle all across Europe including D-Day, Battle in the Bocage, Market Garden, Battle of 
 the Bulge, in Africa there is El Alamein, Tubrok, and more, in the Pacific there is Iwo Jima, Gudacanal, 
 Wake, and many more. This one game to have if your a WWII nut like me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hormagaunt
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2005 11:17 am PT
Review:  Difficulty:
  Since its an online game difficulty varies, but ussually its just right for a descent FPS player.
 
  
  Learning Curve:
  The learning curve is never ending with a 1000 tricks and hiding places on each map, you can never 
 know everything about this game.
  
  Classification:
  Masterpiece, its an old game now, and only when something has been throroughly played through by 
 most PC gamers, and been left on the shelf abit can it be called a masterpiece and this is, it 
 will never be forgotten and it is a watershed in gamer history.
  
  Gameplay:
  Nothing better than running up Omaha Beach with 31 other players crowded around you getting picked 
 down. Nothing better than throwing a grenade into the trnches and killed 7 people. Enough said, 
 exellent fun!
  
  Graphics:
  In the day when it was made it had good graphics but not so anymore, but even for people with not 
 so good computers this game can be enjoyed.
  
  Sound:
  The battle sounds like real battle, it sounds like your in the middle of everything, very good 
 sound.
  
  Value:
  I personally could never get enough of this game.
  
  Well worth the small amount of money it costs now a days. you will not be disspaointed! Superb 
 game that will never be forgotten.
  
  Enjoy :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adamosek10_10
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 1, 2005 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a great world war 2 game you can play with 64 people online and it's like a 
 war you get cool vechicles you get to drive and other cool stuff you get to do on online too not 
 just sigle player if you dont have if get that game.
  
  Battlefield 1942 is a great world war 2 game you can play with 64 people online and it's like a 
 war you get cool vechicles you get to drive and other cool stuff you get to do on online too not 
 just sigle player if you dont have if get that game.
  
  Battlefield 1942 is a great world war 2 game you can play with 64 people online and it's like a 
 war you get cool vechicles you get to drive and other cool stuff you get to do on online too not 
 just sigle player if you dont have if get that game 
  
  Battlefield 1942 is a great world war 2 game you can play with 64 people online and it's like a 
 war you get cool vechicles you get to drive and other cool stuff you get to do on online too not 
 just sigle player if you dont have if get that game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_-rock_n_roll-
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 1, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  If all WW2 games where like Battlefield:1942, the FPS world would be a better place. This game 
 has sharp graphics, crisp sound and gameplay that cannot be beaten. The multiplayer is SPECTACULAR!! 
 The Single Player Campaign couldn't possibly be better and if your anything like me, your glad 
 the summer is here so you can play it all you want.
  Although Battlefield 2 is now currently on store shelves. Battlefield:1942 is a perfect alternative 
 for people that don't have computer hardware good enough to run Battlefield 2. If you enjoy multiplayer 
 FPS then this is definitly the game for you. The Conquest game mode is perfectly created to make 
 intense gameplay every step of the way, and the ticket sytem, pure genius. This game is definetly 
 a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MysticCow336
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2005 9:02 pm PT
Review:  1942 came out with sub-par graphics, but what it lacked in that department it made up in functionality 
 and incredible gameplay. Battlefield invented a new more organzied game type for mulitplayer with 
 it's objective points on large maps that can be taken over by either opposing team and each point 
 comes with new things like vechiles or supplies. In some cases the terrain is the main drawing 
 power for that point.
  
  The vechiles are of a wide range, they can be small jeeps to battle planes, bombers, submarines 
 and even huge cruisers. The envirnoments are huge and different, and all are from real battlefields 
 from the WWII.
  
  The graphics are a bit below average but of course the reason for this may be so players on lower 
 end computers could see far across the game's terrain which is a essential part of the game for 
 competitive reasons and also for the atmosphere of the game. There's nothing more terrifying than 
 seeing a platoon of troops and tanks heading towards your camp.
  
  The sound is great, the explosions and gun-fire are all realistic and so are the roar of the tanks 
 and the lapping of the oceans waves. It's also essential so you can send out auto-mated radio messages 
 to your teammates using the numpad.
  
  Over all this is a superb value, you don't want to play the single-player, but you won't miss it. 
 The multiplayer has so much content in it and there's patches coming out and incredible mods, you 
 don't need any play time by yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 18, 2005 6:31 am PT
Review:  There are many WWII themed-games around in todya's gaming scene, and many of them are lacklustre, 
 uninspired and boring. Battlefield 1942 is one of the better WWII games, though it's nothing special.
 
  
  Battlefield 1942 is a online multi-player shooter, though it does have a singe-player component. 
 The single-player should be avoided, as the bots are not fun to play against and the campagin is 
 boring. When servers have 64 players in them, battles can become exciting, though Battlefield is 
 rarely fun, and does not compare to other online shooters, such as Counter-Strike.
  
  Graphics and sound are quite poor, and gameplay does not excel either. You will often die wondering 
 just how exactly you did, as you can be sniped from a long, long distance and bombed from the skies. 
 Using vehicles was a good idea, though they do complicate the battles occasionally. There are several 
 different classes for Battlefield 1942, each with their own weapons, which is cool enough.
  
  Unfortunately, Battlefield 1942 does not have enough fun moments and fighting is not exciting 
 enough. If you miss Battlefield 1942, you won't miss much. There is a lot more out there... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Katur-
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2005 5:36 am PT
Review:  Goes without saying its really fun, really addictive. I was, however, disapointed at its historic 
 accuracy but im just like that. If your looking for something acurate get a game such as COD, or 
 BIA. This game doesnt really have the most realistic WWII guns. The games plays out very much like 
 a arcade game and its damage engine isnt real-realistic. Its graphics are a little dated, though, 
 it is several years old. Its multiplayer is the highlight, single-play is just like a practice 
 mode before going on the internet. Some downfalls are, you will need a good computer, and a fast 
 internet to play it well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -whyamifat-
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 28, 2005 8:11 am PT
Review:  This is one hell of a war game its a really fun, crazy game. It was a great attempt at creating 
 a WW2 game, and i'm sure EA have done a great job. 
  
  This is a really great game it has lots of different weapons, vehicles, submarines, ships, bombers 
 and aeroplanes, it brings a great experience to me, all the different levels you try and tackle 
 or so fun, and really make it feel like you the dude, firing the massive machine gun into all those 
 people, the feeling is great. 
  
  The weapons are awesome, they provide you with alot of different weapons such as, rifles, snipers, 
 sub-machine guns, machine guns, grenades, knifes, land mines, timing bombs and much much more, the 
 great thing about the weapons is that each weapon has its own advantages/disadvantages. Most of 
 these guns were actually used in WW2, so that is another great reason why this game rocks.
  
  The vehicles are superb, one of the main reasons for this is that there are no exaggeration 
 in the vehicles, all the vehicles have the original designs, no vehivles were made up or fake, 
 the top speeds and acceleration of the vehicles are accurate to the real speeds, the tanks have 
 got alot of fire power but they are also possible to destroy. 
  
  The aeroplanes are also accurate as the design goes, the contolling of the planes may be hard at 
 first but after some practice you should find yourself flying and manovureing throught mountains 
 in no time, there are different types of planes some having different features as other for instants 
 some have to seaters, with heavy machine guns equipped, some have bombs and torpedoes the list 
 goes on and on, the choice is great but also crusual, if you planning on going on a bombing mission 
 and inflicting some heavy damge on an enemy base why not grab and fly the bomber, this bomber has 
 high fire power, and if bombs are hit correctly on your target this just may turn the tides. Or 
 if your looking for a swift dog fight, why not grab one of the aeroplanes, these are great for 
 bringing down other aeroplanes they can also do thing that bombers can't such as fit throught tight 
 areas dodge bullets coming straight at you by doing flips or spinning your plane to try and avoid 
 the bullets. Overall they have done a good job with the vehicles.
  
  Besides all the machinery i mentioned up above there are also planted machine guns for vehicles 
 or planted bomb launchers which really do some great damage to bombers, and aeroplanes. So they 
 have given you a really good choice as far as weapons go.
  
  You think that was great, well you haven't seen anything yet, the online in this game just makes 
 this game alot better, you can play with up to 32 players in one map, so if your sick with the 
 easy CPU AI, why not hop onto online or be prepared for some real challenges, there are also new 
 maps on online that you don't get in single player so that brings more to the game, what i really 
 love about online is the amount of team-work involved it is not a single player "i'm alone" type 
 online game, this game you must work as a team and think of your other allies.
  
  To the downfalls, this game doesn't have much but ever game has downfalls. What really let me down 
 in this game is the A. I in single player your allies are just like trees all they do is fill up 
 room, off cource they do some damage but not as much as i would like them to do, for instants once 
 i jumped into a plane and followed a bomber who was in my team all he did was stay in an area were 
 all you saw was mountains with no action what-so-ever, i'm not saying the A. I is stupid i'm saying 
 they should of put some more work into it because this is major in shooter games, well in all games. 
 
  
  Now to this downfall, this one annoyed me but maybe it was just me, the comands at the top of the 
 screen were usless, whenever you requested something such as a medic or APC or flight support nothing 
 ever happened its like you are talking to a brickwall. A major issue to me but maybe not a major 
 to others.
  
  Another thing that annoyed me, was that the game was to silent while you were playing all you could 
 here was your bullets firing, so it was like you were firing at nobody, i hated it because it just 
 made it lose it realism, but still a really great game, this brang the game down but not to much.
 
  
  Besides the A. I i can't really think of any major let downs, now to the minors, the campian wasn't 
 up to my standards either, even though this game wasn't really about the campian, the campain had 
 no story, and it just had all the maps in chronilogical order, and the level difficulty just got 
 harder, but atleast they added an extra in i wouldn't of really minded if they put alot of effort 
 in this campian because the game was good enough without it. 
  
  The graphics were awesome, well it really matters how good your computer is, but mine was on the 
 highest level and the graphics were absolutely awesome i loved the graphics they were detailed 
 especially the weapons and vehicles. The Sound, well not as good as i wanted it to be hardly any 
 sound in the ingame except yourself, but the menu sound was great.
  
  Well the value, is only great for you if you got a good computer with a high-speed connection, 
 the online just adds a lot more to the game.
  
  Overall this is a great game i enjoyed playing it and i'm sure if you check it out you will have 
 a great and end up with a great experience too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougsan
Rating: 1.7
Date: Apr 20, 2005 11:31 pm PT
Review:  If you like running to the action rather than being in the action this is a good game. If you enjoy 
 running around with nothing to do this is a good game. If you like using tanks, planes, anti aircraft 
 guns, howitzers, sniper rifles, tanks, half tracks, mike and peter boats, jeeps, etc. none of which 
 respond in a realistic way this is a good game. If you like waiting on spawning this is a good 
 game. If you think war is fun and not at all challenging this is a good game.
  
  In other words, this game is not for players with skill and dexterity who are looking for challenging 
 single player shooters. The biggest shortcoming is the almost total lack of military accuracy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikromouse
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 6, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Again, I jumped on the Battlefield 1942 bandwagon a bit too late. In the end I liked it so much 
 that I ended up upgrading my video card.
  
  BF1942 is much more than a WWII themed shooter. You see, it's a way of life. Before BF1942 I was 
 overweight, depressed, and...
  
  wait... wrong story.
  
  BF1942 is a lot of different things. On one hand you have single-player missions driven by bots. 
 Bots in this game totally suck. I've never, ever lost a BF1942 game against a bot. Even worse is 
 having bots on your team that don't like to take objective points. But, I digress...
  
  There are a few classes of soldier to choose from: it's pretty much all been done before but you've 
 got a shooter, a sniper, an engineer, a medic, and a heavier gun guy. Pick your choosin but most 
 folks hit up the generic gun or the sniper. The game runs quite nicely on a decent home PC, and 
 by this time you should be able to outpace any of the original requirements.
  
  The largest portion of the game is the multiplayer. Now, I'll be honest: Soon after engaging in 
 AIM online with BF1942 folks I was turned onto the hottest mod ever: DesertCombat. Developed by 
 Trauma Studios, this free mod turns 1942 into 1999. I think really I enjoyed the mod much more 
 than the original game. Now, online play with DesertCombat is friggin sweet! Modernized weapons, 
 chat, vehicles... awww yeah.
  
  In the end if you get BF1942, make sure you pick up DesertCombat mod as well. Its well worth it 
 with 64 players playing online in near lag-free scenarios. PICK SERVERS CLOSE TO YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcxnickxcx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 2, 2005 5:03 pm PT
Review:  A couple years ago, I was very into console type games (which I still am now but) and I really 
 never payed attention to any of the computer games. I did have some computer games but they sort 
 of ran slow on my computer so I jus stuck with console games. This christmas I recieved a G-Force 
 FX 5500 video card for the computer I recieved for my birthday. After I installed this I started 
 playing Battlefield 1942, which I had borrowed from my friend earlier but never had a good enough 
 computer to play it well. After I put this game on my computer, i noticed that it really was a 
 fantastic game that I had never thought was this good. One of the good features of this game is 
 that everything in the level you can use or interact with such as turrets, battleships, planes, 
 tanks. 
  The levels are also very big and fun to play even single player with. Although single player is 
 good, online multiplayer is where its at. You can play with a mass amount of people online and 
 its just fun flying helicopters with like 5 other people in it and dropping them off at an island..... makes 
 it feel like real life. Another good thing about this game is that you can download mods for it. 
 For those of you that don't know, a mod pretty much changes the whole entire game and they have 
 them for most computer games. One of the mods allows you to sail around in pirate ships and have 
 different guns, very different from the original game. If you have a good computer, i really recommend 
 you to buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomic_Mutant
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 1, 2005 6:38 am PT
Review:  I know most of you have some fond memories of little green soldiers with which you re-enacted some 
 nameless (but personal) conflict that inevitably ends up in a disarray of plastic nightmare. What 
 Im trying to get to is to draw a comparison and tell you that playing Battlefield will be as closest 
 as you could get in reliving the carefree days of mashing plastic figurines if not actually doing 
 it for real and getting suspicious stares. No, Army Men games cannot cut it. If you want to feel 
 like you have been a part of the conflict, and experience a prolonged war of attrition where cooperation 
 and personal valour are in equal parts necessary, then you would have to give Battlefield 1942 
 a try. 
  
  Battlefield 1942 is a game that allows you to participate in scenarios that made that particular 
 chapter of the World War II the most frenzied and violent. These scenarios span three continents, 
 located across different terrains including snow, grassland, desert, and tropical, sometimes dotted 
 with strategic buildings or the destroyed remnants of them. The game also features five nations 
 (US, Britain, Germany, Japan, and Russia) vying for supremacy, although an argument could be made 
 that the differences between the factions remain rooted in aesthetics and a slight tinkering of 
 their equipment counterparts. Another argument could be made as a observation that Italians were 
 not included and that Britain could have been denoted as commonwealth. But then, it is really a 
 moot point, since DICE beat even the RTS quota of factions in designing a FPS game. And it could 
 have been probably for the best, since the task of balancing out all the innumerable factors governing 
 all sets of weapons and their uses would have been impossible. Only two of the nations participate 
 in a single scenario against each other (as in Axis & Allies) , so the glaring sameness is at least 
 minimized to a degree that you would not notice during unfolding action.
  
  There are sixteen maps in total packaged in the box, and although from the outset they seem paltry 
 compared to other multiplayer shooters, these maps make up for its numbers in their sheer size 
 or the impression thereof; rolling hills that stretch out as far as your vision can fathom, the 
 sky that deceptively hides its ceiling, the depth of water that only the dead would reach. This 
 size can accommodate up to 64 players in a single session. I wouldnt be surprised if Battlefield 
 1942 was built from a flight simulator. Located among the maps are certain important landmarks 
 that also conspicuously double as spawn points and weapons depot. The control of these spawn points 
 are essential to build up points, of which when depleted to zero means defeat. The control of the 
 points require at least one unit to be stationed within a certain set amount of time, which is 
 negated with the presence of the enemy, and accelerated with the accompaniment of an ally. At the 
 start of a match, the spawn points with the exception of the default starting locations are neutral. 
 In a surprisingly touch lending more functionality to air units, they can hover over the points 
 to take them. It is a system that depicts the momentum of war supported by resource points well, 
 as the control of more spawn points lead to more opportunity to use additional means to take the 
 war to the enemy, where there is still the possibility of a breakthrough and another tide of the 
 battle. 
  
  During the gameplay, the player would be able to choose from five classes that feature unique abilities 
 that are further emphasized by their weapons load out. For example, the engineer class gets only 
 a single action bolt rifle as a primary weapon, but is able to fix vehicles, set charges, and lay 
 mines. The scout is able to provide reconnaissance with greater mobility and range of sight, given 
 the binocular that could assist in setting targets for the artillery units on ground. All the weapons 
 are not class limited themselves, so they could be looted to be employed by any other class. The 
 same class neutrality applies to vehicles, although it is not possible to steal them outright from 
 the enemy spawn points. When you suffer some form of damage, the screen turns red, with a rapid 
 signal that indicates the direction of the source of the threat. A rudimentary form of area specific 
 damage modeling is implemented, for both infantry and vehicles, and the hit in the leg area means 
 slowing down measurably. It could be called just plain vanilla if it were not a fact that one could 
 snipe a tank occupant through a visor on its hull, which, to say the least, will make the luckiest 
 and unluckiest players of the entire match out of these two particular players involved in sniping 
 a tank. The grenades bounce around in a realistic fashion, and can be thrown back a triggered one 
 provided that it does not explode in your hands. 
  
  The only small disappointment was that the environmental effects do not manifest themselves very 
 well on the field of battle and they stay static throughout a match. As even a small amount of 
 overcast could attest in terms of its benefits for the fighter pilots, well placed particle effect 
 of dusts kicking up or varying precipitation could have worked wonders in disguising some shortcomings 
 in terms of blocky character model details (which by the way, is the identical model for each side 
 clad in different equipment per class) and lending an even more impressive depth to the expanse. 
 The graphics overall is rather mundane, but the strength of the engine parlays itself into graphical 
 fidelity well. The terrain is very well rendered (very large draw distances) , with appropriate 
 amount of foliage that strikes a balance between map object density and render performance. The 
 graphics that portray landmarks and decorative objects are few and far between; the graphics here 
 are all but functional and seem somehow abstract, which is a strange way of describing graphics 
 of all things. It just is without a lot of frills or eye candy, but it would be apropos for a competitive 
 action title to limit some garish graphical features (like motion capture animation, area specific 
 damage models, etc.) , when players themselves turn them off to concentrate more on the surroundings, 
 which cannot be emphasized enough when playing games like Battlefield. The impact of graphics could 
 have been greater than sum of its various parts since 64 players can compete in a single round, 
 and all these different elements mixing and interacting on many different levels seamlessly highlight 
 the fact that underlying mechanisms of the graphics engine should hold under the strain, beneath 
 all the eye candies and flashes that impress or disorient for a few seconds. So in Battlefield, 
 the graphics are solid.
  
  Another drawback could be from a curious lack of indoor battles, which in sporadic times where 
 it does indeed occur, betrays the rather clunky controls and disorientating aim, not to mention 
 lack of detail that does not simply register in the immersion rating. That is the most glaring 
 when one shoots someone whose reaction to being hit is most of ten than not confused gyration at 
 one place in attempt to get the bearing of the shots direction. Some means of making claustrophobic 
 confines of battle more seamless could have been appreciated, like in the Day of Defeat. It does 
 not mean that all close quarters combat is decidedly lacking; in Stalingrad and Berlin maps, one 
 readily participates in battles that portray that hemmed in sensation among destroyed landscapes 
 and a deluge of debris. Another minor quip is the absence of random terrain generator that could 
 have expanded the potential replay value of this title almost infinitely; I am only saying this 
 based on my initial impression of the game built on a flight simulation engine. Nonetheless, the 
 belated map editor was a nice complement, and the result of such option lead to many ingenious 
 maps and mods, the best known of which is a very capable and polished modern update to the game 
 in Desert Combat.
  
  One very glaring aspect of this game is that the developer has forgotten to add an actual single 
 player game to the whole proceeding. It is a basic retread of a rather unrelated string of missions 
 that feature the maps from, you guessed it, the multiplayer. It is very much a practice session 
 that allows you to be more familiar with the maps if nothing else, and practice in the finer arts 
 of more challenging pursuits like trying to fly a plane with keyboard and mouse and not crash every 
 ten seconds. Or learning how to drop mines and maintaining self sustaining tank system with an 
 engineer. It is too unfortunate that even enemy AI allows you to indulge in every kind of stupid 
 antics without you dying even once. You can play a tag with them, perhaps hide-and-seek. You can 
 maybe show them of your part of the territory on a wild goose chase. Except you be the mother 
 goose and them be goslings.
  
  The radio messages provide the audible feedback of the unfolding action. As a neat touch, the messages 
 are recorded in native languages of the nations involved, albeit recorded by the same voice actor 
 per nationality. And there are no female voices; probably owing to the fact that no woman participated 
 in the war in the battlefront. The messages can be relayed using keys mapped to specific calls, 
 but during the heat of battle where they could be the most useful, they end up being a bit unwieldy 
 and underused feature. It could have been nice if there were some ambient music like gentle surf 
 of the sea on the coast, rustling of the pine trees in the tropics, or flies buzzing over a corpse, 
 whatever. The weapon sounds pretty neat, and has an appropriate dimension to it, as well as the 
 whizzing of the slugs as it traces direct lines in the air. There is never a direct utterance from 
 players, not even a scream of impending death if I recall correctly. Once again, as in augmenting 
 the realism of the game that is missing in other departments, maybe a pant after a long run or 
 a nasty case of temporary hearing loss by a nearby artillery shell exploding (if it did not already 
 kill you) could have done wonders. As for the rest of the sound, the music is itself muted during 
 gameplay and a bombastic martial track plays in the background during the title sequence (which 
 plays like some kind of a WWII propaganda movie clip) and menu options. More or less, it serves 
 its theme well.
  
  The action itself, when one gets right down to it, is seamless and in a word, elegant. The combat 
 that sprawls across land, sea, and air is so impeccably connected and the heat of the action can 
 flare up in any one moment on any element and soon spill over so quickly that it becomes just overwhelming 
 to coordinate and register all the action despite the well constructed overhead map situated in 
 the corner of the screen. Calm before the storm, as they say. As an example, the landing part of 
 an amphibious assault only requires whoever is at the helm to simply beach the boat ashore, and 
 the anticipated action soon rolls across the land, while the land based bastions aim their shelling 
 at a distant carrier from which bombers take to airthis kind of action can simply be mesmerizing, 
 and if the players coordinate their movements and cooperate through communication, it can be downright 
 heavenly. However, often players fail cooperate, as they end up going about their own business, 
 and the ensuing chaos becomes pretty much as common in public servers (or pubs) as there are 
 ammunition in the bunkers. Then the wait for vehicles to spawn will seem longer, that great expanse 
 that you must travel by foot will seem farther, and the fun quota plummets as one haplessly plays 
 the part of a staggering soldier when he could have as well been in the thick of the action trying 
 to conserve those last diminishing tickets. These issues are symptomatic of all online based games 
 released requiring any form of cooperation among participants, and cannot really be attributed 
 to the failing on the part of the developers. But on the bright side, if you could play the overall 
 multiplayer action on Battlefield and glean some kind of satisfaction out of it, then you would 
 be tolerant of any shenanigans that continually plague any competitive multiplayer game.
  
  Certainly, right out of the box, even without its subsequent mods and expansion packs, Battlefield 
 1942 provides plenty of content to keep one busy, although the players will sooner or later find 
 themselves favouring one faction over another in a particular map, unless they tend to exploit 
 the advantages given to the starting positions for one faction. For example, on a battleground 
 in Battle of the Bulge, the Americans would be strapped for equipment and well trenched positions 
 as Germans launch a mechanized surprising attack. But fundamentally, such opportunities for exploits 
 that lay outside of historical contexts are rare, since Battlefield 1942 is a well balanced game 
 despite some small qualms such as the seemingly invincible nature of the airborne vehicles. My 
 personal favourite was with playing the Russians, as driving a T-34 running over Nazis has, without 
 a doubt, been the pinnacle of the experience to say the least. I could have run over Russians while 
 driving a Panzer IV, but it would not deliver much of a visceral feel to it. I guess destroying 
 the Japanese with American kamikaze attack was rather interesting too. 
  
  That is basically the allure of being involved in a pitched battle in Battlefield 1942; the ambience 
 provided by the combat has reached to new heights and gained a whole new dimension and territory 
 in terms of vehicles. For once, you could coax your inner child out and ultimately be a part of 
 a reenactment of a war experience like no other game before could provide within a historical setting. 
 For once, you can harmlessly bypass the utter atrocities that war wrought on its participants and 
 distil only the enthralling aspects of what captured so many youths of old to their suffering glory 
 or perilous doom.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swamprat_basic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2005 7:02 am PT
Review:  Great multiplayer. Too bad the single-players battles are so lackluster.
  
  Battlefield 1942 is a great multiplayer game, but you probably already know that.
  
  The graphics 
 are just good, but I wouldn't expect much more from an online game.
  
  My only real complaint is that the A. I. in the single-player battles is terrible, and it requires 
 a real powerhouse computer to run with all of the bots necessary to actually feel like there is 
 a war going on. Otherwise the battles seem empty.
  
  I highly recommend this game, and the presence of such great mods only makes it deserve even more 
 praise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 28, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  That is no understatement. I originally got this game after it had been out for about 5 months 
 and can say right now that the online game play was the worst. The spawn points were choke hazards 
 which usually ment a well placed grenade into the spawn resulted in five to ten deaths on some 
 of the larger maps. Granted this game gave you the ability to pilot different vehicles which could 
 be fun at times but dangerous at others.
  
  The single player is ment as a warm up to what the online play will be like. I wish I could say 
 it prepared me for the spawn camping and slow server connections, but it didn't. Instead I was 
 introduced to some of the most gruesome online play I had ever experienced.
  
  OK, quick notes.
  Graphics: OK to good.
  Sound: OK.
  Gameplay: Low to OK.
  
  I really 
 don't feel like giving this much more energy as it was not worth my time or yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2k_rammerizkool
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2005 12:58 am PT
Review:  This game basically kicks buttholes. Its one of my favorite FPS games there are, and for good reasons.
 
  
  The graphics are really good. Textures are sharp, expressions on the people are realistic, sometimes, 
 and the water shines as you move around, and it looks really nifty (: The shadows are really pixelly, 
 but they are pretty decent.
  
  Sounds are great. The guns sound as powerful as they look, and give a nice feel when you are up 
 in someones face shooting them with a Bar 1918. The music is good, although a soundtrack during 
 the game would be nice.
  
  The gameplay for this is also great, yet flawed sometimes. When you drive one of those transport 
 boats up on shore, unless a bot is driving it, and unless you are really good at controlling one, 
 they bounce on shore. Yeah. Its kinda stupid. You can also dodge anti-tank rockets easily, and 
 you arent killed sometimes when tanks run you over.
  
  The one thing that REALLY annoys me is the 5-minute long loading times. Maybe its just my computer, 
 but they are HORRIBLE.
  
  My last word? Buy it. Yeah. This game is too good to ignore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2005 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Opening statement:
  This game blew my mind when it dbuted back in the day, Ive since bought the first expansion pack, 
 and am planning on eventually buying the second. ok for those of you looking for a online war simulation, 
 this is the closest and farthest you'll get to it, well at the time it was, now there are two far 
 better online war games, Call of duty: united offense, and Red orchestra mod. In terms of scope, 
 this game is beautiful, but there are many game play holes. 
  
  Pros.
  This game does something that no other online shooter before it has done, it allows for up to 64 
 players online in a single match. In addition to that it also has pilotable planes, and drive able 
 tanks, submarines, battleships, tons of goodies. There is a class system like tfc, breathtaking 
 scope.
  
  Cons.
  Horrible coding, you arent likely to get on a good server with more than 30 people present, the 
 game doesnt' run that well online, even on a beast of a machine. Being a foot soldier is really 
 lame, weapons feel exceptionally weak, and particle effects leave you wanting more. Damage modeling 
 is really weak. Sound is pretty horrible for a war game, especially upon release of the game, sounds 
 would repeat, and sound bugs were abound. no single player, well there is, it's just the AI is 
 so bad that it isn't worth playing other than to get a look at a map, or to make your self feel 
 good about your gaming skills.
  
  Let me ramble for a bit:
  Ok this game, for the time, did so much, it did for online gaming, what CS, the unreal franchise, 
 and tribes2 did, it basically combines the large outdoor environments of tribes, and the vehicular 
 combat of tribes, with a cs style crosshair, and then adds 64 players, I personally, in the several 
 years since the games release have never played in a 64 player match, it's just to laggy. the largest 
 game I was ever in was 50 players, at el almein, it was wonderful, I was piloting the B-17, and 
 came in low over the enemy, as a large mass of them was pushing for our control point, I unloaded 
 my bombs right onto there heads, I viewed the carnage using the camera control buttons that are 
 conveniently programmable. It is the moments like these that make the ever present frustrations 
 of the game worth while. Ok so flying a plane in this game isn't like a flight sim, but it does 
 take skill, my only problem is that I have a sidewinder 2 and I could never get it to work. Ive 
 heard of those who new how to do so, I my self never discovered the secret. planes are well implemented 
 in this game, but there are things I would have preferred, rather than giving a plane that only 
 holds one bomb in real life, 25 bombs, why not give it only one bomb as it should be, and make 
 the bomb realistically powerful, see damage modeling in this game is one of my biggest turn offs, 
 like you can be right next to a bomb for a plane, and not take any damage, that is because the 
 developers made a very limited radius of damage, you won't even take shrapnel. This also applies 
 to the guns, basically it's all about the head shots, but you can unload a pistol into another 
 guys head and he won't die for like five shots, it is really frustrating, also guns have no recoil. 
 ironically to balance this they deliberately control the firing speed of semi auto guns, so as 
 not to allow the players with rifles to be so lethal, I personally think this further adds to the 
 overall useless and weak feeling the guns have in the game, seriously, there are guns in unreal 
 tournament that feel more real. Tanks are fun, but annoyingly they can easily be grenade to death, 
 this is a very sad design decision, I personally would have preferred it if the developers had 
 allowed players to climb on top of the tanks to open the hatch and toss one in. But alas another 
 simple move is totally ignored. the roketer is the most unbalanced player in the game, he carries 
 and very useless rocket launcher that if shot directly into a opposing player will often times 
 not even kill him, this I find confusing, how can this happen, then we expect this weapon to blow 
 up a tank, same thing for grenades. Sound adds to my frustrations, Ill leave it at that. Ok so 
 the gun play is really unreal, but then the developers added real bullet physics, the shot drops 
 over distances, and takes time to get there, so snipers require actual skill for once. This is 
 a change I really like, it takes away the ability of infantry to easily mow down high flying air 
 craft with there machine guns. Basically the gem of this game is the vehicular combat right, but 
 alas the level designers never put enough vehicles for games of more than 30 people, ha that is 
 funny. so the first thing you'll want to do when you buy the game is download desert combat, (ironically 
 this mod is far better than the original product, and far better than bfv) this mod in and of itself 
 is worth the price of admission, it fixes allot of what was wrong with the original product, and 
 really fleshes out the game play with helicopters, and SAWs, and fun weapons!.
  
  Lets break it down:
  GAMEPLAY:
  ok this game brings allot together, but also leaves allot 
 out, the gunplay is developed in some areas (physics) and weak in others (everything else, damage 
 modeling, recoil, responsiveness) , vehicle combat is the gem in this game, and well, it is still 
 full of holes as Ive mentioned, (not enough vehicles in a level, weapons damage modeling, and 
 area damage/amount of ammunition) . there are many simple balancing acts that could have been taken, 
 but are conveniently left out. To compensate you can download desert combat, one of the greatest 
 mods ever if I may say.
  8
  GRAPHICS:
  Ok considering this game not only supports 64 players (supposedly) and vehicles models with physics, 
 it also has weapon physics, (projectile physics) , but it also models everything relatively well 
 for the time the game was made, now I will say that the particle effects for weapons like grenades 
 and plane bombs, and tank rounds, isn't very impressive, its actually part of why weaponry in general 
 feels underpowered.
  9
  SOUND:
  I would have given this department a notch lower but it would have lowered the game score below 
 9, the sound is horrible considering the standard for war games, also upon release is was plagued 
 with the most annoying bugs. And even after being patched, explosions sound weak, "was that a tank 
 round that flew over my head, I don't know it has the same caned sound as everything else in this 
 game" (most explosions are the same noise, the damage they produce indicates the noise level)
  7
  VALUE:
  The game is a good bange for your buck, especially with all the mods it has now. 
 If you can, get the expansion packs, they are pretty good I think.
  10
  REVIEWERS TILT:
  Ok I played this game the day it hit shelves, and as I said for the time it was just mind blowing, 
 jumping on a server with 35 other people and flying planes was just plane cool, strafing runs are 
 so much fun, bombarding and capture point with artillery, amazing. forget the gripes I have mentioned 
 and pick up this game if you haven't played it, give it a couple of hours till you hit your stride, 
 if you want to be a pilot, or sniper, it will take a great deal longer to acquire the skill.
  10
  
  
  SCORE:9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MB_E102
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 16, 2005 3:45 am PT
Review:  The war that changed the world, is now a game that will forever shape what we think of online FPS's. 
 It may not show off directly, or indirectly, that on- or offline, Battlefield 1942 is a gem amongst 
 gems but it has a quality that I've seen built upon quite a bit in recent times. A lot of those, 
 "tons of people shooting each other" types of games have been a lot more numerous. If you took 
 Halo though, and looked at almost every single FPS on the X-Box ever since, you'll notice that 
 the dual joy-stick idea was very key.
  
  Battlefield 1942 is rumble in the tummy, slap to the face, hardcore awakening for myself. I have 
 played quite a few FPS's and I've seen graphics that could spank monkeys from china to timbucktoo. 
 But, truth be told. For a game that on this date is nearing its 3 year anniverisary, the graphics 
 aren't in spazzy little effects that only someone who plays the game alone and not even agaisnt 
 bots, would notice. The key to Battlefield 1942's graphical punch, is its presentation through 
 representation, which leads by far to the gameplay. Things feel right, even though for the most 
 part the game in its scope comes off a bit unrealistic. When you driving to shore in a landing 
 boat, you really do feel that you just a tiny little speck compared to that huge, hulking mammoth 
 of an Air Craft Carrier. To talk about the game, really could only hint... the candy is at its 
 core, the experience, on or offline is astounding, bar none, and I'm sure Vietnam, and Battlefield 
 2 will be aswell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBot
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 25, 2005 2:59 am PT
Review:  The game play is just as good as everything else. The game has a campaign mode which doesn't really 
 follow a story line that much, it's basically the Allies versus the Axis or vise versa, and you 
 do various battles on various maps till you run out of maps. Now there is kind of a story line 
 to it since you go thru various part of the world eradicating the enemy. Just because there is 
 little or no story line doesn't mean you shouldn't buy this game. There is also an 'Instant Battle' 
 mode which is the equivalent to a 'Skirmish' mode in RTS game. You get to customize everything 
 before the game starts; the map, the difficulty, how many people are on what team, and tons more. 
 This mode is fun if you need practice. As if this all wasn't enough you can play on the internet 
 too against real humans. 
  
  Something else I am tying in with this are the controls. They are fully customizable since you 
 have your whole keyboard. But even with out changing them they are really easy. Some FPS games 
 get too complex, but this one is simple; forward, backward, left, right, duck, reload, and fire. 
 If you can get those down you are good to go, there are also other controls that make it more realistic, 
 but they aren't necessary to play the game and have fun. 
  
  The graphics are great; even on a low end machine set on low quality they still look amazing. The 
 gun and people models are very realistic; they actually look like people from that era in time. 
 The guns look like those that you would see in a history book; it wouldn't surprise me if EA went 
 back in time and took some guns so they would have something to model them after. The vehicles 
 are also very well done, they way they look almost all the same, they are all of the same style, 
 really tie this game in and help the 'theme' a lot. The planes are also really cool, they look 
 like ones today but there are some things that look different, like the ones in the game have propellers, 
 and not jet engines. There is also the scenery, which is very nice, as if you will pay attention 
 to it when you are rushing into battle with your rocket launcher. If you do get a chance to look 
 at it, it is very eye catching and pleasing. Lastly there are the menus, which are very cool since 
 the background is like a 'in war' movie. When you put all this together you get a very visibly 
 pleasing game. 
  
  The sound on this game is nothing short of miraculous. When you get into a fire fight it will sound 
 just like it does in the movies, gun fire everywhere, grenades going off, tank engines rumbling. 
 It really gets creepy though when it is silent, because once you play this game for awhile you 
 will be so used to noise it will be weird when it is quiet. The only time it will get quite is 
 if you are a sniper stacked out meters from the battle, silently picking people off, or when a 
 team has lost. Now you might imagine that that isn't often, and it's not, so be ready to make some 
 noise! 
  
  This game is sure to be a classic, I recommend it to everyone, whether you like FPS games or not. 
 If you don't like FPS games this game may very well change your opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Only_Spitz
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 20, 2005 2:35 am PT
Review:  If you like any war games then I will almost guarantee that you will like Battlefield 1942. This 
 game has every aspect that a good war game needs to have. It has the guns and even replicas of 
 the Battlefield. Even the battles them self are very realistic.
  
  Gameplay: The story of the game is great because it is based on the real war of 1942. All of the 
 places that were in the war they have included in the game. They have also made those maps as close 
 as they were able to, to the real thing. So the maps of the game were very well laid out and were 
 impressive. Then there are the weapons of the game. In the game you are not able to just walk around 
 and if you see a gun go and pick it up. In this game you choose the type of person you want to 
 be, like a demolition expert, upfront fighter, sniper, etc. Then depending on which person you 
 choose to play at will determine what type of gun (s) you are able to use. You will get both a main 
 weapon and then a secondary weapon, along with extras depending on what you have chosen. Then also, 
 if you do happen to die, you just respawn yourself and you are able to, if you want, choose a new 
 set of weapons. So the weapons in the game were laid out very well. Then that last thing would 
 be the vehicles of the game. The vehicles were not all that great but were fair none the less. 
 There are several types of vehicles ranging from Jeeps to Tanks to Airplanes. The basic ground 
 vehicles are very easy to steer and you should have no problem with them. Though, once you get 
 into a plane and try to fly it, that is when the complication begins. The controls on the airplane 
 are very difficult and if you want to learn them, it will take you awhile to be able to pilot the 
 plane. So all in all the gameplay of the game was very good.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in the game were very good and were highly detailed. The guns looked like 
 they were real and they looked like the actual guns. The other men may not have been the greatest 
 but they do look better than a lot of the other men in other games. There were also the vehicles 
 and it was neat because they too looked like the actual vehicles. Everything, even the landscape, 
 was very thought out and had a lot of time put into it to be able to get it as detailed as they 
 did.
  
  Sound: The sound was good itself, but the noises that came out of the game were not all that great. 
 For every man the noise of them talking and also the noise when they die was exactly the same for 
 each man. Though, when the guns were shot you could listen and kind of tell what type of gun another 
 person was using for each gun sounded different and was almost the same as the actual gun.
  
  Value: The value of the game it perfect. There is nothing to lose in this war game and it is 
 definitely worth the buy. It has everything you need form the graphics, to the story, and then 
 to the entertainment. You can literally get on this game and time flies so fast when playing it, 
 you could be on for hours and not even realize it, it is so fun.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: In my opinion I think that this was a great game and that is deserved a lot more 
 credit then it actually got. I have played most of the war games but so far this has turned out 
 to be the best that I have played. I mean I love the graphics in it and I also like how they made 
 it the same as it was in the actual game. So I would suggest to anyone who can buy this game to 
 do exactly that and there is no way that you will be disappointed by this game for I myself have 
 enjoyed hours and hours of this game. So I truly do recommend buying this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HL2ROXS
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 15, 2005 1:57 am PT
Review:  Go buy this game now! The game's gameplay might get a little repetitive but I bet you will enjoy 
 this. It still has some great graphics and sounds, the mod is where the value in it. This is a 
 must buy. This is the best of the series but when Battlefield 2 comes out check that out to this 
 is possibly the funniest WW2 came. Take my words this game is a must buy, do not buy Battlefield 
 Vietnam the game is very laggy and buggy.
  My computers specs are
  2.85 GHZ HT Technology
  2.85GHZ
  512 MB Ram
  Geforce 6800 Oc 128 Mb
  Go buy this game now. 
 8.9 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterRiley2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 7, 2005 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 (BF) is simply put one of the greatest massive online games on the PC. You can 
 have matches with up to 64 people in it. If you dont think that is cool, you shouldnt be playing 
 games. With a huge variety of maps, game modes, and weapons, you will be playing this for months 
 to come. Sadly, the single player falls short. EA spent most of there time perfecting the online 
 and left the 5 mins. they had left on the A. I. I have never seen such dumb AI in a game. So if 
 you dont have internet, or at least a decent connection, this is not your game.
  
  in addition, EA has plenty of updates to download for this game, so you dont have to worry about 
 bugs and glitches. Also, there are many MODS to this game. Including Desert Combat which puts you 
 in the war with US vs. Iraq. A user created Star Wars Mod which has the Rebels against the Empire. 
 
  
  The sound is fantastic in this game. All the tanks, ships, guns, planes, and explosions all sound 
 authentic. The graphics really show there age though in this game. Dont expect something like Halo 
 2 or Half-Life 2.
  
  What really makes this a war game is the vast maps, and the huge amount of vehicles. Some times 
 you could have tanks, planes, and two huge aircraft carriers, all on the same map. BF 1942 really 
 puts you in the action, and makes you feel like you are part of the cause and in the war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokeoddsponge
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 1, 2005 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to go right out and say it: battlefield 1942 stinks. If it didn't have it's easy -to-mod 
 enviorment, it wouldn't have anything going for it.
  
  Offline Gameplay: The offline gameplay is so obviosuly an afterthought i'm not even laughing. This 
 is evident in the AI that makes George W. Bush comparable to Albert Einstien, even on the highest 
 setting, and the fact that no add-on maps have not been added into the offline play in any patch.
 
  
  Online Gameplay: The game has little going for it, with its limited view distance, arcade gameplay 
 style, and a not-so great and not easy to read user interface. What absoloutly ruins the game more 
 than anything else is it's terrible players. It's not uncommon to see a player just playing the 
 game to cause trouble, or seeing people wasting cars for fun. The fact that you can only spawn 
 a foot soldier, and then you can jump in any vehicle you want is what riuns it. It's not the fact 
 that an infantry would not be trained as a pilot or tank commander, it's the fact that it leads 
 to the phenomenon of vehicle camping, especially plane camping. For example, on any map wtih a 
 plane, you will, without fail, come across at least two people who have memorised the exat spot 
 a plane will spawn, oh yes, they have read the book, studied the map, and even seen the video, 
 yes they are plane campers. They stand at the spot will the plane will spawn, holding down the 
 "E" key (or whatever key they have enter vehicle mapped to) so that they will be in the plane the 
 nano-second it appears on the field. And 90% of the time the guy crashes his plane on takeoff, 
 or he is rammed by another former camper's jeep who was gunned down by him. Also, players are far 
 too impaitent, its not uncommon to see half tracks driving around with no gunners or passengers. 
 It seems like the developers forsaw this, as tanks are a single crew vehicle, rather than the 2-5 
 crew vehicles they were in real life.
  
  Graphics: Normally in a game I look for non-bugged graphics rather than high poly models or high 
 resoloution textures, however this game suffers from a very limited view distance, even on the 
 highest setting, almost like the entire map is shrowded in fog. The view distance is something 
 like 500m, which is unacceptable and unessarcary.
  
  Sound: The sound in Battleifled 1942 is very weak, and I've seen silent gun bugs, and the game 
 just overall suffers from the lack of strength in the sound.
  
  Conclusion: If your looking for a good WWII online game, I don't reccomend this one, because of 
 it's lack of realism, and the terrible community of the game. As a side note, there was once a 
 player whos name was Black Magic who stalked and harrased me, forcing me to change my name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 75thDeadMan
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2005 11:41 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Battlefield 1942 I was filled with mixed emotions. On the one hand the 
 multiplayer was a huge shift in gameplay that would add a new style of strategy rarely (if ever) 
 seen in multiplayer before. However the single player would be the exact same things with bots. 
 A World War II game without a true story? How would this work? The day this game came out I ripped 
 into my new game box to find out.
  
  Like all games the first thing I try out is the Single Player. I popped into a quick game and found 
 myself surrounded by mindless bots that ran into each other and seemed more confused than I did. 
 They would run around mindlessly and make little effort to secure the flags (you win by getting 
 these) and would just sit around waiting for someone to shoot them. You A. I. teammates are the 
 same way. Within minutes I already had all the bots flags and had beaten the quick game (this was 
 on a hard A. I. setting) . I felt as the fifty dollars which I gave to the young employee at Electronic 
 Boutique had already been wasted. After another two boring and mindless games of single player 
 I was half asleep and decided it was about time to fire up BF42s multiplayer. I was expect multiplayer 
 to be a similar dull and boring experience, but what I saw stunned me.
  
  Explosions filled the dead air with a loud roar and gunfire had me pinned down on the beach of 
 Iwo Jima. Planes swooped over my head and bullets snapped around me as I advanced up the beach 
 only to find my self in front of an Japanese tank looking straight at me. One quick mouse click 
 by him and I was dead. It was about here where I realized that this was much more than a game, 
 it was a leap forward in gaming as we knew it. Battlefield is not just a game of action, it is 
 a game of teamplay and coordination. But before I go any further into this, let me explain how 
 it works.
  
  In BF42 you and your team play in one of sixteen maps trying to secure as many flags as they can. 
 The more flags you have, the faster the enemies tickets go down. When a team gets down to zero 
 tickets, or has the least tickets by the end of a round, that team losses and the opposing team 
 wins. You choose one of five infantry classes (sniper, assault, anti-tank, medic, engineer) and 
 then enter the fight. While playing as infantry you can enter tanks, planes, and ships and fight 
 the battles of WWII that way. In nearly every vehicle you can multicrew with your teammates and 
 increase you chances of winning. This makes for some great battles and makes for one of the best 
 reasons to join a clan.
  
  As I said before this is truly the first multiplayer game that will really let you use strategy 
 to win the battle however you want it. For example if I wanted to help take a base I could to a 
 variety of things. I could spawn as a sniper and pick guys off around their base and then call 
 in artillery to help some ground forces take the base. I could also take a tank and have infantry 
 escort me to blow the living snot out of the enemy. Or I could even take a plane and jump out above 
 their base and silently take it. Its your choice how you play the game and this is why I love it 
 so much.
  
  When, and if, you get bored of BF42 you can try downloading one of the many mods available for 
 it. One of the most popular is Desert Combat, a mod that converts the entire game to a more modern 
 theme transforming it into an Iraq like battlefield. There is also Eve of Destruction which turns 
 this game into a realistic representation of the Vietnam War. And my personal favorite is Forgotten 
 Hope, which adds dozens of maps, vehicles, and guns and a high level of realism to the game. Honestly 
 I have never seen so many successful mods for a game since Half-Life.
  
  However, there are some downsides to BF42. First off, if your looking for realism you won't find 
 it here. Automatic weapons rule the infantry class and makes it nearly imposable to use a rifle. 
 Grenades can easily damage tanks and planes can withstand a barrage of bullets and hold fifteen 
 bombs, when it reality they hold one. Also if your a hardcore historian you will find that the 
 vehicles have been balanced and don't have the power/armor they did in the real war. Finally some 
 maps are extremely unbalanced and have serious problems with constant camping, and of course the 
 occasional n00b.
  
  Aside from these complaints BF42 turned out to be one of the most original games ever created. 
 It will be remember by gamers for decades as the game that sparked a revolution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S7ATER
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 26, 2005 11:52 pm PT
Review:  This game tries to simulate the epic battles of WW2. The game does a good job for the most part. 
 Really this game only had minor problems. Graphics worked really well for how much they put in 
 the game. They had planes, tanks, trucks, jeeps, turrets, weapons, medics, and more stuff for your 
 mouth to water over. But for example when you had a sniper rifle the game had a really tough time 
 trying to hit someone because when you hit straight between the eyes, they don't die in one hit 
 like most people would. it took way to many shots to kill someone in that game. And boy some of 
 the levels that were just HUGE made it totally suck when people run around like chickens without 
 there heads go and take all your vehicles and you have to either swim or walk to your destination 
 which can be very annoying. But to interact with people over the net and give them orders, does 
 make you feel like a Mr. Macho guy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joint2
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 25, 2005 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a highly overated game in my opnion. The Game has poor graphics compared to 
 Joint Operations and the whole slew of vehicles makes everyone rush towards them.
  
  Joint Operations has large maps with lots of folige and trees. Battlefield 1942 does not have any 
 of that.
  
  Second, Battlefield 1942 crashes frequently and has an increable amount of bugs that plague it.
 
  
  Third, it is not realistic meaning that you can take few hits and surive without dieing.
  
 
  Fourth, The game has no real teamwork options execpet for the radio on your screen.
  
  Battlefield 1942 has a few high points, such as the maps are well-designed. The Weapons make good 
 sense. The sound of airplanes in the sky and German Panzers rumbling along a bridge.
  
  However, the bad outweight the good points. The games sequal Battlefield Vietnam is a better choice 
 for people who are just venturing into the Muliplayer Fps.
  
  Battlefield 1942 is a medicore title in my opnion. Only buy this if you are die-hard fan of Muliplayer 
 FPS or the Battlefield series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Warrior
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2005 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay... I love the gameplay for this game, the gole is to run around trying capture and control 
 certain points to bring the enemys battle points to zero. You have a ton of vehicles to drive, 
 you have: Tanks, Jeeps, Armored Cars, and several Aircraft to use during the game. You also have 
 a lot of places to battle on including the Battle of the Buldge, Midway, and more. The gameplay 
 is incredible and I can't get enough of it.
  
  Graphics... The graphics for this game are pretty nice but aren't perfect, to an extent there are 
 details on the terain and buildings but it all becomes repetitive.
  
  Sound... The sound for this game is incredible, there is a lot of detail from the sound of your 
 footsteps to the sound of the weapons firing. The Music for this game is awesome, I love the music 
 for the loading screens it's just so cool.
  
  Value... I LOVE THIS GAME... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Cynical
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2004 7:48 pm PT
Review:  When Battlefield 1942 was close to release, nobody was particularly excited about it- after all, 
 what could yet another World War II game do that others hadn't already done? Anyone saying the 
 same today would be branded a fool, and quite rightly so. BF42 has grown into the biggest online 
 game since Half Life, and at times even surpassed Counterstrike interms of player numbers.
  
  But game sales aren't everything- after all, lots of people go to watch rubbish sports teams, 
 so quantity and quantity are obviously not inter-related. But a game like this does not need to 
 prove anything to anyone- it just IS good.
  
  Let me explain: World War II game; allows you to choose a variety of infantry roles or pilot ground, 
 air, sea and submarine vehicles; as objective-driven or non-linear as you want it to be; doesn't 
 kill you with realism. Do I need to go any further?
  
  The graphics are, in a word, basic. Not just because the game is 2 years old- they were looking 
 a bit dated even on release. But that is one of the things that contributes to BF42's main success: 
 it works so well online. Even with a ping approaching 100 the game is perfectly playable online 
 (hey you don't need nanosecond reactions to hit a battleship with a bomb surely?) whereas attempting 
 to play a more eye-pleasing game (UT2004, CS: S or dare I say it Battlefield Vietnam) under those 
 sorts of conditions would turn into a very uninspiring mess. With planes accidentally landing upside 
 down.
  
  My one criticism of the game's concept stems from its arcade virtues- it's no fun being a PBI (Poor 
 Bloody Infantry) . Yes, you can run around sniping the gunner off a tank (which is why you'll never 
 find a tank with anyone in the exposed gunner seat) but it'll take you all day to destroy the thing, 
 even if you happen to be the otherwise-useless AntiTank soldier. In theory you CAN kill a tank 
 as an infantryman, but seeing as it takes 3 or 4 direct hits you can guess how often that happens. 
 Through no malice on the part of the players concerned, this inevitably leads to groups of half 
 a dozen or more 'plane campers' (or replace plane with any other decent vehicle) sitting in their 
 team's main base doing sweet FA to actually play the game- in fact this sedentary beginning is 
 perhaps what puts a lot of people off this game, which is a real shame since it is a true joy to 
 play. But please don't tell me about the amphibious assault levels that take 5 minutes to respawn 
 a landing craft (anyone see the problem with that?) .
  
  There are maps there for everyone- whether you want to concentrate on anything from battleships 
 to half tracks, there is a map uniquely suited to each type of combat- dogfighting, naval engagements, 
 small-scale island wars with PT boats in between,
  there's even some claustrophobic urban combat (spoiled somewhat by the fact that you can't even 
 enter most of the buildings never mind move between them (which seemed garbage even before CoD's 
 online demo came out) . The sheer variety of levels (and vehicles) means there is an infinite number 
 of strategies you could come up with- you will quite literally never have done everything in this 
 game.
  
  Even with these flaws, the game is a classic in its own right, and well worth the outlay whether 
 or not you have broadband (did I mention the fact that all but a few maps have full bot support) , 
 but when you consider the number of add-ons available you wonder why everyone does not have a copy 
 of this game: I'm not talking about the official packs, RtR and SW, which were alright at best, 
 but about the literally huge number of free modifications that are out there. Unless you've been 
 living on the planet Zorg for the past few years, you'll have heard of Desert Combat. Yes, it is 
 no longer being
  developed (the team sold out to EA) but a 'final' version has been released to fix the bugs, and 
 about half a dozen spinoff projects have vowed to continue updating DC. And if US Vs Iraq isn't 
 your cup of tea, why not a Vietnam mod (no, you don't
  have to buy BFV to give Charlie a kicking) , or perhaps a more realistic World War II experience, 
 or even World War I (complete with blimps) ? The replay value of each and every map, couple with 
 the limitless play time offered by the mod community, means it should be a crime not to own this 
 game. Go buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari2004
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 27, 2004 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Before i got this game i saw soo many websites saying this game was awesome, but when i got it, 
 i played ot for probally 20 minutes, i got bored soo fast, the planes are tooo hard to fly, and 
 you get a gay warning of you leave the battlezone, and die in 10 seconds if you dont get back, 
 which is really hard when the zone is soooooo small and it takes you like 3 seconds to fly out 
 of zone in a plane, and it is very hard to get your plane turned around before you either crach 
 into the ground or the timelimit kill you, this game sux unless you dont have any other online 
 games. Also the guns look so fake and is the sound quality isn't on high , they sound like little 
 toys guns. You have to really get used to ALL the controls to get this game running good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bidybag
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2004 11:14 pm PT
Review:  This game was defintly the next step to the next best first person shooters. It lets you do lots 
 of different things such as fly planes, helicopters, tanks, jeeps and choose different men to fight 
 as. The graphics are really good but if you have the graphics at the max setting and have the max 
 amount of bots you will get a lot of lag unless you have a really good pc. This game is all over 
 the internet and lots of people still play it. The single player mode is not really that good because 
 you just play the maps agasint bots and it does not have any storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2004 5:33 am PT
Review:  Quite simply this is a great game, one of my favorite FPS of all time! My review is based on a 
 fully patched, and modded BF1942. Other than Tetris, I've never played a game as much as this one 
 (or been addicted to one as badly as this) . The learning curve on this game is big, and if you 
 give up easily, you'll never understand how wonderful this game can be.
  
  The strategy involved in this game is rooted in the extremely well balanced gameplay. The decisions 
 you make based on what class you choose, what vehicle you jump in (or don't) , and what position 
 you take (offence/defence) will greatly impact how you play, and how well you play. No picking 
 up every gun here, and running around spamming rockets. If you like to think while you play an 
 FPS, this is the game for you.
  
  Many have since tried to capture the essence of conquest play since battlefield was introduced, 
 and many have flat out failed. The impact that this game has had on team play is unsurpassed.
 
  
  If the packaged game isn't enough for you, the mod support for this community is just excellent. 
 If you haven't checked this game out, what are you waiting for? Don't be seduced by the slightly 
 beefed graphics engine of Battlefield Vietnam either, this is definately the bread and butter of 
 the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Samurai04
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 8, 2004 4:42 am PT
Review:  I found the single player aspects of BattleField 1942, some-what lacking. The AI was severely hampered, 
 and I found myself looking for a challenge. Thus, one must go to the Multiplayer aspect of the 
 game.
  
  Multiplayer, a superb idea and one that was incorporated here. The different aspects of the game 
 allows teamwork - hopefully. Although, it also feels awesome to be strapped with a gun and throw 
 into battle and then secure points on the map. Although, I wish there was more to do in terms of 
 being able to use voice chat and such.
  
  I found the graphics to be fairly good, nothing better than what's out now; especially with Half 
 Life 2, Halo 2 and BATTLEFIELD 2.
  
  It was a great game in its time, and a lot of mods were made for it. So that turns the value up 
 a lot. I found myself playing the modifications for the game more than the original. The controls 
 for the game are pretty basic, although, I wish they had fast switch and such for weapons or switch 
 to a previous weapon. It was a tedious task, but the controls were mediocre.
  
  The sound was alright, nothing all too spectacular.
  
  Overall, the game is a game you've got 
 to atleast have in your collection of war-games, if you're a war-game savvy. It has several aspects 
 like being able to drive, just be a trooper, or fly in a jet. There's several weapons you can have 
 for both sides. The maps are beautifully set and made. And the modification of the game has increased 
 its longevity and will continue to keep the fans interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clearman90
Rating: 1.9
Date: Oct 31, 2004 11:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is so overrated. the graphics suck. everything looks terrible besides the faces. the 
 game is always in slo-mo for some reason, even with a good computer like mine. the guns look like 
 they were made out of legos. the sound is bad also. the weapons sound like someone going peshoo 
 peshoo. the controls are typical, they work. the planes r hard to control though, especially w/o 
 a joystick. online play is a joke, u get like 5 frames per second. this game is way too fake and 
 arcadey. there are a few good things about this game, but they are few. the ticket counter idea 
 works well. flying the plane for the first time was also pretty kool. and the intro music is ok. 
 thats about it. this game is the biggest waste of money. if u want a good ww2 game go play call 
 of duty. this game let me down so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 9, 2004 6:54 am PT
Review:  ... bots are just horrible. The weapons are unrealistic, there is no M1 Garand in the entire game.. 
 but the game is mainly focused on vehicles. You can drive jeeps, APC's, tanks, fighters, bombers 
 as well as ships.. There are numerous vehicles in the game, it's to bad everyone always rushes 
 for them. (Especially the aircraft) . BF:1942 is a fun game. Even for someone like me who likes 
 their WWII games as realistic as possible, i still found a lot of enjoyment in this game. But if 
 your thinking of getting it, you'll need cable. Don't bother playing on a 56K modem. And don't 
 get it for single player, cause single player is just poor. 
  
  The maps are really good, with a lot of variety in each of them. Physics of the vehicles are.. 
 well.. interesting. Ever seen a tank get thrown around like it was a toy? Well fire a bazooka at 
 it and you'll find out. Jeeps are the same, only they move a lot more.
  
  Fun game, if your looking for online action then you definalty should check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makroviruz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 2, 2004 2:33 pm PT
Review:  The singelplayer part is not what this game is about ( but its satisfactory for learning the game 
 and getting "into it" ) , its great satisfaction in gameplaying comes when going on-line with 
 it and finding a server with nice gamers and hopefulla an admin or atleast som server-rules that 
 "kicks" game-disrupters after X-amount of teamkills.
  
  You can enter any Jeep, tank, airplane, boat or just run across the maps. Some are to big for footwalking, 
 so better grab a vehicle...
  The maps are famous battlegrounds from European and Pacific battles with pretty authentic veapons 
 and vihecles.
  The grafics are not outstanding because the lack of detail on the maps (like no grass- straws, 
 its green-spotted ground) , but this doesnt matter a bit when fighting and enjoying the gameplay.
 
  
  The "Mods" for the game are many and a lot of them Great fun aswell. These are some of the most 
 popular ones: Desert Combat, Silent Heroes and forgotten Hope, all are popular on the Net.
  
  DICE made 2 expansion-packs called "The road to Rome" and "Secret Weapons of WW2".
  RtR is 
 pretty good with Italian battles and SWoWW2 is mostly night-maps, but only fun for a while. None 
 of the 2 expansions are vastly played on the Net. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whateve_r
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 25, 2004 7:33 am PT
Review:  The moment i played this game i got hooked into it. Preety much i was very confused on what i have 
 to do. This is basically a Multiplayer game which includes capture the flag type gameplay.
  
  In the beggining i wa preety much trying to figure out what to do but when i understood i played 
 it simply passing each level easily. It does not have gameplay like Mohaa or CoD but has large 
 enviornments where it is required that you take one tank and blow up the other opponents tanks. 
 In the omaha beach level we do not encounter the intensity the Mohaa had but it is just plain reach 
 the top and kill the 3 or 4 guys you encounter over there. 
  
  The one part that i found intereting was you had the option to fly a plane, drive a car, use a 
 boat and a tank. All these are the main thinks we need.
  
  The tank is preety much the only thing that you are going to use to blow up the nemy tanks, The 
 on-foot fighting is preety much baseless because most of the time you are going to face off with 
 a tank and going to get killed eventually. Flying a plane was fun but to drop the bomb on a tank 
 or a particular place was just too hard wheras the AI were able to even drop a bomb on one soldier 
 running. The graphics or normal. But you won't find the game very intense because it isn't. I suggest 
 you buy or rent CoD or Mohaa. 
  
  Adios.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiaor
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 18, 2004 11:37 pm PT
Review:  This game comes out giving a whole new meaning to teamwork. As large groups online must band together 
 to try and take over objectives in a map covered with vechiles, planes and soliders. Both sides 
 are fighting for poisitons ( flags ) . 
  
  The hits home mostly because it's never been done, having all these aspects in one game really 
 makes Battlefield 1942 a busy place to be when things get tense.
  
  Diffently a must by, this has everything that a FPS fan would love to do. It will take some getting 
 used to the controls as theres a variety of things to try out including, mounted guns, jeeps, planes, 
 ships, boats and tanks. So don't miss out on the game everyone is getting in on.
  
  Don't miss out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimsonknight99
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 15, 2004 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Not many other types of games are held to such high standards in my book as First Person Shooters. 
 I am the toughest of critics when it comes to this field of game simply because it happens to be 
 my favorite. I figure I spend more time on an FPS than i do on a RPG any day, just because im a 
 stickler for detail. A few years ago, I cought a conversation at my local Babbages about this new 
 FPS that was coming out in a few months. Never even heard about BF1942 before that day but it did 
 sound promising coming from the point of veiw of this fellow gamer. Went home and played the demo 
 for several weeks, one mulitiplayer level for several weeks, a demo i remind you. I was amazed. 
 Awesome graphics and gameplay is the only was to put this. If you own a pc and you have the money, 
 pick this game up, I promise you wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noidiot232
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 6, 2004 2:35 pm PT
Review:  There is alot to do in this game. The gameplay is awesome and the graphics are very nice if you 
 have a decent video card. The sound is good as well... but having a surround sound does help the 
 gaming experience but that goes for ever game out there. This game will keep you at your computer 
 for hours and you'll be coming back to play. You can definetly buy this game because it's a keeper. 
 But if you're one of those people who doesn't trust your reviewers then at least rent the game. 
 You'll find it worthy of your money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ObeseChipmunk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 5, 2004 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Even though Battlefield 1942 seems a little out of date right now (ignoring cs I suppose) , this 
 game still gives a huge punch of WWII action and interactivity! With many mods to go with the game, 
 it's well worth almost any price!
  
  Graphics: Excellent graphics. The models look quite realistic and the environment is well detailed. 
 Even on my old Pentium III with 128 MB Ram, Radeon 9200, on lowest settings, the game still looks 
 awesome (my old system BTW) . You'll see what i mean once you play it. The explosions in this game 
 however, could have used a little more detail, maybe add in some more colours and effects.
  
  Sound: Sound isn't anything special, sort of bland actually. Again the sounds of explosions 
 are toned down with the other sounds, not giving you a feel for the intensity and loudness of the 
 blast. They could have put some more work into this area.
  
  Gameplay: Sweeeeeeeeeeeet!! The game features different roles you can assume on the field. Choose 
 between a Medic, Engineer, Anti-tank, Scout, or just a Soldier. You can choose between 35 devestating 
 vehicles. From Tanks, to Airplanes, to Ships, to Jeeps, you name it! They got it! An on-line game 
 can support up to 64 players! It feels so great to jump into a fight with 64 players, the war is 
 raging, planes dropping bombs, tanks blasting the hell outta everything, Ships gaurding the waters, 
 squads of soldiers attempting to cross enemy lines. The map are great, you can download any custom 
 maps too! The only downsides are: SIngle player is the exact thing as multi-player, except with 
 cruddy A. I., the weapons are too few and it seems kind of strange watching men jump out of jeeps 
 and suddenly command a ship, then get off and climb aboard a Plane, but hey, that's where all the 
 fun is.
  
  Conclusion: I would definetly advise you to BF 1942. You can now get it really cheap and it's well 
 worth the money. With a few small downsides, BF 1942 is a game for any FPS fanatic. 
  
  *NOTE* Or, it would be a better idea to save your money for Battlfield 2 coming in March 2005. 
 BF2 has over 100 players, a new engine that enables destructive environments, and even better graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodoo2k3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 30, 2004 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 stands on new ground. Where no game has gone before. 64 players per server make 
 the battles as close to real as ever before. 
  
  Although, it's still way off, with people running around jumping in and out of planes, tanks, jeeps, 
 etc. it feels a lot more unrealistic than other games in the genre. But to be as fun as it is. 
 It's necessary. 
  
  There are plenty of maps and next to Half-Life it has the best mod community for a game. Dozens 
 upon dozens of maps with plenty of great mods. Some are bad, but you have to dig through the dirt 
 to find the gold. Games like Desert Combat and Eve of Destruction take the game in new places and 
 make it instantly replayable. 
  
  Although not all is well with BF. There are some problems like the TKers and jerks online. This 
 is in every game and vote kick is useful. Admins can't be as cruel and abusive as in Counter-Strike 
 but with such a large community, there are a good number of jerks on there. 
  
  Also, these jerks like to exploit glitches and use them to their advantage, and some even like 
 to get cheats. Even with an anti-cheat system, cheatersare ablee to find a way through and hack 
 up your game. 
  
  The game also is meant to be a tactical game but people ahve such a craving for vehicles and mayhem 
 that no one really forms strategies or carries them out. It's just a melee attack where everyone 
 shooting in every direction. It's frustrating at times. 
  
  But on the technical side, the patches have fixed most problems, although the game still lags on 
 large servers because of the huge amount of players and the over-sized maps. 
  
  Overall, with tons of mods, great gameplay. I mean who wouldn't want to drive a tank, plane and 
 jeep to capture a base all in one run? It's clean and simple fun. The inevitable problems online 
 with player conflicts and some major frame-rate issues drag the game down but it remains an outstanding 
 online epic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2004 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Amazing, Fun, Never Dull... theres so many ways to explain this game!. The game it's self is great, 
 graphics that will run on low end comps, sound is great. Fun gameplay and best of all... Perfect 
 multiplayer!. Well where to start, The games single player is ok, it's good to beat it so that 
 you learn the maps and controls of the game. The multiplayer is the big thing here, it's so addicting 
 that it's easy to lose hours and hours of your day playing it. Mod's like Desert combat made this 
 game even better, allowing you to fly helicopters, drive hummers everything!. It's still one of 
 the most played games online. Perfection indeed!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent_Killer12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 24, 2004 4:57 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion Battlefield 1942 is one of EAs finniest. The game its self is breath taking. The 
 game play is amazing. It makes you feel like youre actually at D-day. Some of the maps that are 
 in the game are Wake Island, Iwo Jima, Stalingrad, Bocage and thats just a few. The single played 
 in Battlefield 1942 is fun, but that is nothing compared to the multi-player. In the multi-player 
 in Battle Field 1942 you can hold up to 32 people in a server. There is nothing better than you 
 flying an airplane behind enemy lines and jumping out and being able to use a parachute! The parachute 
 is a nice little addition to battlefield 1942. Speaking of additions there are many mod additions 
 that can be very enjoyable as well. One of my favorite mods is Desert Combat. Desert Combat is 
 an amazing modern day First person shooter mod. Desert Combat changes every thing from character 
 to weapon. So instead of being on the Japanese side, you would be on the Iraqi side. Instead of 
 having a M1 Garand rifle you would have a M-16 tactical rifle. In Desert Combat there is a complete 
 new line of vehicles. Say good bye to those jeeps because now youre riding in a Humvie. There 
 are Helicopters and even Jets in Desert Combat. There is an addition to the maps, but it also keeps 
 the old WW2 battles. So if I want to move into D-day with the coalition or if I want to assault 
 with the Iraqis in Desert shield it can happen. There are many more mods than desert combat but 
 truly BattleField 1942 is a game that keeps on giving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VinnoT
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 28, 2004 3:22 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 is a game that will live long in my memory. As the first game which made it simple 
 and fun, to blow the hell out of other people online, from any one of my desired WW2 weaponry.
 
  Up to 32 players can battle it out as either the Germans, Russians, American or Japanese on a 
 variety of different maps based on actual battles. Iwo Jima, Wake Island, Stalingrad to name a 
 few.
  The graphics on this game arent spectacular, they are just averagly good. Nothing really makes 
 you sit back in awe. Except for the gameplay...
  ... which is very good in some areas, but very bad in others. The good thing is the general gameplay, 
 the way the game feels and flows, and the true sense of battle, as you're hiding behind sandbags 
 with planes flying low in the sky strafing targets and tanks rumbling past. The bad things are 
 the fact that the game isnt really *that* realistic, it takes about 15-20 bullets to kill a man, 
 an anti tank rocket wont kill a man in one shot.. and also, it seems that after a certain range, 
 bullets just *stop*. Yes, wierd, maybe this is to improve the online play and reduce lag, I do 
 not know.. but what I do know, is that this game is well worth a good play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swamination
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2004 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 manages to capture aspects of the World War II era and combine them with excellent 
 fast-paced action. The gameplay, centered primarily around capturing flags (spawn points) , allows 
 for fighting on foot, tread, sea, or air. Each map tries to center around actual World War II locations, 
 including beach assaults, air battles, and naval tactics. The mechanics are fairly solid and consistent; 
 if you shoot first, you usually win. The polygon counts can get fairly high, so many of the maps 
 are very open, with a tree here or there. There are a few exploits that may or may not have been 
 fixed, such as parachuting from buildings, entering a plane that is already in flight (saw a guy 
 enter the 2nd seat of a plane zipping by him at the top of a hill) , etc, but none of them deter 
 gameplay much. EA took a long time to get the game to the point where it was viably stable, so 
 be sure you have the latest update installed for the game.
  
  The graphics engine has some limitations, yet is textured beautifully. The designers did a great 
 job of utilizing the engine's abilities. I was blown away when I first walked up to the fighter 
 planes and saw the detail on the shell! The game also plays well with multiple levels of FSAA and 
 AF, with only a few issues with text corruption.
  
  The audio lends to a greater level of enjoyment, supporting surround features and large numbers 
 of channels. You hear bullets ricocheting off armor, shots whizzing by your head, creaking and 
 screeching of tanks as they thunder by, and bomb whistles as they plummet from above. You MUST 
 play this game with surround sound at least once!
  
  If you do not have this game, it is STILL worth a pickup. It is a best value for those who have 
 machines that cannot run some of the latest games, as you will still get a GREAT treat in this 
 package. There are two expansions, Road To Rome, and Secret Weapons, so you should have plenty 
 of levels and vehicles to wage war in. Be sure to check the RECOMMENDED specs before purchasing; 
 the minimum specs really should be ignored. If you match close to the recommended specs, then spend 
 the $30 or so for the packaged collection set and get going. There are MANY players still online 
 to get into dogfights with, and the single player has many missions to keep you busy for a while.
 
  
  At this writing, I already own Battlefield Vietnam. I STILL go back and play 1942 from time to 
 time. There is a free mod (add-on) planned by EA that will introduce some WWII content into BFV, 
 but it will remain to be seen if it will eclipse the control and speed of 1942. Like I said, lower-end 
 machines that match the specs for 1942 should pick it up for a GREAT value. I played this game 
 for MONTHS, and never got tired of it. As the product stands, I appreciate features of it better 
 than its sequel, judging the sequel by this game as a standard. Have fun, and remember not to get 
 angry if you are the Allies on Omaha Beach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HighStakes-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 21, 2004 1:17 am PT
Review:  BF 1942 is a huge game. This game is desinged for the online play, because you can have up to 64 
 players going against each other. The game it self does not have a central story, but it is based 
 around some of the key battles during WWII. You main objective is to finish off the enemy and you 
 pretty much win these "battles". As far as gameplay goes, its really simple... you can control all 
 sorts of vehicles and they pretty much have similar controls. You start a battle by choosing the 
 type of infantry you want to be (medical, sniper, engineer.. etc) , and all of those types have a 
 specialty which comes in handy during a battle. You also have the power to control all sorts of 
 vehicles in the game, but the gameplay is so well balanced that having a vehicle can be good or 
 a bad thing. As i mentioned before, this is a huge game, and you must have a powerful computer 
 to run this game at a smooth frame rate. The levels are just huge, and there are plenty of actios 
 going on... and thats why you need to either tone down on the graphics, or have a decent machine. 
 
  I played this lot more than I played Quake 3 or UT 2004... because this is a really fun game. If 
 there is a good game going on online, then its really easy to lose track of time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewierdone2000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 18, 2004 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best FPS of all time. The main reason is that the whole package is so 
 intense it becomes overwealming. This relys on typical FPS mechanics, that we all know and love, 
 but also has something to give it that extra spice. There are several different classes, which 
 allow for a true "team" experence. While u can go rambo, you're better off going with a small sqad. 
 The graphics, arnt the best, but dont really take the game down by any means. There is occasional 
 clipping, as well as some other issues, but nothing but minor problems. The sound could be better, 
 as each weapon seems a little under done, and dosnt really make you feel like your harnissing the 
 power of a killing machine. The vehicals sounds are amazing, in that, you hear the engines start 
 up, or die when you are forced to bail. The gameplay is where this game really thrives, it allows 
 people to really cooperate with eachother. For example. To get to point B from point A, rather 
 then walking, you ask a friendsly pilot to give a lift to you and your squad. Any way, this game 
 is trully amazing, and one of the "must haves" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVA09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2004 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I had heard so much about this game and wasn't sure. I got it when it came with my graphics card 
 and found that it is a very exciting and compelling game. First off the gameplay is rock solid 
 it is very exciting and what I like best about it is that you can control a large number of vehicles 
 over vast terrain. Scond the graphics are pretty impressive and you don't need a top of the line 
 computer to play it. Third the sound is awesome the weapons sound excellent and true to reality. 
 Last the game is extremely valuable. If your ever bored just get online and jump into game and 
 all of the sudden your having fun. It never gets boring because nobody does the same thing. Warning! 
 the single player sucks because of the ai do not play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyrids
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 6, 2004 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game a few years ago after playing the MP demo for a few months with my friend. We 
 both loved it to death and later become heavily involved in the Desert Combat mod that has become 
 wildly popular within the past year. This game introduced a very innovative type of gameplay that 
 was not very common before the Battlefield series, and as a result it has become one of the most 
 popular games ever. 
  
  The fact that you have the freedom to do whatever you want to achieve your objective makes many 
 players excited. You can choose to fly a plane to the enemies base, or attack it by the ground 
 using a tank. Or maybe you would like to snipe from the distance using a World War II era sniper 
 rifle. All of these things are on your list of options. The gameplay is smooth and flying planes 
 and driving vehicles feels very natural once you become accustomed to the controls. Many people 
 have purchased joysticks in order to fly the planes but many veterans prefer the keyboard and mouse 
 setup. 
  
  The graphics are very polished and especially on high settings this game really shows off it's 
 outstanding graphics engine. character models are smooth and animations are fluent. Textures looks 
 somewhat bland once you get up and close to them but that doesn't matter much in the heat of battle.
 
  
  The Battlefield series has become notorious for having sound issues with many makes and brands 
 of sound cards, and as a result I've given the sound section a lower score than the rest of the 
 game. It took EA several months to fix sound glitches and during that time period I had to live 
 with scratches and skips in nearly all of the game's sounds.
  
  Overall this game is a must-by for all multiplayer gaming enthusiasts. It has become on of the 
 worlds most popular online games and for a good reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivar27
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 14, 2004 10:35 am PT
Review:  Bought this game on an impulse because the box looked very good to me :)
  
  Gameplay: 9
  As soon as you go online with this game you see it's something completely new and never seen before. 
 You can walk, you can drive a jeep, a tank, an artillery vehicle, you can get in a submarine or 
 on a battleship or you can get into a big bomber plane or a smaller fighter plane. And your friends 
 can join you in the same vehicle and help out. It's a freedom and variety never before seen. The 
 offline gameplay is kinda crap because of the bad AI but the game is obviousy designed to be played 
 online.
  
  Graphics: 9
  The game looks like it should look. Crisp textures, clear water and a lot of action on the screen 
 at once. You can be riding around shooting at people from your tank while above you you see planes 
 fighting it out and in the distance a ship is getting bombed. All that under a nice tropical sunshine 
 with waving palm trees. In other words: the graphics are great.
  
  Sound: 9
  A lot of war games have sounds that don't sound realistic. Even though I never heard a tank fire 
 a shot, it sounds right in this game. Making a very steep dive in your plane will let you hear 
 the wind howling by and you can hear if you hit the target when dropping your bombs by the sound 
 of the explosion. Great sound.
  
  Value: 10
  It's an online game with a lot of very good mods made for it like desert combat. You can always 
 find a server with people on it 24/7 and joining a clan will extend the playtime by hundreds of 
 hours. Great value.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 6
  Very low compared to the other scores, but that is because there is also quite a bit wrong with 
 this game. First off it doesnt feel quite right when walking. You'll constantly find yourself looking 
 for a vehicle to get in as fast as possible because on foot it's no fun. The high system requirments 
 also are a pain in the proverbial ass because my game often started lagging like hell when in mid-air..
 
  
  Overall score: 8.3
  It's a great game and a lot of fun, if you have the right pc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody_allen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2004 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Back in the era before 2002, vehicular/first-person shooter hybrids were pretty rare. Almost unheard 
 of. It used to be that the only good games that featured this were the Tribes series of games. 
 another game that tried to do this before Tribes was a game called Rock. Never heard of it? Well, 
 of course. It was canned. But, when EA released Battlefield 1942 in 2002, the gaming world was 
 changed.
  
  As I already stated, Tribes already was a great game that set the foundation for Battlefield. Battlefield 
 is pretty similar to this game with one huge exeption: It's way easier to play. Tribes breathed 
 strategy, complexity, and complication. Not nessesarily a bad thing, but it was definitely not 
 for pick-up and play gamers, casual gamers, or anyone who wasn't raised to play a game over-and-over 
 again to learn everything featured in the first .0000000001 of a level, and then do it to another 
 .0000000001 of the same level. Battlefield is WAY easier to get into, without losing too much strategy. 
 For one, wheras you needed a good number of players to get a bomber moving smoothly, you only need 
 one in this game (although two gunners are a good idea) . Also, although there are five classes 
 rather than three, its easier to become accustomed to the strengths and weaknesses and functions 
 of each class. The assault troop is the best for infantry combat do to their strong weopnry and 
 ammo advantage. Medics are good for keeping troops on the frontlines longer before death, and are 
 also good in mid- to-close-quarters combat because of their SMG's. Engineers aren't incredible 
 fighters, but they can lay traps for unsuspecting vehicles and repair friendly ones. Scouts can 
 snipe and spot for artillery. Anti-tank troops do just what you think they do. The gameplay feels 
 different for each. The vehicles feel different as well. You got tanks, cars, subs, boats, planes, 
 stationary guns, etc. Almost all of it is polished and balanced to a shine (but get a joystick for 
 the planes) . The single-play is above-average, but unless you have a patch, the AI seems to hop 
 in and out of machine gun nests and mobile-guns. The multi-play is near perfect in every way. There 
 is some lag, but it is fairly minor, and this can be easily patched.
  
  In the end, Battlefield 1942 is a classic. I have no dobt in my mind it will go down in gaming 
 history as an amazing achievement of design, execution, and programming. It also features good 
 visuals for both the models and the environments. The sound effects are also superb, though they 
 occasionally refuse to come up. This is right up there with Counter-Strike, Return to Castle Wolfenstein, 
 and Americas Army as one of the greatest multiplayer shooters ever made. Its that good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikest21
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 3, 2003 8:51 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the most over rated game I have ever seen. Some may disagree but how this would 
 ever win Game of the Year awards is news to me. This game, to me, just seems like Medal of Honor: 
 Allied Assault with vehicles. Vehicles is the one thing this game has, the planes are by far the 
 high point of the game. The Normandy mission (which is what almost everyone I can think of thinks 
 has to be the most fun in a WWII game) is nothing special either. This is clearly a multiplayer 
 game. Even online with 64 people and no lag still isn't very good. I would never have paid the 
 $40 I did if i knew that it was going to turn out like this. 
  
  Bottom Line: Buy this game only if its less then $50 in these situations: you love WWII games, 
 you need a good multiplayer game, or the idea of flying a plane in WWII is just too good to resist. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehTerlo
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2003 12:34 pm PT
Review:  BEST GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED! even better than empire earth, Unreal Tournament 2003, Command and 
 conquer generals, age of mythology, mafia, half life, the sims. Tons of games but I don't want 
 to waste your time telling you all of them. This game was quite odd until the 1.4 patch came out. 
 Now I play it every day! This game is the best WW2 game I have ever played and in the category 
 for best game ever (my opinion) ! Wonderful s****ing abilites so watch out for me. Buy this game 
 cause I got it first day it came out and loved it. Make sure you download the patch. Also download 
 the desert combat mod 0.38d if you don't already have it. LOve this game sooooooooooooo much. It 
 earns a perfect 10/10 which I don't often give! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chutney_Ferret
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 7, 2003 5:42 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this for nine months, and I must play it more than ever now. I have never got 
 this much long-term enjoyment from a computer game and cannot reccomend it highly enough, providing 
 you have a broadband connection. Make no mistakes, this is a multiplayer only game so don't buy 
 it unless you're going to play it online. When you do, you'll be amazed by the sheer size of the 
 maps, the distance you can see, the variety of vehicles and weapons, the potential for tactics 
 and really being able to sway a battle with a few teammates and the endless replayability. 
  
  Buy it now and you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtefft
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2003 9:04 pm PT
Review:  I love this period in history, and have enjoyed this game for the past few days. I am looking forward 
 to the continual updates and to purchasing the expansion. My hope is that all the major battles 
 of the war and the various theaters in which they occurred will be reproduced in many more expansions 
 in the future. Both the single player and multi-player aspects of the game are equally fun and 
 engrossing. The AI is great in single player, but it is a lot of fun to play online with people 
 all over the world.
  
  I really appreciate the realism and history that was packed into this game. I am hopeful that future 
 expansions will follow the original games lead.
  
  Outstanding gaming experience. Great job. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
