-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlezone
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/battlezone/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.4
Critic Score: 8.9, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 821 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Feb 28, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
What really makes Battlezone so special is the way it blends the adrenaline rush of first-person 
 action games with the strategy and resource management of Red Alert. 

 Some folks might accuse Activision of duplicity for naming its newest action/strategy game Battlezone, 
 but aside from the fact that both games put you in the cockpit of a tank, it has about as much 
 in common with that arcade classic as an IBM PC Jr. does with a full-blown Pentium gaming system. 
   

 Yep, anyone who picks up this Battlezone expecting a graphics-heavy retread of the original will 
 be in for a big surprise - but luckily it'll be an extremely pleasant one. Simply put, Battlezone 
 is one of the best strategy games I've wrapped my brain (and trigger finger) around in a long, 
 long time. And I've got three words for anyone who does complain that Activision stuck the Battlezone 
 name on this product just to boost sales: get over it. Hell, I wouldn't care if they'd somehow 
 managed to call it Super Mario's Metal Mayhem if it meant more people would be tempted to check 
 it out.  

 Battlezone has the look and feel of a futuristic shooter, but it's actually set in the late 1960s 
 and early 1970s. Seems that a meteor shower a decade earlier left behind some other-worldly stuff 
 called "bio-metal" - the product of an alien technology that can not only be used to craft weapons 
 of incredible power and durability, but which also seems to be sentient. (Now that would have made 
 a decent Pet Rock!) Uncle Sam wants to use the bio-metal to bring the Cold War to an end, but - 
 you guessed it - the Soviets found out about the bio-metal and are just as desperate as you to 
 get their Commie hands on it first.  

 The quest for the miracle metal leads both nations into space to track down the mother lode - and 
 hopefully uncover any other alien leftovers that could lead to ultimate victory. Beginning on the 
 Earth's moon, the Americans and Russkies start to unravel the mysteries behind the bio-metal, leading 
 to a race that takes them from Earth's closest planetary neighbors to the harsh worlds of Jupiter's 
 moons Io and Titan - and to the realization that they must unite to defeat a force greater than 
 both of them. It's a pretty good setup, if for no other reason than it means you get to enjoy seven 
 types of terrain, each with its own distinct look and particular obstacles and hazards. And the 
 narration between missions gives the whole affair a decidedly personal touch (though it does get 
 a bit too melodramatic now and then) .  

 But what really makes Battlezone so special is the way it blends the adrenaline rush of first-person 
 action games with the strategy and resource management of Red Alert (or one of its imitators) . 
 Sure, you'll see plenty of combat from the cockpit of your tank, but personal victories mean little 
 or nothing in the grand scheme of things. At the same time that you're on the lookout for roving 
 Russians, you must launch an extensive construction program, starting by guiding your Recycler 
 to a geyser where it can draw power. The Recycler converts scrap metal (collected by Scavengers) 
 that's used to build everything from tanks and turrets to factories, armories, and power plants. 
 Once you've manufactured offensive and defensive weapons, they fall under your command: Although 
 the game's AI means they'll always attack nearby enemies, you'll need to give them specific assignments 
 to maximize their firepower and range. If that weren't enough, you can jump from your basic tank 
 and hunt down enemies with your plasma rifle or take control of almost any vehicle - from the utilitarian 
 tug to the havoc-wreaking bomber.  

 Not every mission involves constant construction. One mission is a solo outing where you must use 
 a sniper rifle to kill a Soviet pilot and commandeer his ship for a spy run; another actually penalizes 
 you for overbuilding by allowing the Soviets to reach the objective first if you waste time amassing 
 a heavy firepower advantage. For the most part, however, you can expect to be constantly cranking 
 out various units and structures while blasting enemy forces into proverbial space dust.  

 Having this much control laid at your feet could be a major pain in a game using a first-person 
 perspective, but the Battlezone interface is so well designed that after just a few hours of play 
 it's as comfortable as a pair of old jeans. With just a little practice you'll be able to zoom 
 toward an objective while sending reinforcements to a trouble spot and ordering your Recycler and 
 Factory to keep pumping out units.  

 It's hard not to compare the resource-management and construction facets of Battlezone to those 
 in the Command &amp; Conquer games: Recyclers have pretty much the same role as Mobile Construction 
 Vehicles, Scavengers work like Harvesters, Factories produce offensive and defensive units the 
 way War Factories do - well, you get the idea. But hey, if you're gonna nick an idea or two from 
 somewhere, those C&amp; C games are a pretty good place to start, especially if you're going to 
 give the genre a whole new feel with a first-person interface. And the arsenal of weapons in Battlezone 
 puts it in a class of its own. Howitzers can rain death on enemy bases, targeting guns "paint" 
 a target so it can be tracked by guided missiles, Day Wrecker missiles detonate just above ground 
 level with the power of a blockbuster bomb, magnetic "curtains" provide temporary invulnerability 
 - all these and more lead to a huge number of tactical possibilities.   

 It's been said that you eat with your eyes, and if that cliche holds true for games then Battlezone 
 is a tempting treat indeed. Direct3D support makes for some of the best outdoor terrain and detailed 
 vehicles I've seen in a game, and it's topped off with special effects such as fiery explosions, 
 missile trails, thick clouds of haze, lightning bolts, and other visual goodies. This stuff isn't 
 just eye candy, either; it all works together to create an intensely immersive experience. There 
 are a few graphical glitches - white dots where textures weren't connected and a rapidly jerking 
 plasma rifle are notable examples - but they were so few and far between I hardly gave them a second 
 thought.  

 Not counting the tutorials, the single-player game includes 27 missions - 17 played from the US 
 side and eight as the Soviets. Figuring that most gamers will want to saddle up as the good guys, 
 the American missions progress so that you're given more to do as you get acquainted with the game; 
 the Russian missions are supposedly aimed at "experienced" commanders, but by the time you've played 
 four or five US missions you should be able to handle at least some of the Soviet outings.  

 There are a couple of cupcake missions, but they're compensated for by the inclusion of some real 
 bears. The charm of the mission design, though, is that there's rarely a single "right" way to 
 do things: Several options are open to you, giving you the chance to choose the one that best suits 
 your skills and style of play.   

 And should you tire of the single-player missions, Battlezone's got some extremely intense multiplayer 
 options to keep the good feeling going even longer. The strategy mode (which gives you the same 
 type of control as in the single-player game) provides a distinct experience each time out because 
 there are so many approaches each opponent can take. I really didn't expect deathmatch to be as 
 appealing - after all, you just run around and grab power-ups and kill everyone else - but after 
 just a few matches I found myself enjoying it more than I'd thought possible. There's even a map 
 editor to create your own multiplayer arenas.  

 There are two snags: Latency and the fact that you can start games before all players have joined 
 (which gives the early bird a definite advantage in strategy mode) . Some players on Activision's 
 Battlezone server appeared to be completely oblivious to the concept of high latency, resulting 
 in dropped packets (which means vital stuff like missile hits might not be transmitted) , so if 
 you do play on the server, you probably should start a game and only allow players with latencies 
 below 500ms to join.   

 Battlezone is dotted with a few minor blemishes. Perhaps most noticeable is that the AI for friendly 
 units can be a little dicey: Scavengers will sometimes stop their task and park outside Recyclers, 
 for instance, and some offensive units aren't smart enough to follow a Recycler you're relocating 
 if you told them to defend it while it was stationary. There's no way to order a scout or tank 
 to follow a scavenger, tug, or transport unless the unit to be escorted is within your targeting 
 range; there should be a way to assign an escort to any unit regardless of its location.  

 Control can be a bit of a problem for mousers - I couldn't find any way to increase the speed at 
 which I turned left and right using the mouse, and the cursor was a bit floaty for me. Finally, 
 the addition of a coordinate system would allow you to send units anywhere on the map; as it stands, 
 you can only send them to Nav beacons, construction units, or a place you designate with the aiming 
 reticle.  

 So how critical are these problems? I'll put it like this: Ninety percent of the reason I mentioned 
 them is because that's my job, not because they bothered me much when I was playing. And I'm not 
 saying that as a sop to Activision, or anyone else for that matter; I'm saying it because it's 
 the truth.  

 Listen, I see games every day; it's what I do for a living. When I load one up and start raving 
 about it to all my friends after a few hours of play, I know I've got the real deal on my hands 
 - and that's just what Battlezone is. This might be the most perfect blend of two gaming genres 
 since... well, I don't know when.1998 might be only three months old, but it's going to take a 
 lot of effort for someone to crank out a better action/strategy game than Battlezone.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vindigo89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  There are two games that I would love to have made over with new graphics with the exact same gameplay: 
 Battlezone and Age of Empires 2. AoE 2 is without a doubt one of the best games ever and so is 
 Battlezone. I really can't believe that there haven't been made more games like this. Being able 
 to build your forces yourself and then leading them in to battle as one of the units is an incredible 
 feeling. Battlezone appeals to both the strategist and action-lover in me. The fact that no other 
 games seems to have this unique mix speaks volumes of this game. There are a few flaws, like weak 
 AI pathfinding and slightly clumsy manouvering, but it's something that you get used to and can 
 take steps to prevent. Battlezone one of the best games I've ever played and I would recommend 
 it to anyone remotely interested in computer games or futuristic warfare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTR_IceBerg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I still have my original full-sized (back when game boxes were still big) Battlezone box. I have 
 tossed many, many other game boxes. But in respect for the sheer brilliance of the game for it's 
 time... I can not bring myself to throw that box out. It sits prominently next to my WoW collector's 
 edition box.
  
  And I echo what has already been said:
  "someone needs to utilize this concept in a modern game"
  
  I guarantee it will be a blockbuster 
 if they get all the key elements right.
  
  I played through Battlezone not more than 2 years back and still loved it. That is a huge compliment 
 and testament to a game that was at the time 6 years old.
  
  Hall of Fame game for sure!
  
  - Ice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diashi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  While to a modern gamer the graphics and engine and things may seem outdated we must remember that 
 it was made quite a while back. However regardless of how it may seem on the surface it still ranks 
 among the better games I have ever played. While this Battlezone does suffer from a (by today's 
 standards) small unit limit it has little to no other problems. It was of a genre that sadly seems 
 to have been dropped which combined the RTS, FPS, and Simulation genre's into one. When coupled 
 with the excellent control interface developed for it the Battlezone franchise can easily hold 
 its own still in entertainment value.
  
  The missions will place you planet hopping throughout the solar system with a nice sci fi story 
 to drive them on, much of the story is told from your character via narrations during loading screens. 
 Of course by now the story may seem a tad cliche due to all the sci fi movies between then and 
 now with seemingly similar plots its still its own story.
  
  I would highly recommend this game to anyone looking for a fun new experience, and who is willing 
 to overlook things like lack of advanced next gen graphics and engines. I would also recommend 
 continuing the franchise to battlezone 2, it features an even more streamlined interface and a 
 higher unit limit for anyone who might not like that about this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  Battle zone 
  
  When I heard about this game I was thinking that battle zone was a battle in the middle of a field 
 not on other planets with space craft. 
  
  The game play
  
  You are a leader of a fleet and you have to build a base and protect it from attack by your enemies 
 and the ship that creates your scout ship that pick up metal so you can have a fleet of ships is 
 called the recycler and this uses a pocket of steam or something to get its power to build the 
 scouting ships, it also can create ammo and repair objects so you can repair and re arm your ship.
 
  
  The graphic
  
  The graphic are good but could be better but they were very good for the time, the graphics 
 
  
  The sound 
  
  The sound is excellent and my favourite sound is one of the guns and it sounds like music pop music 
 I think and when I played that mission I just kept firing the gun and making music but it depletes 
 your ammo supply but there is an ammo station, and there you are automatically re-armed when you 
 are near the station. 
  
  I know this game is really old but I say that it is still very good and the best one I have seen 
 so I would buy this game again if I could find it and re install and play the game again. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doctor_Mo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Battlezone was a very innovative game for its time. I received this game as a part of a value title 
 for a laptop purchase back in '99. Needless to say, the game was a pleasant surprise. 
  
  Your goal is to manage a variety of missions in real time, many of which consist of establishing 
 a base, harvesting resources, developing units, and accomplishing a goal. Sounds like your run 
 of the mill RTS. But the twist is that you are in the midst of the battle. You find yourself piloting 
 one of the vehicles that you created, setting up sentry guns along your perimeter, even exiting 
 a vehicle to take sniper shots at conveys and other soldiers who have abandoned their gunships. 
 It's a unique idea (for the time) and it translates very well into gameplay.
  
  The storyline of the game is all but standard science fiction fare: an artifact of unknown origin 
 is found, said artifact releases power, two forces fight over power, 3rd superpower race associated 
 with the artifact appears on the scene to wreak havoc on all. 
  
  In the end, Battlezone was a neat throwback to the title from which the concept originated. A solid 
 game that resulted in many hours of engagement and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanielDead
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  When this game came out it was a masterpeice for it's time. It was completely revolutionary, combining 
 two genres (shooter and RTS) that had never been combined before (and have never been as succesfully 
 combined since) . Although the graphics are dated, the sheer concept and amazing gameplay of this 
 game make it timeless. Now if only some big next gen company would pick this up and remake it *drool*. 
 
  For those who don't know much about this game, it's basically a vehicle shooter game combined with 
 an RTS game. You drive around in difference hover tanks on different planets while from a first 
 person perspective while commanding a base and army. The typical RTS elements of resource gathering 
 and army/base building are extremely smooth and easy to perform, and the battles are fun and interesting. 
 
  Anyways amazing game. Keep in mind it IS old and therefore the graphics aren't the best, but if 
 you are able to look past that, give it a try, you might be surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wink183AFI
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  Great game. One of my first ever. This is probley the game the got me hooked on gaming. Get this 
 game, its worth revisting some historic gaming for sure! If you can find it that is! v v v v v 
 v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v 
 v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman888
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 14, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Despite the tremendous success enjoyed by the latest RTS and FPS, there remains a gaping hole not 
 covered by any of the more successful games in either of these two categories. Namely, players 
 are polarized into restrictive POV grunts and armchair generals. On the one side, war is an immersive 
 but limited experience where you know a lot more is going on in the big picture but you can never 
 truly appreciate it. On the other hand, you see and do so much at once that one soldier or even 
 one engagement where dozens of units perish blurs into another. Neither offers a complete experience.
 
  
  Battlezone is the first successful attempt at briding the gap between the trenches and the command 
 center. By starting from a foot soldier who face the constant reality of death and working your 
 way up, you can appreciate the harshness of war when you at last sit in your com center and send 
 a squad of tanks on a suicide mission. More importantly, even then you realize that as a commander 
 in the field, the enemy can and frequently do seek out and kill you. Yet as you sit in your tank 
 watching buildings spring up around you and fresh comrades roll out of the barracks, you draw strength 
 from knowing war is fought in teams, with someone competent commanding and managing logistics, 
 and you are not alone.
  
  There is a reason why all militaries of the world promote academy graduates directly onto the battlefield 
 and not the C&amp; C. It is what the ideal war game should be. Unfortunately, such a game requires 
 technology and effort far beyond what any game developer is willing to put into a game. It is in 
 effect three games: a RTS, a FPS, and a simulation (should vehicle be involved) with the added 
 complexity of seamless transition between states.
  BF is working toward that goal from the FPS end. Some RTS are working from the other direction 
 with veterancy and persistent units. However, Battlezone took the first and boldest step to remind 
 us what the final product has at its core: a multi-level, open-ended combat experience where each 
 player has a role yet is not restricted and death grips the lowest grunt to the highest commander. 
 In a nuclear war, not even the president of the United States is immune. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angrycobra
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 12:52 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you can take out of the closet after years of not playing it, throw 
 it into the computer, and be taken back years and enjoy hours of great game play and entertainment.
 
  
  This is a fantastic title and is one that every gamer should have in his library. It is relatively 
 short game compared to some of the monstrous games that are out there today, but in its day it 
 was unique and nothing else was like it on the market. When I first played it I had to use the 
 lower display settings live 800x600. Now that the newer computer have more power, you can play 
 it at the highest settings and see what you were missing all these years with great graphics that 
 even hold up to this day.
  
  Great fun. A classic that stands the test of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pheonix0303
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 13, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Battlezone is a first-person basebuilder game. Almost uniqe in that aspect, though the graphics 
 are shoddy. In the game you have a limit of 10 millitary units (Tanks, scouters, ect) , Utility 
 units (scavenger units and tugs) and finaly the defensive units (Turrets and Howitisers) . The game 
 takes place in a initial war between the Americans and the Soviets but eventualy the Soviets find 
 alien relics and create a machene that becomes self aware and destroyes the soviets and you have 
 to stop them from killing everything. A great point in the game is the fact that you can customise 
 your units with armorys creating weapons and specials to fit into your vehicles hardpoints (cannon, 
 rocket, mortar or special) and the fact that even the weakest vehicle (scout) can kill a walker 
 (most expensive) if it is armed properly. You can build buldings but most of these buildings are 
 not necsicary and are waste of recources. Also in this game the recouces get rare and hard to get 
 but unlike most base builder games every unit drops half it's value in scraps wictch can then be 
 gathered by your scavangers. This game was great for it's time but now is outdated by many games. 
 Overall the game is a good game, decent gameplay ecept for the limit of units and shoddy graphics. 
 THis game is around the $10 mark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Battlezone may be considered as a game that is contemporary now by most of our standards, but it 
 is still none the less a highly addictive and fun game that focuses on action packed designes. 
 The game is just what the cover of the box shows, you are in commend of the tank that you are driving 
 agnd you are going to be using it to destroy enemies of all different types. The first and most 
 distinguishing part about this game is that it is a first person and highly action packed shooter 
 where it is your job to run around destroying the opposition before they get a chance to destroy 
 you. The opposition may be a tad hard in the beginning, but once you get the hang of the game things 
 become quite easy to deal with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marco1402
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2005 8:15 am PT
Review:  For me this game is the classics of all classics. I played it at a time when i haven't played a 
 lot of games yet. And i'm now at a moment that i think i have played too much games. But there 
 are a few games you'll never forget because they made you want to play games in the first place. 
 This is the best one i can imagine. 
  
  Why is it so good? First of all the graphics. They are sober to a level where you have to use your 
 imagination. It tickles your imagination just in the right way, by giving you the atmosphere, and 
 making you fill in the details. This goes unnoticed (you never miss anything) and made the game 
 look top notch for its time. It helpes of course that the surface of the moon and planets are very 
 undetailed, but they did miraculously make you feel on the surface of them.
  
  Second, the story. From the first scene of the game, where an american soldier memorizes and contemplates 
 on the situation he and his buddies are in, you get sucked into the story. After this scene you 
 get dropped next to some vehicles on the desolate looking surface of the moon. Right from the start 
 you feel that the enemy could come from every angle and you want to protect your base. 
  The russian-american conflict was a bit over-used in games and movies to my opinion but the story 
 has enough twists to make you want to know what comes next. Foremost the overall atmosphere did 
 the job for me. There is a kind of existential loneliness willing or unwillingly put into the game.
 
  
  Third, the gameplay. I have played al lot of stategy games, and some are better in compexity and 
 variety than battlezone, but never have i come by a game that had the control and feeling of mastering 
 a situation in real time and struggling to hold off an enemy. Also have i never played a game in 
 which my strategic action made all the difference. The posibilities and tools where kept simple 
 which resulted in a great feeling of self accomplishment when you ended the battle succesfull. 
 Some games where as succesfull in this as battlezone but battlezone sure was the first one. The 
 firstperson view during battle (which sadly i've almost never seen in later strategy games) made 
 it a realilistic experience and had my adrenaline level pumped up.
  
  When you play the tutorial all of this doesn't shine trough yet, and maybe you can get the feeling 
 that's this must be a difficult, boring or not so fun game. You just have to get through this.
 
  
  All i have left to say is: When are game developers starting to make more games like this?
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnathan111
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 25, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect in my eyes. The storyline is awsom and the gameplay is a mix of hardcore action 
 with a strategy element. The day this game came out I didn't get it but reveiws and comments on 
 the net, on Tv and in magazines was heart stopping. From then I loved this game and never stopped 
 playing it. You should play this game it still beats back some of the RTS games of today. And oh 
 yea the sounds in this game is just jaw droping. the wepons in the game was real good loking also. 
 So go out and buy or rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinoff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2005 1:03 am PT
Review:  Not to be confused with the famous vectorgraphics title of the Atari days, this version of Battlezone 
 delivers an experience unable to be compared to any other title ever, and is an absolute must-play 
 for anybody with an itch for solid action titles on their PC. It near-flawlessly combines intense 
 vehicle-based action with aspects of real-time strategy into a form of gaming that is both fresh, 
 challenging, and certainly not to be missed.
  
  The original and engaging storyline is one of the reasons Battlezone is such a stellar title. Battlezone 
 places you in the role of a hotshot commander for either the United States or Soviet Union in series 
 of secret operations taking place at the height of the Cold War. You see, while politics reigns 
 on Earth, the war is boiling out in space as both sides vie for control of a rare mineral known 
 as biometal, capable of building weapons which could easily turn the balance of the war to one 
 of the two sides should one side gain complete control of the technology. Throughout the game you'll 
 visit plenty of exotic solar system locales including the Moon, Venus, Mars, Europa, and Io, each 
 one well-designed and varied in their presentation. The two campaigns are very smartly designed 
 in the way that the American campaign is far larger in scope with over twenty missions which take 
 you through pseudo-tutorials and later plenty of action. The Soviet campaign is much more difficult, 
 but still well-balanced so as to never prove impossible. Adding to the game's quality is a huge 
 helping of at least moderately well-done voiceovers.
  
  But enough with the story, lets get to the real meat of Battlezone: the gameplay. You are placed 
 firmly in the cockpit (or on foot) of one of a variety of deadly warmachines each with their own 
 unique weapons systems and advantages. Unfortunately for you, however, there is little room for 
 lone wolf heroics in this war, and it is here that the strategy aspect arises. Besides making sure 
 your own hide stays safe in hostile warzones, you are tasked with managing the survival of your 
 base, including recyclers and factories to produce units, scavengers to gather valuable biometal, 
 defensive units like turrets and minelayers, and of course whatever wingmates you want to lead 
 into battle when the time finally comes to meet the enemy. The instantaneous transition from combat 
 to base-building could be a daunting task, but the game pulls it off well, using a simple numerical 
 interface to issue build and move orders to whatever units all the while still being able to move 
 around and take on the enemy.
  
  Visually Battlezone is simply stunning. For a game released in early 1998 this game is a technical 
 marvel sporting sharp detail on all of the units and well-rendered representations of all of the 
 planets you fight on whether its the thick fog of Venus or ominously dead moon. Sound also shines 
 through with sharp sound effects, a well-orchestrated score, and a whole lot of voice overs throughout 
 the game, which definitely add to the depth of the setting.
  
  There are some problems with Battlezone, however. Foremost amongst the problems is the AI of many 
 of the game's units. While your enemy will for the most part be a sharp and very challenging foe, 
 your allies can often defy logic in their lack of ability to deal with the enemy effectively, often 
 requiring you to be with your forces at all times to ensure they're doing what you want them to 
 (like attacking the enemy and not just sitting there oblivious to their own death) . The interface 
 is also restrictive in the sense that there are no group options available, requiring plenty of 
 time-consuming micro-management to make sure assaults go off successfully. Controlling your vehicle, 
 however, is a breeze.
  
  Rarely do video game titles arise which seek to defy established rules and bust open genres so 
 successfully, but Battlzezone delivers in spades. What would merely be a very solid space-action 
 title is turned into something really special by the addition of a strategy system which in turn 
 makes it one of the greatest action titles to ever grace the PC. If for some reason you've missed 
 this game, hunt it down now while you still have the chance, because this is a must-play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 16, 2004 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Well this game was a suprise to me and I loved playing it. At the time I bought it I felt the graphics 
 were great and I loved the sounds. My buddies and I had great fun in multiplayer mode. There are 
 many many user made maps online and even an editor now.
  
  You must first play this game alone to appreciate the story line and get the experience before 
 multiplaying. There are addons and patchs for it now so there should not be any problems with it. 
 It is now an old game so it should be in a bargin bin or some one is trying to sell this clasic 
 on ebay. LOL
  
  If you can get it I recomend it as it is lots of fun. It is easy enough my 7 year old grand son 
 plays it on his computer with us. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
