-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlefield 2142: Northern Strike
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/battlefield2142northernstrike/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Three new excellent maps.
 the Goliath is a heck of a lot of fun.
 assault lines mode is a cool new take on conquest mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Graphics engine could really use a booster itself.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.9, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 844 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA DICE
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Mar 8, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The first booster pack for Battlefield 2142 offers up three exciting new maps and a new gameplay 
 mode, making it a must-have for fans of the multiplayer action game. 

  With Battlefield 2142: Northern Strike, EA and DICE continue the trend of adding "booster packs" 
 to their popular multiplayer action franchise. Booster packs aren't large enough to be traditional 
 expansion packs, but these relatively inexpensive ($9.99) downloadable additions offer up a small 
 collection of maps and goodies to an audience that's usually voracious for new content. Northern 
 Strike represents the first Battlefield 2142 booster (Battlefield 2 had two) , and its three new 
 maps, added vehicles, and one brand-new gameplay mode are a welcome addition to the core game. 

          Northern Strike is a nice little collection of new maps and vehicles for Battlefield 2142. 
     

  In the setting of Battlefield 2142, the onset of a new ice age sparks a fierce war between the 
 European Union (EU) and the Russian-centric Pan Asian Coalition (PAC) as they attempt to flee the 
 cold and resettle in North Africa. The Northern Strike maps are all set in the frigid climes of 
 Northern Europe, offering some cool geography and gameplay dynamics.  

  Perhaps the best of the new maps is Port Bavaria, which combines a desperate vertical assault up 
 a cliff with intense fighting at the base atop the cliff. Attackers have different routes up the 
 cliff, but they face withering fire from the defenders above. However, another way up is to park 
 an armored personnel carrier at the bottom and take an assault pod up to the top. Then there's 
 Bridge at Remagen, which is in homage to the famous World War II battle where the US Army captured 
 a key strategic bridge over the Rhine River. This map is defined by its soaring, narrow bridge, 
 which serves as an excellent choke point. And then there's Liberation of Leipzig, a warren of alleyways 
 and narrow streets that offers brutal urban warfare.  

  While Leipzig and Remagen can be used for Battlefield 2142's fun titan mode, Northern Strike also 
 offers up a new gameplay mode called assault lines. This is basically a variation of Battlefield's 
 traditional conquest mode, where both sides battle for a series of control points on the map. The 
 twist is that the PAC, the defenders in the story, have one control point that the EU, the attackers, 
 cannot seize until it controls all other points on the map. This increases the challenge considerably 
 because the EU needs to concentrate its forces to seize the final flag while defending the other 
 flags from capture.  

          This in-game billboard could be yours, for a price.     

  In addition to the new maps, Northern Strike introduces a couple of new vehicles. The new PAC 
 Hachimoto is a fast hover vehicle that's a bit tricky to control (it feels like it's slipping on 
 ice) , but it's got a nice combination of speed and firepower. Then there's the dreaded EU Goliath, 
 which is basically a land-based Titan. Ponderously slow, the Goliath is armed with multiple turrets 
 and features regenerating armor, which makes it difficult to kill. The only way to take it down 
 is to first destroy the seven glowing panels on the vehicle, which neutralize its regenerating 
 capability. This makes the Goliath a powerful centerpiece that walkers and other units can support, 
 though its glacial speed balances things out for the opposing team.  

  When you throw in the new medals and unlocks, the Northern Strike booster pack is a relatively 
 inexpensive, must-have addition for anyone who likes to play Battlefield 2142 regularly. There's 
 a lot of good content, and the new maps are some of the best yet for Battlefield 2142. The only 
 thing we could wish for is some kind of graphical upgrade because the engine (based on 2005's Battlefield 
 2) is starting to look its age. And it's too bad that EA doesn't simply rely on the in-game advertising 
 to offer this booster pack for free to the community. But at approximately $3.33 per new map, it's 
 a reasonable price for the rich gameplay that you will find in the booster pack.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (40 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bobman_420
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Well this expansion basically comes with a few new maps that in my opinion are very well designed. 
 In fact I love them all. Whats most impressive is I find the layout of the new maps and the style 
 of play makes it much better for playing both the recon and the engineer. Before they were just 
 not efficient enough to play out there roles compared to the assault and support. The new equipments 
 ok but nothing to exciting. Just more stuff for us upper rank guys to unlock.
  
  
  One problem that I do have with the game is its very difficult to set up and get working. Its not 
 as easy as just installing it. Sometime you have to install it twice or reinstall the latest patch 
 which is already installed. I cant remember how I got it to work but I can say its not working 
 now : ( I should figure it out again soon cause I really miss the new maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  I'm sure there's some deep, underlying psychological explanation as to why I always play Support 
 class in Battlefield games. Integral to the team effort Support may be, but he's basically a walking 
 ammo box - the rest of the squad's caddy, expected to come running when his more highly-regarded 
 fellows run out of armour-piercing balls.
  
  It'd be quite humiliating, if it wasn't for the really big gun I get - and the fact that faithfully 
 doling out replacement bullets wins me points at an incredible rate. The point is, whether I'm 
 everyone else's lapdog or not, I'm basically roleplaying, because that's the sort of game Battlefield 
 2142 has become. This first mini-expansion pack may have a couple of extra maps and vehicles, but, 
 like its parent, actually it's about picking a role and sticking to it, and grinding to earn experience 
 points which can then be spent on new abilities that might give me an edge over other players.
 
  
  It's The Burning Crusade, but with hovertanks, glass skyscrapers and team-killing.
  
  There were a few of these download-only, 6 booster packs released for 2142's predecessor, Battlefield 
 2, and frankly they were a little unexciting. Partly, this was because most were on the slapdash 
 side, and partly because BF2's modern combat shtick limited what could be included to variations 
 on a pre-existing theme. 2142's subdued sci-fi (2042 would probably be a more suitable title) means 
 there's a much broader palette to play with - and thus also a greater onus on the developer to 
 do something interesting. In this micropayment age, "it's only six quid" isn't an adequate excuse 
 for churning out uninspired clone content any moreFortunately, EA has done pretty well here. Northern 
 Strike reeks of cynicism - for roleplaying reasons to be discussed shortly - but the new core Battlefield 
 elements introduced have been handled fairly thoughtfully. Its nuts and bolts are three new maps 
 and two new vehicles. The latter are interesting enough that it's a real shame they're limited 
 to the new maps only. The Pan Asian Coalition gets the Hachimoto, a sort of two-man hoverbike equally 
 deadly to infantry and vehicles alike, so long as it can keep moving. It's the fastest, most manoeuvrable 
 vehicle in 2142 by far, but it'll crumple like a kitten booted in the ribs with a steel-toecapped 
 jackboot in the event that someone manages to get a bead on it. 
  
  The EU possibly gets the better deal with the Goliath. It's a ridiculously well-armoured base on 
 slow-turning wheels, bristling with weapons, able to infinitely heal and rearm nearby allies, and 
 even self-repair itself. This means it can calmly shrug off the likes of orbital strikes, stuff 
 that usually means insta-death for anything else in the game; taking out a Goliath means a co-ordinated 
 assault of multiple players destroying certain areas of it before it becomes vulnerable. It's pretty 
 awesome, which unfortunately means it has to be handicapped - in this case by speed. A Goliath 
 isn't the cavalry: by the time it crawls, like an angry snail, across the map to wherever a firefight's 
 going down, everyone's going to be a bit too dead for it to bail them out. Instead, it's the spearhead 
 of a slow but deadly assault on a heavily-defended position. Everything about it is, in hindsight, 
 an entirely obvious addition to this sort of game, but not possible until 2142 loosened Battlefield's 
 waistband to allow for more experimental fare. The maps themselves are almost secondary. Two are 
 fine-but-forgettable, sticking closely to templates laid down by 2142 vanilla, and very much the 
 sort of acceptable if entirely unexceptional thing that Battlefield expansions since time immemorial 
 (well, 2003) have offered. The third, the Bavaria map set in an Alpine base, is a lot more interesting. 
 It's a sequence of large indoor areas linked by horribly-exposed mountainside paths, and thus is 
 brilliantly set-up for chokepoint skirmishes and carefully timed suicide runs. Though it sadly 
 doesn't escape from 2142's muted palette of white, grey and brown, it manages what the other maps 
 don't, which is to look markedly different from what's in the parent game. The overall vibe of 
 all the maps, though, is one of fairly close-quarters combat, roadblock design forcing infantry 
 scuffles at vital points rather than long-range tank bombardment. It's not hugely different from 
 how 2142 normally works, but does, on a full server, offer an increased intensity and directness; 
 a greater focus, at times, on being a first-person shooter, rather than the jack-of-all-trades-plus-robots 
 the core game is.
  
  And so to the biggest draw, the unlocks; the roleplaying element of 2142, and the reason even casual 
 players give it more hours than they otherwise would. Successful, long-term play eventually levels 
 you up, at which point you can pick a new improvement, weapon or ability. There's been a mild redesign 
 in Northern Strike. Rather than grinding along an experience point bar, performing certain actions 
 earns badges and ribbons, each of which means a new unlock. It's a better way of doing things. 
 The unlocks here feel more like a reward for heroism rather than just long-term service. What's 
 troubling, though, is that the new unlocks (you can spend your badges on 2142 vanilla abilities 
 or on a raft of NS-exclusive ones) are available in core 2142 matches as well as Northern Strike 
 ones. 
  
  If everyone playing 2142 already intended to buy NS anyway, that's kind of fine. Everyone gets 
 everything in any match. Great. Instead, though, people who haven't invested six more quid in this 
 booster pack will see, and on occasion be killed by, other players with lethal gadgetry they don't 
 have. Worse, (or, depending how you look at it, better still) the NS unlocks are available as temporary 
 field upgrades in core 2142 - so folk who haven't bought the booster pack get to try them out for 
 a very brief time and thus have their appetite whetted to drop cash on this. The slim price of 
 NS means it's dangerously close to paying to make your character slightly better - a micropayment 
 stat boost, of the sort that doomsayers worry Xbox Live purchases will eventually become about. 
 While only long-term bedding-in of NS will prove whether its unlocks truly shift the balance of 
 play or not, right now it feels like people who otherwise weren't going to buy it now have an unnatural 
 incentive to do so, just to level the playing field. 
  
  Still, Northern Strike is a polished offering, a lot more than the token handful of stuff draped 
 around the glinting trophy of new unlocks it could have been. It just about manages to reach the 
 tiny no-man's land between patch content and full expansion pack. Bargain price or not though, 
 there's no escaping that it offers a comparable amount of new stuff to what we've seen in free 
 official or community updates for Unreal Tournaments and Quakes in days gone by. Instant online 
 micropayments mean those days are all but gone now. Hang your head in rueful nostalgia, then ride 
 a Goliath to victory.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunder350
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  What I think of It: Awesome booster pack for battlefield. The Goliath defiantly tops it off along 
 with the other new vehicle the Hachimoto. Also has 4 new ribbons, 1 new pin, and 2 new badges.
 
  
  Game Description: A few years into the most desperate struggle in the history of mankind, and with 
 the conflict focused around the Mediterranean, the Pan Asian Coalition (PAC) seizes the chance 
 to claim the undefended natural resources beneath the ice of mainland Europe. By the time the EU 
 is aware of their presence, the enemy is firmly entrenched in the continent's harsh ice fields, 
 among abandoned city ruins and soaring mountain peaks. Only fierce close-quarters infantry battles 
 along claustrophobic city streets and narrow rocky passes will eject the PAC forces from their 
 well-defended positions and push them back towards the sea. Three new maps provide the setting 
 for the Booster Pack. High up in the Alps the EU uses launch pods to assault a PAC Titan docking 
 harbor in the map Port Bavaria. Bridge at Remagen, the scene for one of WWII's major battles, is 
 once again the setting for intense battles as both sides fight to secure the bridge. Finally, night 
 has fallen when the EU launches their assault on the city in the Liberation of Leipzig. Battlefield 
 2142: Northern Strike introduces two new vehicle types. The heavy IFV Goliath is a massive, slow-moving 
 firing platform available to the EU. It is used to provide cover, as well as health and ammunition, 
 to nearby infantry. The fast-moving hovering light IFV Hachimoto, available to the defending PAC 
 only, is an efficient vehicle killer when staffed by a well coordinated pilot/gunner team. With 
 ten new unlocks and ten new awards, Battlefield 2142: Northern Strike offers unprecedented persistence 
 for a Booster Pack. The epic Titan mode introduced in Battlefield 2142 is available on two maps, 
 and for the first time in an urban setting. All maps also feature Conquest mode with the Conquest 
 Assault Lines set-up, in which the attacking army now has to conquer all control points before 
 taking the enemy's main base. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eli1982
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  
  well after a year that this game has been released there are things that needed to be said. sure 
 the bugs and glitchs are countless but up untill the very recent 1.4 patch you could dont save 
 your weapon configuration. you had trouble to log into the main server and problem to enter games 
 beacuse you modified your content (after installing it directly from EA link) .
  Sure on the times that i struggled to connect and the game wouldn't crash i had one of the best 
 time ever, but the fact that after purchesing a new high-end computer (with Vista Ofcourse) i found 
 out that the game doesn't support windows Vista (???) . and so from a login success rate of 60%-80% 
 i droped down to a login rate of 5%-10%. why i don't call it success rate? becuse i'll probably 
 crash after the first game, if not - God forbbied if the punk buster will let me more than 10 minutes.
 
  Let alone after patch 1.25 i couldn't enter my Northen Strike Expansion Maps.
  
  But! not all is bad reffering to the game play alone, you'll have all the action you'll need to 
 play endless amount of time. communtications are easy even without a mic. team work is of the essance.
 
  
  this may look like a hate review - but it's not, you are more the welcomed to check out the Battlefield2142 
 theards and you'll find out i nearly scratched the surface.
  
  My- rank: WINDOWS XP- 7
  WINDOWS VISTA - 1
  
  if you can't play - why buy? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisbarr79
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  its a good addon, just a pity not many servers hosting NS games as i said in the title, the new 
 vehicles are good and most of the new unlocks are useful, if you have 2142 you should get this 
 too as the Bridge at Remagen is a great fun map as is leipsig. now i am forced to write more words 
 to make the review last be 100 words long.... i didnt want to write a review i just wanted to rate 
 the game oh well is this one hundred words now?
  
  nope i guess not well i can write some more words here if thats what gamespot desires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackkoslov
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Hey, look its not because I am a russian soldier that I will agreed that this should be the bigest 
 game. (because of the Comrades of PAC) .
  
  I like this game because here you can interactive so far... Like stop and think like me. Step up 
 in the Battlefield... Imagine that that should be the real life... Those Gunships going through 
 the Air, tanks moving furious towards the enemy. Walkers like they are Huge Monsters that could 
 destroy everything... IMAGINE!
  
  Actualy I'm in brazil... Paying a visit.
  Just for you know. Play this game like it was the best of the best...
  Sorry about my English 
 I'm a Russian... I learned how to write in English last year and to talk to....
  
  One more thing: I hate EA Games... After I played Medal of Honor AA... EA games turned to be an 
 **** for me... WAIT! MOHAA!!! But not the others!!!! THANKS EA GAMES... I LOVE ACTIVSION BUT I 
 AND YOU COULD LIKE THIS ONE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamietje
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 8, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Good Graphix Good Game.
  Theres only been 1 patch do ea hasnt messed it up really yet.
  
  New feutures would be: the goliath, the fast flooting buggy, new unlocks, new maps.
  
  cost 
 price: $9.99
  
  The Goliath is the awnser to the walker its strong can be filled with 5 man and shoot its way everywere 
 it even has an auto repairing armor.
  
  In my opinion its to strong and should be made weaker but yes its good.
  New unlocks arent much 
 so no attetion for that.
  
  New maps its are only a few but its cool and there well made better then the maps before.
  
 
  About that fast thing its cool real good very fast doh so might wanna youse 2 people becuase the 
 secund gun control is real good of it.
  
  Thats was all for now if you wanna join are Multi National Multi Gaming clan, have a look around 
 here: http://nlfclan. lucky-007. com/forums/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khellendros3770
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 17, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Northern Strike is an addition to Battlefield 2142 and for $10 US you get several new maps, new 
 upgrades, and 2 awesome vehicles, as well as a new game-play mode.
  
  The new game-play mode is a form of conquest mode that puts one team with one starting point and 
 the other team with the rest. The team that has only one flag is given the dreaded Goliath tank 
 to help even the odds. The idea is for this team to take all the other teams flags and conquer 
 the map while the other team is to hold off the assaulting teams push forward.
  
  The Goliath tank is an awesome, if slow, monster of firepower. With multiple turrets ranging from 
 anti tank to anti personnel and it's ability to regenerate it's armor make it virtually unstoppable. 
 The only weakness is it's seven glowing plates that contribute to it's regenerative powers. Once 
 these are taken out, the tank is then able to be whittled away and destroyed. Walkers are a good 
 way to take the Goliath down, but only with heavy infantry support.
  
  The other vehicle is a hover bike of sorts, similar to a snowmobile. It is only really effective 
 against infantry but it will do to harass walkers if need be.
  
  The new upgrades to the solder classes are useful and the the 3 new maps are a great addition to 
 the game. All in all, like I said before, this game is a great value for the $10 it costs to download 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommmy
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 13, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  this game is awesome.
  if you dont like this game then **** off...
  everyone must play battlefield2142
  the graphics are great and the gameplay is not that hard...
 
  but you must be good with youre fingers and stuff.
  the game sounds are ****ing great 2... if you get shot down on the right you hear the gun sounds 
 on the right like... wow :D
  if there is an helicopter or a tank the sound are great..
  i can say... YOU MUST BUY THE GAME...
  its just an awesome game...
  i cant say more about it
 
  
  now i must make the 100 words full -_-'
  that sucks because i just dont know what to say about the game, because ist just awesome...
  
 hell yeah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generallion
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 10, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  Its got amazing graphics and great gameplay but ders only one problem.... its the same ol'thing... 
 go detonate the mother ship or defuse the the bomb in the mother ship, shoot the enemies get in 
 biig mechs crush over the soldiers below u (mostly ur teammates who often get in ur way and its 
 quite buggin wen tht happens) , blah blah blah things which u mostly u do in the fps games... its 
 good for passin ur time wen u break up wid ur gf!!! ;) damn the review needs atleast 100 words 
 wen tis review is worth 56 words!! damn!! yea soo wht was i sayin oh yea play the game wen u break 
 up wid ur gf as it will cool u off cause think the enemy is ur gf or ur gf's new boyfrnd!! hehehehe... 
 its a lame thing i no but i hav to write a review abt 100 words!! srry abt the stupidity above 
 breakin ur own gfs.. well it works so try it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guy_arye
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  After a long time playing Battlefield 2 I got this. In the start I thought Hm, this has to be a 
 great game, BF2 in the future and when I start playing I saw that there are less weapons than in 
 BF2 and less jobs. The whole fun of being a special forces with the bombs and laser sight was disappear 
 when I saw I have no bombs, and almost every weapon has a laser sight so where is the fun?
  After awhile I saw there was a weapon select option saw I clicked on the bombs icons. Guess what, 
 you can't start with bombs, you have to unlock them. The fact that you have to play for specific 
 time until you'll be able to play with the weapons and items that are so special for that job was 
 really annoying.
  The graphic is pretty much the same as BF2 as is the sound. In my opinion it isn''t worth upgrading 
 from BF2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheUnionFrag
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Imagine seeing a castle - a self-healing castle - uproot itself and roll slowly along to obliterate 
 the opposition. You need not imagine this my friend, as Northern Strike delivers this in the form 
 of the EU's Goliath IFV, or Infantry Fighting Vehicle - one of the two new vehicles added in the 
 Northern Strike booster pack.
  
  The Goliath is arguably the star of Northern Strike - dominating maps with massively superior firepower 
 and forcing both teams to play together to either take advantage of it or to destroy it. But this 
 wondrous machine is just one facet of Northern Strike's new content. To counter it, the PAC have 
 been given an ultra-fast FAV - the Hachimoto - which hovers in the same manner as the Nekomata 
 tank. It has a similar weapons loadout to a gunship, with the pilot controlling two medium plasma 
 cannons while the gunner controls a lethal rotating grenade launcher and TV-controlled missiles.
 
  
  Also included is a new gameplay mode - Assault Lines - a spin-off of the traditional Conquest mode. 
 It's basically the standard Assault mode, but the attacking EU side is forced to take all normal 
 PAC control points before launching an assault on the PAC home base - which is in a heavily defensible 
 position on all three new maps.
  
  The new unlocks are surprisingly mediocre, though one does shine through - the Clark-12 RDX shotgun. 
 It shoots a timed explosive charge in an arc, and while it's not as powerful as the assault soldier's 
 rocket weapon - it is just as effective against light vehicles and groups of enemy infantry. The 
 rest of the unlocks are somewhat passive and very specialised, although if you play as the assault 
 or engineer classes often, ammo upgrades for the SMG and assault rifle add-ons are useful, as is 
 the damage reduction from falling when you unlock the shock-adsorbant boots.
  
  The three new maps are all set in frozen Germany, which has long-since fallen to the PAC forces. 
 There are two urban maps, Liberation of Leipzig - a frantic night battle in the ruined city with 
 restricted space and many nooks and crannies to attack from - and Bridge at Remagen - a re-enactment 
 of the famous battle at Remagen between Allied and German forces over a vital bridge spanning the 
 Rhine during World War II, and can also be played in Titan mode. The third map, Port Bavaria, is 
 set at a PAC Titan port in the Alps and is by far and away the best of the three new locales, with 
 concentrated assaults being launched from APC pods in truly cinematic style, followed by a close 
 urban battle once the EU has a foothold. The BF2 engine, although it still looks beautiful, is 
 getting a bit dated after two years. However, with close co-operation from Creative Labs, the audio 
 is as spectacular as ever. Goliaths rumble through cities as distant sniper fire makes you dive 
 behind cover. Battlefield 2142 is still at the very forefront of game audio, and it's well worth 
 getting a new sound card to experience this if you haven't already.
  
  Overall, it's more bang for your buck than most of us die-hard fans of Battlefield would have guessed 
 - the new game mode and vehicles are surprisingly fun - but another map or a game mode that wasn't 
 quite so familiar would really have made this expansion worth the full pittance it cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mads13
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 6, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  This booster pack is mostly more of the same. That's not necessarily bad. Just that if you're expecting 
 a major face lift, there is none. But, you can just jump right into this booster pack with very 
 little, or no, additional learning. The Goliath is an interesting vehicle. At the same time, it 
 can completely and totally dominate the battlefield unlike any other vehicle except maybe the Titan; 
 but in the right circumstances, the right hands can bring it down relatively easily.
  One downside to this pack.... snow. Too much snow. I could play this in the middle of summer, and 
 still get cold just by looking at all that snow. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: couggod
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 2, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  While being a big fan of digital distribution, I hate it when booster packs come out and try to 
 substitute a full expansion release. Especially when my game has ads in it to supposedly pay for 
 all of those development costs just seems inconceivable that DICE couldn't put out a full expansion 
 for $X. XX rather than a booster pack. Now that's off my chest Northern Strike is a fun addition 
 to the main game. And all players can partake somewhat in the fun given that the 1.2 patch made 
 all of the Booster's weapons available to all in game when you get a field upgrade. And the new 
 abilities themselves are pretty handy, like the radar grenades that the assault class can now use 
 are actually handy. The three maps that are included in Northern strike are more of an urban variety 
 for those who wanted more post apocalyptic cities to conquer. The only new open map is a titan 
 refueling port high in the alps that seems small compared to the urban maps. And much hype was 
 made by EA over the fact that now you have a Titan map in an urban setting, it doesn't change the 
 game play much. The new assault lines gameplay mode turns the game into a team based version of 
 whack a mole as you try to hold onto all of the control points to make an assault on the home base 
 of the enemy. And finally the new badges you receive do nothing except earn you free unlocks so 
 you can again have a fully maxed out character again.
  
  So in conclusion, Northern Strike is a fun addition to the Battlefield universe. But given the 
 fact that EA is collecting money off of us everytime we play a game there should have been more 
 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 30, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  If you do buy Northern Strike you will get 3 new maps and a new variation of Conquest on those 
 maps (assault the lines) . You will also have several new unlocks to choose from, and awards to 
 earn.
  
  Its more of the same game play as 2142 with a couple new ground units on the new maps (Speeders 
 &amp; the Goliath) If your friends decided they are happier with the $10, chances are you will 
 be too. The most fun you have in Northern Strike is playing with your friends, and if they dont 
 buy the booster, neither should you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This is exactly what it said a booster packs. It contains 3 maps and a couple new weapons. That 
 I might add are already in the original game 2142 in conquering mode as squad upgrades. The maps 
 are very large, but I guess no larger then some of the titan maps. You basically take a position 
 with a tank then defend as infantry. There is really no different then the first game. The only 
 difference between the 2 games is one didnt require a lot of graphic programming, because its 
 ALL SNOW! You will get a couple easy metals for buying Northern strike. Is it worth it? In my opinion 
 no, But is you a hard core 2142 guy it might be. If it was free like it should have been I would 
 say get it, because it is little different then a patch. Since you have to pay for it even 10 dollars 
 is a lot for what you get. Save your money and wait for the next Battlefield game. If you give this 
 patch a ten you should seek group or rehab, Because your on something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebtko
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  For 9.99usd this Booster pack was fair in price. They added a couple new vehicles and and maps. 
 I think that with this booster it somewhat completes the 2142 series but at the same time it doesnt. 
 What would of really made it better would be adding new guns to each assult recon support and the 
 other one lol.. but overall i think the new maps are great and very fun and fast paced!!!
  
  Here are the pros of cons of this booster pack!!
  
  Pros: Just 9.99usd folks its a steal!! 
 .... New Vechicles, new maps, faster paced environment on the newer maps depending on the amount 
 of people who play of course. Upload time for the booster is fast only 120mb.
  
  Cons: If you dont hv the booser pack and ur trying to join your fav server and there on the map 
 sorry folks u cant join it!!! also the ea link to download the booster sometimes doesnt work. They 
 could of added alot more features like for example 1 gun to each team that u can unlock Overall 
 this booster package is worth buying!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hal0Junke
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142: Northern Strike is a great addition to the game's customization and gameplay 
 value by giving the buyer more gadgets and maps. The game brings an addition al content to the 
 game play by adding a new type of game play mode called 'Assult Lines' (pretty much a a conquest 
 type of game play that focuses on large battles and captures, rather than the individual triumph) . 
 Although, Northern Strike brings added value to the original game there are no new actual weapons 
 introduced into the game play; and sorry no major graphical upgrades given to the game other that 
 some cool looking night maps. The only sound changes given to are also some 1942 like music. Over 
 all if you own Battlefield 2142 for only $10.00 their is no reason why you shouldnt pick up this 
 booster pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1029
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  So I got the booster pack a couple days after it was released. Really the only games I play on 
 a consistent basis is the Battlefield series, so I was pretty excited to get this booster. I purchased 
 both of the boosters that were released for BF2 and enjoyed them thoroughly.... Northern Strike 
 is along the same lines. It helps break the monotony of playing the same maps all the time that 
 came with the original game. The new play type Assault Lines is long. A round is timed starting 
 at 4 hours, and if both sides are really good, the round may end and no one will have captured 
 the uncappable point. Sometimes a team will completely layout another team at the same time and 
 the round will take less than 20 minutes. It really just depends on how long you want to play a 
 round. The new maps are pretty good... Bridge at Remengton is probably the best in my opinion... it 
 offers some challenging gameplay because of the bridge chokepoint, much like Strike at Karkand 
 in BF2. The titan mode in an urban setting is cool... always wanted a map like that. The new vehicles 
 are ok. The goliath is by far the better of the two. That thing is pretty much indestructible. 
 It takes 1 -2 walkers to take one of those things down, and the vehicle regenerates armor, shoots 
 tracking mines and other nice weapons making it pretty hard to take down. The speeder is hard to 
 handle, but relatively hard to destroy... the driver will die well before the speeder blows up. 
 It has both a machine gun mounted as well as a guided missile launcher. But the missiles are hard 
 to launch when moving and the driver sucks.
  
  All round, good booster to a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vidder
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 18, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Still has the same flaws as 2142. Updating graphics is good and all, but changing the whole format 
 of the game still, as they did with BF2, to make it totally different from 1942, still is somewhat 
 annoying. 1942 still incorporates the most fun, best game play, without the graphics we all crave. 
 I wouldn't mind them coming out with a DX10 1942! :-) Anyways, The Booster Pack does add a new 
 dimension to the game, most importantly in the new maps themselves. All of the original 2142 maps 
 give so many entry points it's not even funny, where Northern Strike forces the Assaulting team 
 to bring it hardcore through 1 to maybe 3 entry points, and not run around invisible like a wuss 
 and steal a flag!! :-P Definitely get it if you can drop $10 and need or want some extra unlocks. 
 None of the added unlocks really seem that great, but they have their place in the game. Hopefully 
 the next expansion will be as large as Special Forces was for BF2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 17, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  GOOD expantion, some usefull and kool unlocks like the decoy for the recon, and the faster spawn 
 beacon for the squad leader. Also the inproved camo helps, the advanced magazine for the assault 
 helps too, the motion mine is usefull against those pesky motion mines, clip expanstion helps with 
 running out of ammo at bad times, IDS-1 'Infantry Sonar, ESP ( Explosive Sticky Projectiles ) , SL-RPU 
 ( Squad Leader Reinforcement Prioritizing Utility ) , are all good. But some useless ones like that 
 boot thing, the radar greanade thing for the assault. . But good maps that gave me a sense of joy 
 and pleasure. :) LOVE the expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666net
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  Although once I consider NS as another suckage of BF series booster packs, when I downloaded and 
 start playing, it's really an eye-opener.
  First, the three new maps are very well-decided, especially comparing to the original 2142 maps. 
 Since the booster pack mainly regards the assault line mode, the maps are decided with fewer choke-points 
 than the original conquest maps, which is delivering much less frustration to the losing team since 
 they could have a chance to fight back and maybe steal a few outpost behind the line of conflict.
 
  Second, the two new vehicle for each faction, was once considered to be unbalancing since the 
 EU one is basically mini titan and, the PAC one, is just being an FAV with more guns. But the gameplay 
 really surprises me: indeed the speeder is much better than what I thought, while the Goliath IFV 
 really delivers an intense gameplay of destroying it. Although there is no mobile fortress for 
 the PAC team, it still make sense for the invaders to have a fortress with them as cover for advancing 
 while the PAC quickly drift through the field and pick off infantries. Combining the assault line 
 and two vehicles, the gameplay was truly balanced along with exciting gameplay.
  Finally, if there's something bad to say, the graphic engine itself could use a booster pack indeed, 
 even an expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyLazyTrent
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 16, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  What I think of It: Awsome booster pack for battlefield. The Goliath defiantly tops it off along 
 with the other new vehicle the Hachimoto. Also has 4 new ribons, 1 new pin, and 2 new badges.
 
  
  Game Description: A few years into the most desperate struggle in the history of mankind, and with 
 the conflict focused around the Mediterranean, the Pan Asian Coalition (PAC) seizes the chance 
 to claim the undefended natural resources beneath the ice of mainland Europe. By the time the EU 
 is aware of their presence, the enemy is firmly entrenched in the continents harsh ice fields, 
 among abandoned city ruins and soaring mountain peaks. Only fierce close-quarters infantry battles 
 along claustrophobic city streets and narrow rocky passes will eject the PAC forces from their 
 well-defended positions and push them back towards the sea. Three new maps provide the setting 
 for the Booster Pack. High up in the Alps the EU uses launch pods to assault a PAC Titan docking 
 harbour in the map Port Bavaria. Bridge at Remagen, the scene for one of WWIIs major battles, 
 is once again the setting for intense battles as both sides fight to secure the bridge. Finally, 
 night has fallen when the EU launches their assault on the city in the Liberation of Leipzig. Battlefield 
 2142: Northern Strike introduces two new vehicle types. The heavy IFV Goliath is a massive, slow-moving 
 firing platform available to the EU. It is used to provide cover, as well as health and ammunition, 
 to nearby infantry. The fast-moving hovering light IFV Hachimoto, available to the defending PAC 
 only, is an efficient vehicle killer when staffed by a well coordinated pilot/gunner team. With 
 ten new unlocks and ten new awards, Battlefield 2142: Northern Strike offers unprecedented persistence 
 for a Booster Pack. The epic Titan mode introduced in Battlefield 2142 is available on two maps, 
 and for the first time in an urban setting. All maps also feature Conquest mode with the Conquest 
 Assault Lines set-up, in which the attacking army now has to conquer all control points before 
 taking the enemys main base.
  
  Features:
  Fastpaced, infantry-focused gameplay boosts the intensity of the all-out war experience. Three 
 new maps set in Europe, where snow-covered post-apocalyptic cities and a ridge in the Alps become 
 the new battlegrounds. Two brand-new vehicles designed to support infantry combat available in 
 an asymmetrical set-up, with the hovering light IFV Hachimoto available to the PAC and the massive 
 heavy IFV Goliath available to the EU. Increased persistence. Ten new rewards, one new pin and 
 ten new unlock items at the top of the unlocks trees, available also on core game maps, take persistence 
 to new levels. Unlock credits earned in the booster pack can also be used in the core game. Epic 
 Titan mode available on two maps, and for the first time in a urban setting, for more intense Titan 
 gameplay. Tweaked Conquest-assault gameplay (Assault Lines game mode) on all three maps creates 
 more choke points and more heated battles. Horizontal podding gives infantry additional ways of 
 moving across the maps quickly Awsome Booster Pack! : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 16, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  Ok for &pound;5 its worth it, the game is a first in probley a few bf2132 booster packs. These 
 booster packs don't add much but for &pound;5 it worth it at the end of the day. The game adds 
 a small but needed taste for game and also adds a new gameplay mode.
  
  Like i said the no big change to the gameplay but the new mode adds a new taste. the new vehicles 
 are really the new APC is a giant and take loads of damage while the speeder is a fast vehicles 
 with not only machine gun but a gernade launcher to. There a 3 news maps that add a new taste which 
 is not like other maps. The new unlocks are well not so good. The only real good new one is pretty 
 a mini UAV that u carry around and place anyway. Apart form that the other unlocks are well not 
 fun or cool. Even so when u get a nortern strike badge instead of points u get unlocks which help 
 get my support gear.
  
  the graphics are the same as 2142 which is pretty much the same as bf2 which are pretty good anyway. 
 the new maps and vehicles look really good and some of the new skins for players and vehicles look 
 really good to.
  Sound is also pretty much the same also so the not much really to so there either.
  
  If your 
 looking for a whole new expasion with loads of stuff then this is not for u. Like i said it adds 
 a good amout of stuff for the price but its only &pound;5 so it was never going to be a lot. its 
 a enough to make u buy it thought
  
  Its a good addon at the end of the day as it add just enought to keep people who buy people happy 
 but somtimes u wonder if all this could of been added to game before it came out and if it was 
 a way for EA to take more money out of your pocket. But the server with Northern Strike seem to 
 be full so the should'nt be a problem finding a server with people. So if u got BF2142 and &pound;5 
 ($10) about then i would buy it as it adds more then enought to what is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhen_Var
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Everyone was excited about the Assault Lines mode but when it was released it kinda was disapointing.
 
  the mode features the EU as the underdog this time and with many PAC CPs to capture it can really 
 take sometime. the problem is that its not really diffrent from Conquest the Legendary mode but 
 instead it just adds more CPs and a new award for anyone who Caps the PAC base for only 10 points.
 
  The Hachimoto is fantastic the Goliath is just fine. it would have been cool if there was either 
 Assault Lines on the older maps or just the Hachimoto via mode selection in the menu.
  Graphics:
  same graphics from the previous Battlefield nothing special but its still looks nice.
 
  Sound:
  No diffrents except from the new stop with really isnt anything we've never heard before
  Value:
 
  Its ONLY $10 BUCKS!!!! but EA link can suck most of the time....
  Overall:
  its great but it may need a little more content but you cant expect too much from a booster pack 
 afterall. but if you liked battlefield 2142 then buy this!
  i mean its only $10 bucks so its really worth it! just watch out for the s***** EA link. and maybe 
 next time. add new weapons not upgrades 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenday1000
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 15, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Didn't get enough buggy game play from BF2142???? Then pick up this expansion!!! It is always good 
 to get new maps, but the new game play sucks @&amp;&amp;. The new play mode lets you eliminate 
 the defending team from the map (which you could already do in conquest) , but now their home base 
 has to be the last one you capture (NO FLANKING for the attacking team) . The game play itself seems 
 really buggy to me. The BF series have never been the smoothest of the online shooters, but BF2142NS 
 is extra laggy. A good thing is that NS is only $10, so you can try it for yourself if you don't 
 believe me without being out a bunch of money. However, I find myself avoiding NS servers and just 
 playing regular 2142. I wish EA and Dice would quit making new BF games and just fix the ones gamers 
 like me have already shelled out money for. - Look for me on BF2142 OIFIIVET - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxfire45
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  I like the story line. It is really neat. A little strange but still cool. The weapons are cool 
 and I think they should remake bf2 With all these add ons. but they probably will when they get 
 a new engine. The in depth ranking system makes the game almost like an RPG which is neat. I cant 
 wait for any more games they put out. The one thing I do not like about it is that it can be an 
 all vehicle game sometimes. If you are not lucky enough to get in a vehicle right away, you are 
 stuck slowly running to the first flag. The titan mode is awesome and so is the new mode assault 
 lines. The commander and squad features are really the coolest feature on the game. The fact that 
 you use the squads to get more points is a really cool feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sut-typhon
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  If your looking to upgrade your FPS skills set and your think you got what it takes to be Number 
 1 dog - buy it. The few maps are very tactical and makes combat more intense than ever. I really 
 liked the booster but it can become tedious.... more of the same stuff just on another level of 
 intensity. If they introduce different modes of gameplay it would increase my interest in the series. 
 I would say it's a good addition but gamers need more diversity. I hope the the FPS titles of the 
 future will over more modes of gameplay lik e Unreal Tournament 2004, which is great about that 
 concept. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepsiboy987
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  I agree with the review, if like me you play a lot of 2142 its worth it, but I personally think 
 it could of been better ... It's 6 quid! At under 1/3 the price of a normal expansion pack, the 
 3 maps, 2 vehicles, and new unlocks easily provide enough entertainment for the price. I want to 
 see these content packs released regularly, it provides an income stream to make sure that the 
 game is updated and patched
  its also annoying as a clan trying to decide whether to run the maps or not, coz all those who 
 dont have it will be kicked when it rotates to them... this is my main dislike... same happened with 
 the BF2 boosters..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I gave previous EA boosters a 2 but this one I have to give very very high, the new maps are better 
 then the usual lame stuff we get from ea since release of bf2, the maps are not amazing but they 
 ok, but definitely better then I expected now for the good stuff : new game mode conquest assault 
 lines in my eyes will hopefully in the future completely replace traditional conquestalso the 
 idea of goliath is more of an addition of game mode then vehicle, unfortunately I wish it would 
 be a little bit harder to destroy, after someone knows how to destroy a goliath it takes 10 seconds 
 : ( ..
  new unlocks are genial and coming this from me is not a small thing , Im a very big critic of 
 the BF series.. near every of the new unlocks is a great idea, although some dont give you much 
 of the good stuff  for example the new boots only give you a 3 second faster recharge from 15 
 to 12, same for the leader spawn time 12 seconds from 15, but the rest of the unlocks are really 
 useful
  vehicle (s) : actually there is only 1 the speeder.. and its a great little vehicle, for 1 or 2 
 guys usable.. the goliath I see more like a mobile camp/fort, you dont use the goliath to move 
 from A to B but to defend a flag till its captured and then do the same at the next flag.. price 
 and ealink : buy it on ebay, it cost less and you dont have to deal with annoying showelware ealink.. 
 I paid $8.81 (11AUD) on ebay directly and free delivered to my email address, then just used the 
 160mb setup. exe (downloadable with out ealink) to install it.. so I have to say at a prize range 
 from $5-$12USD this booster has an excellent value , it feels like an expansion, in fact I doubt 
 I will ever play NON northern strike 2142 ever again, as vanilla 2142 I think is really weak game 
 as you can see in my 2142 review so buy the booster it gives new life to you dieing 2142 for very 
 little money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoop_1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 14, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Northern Strike is a great addition to an already great starting point. All of the Battlefield 
 games and the local servers seem to quickly gravitate to a few maps that most players/servers focus 
 on. If you look at those maps they all kind of have a few things in common. They contain choke 
 points which are fun both strategically as well as for the fact that they provide an area with 
 a lot of action. Nothing is worse than realizing you are on the wrong side of the map and have 
 to walk for 10 minutes to kill someone. Northern Strike does a good job taking advantage of these 
 desirable traits. It is true that the graphics are starting to look a little grey in the tooth. 
 However, my major complaint is with new instability that seems to be a problem with these maps. 
 Frequent crashes and graphic issues can make it a drag. Still, for $10 it is really a no-brainier 
 and prolongs the games overall value. Id give it an 8.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  Northern Strike is a very good expansion for the BF2142 series. It gives added value to an already 
 extremely fun game. As the GameSpot review mentioned, it is a good value for a downloadable expansion. 
 However, with that said, being a downloadable expansion it means there are many fans that are left 
 out of the picture. Many people that own the main BF2142 game can't (or won't) purchase/download 
 the expansion. The reasons vary but for some it is simply a matter of not being able to come up 
 with a payment method online. For others, it is a matter of not wanting to suport EA's failure 
 to address some of the Battlefield's most glaring issues.... namely cheaters and exploiters. Yes, 
 Northern Strike still has many cheaters and exploiters that are there because of gameplay mechancis 
 and poor design of the game engine. With this in mind, also, a number of game servers are not running 
 the expansion. So, getting into a NS game can be a bit problematic at time. Or, getting into a 
 BF2142 no expansion map game can be just as problematic as some servers are not advertising that 
 they are running mixed maps. This is causing many non-NS owners a lot of frustration. EA could 
 have handled this much better, for both NS owners and those that did not own. But, in normal EA 
 fashion, they have listened to their marketing suits and not to their customers.
  
  Regarding the graphics engine, it is just fine. Graphics is not what makes the BF series works, 
 it is the gameplay. When you can find a game without exploiters you just plain have a blast with 
 the game. The graphics engine runs and looks extremely good and not at all dated . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 13, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This is an a booster pack for battlefield 2142. With this add on you get new things to drive, more 
 maps, and more guns to shoot. Its all good but its just not worth the money. I say you dont need 
 this add on. Just keep playing the real game. The gameplay is the same as battlefield 2142, you 
 drive, fly, or shoot, you get killed you respawn. Thats all. I dont know about any one else but 
 I did see a graphics change in this game to the real game. Is it just me or did they get better? 
 I still could hear everything. Its not worth the value. So if you want thiss game. like I did, 
 Its not worth it. Dont buy it at that price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDisciple90
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Its pretty good, and since I'm a total nerd when in comes to BF I always enjoy some new content. 
 The new unlocks I'm sure you've all tried by now so nothing new there. The maps are really cool 
 and I like them a lot more than the ones in the original game (though there are only 3 of them) . 
 The Goliath is surprisingly fun, I expected it to be just a tougher APC, but they are a lot more 
 intimidating and fun to fight against than you'd think, I was hoping they'd be a little bit bigger 
 though. The Hachimotos (PAC speeders) are easily the most fun vehicle in BF2142, especially when 
 you are fighting another speeder, also a nice surprise. But all in all its more of the same, and 
 if you like BF2142 its a must have, its only $10 and its well worth the price of a movie ticket. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frost_79
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  Addition of a few new vehicles and maps is nice, but the new gamestyle itself feels like a polished 
 version of Conquest and simply given a different name. There's nothing wrong with it, and you really 
 can't expect much because it's a booster pack, however what it comes down is that you can skip 
 this and not bat an eyelash over improving the game experience. The new gamestyle just feels too 
 similar to Conquest . I think if more effort went into addressing bugs that still persist in the 
 game with the booster pack a lot more appreciation would be due. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krendog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Well it's a nice installment. It is quite short though, but I would have to say that it is a great 
 deal because it is only 10$. Although it is so short that it is only considered as a booster pack 
 and not a expansion pack. So it's a nice little add on and definitely worth it. It has some cool 
 new vehicles and maps and the new upgrades are alright. So it is a fine little game. If you enjoy 
 Battlefield 2142 you will enjoy this. For some people it is hard to recognise the units from each 
 other, but it all depends. I recommend this to any Battlefield fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhankeydinks
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  What is war? Is it a fallacy? More than likely not, as it is murder performed with out consequence 
 for a just cause. When it doesnt have a just cause, then its just American or some communist 
 government on a rampage. Beyond that, war is fun, or at least on the pc it is. Battlefield has 
 been the long running series ever since Battlefield 1942 as created. Nearly centuries after this 
 war, DICE and EA have teamed up to predict the next war, or at least in this case an expansion 
 of that prediction. In Northern Strike, it seems the PAC (Pan Asian Coalition) infiltrates undefended 
 EU (European Union) territory. The reason for this infiltration, resources that seem to be place 
 precariously in three locations. The locations, and the three new maps in the Northern Strike Booster 
 Pak, are Liberation of Leipizig (my personal favorite) , Port Bavaria, and Bridge at Remagen. Northern 
 Strike implies that the maps are snow covered, and youd be damn sure EA would stick to that notion. 
 Along with these maps comes a modified game play of Conquest called Assault Lines. Here is how 
 Assault Lines work, you must capture all the enemies bases before you can take their main base, 
 to me this is a much needed improvement of the game play model; makes it more intense and you dont 
 have to here me complain when someone takes my home base. With a new game play mode, that gives 
 new choke points and more intense battles, there must be more? Of course, I didnt spend $10 for 
 no reason. This booster pak has two new vehicles, which allow you to wage war in two different 
 ways. My personal favorite is the hovering light IFV Hachimoto for the PAC. The PAC seems opt for 
 speed over armor, its blitzkrieg on a completely new level. The heavy IFV Goliath is a brainchild 
 of development for the EU. EU opts for armor over speed, as this thing is slow. Slower than an 
 old man with no legs and no wheel chair. This bad boy probably clocks in at 2mph while the Hachimoto 
 probably hits 30mph. I personally like speed; this is because I like capturing flags over killing 
 people. Dont get me wrong though, I love killing people, just Im not always good at it. Titian 
 mode, according to EA, has become epic; in the sense, it is more fun? I can say having a Titan 
 mode on an urban map was enjoyable, but at times overwhelming. What more is there? Well there ishorizontal 
 pod direction! I honestly dont know if it should even been included, as I dont know how to do 
 it. My criticism of that really isnt just, mainly because it detracts from some of the other additions 
 to Northern Strike. Northern strike adds ten rewards, one new pin (which I already have) , and ten 
 new unlockables at the top of the unlock trees. All unlockables can be used on any map, not just 
 with Northern Strike. $10, thats all for some amazing new additions to Battlefield. While I at 
 first had problems with my purchase of EA Link, and my overall noobness to booster paks for the 
 serious, this game just adds more to Battlefield Crack. Take that WoW Crack, I played your trial 
 and I opted for a booster pak over you! Continuously played until carpel tunnel acts up, thats 
 what this booster pak will do to BF2142 if it already hasnt. If youre a fan of the serious, bought 
 or avoided the booster paks to BF2, and own 2142, do yourself a favor and buy the pak, you wont 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  The Northern Strike booster pack offers some really new cool items, maps, mode and vechiles. It 
 still has some bugs, but thats not the point of this booster, If you like 2142 or any other bf 
 game this is an easy 
 
  
 
   
 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l ll l l 
 l l l l l l l l l l l ll l l l ll l l ll l l l ll l l l l ll l l l l l ll l l l l l ll l l l l 
 l ll l l l l l l l ll l l l l l l ll l ll l l l l l l l l ll l l l ll l l l l ll l l l ll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khoo1992
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142: Northern Strike has boosted weapons selections and new maps to the players who 
 are bored with the old map...
  
  The newly added Titan map and Assault Line map are quite fun and challenging. The titan mode on 
 the urban areas let commander to move the vulnerable titan to on top of the building, make opponents 
 harder to get on top of the titan. The vehicles are imbalance designed, the EU has a hard armor 
 goliath that makes PAC players a hard time, while the PAC is light armored and easy to be destroyed.
 
  
  But, this booster pack still not good enough though. The buggy issues from the original game haven't 
 been fixed, and makes the game still very laggy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AeroTow
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 10, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  After a few hours on Battlefield 2142: Northern Strike, i think its fair to say its nice to have 
 the new maps, new unlocks, and new vehicles. However a lot of people seem to expect a full expansion 
 pack worth of fun- that isn't the case.
  For many people who find the Vanilla version of 2142 starting to ware thin, this is for you. The 
 maps are fun, well designed, and the Goliath heavy APC vehicle feels like it deserves a game mode 
 of its own. It continues to build upon the squad based tactics that 2142 was designed for. The 
 new assault lines game mode it OK however it could be better, it's just an upgraded conquest. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
