-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battle Realms
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/battlerealms/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 12, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.2, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,024 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Crave
Developer: Liquid Ent.
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 7, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Battle Realms has style in spades -- everything about it is slick, and it's noteworthy for that reason 
 alone, as well as for many others. 

 Battle Realms, the first product from Liquid Entertainment, has style in spades -- everything about 
 it is slick, and it's noteworthy for that reason alone, as well as for many others. It's a martial-arts-themed 
 real-time strategy game featuring dozens of great-looking units from four unique factions, impressive 
 graphical effects, and an innovative resource model. It has a polished, attractive presentation, 
 an open-ended campaign, and several good multiplayer modes. Battle Realms does have a few gameplay 
 issues that diminish some of its strategic appeal, as the action can prove to be difficult to manage. 
 But it's still a very worthwhile experience despite these things and should provide many hours 
 of enjoyment for all kinds of real-time strategy players.           Incredible-looking martial 
 arts battles are common in Battle Realms.    

  The setting and characters of the game are clearly inspired by some of Hong Kong's most spectacular 
 martial arts films -- particularly the work of director/choreographer Tsui Hark -- as well as some 
 of Japan's action-packed comics and animated films, like the gory and stylish  Ninja Scroll . The 
 incredible fight sequences featured in last year's film  Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon  are also 
 a good frame of reference for what you can expect from the battles in Battle Realms. Nothing is 
 mundane in the game's fictional Far East-like world -- even simple peasants can fight as trained 
 martial artists should the need arise. All the game's various units and characters don't just stand 
 adjacent to each other and hack away, as in most other real-time strategy games. Instead, they'll 
 attack with a variety of moves and techniques and put on quite a show in the process. Thanks to 
 the game's beautifully animated fully 3D units, not to mention the attractive terrain graphics 
 and the overall detail found in the game, Battle Realms certainly looks impressive.   

  True to its source of inspiration, combat in Battle Realms can be quite chaotic. You actually have 
 little control over your units besides being able to move them about (you can make them run by 
 double-clicking) , order them to attack, and initiate their special abilities if they have any. 
 It's surprising that you can't do more with your units. They're very autonomous -- they'll automatically 
 rush to attack nearby foes, prioritize threats properly, and even switch between ranged and melee 
 attacks as necessary. The pathfinding in the game is great -- tell your units to go somewhere, and 
 they will, stopping to fight any enemies along the way. But you can't set your units in formations 
 and must instead move them as a rabble (though the rabble moves at the speed of the slowest unit 
 in the group) ; and the pacing of the combat can be so fast that you'll just have to wait and see 
 whether your forces survive. It can be very difficult to pull units out of battle, as they will 
 seem to keep trying to lurch back into the fray. Also, since the game's units are large and tend 
 to spread out when they fight, it can be all the more difficult to keep track of everything that's 
 happening in a big battle, since it won't all fit onscreen.   

  Micromanaging the combat is necessary to sway the odds in your favor -- individual units can have 
 special abilities or equipment that can be used in battle to debilitate their foes, bolster their 
 allies, and much more. Still, the breakneck pacing of the combat will often force you to simply 
 use all of your special powers and abilities all at once, hoping for the best. But not all of the 
 game is this fast-paced -- it can take a while to bring enemy structures to the ground, during which 
 time the enemy can flee with a few peasants and set up a new base of operations elsewhere, making 
 the battle drag on.           The four different clans play almost as different as they look.  
   

  The peasant, your basic unit, is automatically produced from peasant huts it can build. The more 
 peasant huts you have, the faster peasants are generated. But the more units you have, the slower 
 peasant generation becomes, until you reach your maximum unit limit -- up to 50. Peasants can build 
 other structures and can also gather the game's two resources, rice and water. New buildings cost 
 a surplus of rice and water. Training new units costs rice and water too.   

  The resource model is slightly more complex than that -- rice grows back slowly, but it'll grow back 
 faster if you have peasants water it. And you don't just buy military units as you do in most real-time 
 strategy games -- your peasants train themselves into them. Thus, the resource gathering in Battle 
 Realms becomes a challenging proposition. The more peasants you have, the more resources you can 
 gather -- but unless you upgrade peasants by training them to be troops, you'll be defenseless. It's 
 an interesting system, especially once you factor in some of the finer details, like rains suddenly 
 replenishing all your rice paddies or having to use water to put out buildings that have caught 
 fire. Fortunately, the building process moves quite briskly in Battle Realms, and since there are 
 fairly strict upper limits on how much rice and water can be stored, you'll have a good sense of 
 when your economy is well underway and be able to commit to military training.    

 Still, you'll have to pay a lot of attention to your economy at all times. Though peasants ordered 
 to harvest rice, fetch water, or water rice will continue to do so, as more peasants become available, 
 you'll need to deal with them individually. You'll need to send them into basic training facilities 
 to produce your basic fighting units -- for instance, the cruel Serpent Clan can produce swordsmen 
 by sending peasants to the tavern (in an amusing touch, you see things like "@*!#?" spewing forth 
 from the tavern, which signifies that it's occupied by an apparently none-too-pleased swordsman 
 in training) . To create more-powerful units, you then send your new fighters into other training 
 facilities. The swordsman can then be upgraded by training him to be a bandit (who can loot the 
 corpses of his foes for some rice and water) by sending him to the sharpshooter's guild.       
     Aggressive tactics are rewarded, but so is a thriving economy.    

  You'll need to go through three, four, or even five steps to produce some of the more advanced 
 combat units. The bandit can then become a ronin, who fights with two huge blades; and four ronin 
 can then be sacrificed to form a powerful necromancer, whose mere presence causes all the fresh 
 corpses around him to rise up as zombies under his command. Unlike in other real-time strategy 
 games that let you build high-end production facilities to produce your strongest forces directly, 
 in Battle Realms, you must go through the same incremental process each time you want to train 
 one of your stronger units. So you can't just make a bunch of ronin from scratch. Fortunately, 
 what you can do is set rally points from one training facility to another just by right-clicking 
 to create a sort of production line. You can even set rally points from peasant huts straight to 
 resource patches or training facilities. This way, you can leave your town be for a while -- but 
 your peasants will still make themselves useful and automatically train up to whatever unit you 
 desire.   

  The rally points are a good thing, but of course, you'll often want to pick and choose which units 
 to make, as well as when to make them. This can be a bit of a hassle since the minimap on the interface 
 doesn't distinguish between buildings, units, peasants, or much of anything. You'll just see a 
 big, colored blotch to indicate the concentration of your forces. In reality, your buildings are 
 huge and spread out. Once you've built up your town, expect to have to manually scroll around it 
 a lot, looking for stray units. Fortunately, there's a prominent button on the interface for zeroing 
 in on idle peasants (and also on battles underway or on buildings caught on fire) . And you can 
 queue up peasants or other units for training at particular structures. Only one unit at a time 
 can train in each structure, but the rest will wait their turns.           Kenji and his closest 
 allies are shown here, all on horseback.    

  Battle Realms' resource model is mostly very well designed, and the game has a lot of other great 
 concepts as well. One is that virtually any unit can ride on horseback (though the Wolf Clan prefers 
 to use horses for food) . Peasants have a few additional roles, including repairing damaged buildings, 
 putting out fires, and taming horses, which can be found out in the wild. These can then be brought 
 back to a stable you've built, and any of your units can then use them as a steed. The animation 
 of units on horseback looks simply outstanding. Units can fight with increased effectiveness from 
 the mount, and the horse itself can even use a trample attack against nearby enemies. Horses also 
 effectively give your units extra hit points (your units don't take damage until the steed is killed) 
 and of course help you cover more ground quickly, but they aren't strictly necessary in battle. 
   

  Another option you have is to build certain structures that can outfit your troops with special 
 limited-use equipment. This lets you upgrade units individually, but for an individual fee. It 
 can give you a surprise advantage against an opponent unaware of the trick you have up your sleeve. 
 For instance, the swordsman can purchase an enchanted glass sword that can kill a foe outright, 
 but it shatters in the process, damaging the swordsman himself. Archers and other long-range fighters 
 can purchase specialty arrows and darts. This equipment necessitates still more micromanagement. 
 Not only do you have to individually equip your troops, but you also must keep track of who has 
 what and when to use it, and there's no clear visual indication of which troop has battle gear. 
 Still, using the appropriate battle gear is what will separate an advanced Battle Realms player 
 from another, and this feature definitely adds some depth and a long-term learning curve to the 
 game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: om3ga_storm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review and how appropriate it is for one of my all time fav. games!
  
  Alright, so I bought Battle Realms when it first came out at my friend's suggestion. At first I 
 was a little reluctant but after playing it for a few hours I really got into it.
  
  The game is based in a fictional Asian setting. You've got four clans which are pretty unique to 
 each other in terms of unit types but the overall playing mechanics are similar. i. e. similar resource 
 gathering.
  
  Talking about mechanics, the way units are trained is very unique and I loved it. After you build 
 a hut, or a house (usually the first building you construct) , you automatically start generating 
 peasants at a fixed rate. (more houses increase that time but not too dramatically) . The rate actually 
 is that of exponential decay in that as your pop. grows your rate decreases. The fact that the 
 pop. limit of this game is 40 should give you an idea of how fast paced this game is (should be 
 anyway) . I've actually never reached that limit. The closest I got to was around the mid 30s, but 
 ideally both of you would have done a lot of fighting by then.
  
  This leads to the training of units. The way units are trained is quite innovative as well. You 
 send your peasants that have been generated into various buildings and there they get trained. 
 Suffice to say it is a nice change from all the other RTSs where you simply train units out of 
 literally nothing. Here you actually send peasants to get trained. If you don't want to micromanage 
 individual peasants, you can of course make waypoints. 
  
  The battles are fun to watch. The graphics are very colorful and bright, and the combat plays out 
 well. You've got the blasts, fire, slashing, each unit making noise, so it feels like how a real 
 battle would be. One of my fav things about combat was how ranged units adjusted when being attacked 
 by a melee unit. For example, the dragon clan has archers. When a wolf clan brawler closed in on 
 the archer, the archer didn't just keep shooting at point blank range like in many other RTSs. 
 Instead, more realistically, the archer starts wacking the brawler with the bow. Things like this 
 made the fights very enjoyable to watch and more believable. 
  
  Each unit is also quite unique and memorable, much like how Team Fortress 2 has divided their classes 
 into unique ones. I still remember the loyal samurai of the dragon clan to the thievish ways of 
 the serpent clan sharpshooters, to the savage wolf clan berserkers, and the disgusting lotus clan 
 Diseased ones. Add to those characteristics the individual abilities which they can learn that 
 add more flair to the battles and you've got a very fun RTS game that will appeal to those looking 
 for a different type of experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellish_eye
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  well i think its too late to talk about this Game cause i think this game released like 2001 mean 
 7 years ago, but honestly the game is amazing, well if you are wondering why its amazing, briefly 
 the game have different way of playing, i mean by that the age you play in and the way you build 
 the buildings and the way you train your citizen to make them armies , well its not like other 
 games you just build barracks and click on the army you would like to build then here is my army!.
 
  Also there is weakness for each army, and spells and they are useful for wining a battle not just 
 spells with no effect , and you wont win the game that easy just by collecting a lot of armies, 
 so i think really the only way to figure out how much the game is nice just by playing it, and 
 you wont get bored fast from it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Battle Realms is a game created by Crave and Liquid Ent.. The game has some potential which is 
 nice but is somewhat ruined a little by some problems. The battles though can be fun and entertaining. 
 The campaign is also good though it can be frustrating if you have to build a town from the start 
 while being attacked by numerous forces, or if you have to clear all enemies on the mission. This 
 is somewhat bad and makes most missions time-consuming and frustrating. The number of maps looks 
 nice though some of them almost look alike. Building in Battle Realms can be fun but can be frustrating 
 as it takes time to build a large settlement. The visuals though are nice even though its pretty 
 much a little old. The trees, grass, building, and other things looks nice. The frame rate is stable 
 especially if you have a fast computer. The sounds are pretty much good. The music may not be that 
 great but it should still be enjoyable.
  
  While the game has a lot potential, its problems keeps it from being a better game. Overall, the 
 game is fun especially if you don't mind those problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woodchip50
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 6, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  I am shocked and dismayed by the fact that I havent already written a review on this outstandingly 
 masterful and brilliant game! I find that with most games that they will be on the top of my to-do 
 list for about 1-3 weeks, and then, once they bore me, I dont go back to them for a good solid 
 period ranging from 6-18 months. So
  
  Q) What do I do when I am tired of all my games? A) All I have to do is get out my copy of battle 
 realms and BANG I am no longer bored brainless.
  
  Anyway onto the main review:
  Context:
  O. k this game is set in Japan I believe, and is evidently from before world travel/exploration/etc. 
 There are four clans (dragon, serpent, lotus and wolf) each following attributes of their chosen 
 creature or flower. The dragons are honourable warriors, the serpents are much slyer (if that 
 is a word) and are actually a band of thieves effectively, the lotus for some reason feel they 
 should make themselves ill (they are practically black magicians) , and the wolves are generally 
 large people with the muscle force of giants but the mind set of four year olds, meaning they prefer 
 brawl over brainsand actually come to think of it the lotus generally oppose this preferring brains 
 over brawl, oooh revelations readers, just realised they may be trying to prove the will of the 
 mind stronger than the physical reality by making themselves ill! Yes. That must be it. Be it that 
 or else they are just a tad oddor a bit of bothhmmm
  
  .. ANYWAY:
  This game is a kind of RTS thing. Basically you can first choose a clan to play with (each different 
 in their own special ways) , then you build you settlement and build up an army, then go out and 
 try to beat everyone else before they beat you. You can however do loads of other things. There 
 are heroes to summon, upgrades to learn and a unique hierarchy for each clan to go through. Part 
 of the beauty of this game is that it is just that simple, there are no extra complex things to 
 understand, just three resources (rice, water, and yin/yang) .
  This game has a skirmish option for quick battles, a tutorial mode to teach you the gameplay rules 
 (surprising that!) and like most RTS games it also has a story mode: this is the hard bit to the 
 game, it is in essence a set of skirmishes with several limitations and options for you to choose 
 from that affect the rest of the story mode (e. g. do you take path a or path b?) . Now an analysis 
 of each review feature:
  Lets start with the negatives.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics unfortunately leave much to be desired. The game uses basic 3D shapes to build the 
 characters and is merely coloured accordingly. But this does lead to a mega positive: it does reduce 
 the in-game loading time (this is on my rubbishy computer upstairs) , and so consequently gameplay 
 is greatly improved which lets you get on with the important bitplaying! Other than that I have 
 little else to say in this area And now the positives-
  
  Gameplay:
  GREAT, occasionally this will slow when there is an entire army on screen but apart from that there 
 is nothing wrong here. Sound:
  Battle Realms has a wide selection of different backing pieces that play throughout, each is relative 
 to something, some relate to clans whilst others inform you of battles etc. Naturally it is all 
 in context. Lovely. Value:
  Oh it is indubitably immensely superbly amazingly spectacularly good value! I got my copy for &pound;3.99 
  what a bargain! I will however stress that this is one of the features that make it so brilliant, 
 as it is cheap I am very pleased with it, and even for the hours upon hours of fun I have on it 
 I wouldnt recommend paying more than &pound;20 (think thats about $35-ish) for it : ( WHY? Because 
 when I pay the extra &pound;10+ for a game I am really doing so for the graphics as I expect the 
 fun to be packed into that first 20 quid
  
  Reviewers tilt:
  I scored this at full to achieve that 9/10 score as truly this game is quite brilliant!
  
  
 Hope that helped
  
  Woodchip50 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 25, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Summary: A highly enjoyable RTS game with quirky units (in the form of 4 clans) , an interesting 
 unit upgrade system, and surprising depth.
  Gameplay: Excellent RTS execution. There are nuances to the gameplay, with certain characters better 
 at particular tasks than others. For example, only Spearmen from the Dragon Clan are unaffected 
 by their elevation when in battle (anyone else who is below a target gets a penalty) . Other nuances 
 are how only the crossbowmen from the Serpent Clan regenerate to full health after they have been 
 hurt. These subtle differences in characters make for a game that you can explore and replay over 
 and over.
  Graphics: Great for the time, but dated now. The battle maps are a bit bland and repetitive. However, 
 the character design and movement are top-notch.
  Sound: Fantastic voice acting, believable sound effects, moody music. Everything about the sound 
 is top-notch.
  Value: Cheap, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p99007
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  This game is an extremely compotent as it seta a high goal and easily completes it.
  
  The Graphics are great and the water effects are really cool and the rocks are nice. In addition 
 the grass and trees are very detailed and are a joy to play on. In addition, there are a ton of 
 maps. There are around 24 maps to play on and all of them are cool. Online this game is dead, but 
 the AI are great and alot of fun to play. In addition, the sound in this game is well done.
  
  Gameplay is key in this game. it is alot of fun and I highly reccomend the campaign, its some 
 of the best ive played. However, its reealy reeally tough. but if oyu can overcome it, it is great. 
 Overall, Just check this game out. It was worth it in 2001, its still worth it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Com_Meister32
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Battle Realms was a game that i picked up very cheaply. I wasnt expecting alot from it, I just 
 wanted a game that could tide me over for a bit until i saved up enough for a good game. But man 
 i got alot more then i bargained for! Its one of those overlooked but great games. It is a very 
 well-balance game with a long campaign that lets you choose your path. It will satisfy you for 
 hours because the quick battle option makes it highly replayable and fun. Its graphics are quite 
 stunning for its time too! There are just so many options with this game and it is very easy to 
 get used to. Definitely pick this one up in your nearest bargain bin if you're looking for some 
 good gameplay!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  One of the greatest games I've ever played... I started playing it when it was realesed, so till 
 now I have a couple of years of expirience in it... It is on of my favourites... OK, the game is 
 old and the graphics is bad, but so what? The games itself is great! Now, in 2006/2007 we can say 
 that the graphics is pretty bad, but in the time it was made, it was amazing... The nature is done 
 nicely, just the quality of troops is bad... especially their arms... Anyway, I'll give the graphics 
 a 10 cuz I'll look from the old point of view (I'll look at it as it was 2001st year...) . For that 
 period, it is great! The sound is perfect... No complains about that... Anyway, I think that the 
 game is Worht to try for everyone and Masterpiece for me.... 10 out of 10 = perfect... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rysing_Furi
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  The game has an excellent story that really reels you in, you'll want to see it through to the 
 end just because its so cool. You'd think a japanese samurai martial arts and swords kind of game 
 would bore you to tears, but its such a welcome change from lasers and nuclear missles etc that 
 you don't even notice it. There is nothing like seeing 12+ archers reign fire down on a village 
 or army. The game simply has that man that is so cool factor about it. You'll soon see awesome 
 fights on the battlefield, and this is helped by the exceptional animation of the characters. Whether 
 using swords, fists, arrows, or even distraction, the game always looks good. Gameplay is great, 
 any RTS player will pick it up easily. The units are all well done, and you'll soon get the hang 
 of the peasant system the game uses. The sound is well done, although your units will repeat phrases 
 a bit often. Where the sound really shines is in its music. The music fits perfectly, and sounds 
 distinctly japanese/chinese along with having a full orchestra to boot. The only thing that could 
 have been done better in the game is the cinematics. The game uses the in-game engine zoomed up 
 on your heroes/units, which ends up being rather fuzzy and it just seems like an oversight on the 
 creator's part. It would have been far better with anime style cinematics but I guess its all money 
 money money. All up however, this is a great game and any RTS fan should have a go simply because 
 its just so cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sith_slayer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game I was expecting a pretty ordinary strategy game ala C&C or warcraft. 
 But after I finished the tutorials (its a must that u do them) I was blown away with all the new 
 stuff this game has to offer. Theres so much new ground covered here that even the most veteran 
 strategy players will find something new to fiddle around with. The comic approach to the model 
 design is reminiscent of warcraft but the gameplay is all its own. With almost 30 units to a faction 
 and 4 factions, this game has enough to keep you busy for months. Surprising its still one of a 
 kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudstrife145
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is another wonderful strategy game. There are 4 clans that fight each other for land 
 and victory. There is the Wolf, the Lotus, the Serpent, and the Dragons. 
  
  The graphics are good, the music is good, the story is good, and the gameplay is good. All is good, 
 making the game a great game. Liquid Entertainment has given a wonderful game that is not easily 
 to be forgotten.
  
  The game is just plain fun.... it's similar to Red Alert/Yuri's Revenge. There are lots of "soldiers" 
 in each clan. First, the one main thing in a the beginning of a game is to build houses, barracks, 
 and other more by using your parents. Just play it and you'll know. 
  
  This game is a must buy game! Buy it now or else you'll regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bologa
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game I was not sure if it was going to be good. I started playing and I got addicted 
 to it. The game gives you four or five tribes that you can choose from and each of them has their 
 unique units. The only units you produce are peasants in your town hall. With these peasants you 
 got to make them harvest rice and bring water to your town hall. Once you have the necessary resources 
 (rice, water and faith points that you get randomly) you can build barracks and other buildings 
 like that. Once the buildings are completed then you must take one of your peasants and make him 
 train in the barracks. Once the training time is over then you get yourself a melee unit. I suggest 
 you try it first though because it is a little different compared to the other games of the genre 
 like AOE. This is a great game that I suggest to anybody who like the RTS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaryus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Even though this review is almost 5 years late, the time I spent playing Battle Realms was fun 
 enough for me to want to write a review now.
  
  On the Presentation scale it was good.... for 2001, even though 5 years doesn't sound that long 
 for some of us old people ,graphics have come along way so the graphics are pretty darn good for 
 it's time. The sound is still passable by today's standards. The gameplay was simple and familiar, 
 yet interesting and different. Some as simple as getting peasants trained in buildings instead 
 of a barracks spontaneously giving birth to a soldier was engaging at first glace. I also liked 
 how each faction was very different an had their own flavour, I was a big fan of the Wolf Clan. 
 I liked their ingenuity mixed in with some good old fashion clubbin'.
  
  RTS fans would enjoy a nice change of pace in this game. Definatly worth checking out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacksonfdam
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  Battle realms  um dos melhores games de estrategia que j joguei. O sistema de inteligencia dele 
  otimo. Em algumas fases ele  fodastico. Muito dificil... mas em algumas ele  bem calmo... A Liquid 
 Entertainment
  mandou muito bem nos graficos e na jogabilidade...
  
  Fora o sistema de aproveitamento e tranformao dos personagens, este foi um ponto muito bem explorado, 
 que faltava nos games do genero...
  
  Alem do mais os especiais, a qualidade dos graficos e as taticas agressivas do jogo incrementam 
 ainda mais a vontade do jogador prosseguir na historia.
  
  Simplesmente  um jogo que eu recomento a qualquer gamer...
  A expansao dele ficou otima...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebel_punk34
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2005 5:33 am PT
Review:  Battle Realms has a unique game-play style. For story mode you can choose the Path of the Dragon 
 or the Serpant. Each side has its own plot and enemies. The Skirmish or online has its own strong 
 points too. For example, you can choose which clan you can be. Also, you can learn what there strengths 
 and weaknesses are from playing skirmish, which can come in very handy when playing story mode. 
 I hope they make more Battle Realms games in the future like The Winter Of The Wolf, also I hope 
 thay can make more of the BR games based on the clans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agefreak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 29, 2005 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Battle Realms, the first of Liquid Entertainments impressive line of offerings, comes along as 
 a RTS game with subtle touches that form the essence of its immensely appealing presentation and 
 execution. Released at a time when the likes of Age of Mythology and Warcraft III ruled the genre, 
 the game carved itself a niche in the competitive genre, and provided RTS fans with a breath of 
 fresh air in the form of the innovative ideas it implemented so well. The game might be mistaken 
 as another run-of-the-mill RTS by a relatively unknown developer, but in reality, it has plenty 
 of depth and variations to keep even the most hardcore RTS fan engrossed.
  
  The setting of the game is entirely in a fictional Far-Eastern themed land, and its oriental inspiration 
 is pretty much apparent. The game sports a slick interface with an attractive presentation and 
 subtle finishing touches here and there, which might be minor but are quite noticeable. The game 
 throws at you the usual options of a Campaign and a Skirmish mode. The Campaign follows the journey 
 of Kenji, a swordsman returning to his land after a period of exile (apparently for murdering his 
 father) . The campaign makes you choose your fate as the leader of the noble Dragon Clan or the 
 not-so-noble Serpent Clan early on in the story. The story branches out at several instances, requiring 
 you to make choices between the territories you want to capture, thus making the revelation of 
 the plot all the more enjoyable. The plot, in itself, is quite well written and implemented.
  
  The basic resource management and combat models of the game are where the game stands out from 
 the rest of the RTSs. Your basic resource gathering unit is the Peasant, and the basic resources 
 are rice and water. Peasants are not trained; they get spawned from Peasant Huts. The more huts 
 and lesser population you have, the greater is the rate of spawning. Of course, there is an upper 
 limit to the no. of peasants youre allowed to have (depending upon the population limit) . Rice 
 is gathered from rice fields and water from ponds and wells. Rice, once gathered, diminishes from 
 the field, but grows back over time. If the fields are watered regularly (by your peasants, of 
 course) , the rice grows back at a faster rate. But as an additional twist, both kinds of resources 
 have an upper limit. Heres where the player has to have a tradeoff between various tasks performed 
 by various peasants. 
  
  Another function of the peasants is in training of military units. Your units are not simply created 
 by spending resources at the required building.. Your peasants must be sent into the building 
 for a short period of time, after which he emerges as a trained combat unit. Thats not all 
 units, once trained, may be sent into other military structures for further training, which helps 
 you produce other specialized units. For example, a Spearman may be trained into a Dragon Warrior, 
 which may be further trained into a Samurai, all at different structures. In many cases, youll 
 have your units do at least 3 to 4 rounds of training, before you have the desired units. This 
 unique system offers plenty of depth as well as scope for experimentation, which results in greater 
 replay value. Its plain that the peasants form the bedrock of any clan, and thus, their efficient 
 management is of prime importance. 
  
  The combat system is also drastically different. While the Click-and-Move system still remains 
 the same, the way your units react in combat is very much different. Units do not move in formations 
 rather, they move as a bunch at a common speed. While in combat, they exhibit skills which are 
 straight out of a martial arts movie, with magnificent slashes, leaps and other maneuvers. Your 
 units pretty much take control of combat in their hands. They rush to attack the enemy, switch 
 automatically between melee and ranged attacks, and are quite aware of the situation around them. 
 This neat system allows you to avoid micromanagement of units during combat, except when you want 
 to use a units special abilities, if any. In the end, you just have to select the appropriate 
 units for battle, group them up, move them towards their foe and sit back and watch the spectacle, 
 all the while throwing in a special power or two. 
  
  Another great addition to the combat system is the use of horses. Virtually all of your military 
 units (and even peasants) can mount a horse. Horses are scattered over the map, and must be tamed 
 and brought to the stables by the peasants before they can be used in combat. Even peasants harvesting 
 resources can mount horses to speed up things a bit. Your steeds give you a definite advantage 
 in the battlefield, not only of speed, but of extra hitpoints, as your units do not take any damage 
 while their horses still alive. All these aspects of combat make it move at a breakneck pace, 
 and in most cases, a sight to gape at in wonder!!!
  
  Your units can be upgraded in different ways. They may purchase special upgrades at certain buildings, 
 or they may receive upgrades in strength and attack points through research at their respective 
 buildings. These upgrades require you to spend Yin or Yang points, depending upon the faction you 
 command. These points basically represent energy you gain while in battle, and their accumulation 
 heavily depends on your success. The more yin/yang points you have, the lesser is the rate of accumulation 
 of these points. This is another feature which throws in an element of challenge for the gamer. 
 And of course, units with upgrades outclass their vanilla counterparts by quite a bit, thus making 
 efficient usage of these points important. 
  
  Coming to the clans there are 4 of them  The noble Dragon Clan, the evil Serpent Clan, the twisted 
 Lotus Clan and the mysterious Wolf Clan. Each clan has a distinctive look and feel about it, and 
 also plays almost as differently, which is another plus towards the games refreshing nature. The 
 unit categories might be the same, but the units in themselves offer plenty of variations. For 
 instance, youll instantly recognize the clean but menacing look of the Dragon Clans Kabuki Warrior 
 and the dominating, humongous frame of the Sledger from the Wolf Clan, each suited for its own 
 purpose. Besides all the regular units, each faction has a number of what are called Zen Masters, 
 which are mighty hero units that can be summoned from each faction's keep for a price. These powerful 
 warriors look absolutely stunning, with their awesome weapons, remarkable combat moves and special 
 abilities.
  
  It has been quite evident throughout the review that the game looks quite stunning. All unit models 
 look great and have a neat oriental touch to them. The environments, though limited, also look 
 superb; with neat touches like birds flying out of canopies as your units pass through, clouds 
 throwing faint shadows on the ground and little animals scurrying here and there. The character 
 animations have also been superbly handled. Each unit has its own distinct combat style, which, 
 by the way, is nothing short of amazing. The movement of all units, their varied actions, like 
 peasants trying to fend off an overly exuberant horse, all count as finishing touches to the spectacular 
 presentation of the game. The game runs surprisingly smoothly, even with plenty of units on the 
 screen. This just shows the scalability of its engine.
  
  Sound effects are absolutely splendid, and complement the theme of the game perfectly. The sounds 
 of leaves getting crushed, birds flying suddenly out of a cluster of trees, and splashing of water 
 as your units move through it  all add to the exceptional in-game environment. The combat sounds 
 are at par with the rest, with great blade slashing effects and war cries. The background score, 
 consisting of light eastern themes, is meant to complement the games environment without actually 
 causing a diversion, and needless to say, it does its job well. 
  
  The single player campaign is quite engrossing, with its storyline and replayabiltity, and the 
 AI is smart enough to keep gamers engrossed in the single player skirmishes. Apart from this, the 
 game also offers Multiplayer gaming through its integrated GameSpy player-matching service. The 
 multiplayer is riddled with a few bugs, but most of them have been fixed by the subsequent battle 
 packs released by Liquid. Both in multiplayer and in the skirmish mode, there are plenty of maps 
 of all sizes to choose from and there are also a few discreet modes of play available. For instance, 
 in one mode, all you have to do to win is raze the enemy keep. In the Famine mode, you are given 
 a large amount of rice and water to amass your army. You can never earn more resources, so this 
 becomes an exercise in careful spending and battle micromanagement and thus can make for a good 
 diversion from the core gameplay. However, the game lacks a Scenario Editor, which could have provided 
 some additional pluses in itself. 
  
  The game does well by giving itself a feel completely different from traditional RTSs. However, 
 in some cases, it does stray a bit too far. For instance, the game does not incorporate a statistical 
 management system for any of the units. Fans of the Age Of Empires series and the like might remember 
 judging their units by the no. of hitpoints, attack points and armor they have. This usually 
 helped in creating the perfectly balanced army. But in Battle realms, due to the lack of such information 
 (rather, the non-disclosure of such information) , players are generally forced to create a good 
 mix of all available unit types and throw them in combat  a system that tends to get a bit mundane, 
 despite the varying levels of complexity. The single player scenario is based on an intriguing 
 storyline and offers plenty of twists and turns, but most of the scenarios sometimes simply boil 
 down to creating a base from scratch, and hunt down every single enemy unit, thus making the gameplay 
 slightly linear, although you may use different tactics in different scenarios. The campaign story 
 is put forward through cutscenes a la AoM. While the voice acting is pretty decent, the cutscenes 
 in themselves are nothing spectacular. In fact, in some cases, the irregular zooming in and out 
 makes them downright ugly. 
  
  
  All said and done, theres no doubt that Battle Realms is a must play for any RTS fan. While gamers 
 new to this genre might prefer a taste of traditional RTSs like Age of Mythology, a twist in gameplay 
 for the good does no harm. The game might be riddled with a few shortcomings, especially in the 
 multiplayer and micromanagement departments, but all that is well made up by the exhilarating graphics 
 and animations, the terrific sound effects and the impeccable presentation of the game. All in 
 all, a top notch effort by Liquid Entertainment in a genre chock full of competition.
  
  
  Highs
  
   Great Graphics and Sound
   Unique Gameplay
   Intriguing campaign storyline
 
   Superb resource and combat modeling
   Overall excellent presentation
  
  
  Lows
  
   Few multiplayer bugs
   Very little micromanagement, especially in combat
   No scenario 
 editor
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 21, 2005 5:15 am PT
Review:  Battle Realms looked like it should have had everything, from the awesome characterization to a 
 sweet setting, Battle Realms seemed like the ultimate RTS to play before Warcraft 3. Sadly, it 
 didn't live up to expectations, repetitive and too easy, the lasting appeal of Battle Realms is 
 very low. That is not to say it doesn't have good points, however.
  
  Gameplay: Battle Realms attempts to give you many choices when you play as the different factions. 
 These factions include the Wolf Clan, the Lotus, the Snake, and the Dragon Clans. They are all 
 rather different, which is certainly a good thing, but unfortunately, even while the units are 
 different, it all plays the same. 
  
  The premise for Battle Realms is genious, something game developers should have thought up years 
 ago- use the peasants to turn into troops, and continue upgrading. This was something I had really 
 wanted to see in games for a while, but once I saw how it worked for Battle Realms, I'm not sure 
 I ever want to see it again. What the system ammounts to is creating buildings to mass produce 
 peasants, send the peasants to random buildings to upgrade them as needed, and repeat.
  
  This causes for massive lines and long wait times as you sit and wait for your more useful units 
 to get trained, and it also turns the skirmishes into needlessly long outings.
  
  Another issue with Battle Realms is the horrifying lack of balance. Whilst at first it seems rather 
 balanced, once you discover the secret of the Wolf Clan, that is, to mass produce wolves (just 
 about every one of your soldiers can traveil with 1-3 wolves) , you can easily overrun even experts 
 of the other clans. This lack of balance is disturbing, and a massive flaw for an RTS game to have.
 
  
  The campaign is also dull and exceedingly, painfully long. While it doesnt involve all that many 
 missions, the gameplay is so tedious you will want it to end as soon as possible.
  
  This is not to say Battle Realms does not have many interesting innovations. These include the 
 ability for most of your units to upgrade individually to suit your needs, helping combat certain 
 opponents, as well as the abillity to get into towers and use various attacks from them.
  
  Graphics: Graphically, Battle Realms was beautiful for its time, and is still rather appealing 
 today. The units all look unique, and have their own unique fighting styles. Sadly, there aren't 
 enough battle animations, and you will soon grow tired of seeing one attack animation over and 
 over.
  
  Sound: The music is as forgettable as the sound effects, but it is not horrible, just... average.
 
  
  Value: The game will keep you entertained for a good period of time if you decide not to exploit 
 the balancing weaknesses, but once you have played games like Warcraft, Starcraft, the Total War 
 series, etc, all better RTS games, you won't be coming back.
  
  Tilt: Battle Realms could have been so much more. It should have been so much more, but it is not. 
 With some more time put into development and the smoothing out of balance issues, Battle Realms 
 could have been great, but as is, it's a diamond in the rough.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nealok
Rating: 5.1
Date: Feb 7, 2005 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This is an example of a great game idea that just didn't make it all the way through the execution 
 stage with all that inspiration intact. 
  
  The graphics capture the setting with easy-to-miss nuances and the world feels like it's really 
 alive. While the story and backstory aren't anything new or breathtaking, they do provide a good 
 reason to care about what side you pick and what their M. O. is. 
  
  But besides the mechanics of how you build your army -- which is pretty damned innovative, I think -- 
 the combat itself is slow and uninspired, and IT doesn't bring anything new to the table per se. 
 I gave up on this game's multiplayer for a weekend, which is just slightly shorter than the single-player 
 component lasted. 
  
  Don't let the pretty graphics and cool setting fool you. This game is only for people who just 
 NEED to play every RTS they can get their hands on. NEED IT. Are there any such people? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
