-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlefield Vietnam
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/battlefieldvietnam/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 16, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 52 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 4,871 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Digital Illusions
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Mar 16, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Battlefield Vietnam packs more dramatic moments in its gameplay than most any multiplayer-focused 
 action game in the past few years. 

  Battlefield Vietnam is one of the most anticipated games of the year. But the question is, can 
 it emerge from beneath the shadow of its illustrious predecessor, Battlefield 1942, as well as 
 megapopular user-made mods such as Desert Combat? While a jaded gamer might label Battlefield Vietnam 
 nothing more than an elaborate update, that's taking a very cynical and shortsighted view. The 
 truth is that Battlefield Vietnam is more than just a new collection of maps and weapons; it's 
 a superbly designed multiplayer action game that incorporates the lessons learned from 1942 and 
 mates them with better technology. And yet, it must be said that Battlefield Vietnam just doesn't 
 feel as groundbreaking as Battlefield 1942 did for its time, when it successfully combined first-person 
 shooting action with vehicular combat on a relatively large scale. Be that as it may, hardcore 
 Battlefield fans and new players alike will probably agree that Battlefield Vietnam is a great, 
 often thrilling action game.  

          Welcome to the jungle. It's pretty, as well as deadly.     

  For those unfamiliar with 
 the basics of the game, Battlefield Vietnam is a multiplayer-focused shooter that allows you to 
 fight the battles of the Vietnam War against computer-controlled bots or up to 63 other players. 
 In the conquest mode, which is the primary mode of play here just as in Battlefield 1942, players 
 divide up into two teams, one for the US and its Vietnamese allies and the other for the North 
 Vietnamese and its Vietcong allies. You're then dropped into a gigantic map and must battle for 
 strategic control points. In addition to running around on foot with a variety of weapons, you 
 can jump into an assortment of vehicles, including jeeps, tanks, helicopters, jets, and more. Often, 
 multiple players can jump into the same vehicle; for example, one player can pilot the helicopter 
 while two players handle the side-mounted machine guns and two others sit back and shoot out the 
 side with their own weapons. It can make for a wildly exciting experience as the two teams slug 
 it out in a tug-of-war struggle, and a team's fortunes can change in a heartbeat depending on the 
 skill and coordination level between players.  

  The first thing that strikes you about Battlefield Vietnam isn't the graphics; it's the music. 
 From the opening movie to the loading screens, you're immediately exposed to a soundtrack that's 
 packed with the classic Vietnam War protest songs, including Edwin Starr's "War," Creedence Clearwater 
 Revival's "Fortunate Son," The Trashmen's "Surfin' Bird," and others. You may not recognize the 
 names, but you'll definitely recognize the music from countless movies, commercials, and the radio. 
 The soundtrack itself would be worthy of a big-budget Hollywood movie, and it permeates throughout 
 the game.  

  The 14 different scenarios in Battlefield Vietnam are inspired by some of the most famous battles 
 of the war, including the Ia Drang Valley (depicted in the movie  We Were Soldiers ) , Hue during 
 the Tet Offensive, and the Siege of Khe Sanh. There are also lesser-known battles, such as Operation 
 Hastings (an early Marine Corps battle) and Operation Flaming Dart (Air Force bombing raids) . The 
 game itself comes with about 12 different maps, because two urban maps -- Hue and Quang Tri -- are 
 used twice. There are some variations in the recycled versions of those two maps, but it's disappointing 
 whenever developers reuse levels in the same game. Not only does it feel like we're getting less, 
 but it can make for needless confusion in multiplay.  

  In general, though, the levels themselves feature a fine variety of terrain and gameplay styles. 
 For example, Operation Flaming Dart is all about aerial combat, as the two forces start separated 
 by a large body of water. Flaming Dart also requires the US force to destroy three NVA radio towers 
 in order to succeed, which is a nice departure from the standard conquest gameplay mode, where 
 the goal is simply to conquer all the control points. Meanwhile, the Ia Drang level is all about 
 helicopter operations, given that it's inspired by the air cavalry's battle in Vietnam's central 
 highlands. On that map, the US forces start with a single control point surrounded by communist 
 control points and come under withering fire almost immediately. But the US forces have a distant 
 base where they can jump in helicopters and jets to provide tremendous amounts of air support and 
 mobility. Vietnam was not just a jungle war; urban combat is represented by the Hue and Quang Tri 
 maps, and they feel very similar in style to the urban levels in Battlefield 1942.  

          Charlie's trying to seize a control point, but he should have brought some backup.     
 

  The maps themselves benefit from a greater level of detail not possible in Battlefield 1942. No 
 longer is the terrain wide open and sparely decorated. There's a lot more character to the land, 
 not just in terms of geography, but in vegetation as well. Now there are steep ravines and valleys, 
 dry riverbeds, and hills and small mountains. All of these help to break up the sight lines, giving 
 a much more natural feel to the game. This also prevents snipers from camping on top of the highest 
 peak and dominating from that vantage point, like they tend to do in Battlefield 1942. The terrain 
 is much more of an obstacle in Battlefield Vietnam, but you can use it to your advantage. You can 
 use the lush vegetation to hide from enemy air units or maneuver in the steep terrain where armor 
 and other vehicles can't follow. On the other hand, the environments are immune to the effects 
 of the battle; tank shells and napalm drops do nothing to affect the lush surroundings, which perhaps 
 is predictable but is still somewhat disappointing given the surface level of realism. Nevertheless, 
 it's clear that the levels and graphics in Battlefield Vietnam are much more advanced than they 
 were in Battlefield 1942.     

  Sadly, the same can't be said of the computer-controlled bots, which remain as dumb as they ever 
 were. Simply put, the bots are horrible, even at the toughest artificial intelligence level. Bots 
 don't work as a team properly; they'll run around randomly, they'll jump in vehicles and then do 
 nothing, and occasionally they'll just stand idly by as you shoot them. Bots don't know how to 
 fly helicopters properly; when they're not crashing into the ground, they're hovering back and 
 forth over a single spot, as if on a swing. About the only way to milk any kind of a challenge 
 out of the bots is if you select impossible-level bots with impossible-level odds. Under those 
 odds, the bots will still behave stupidly, but there are so many of them that it doesn't matter 
 because they'll overwhelm you with almost-ridiculous numbers. Granted, the vast majority of players 
 aren't interested in the single-player component of Battlefield Vietnam (nor should they be, with 
 bots like these) , but the bots remain a problem if you use them in multiplayer to flesh out the 
 empty spots on a team's roster. Since some other multiplayer-focused action games on the market 
 feature superior bots with almost-human cunning, there seems to be little excuse for the bot behavior 
 in Battlefield Vietnam.  

          The jeep hasn't changed much from Battlefield 1942.     

  The multiplayer server browser 
 derives directly from Battlefield 1942, which is a good thing. It's extremely easy to use, so finding 
 and jumping into a game online requires just a few mouse clicks. There are a number of different 
 game types in Battlefield Vietnam, including evolution (which takes place on two historically-linked 
 maps and the scores from the first match carry over into the second) and capture the flag. However, 
 conquest is by far the most popular game type.  

  The gameplay mechanics themselves have been tweaked, for the better. For example, major bases are 
 much harder for a lone infiltrator to seize; it can take 90 seconds to switch control of their 
 control points. This cuts down immensely on situations where a single player can be sneaking around 
 and suddenly seizes a team's vital control point. However, in another nice twist, multiple teammates 
 can seize a control point faster. So now the emphasis is on helicopters to drop a team behind enemy 
 lines. If two or three teammates get to a control point, the seizure process goes two to three 
 times faster.  

  Like Battlefield 1942, Battlefield Vietnam still suffers from some clumsiness when considered strictly 
 as a first-person shooter; it just doesn't look as smooth or feel as crisp as other games of this 
 type do. However, the saving grace for both games is that you can jump into a huge assortment of 
 vehicles, which are generally as fun to drive in Battlefield Vietnam as they were in Battlefield 
 1942. As expected, the vehicles in Battlefield Vietnam transform the game. The American jeep is 
 back, but this time the passengers can shoot from the shotgun position for drive-by shootings, 
 and the jeep has a powerful missile launcher for a third passenger. The tanks are bigger and more 
 powerful, but they play exactly the same as Battlefield 1942 tanks. There are a few notable additions, 
 including the Vespa scooter, which can zip around the urban levels, and the BTR-60, an armored 
 personnel carrier in which the passengers can look and shoot out of the sides. The US also gets 
 a couple of patrol boats for river operations, and a number of vehicles are also amphibious, which 
 allows them to negotiate water obstacles. But many of the ground vehicles aren't that much different 
 from those in Battlefield 1942.  

  Much like in historical reality, the addition of helicopters to the battlefield significantly changes 
 the way Battlefield Vietnam is played. In fact, the absence of helicopters on certain levels is 
 sorely noticeable because the game often devolves into a drawn-out slugfest between ground forces. 
 Helicopters combine rapid transport capabilities with a mobile weapons platform capable of devastating 
 air support. Unlike planes, helicopters can loiter close to the ground and hover in place to provide 
 fire support. A couple of Hueys can deliver a squad of infantry deep behind enemy lines to secure 
 control points. The downside to helicopters is that they are extremely tricky to operate, and it 
 takes considerable practice before you can fly one without crashing. And while they're rugged against 
 infantry weapons, helicopters are extremely vulnerable to antiaircraft cannons and missiles, not 
 to mention enemy helicopters and fighters, so they're not unstoppable.  

          Flying the Cobra can be difficult, especially with an enemy chopper flying right at you. 
     

  The jet engine has also had a huge effect on the aircraft in Battlefield Vietnam. The US has the 
 F-4 Phantom and the A-7 Corsair, both of which are capable of devastating ground attacks. The Phantom, 
 in particular, has the dreaded napalm bomb that can carpet a wide area. However, the speed of these 
 jets can often be a detriment because of the amount of fog in the game -- the fog and limited draw-in 
 distance means it's very difficult to identify targets on the ground before overshooting them. 
 And though the maps are large, they're not gigantic, and it's very easy to zoom out of bounds, 
 triggering the desertion counter. The communists, meanwhile, get the MiG-17 and the MiG-21. Being 
 smaller, lighter aircraft, they're also much more nimble in the air, and their tight turning radiuses 
 are perfect for dogfights.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (158 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: barfthecaveman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is hard to describe, but in a good way.
  
  I really liked some of the mods for the game as well as the realism inside of it.
  
  Battlefield 
 Vetinam suffers from a few bug problems and exploits much like those commonly found in BattleField 
 1942. 
  
  The game itself is very well done and the presentation of it amazing, but the game lacks more multiplayer 
 servers it`s almost a "ghost game".
  
  I truly wish that more people would play online in this game, so it would be more fun to play. 
 
  
  Gone but not forggoten, this game still packs some fun and exiting moments that made the battlefield 
 series what it is today.
  
  
  ...... Also, if u want to cheat on single player, you must first enter the console. This is done 
 by pressing the ~ or ` key on your keyboard. This will bring up a white box that has info on it. 
 
  
  Ignore the info and then type in aicheats. code byebyenow
  to have invincibility/ god mode to bots on single player. careful though, if u spell it wrong it 
 will say "trying to cheat? shame on you! Feel my wrath!"
  
  And it will reduce your teams tickets or reinforcments to one. 
  
  
  anyway have fun cheating 
 on single player or have fun playing online!!!!! :)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  Let me preface this article by first admitting that I was a Battlefield 1942 junkie. Several of 
 us were. Back when it was released, we were actually taking time out of our weekends on Friday 
 nights to sit around in the office where we had just spent 10 hours working in order to play a 
 good game of Battlefield with the readers from the site. It was a masterful game that changed a 
 lot of rules for the creation of team-based multiplayer shooters. Obviously, when we saw an icon 
 of Battlefield Vietnam sitting on the desktop of an EA employee during a visit down to Redwood 
 City to see one of the 1942 expansions, we got pretty excited. While Vietnam isn't exactly the 
 friendliest of subjects, the terrain and type of warfare presented some interesting opportunities 
 for gameplay. So the question is now that Battlefield Vietnam has been released, did it live up 
 to all of our expectations of addition, innovation, and excitement?
  
  The answer, in short, is mixed and a little confused. I don't like Vietnam as much as I liked 1942. 
 That isn't to say the game isn't fun. It is. But some of the maps don't seem as focused, there 
 are some balancing issues that are seriously perplexing to me, and while the graphic improvements 
 are certainly appreciated and the game looks good, this game seems more like an impressive mod 
 or an expansion than an entirely new game. And of course, as you might expect, there are also some 
 mistakes, bugs and issues here as well, which for the most part are small, but can cause some problems. 
 On the other hand, the addition of helicopters that have some fairly intuitive controls, moveable 
 spawn points, and traps are all pretty cool. I guess what I'm saying is that the game is good. 
 It's definitely still fun. It just isn't the bombshell that 1942 was.
  
  The Landscape of War
  
  One of the major differences to Vietnam as opposed to 1942 is a graphical 
 one at first glance, but really makes a huge and obvious difference to gameplay. Vietnam is a lush 
 and heavily vegetated area of the world. A lot of the actual war didn't actually take place in 
 the jungle, but it was certainly a different arena than US forces had ever been in before. Likewise, 
 Battlefield Vietnam is one of the first games we've seen that really tries to take advantage of 
 this kind of dense cover in a multiplayer arena. Obviously now we've got Far Cry and Joint Operations 
 waiting in the wings that manage to do foliage a little bit better, but Vietnam has done a good 
 job creating the very tense atmosphere that this kind of setting brings. When you start getting 
 pegged from "somewhere" in the undergrowth, things immediately get pretty hairy.
  They also get frustrating. Using a lot of undergrowth is an interesting mess. It's fun and brings 
 a new dimension to Battlefield, but it also means you're going to be dying a lot from some unknown 
 location before you ever have a chance to get out of the way. Sure, it's war. Sure it's Vietnam. 
 I know, I know... and I'm actually not really knocking the game for it, I'm just warning all of 
 you that are thinking to buy the game. No matter how good you are, there will be some frustrating 
 moments of getting killed by hidden foes several times in a row before you can ever get a shot 
 off.
  
  The foliage also brings another issue with it. One of the complaints some players had about Battlefield 
 1942, including myself at times, is that it was too easy to sneak around the front of battle and 
 capture a flag in the back of the fight, right when one side seems to have wrapped it up. In some 
 ways, this is pretty exciting because there's always a new fight somewhere and each of the matches 
 seems more like a struggle. But it also can make you feel like you're running laps. The foliage 
 only makes this easier, even on maps that otherwise would have been pretty focused along one or 
 two paths. The maps themselves are actually fairly varied and interesting; although I'm not sure 
 all of them are focused enough in certain areas. I found myself wandering without seeing any enemies 
 much of the time simply because people were all walking in different directions apart from each 
 other. Maps in 1942 seemed a bit more focused in the fact that there were always areas you could 
 find the fights. These chokepoints created by the landscape really added to the excitement and 
 tension. Some of the maps in Vietnam are open to travel, including one of the city maps, Hue, which 
 is another easy map to sneak around and capture a flag in the back.
  
  At the same time, Hue is an interesting map for a couple of reasons. First off, it actually acts 
 like a city and various buildings will allow players to set up sniping points and provides a real 
 urban combat feel. What's especially cool is that Hue is visited twice. First the city is intact 
 as both the North and South Vietnamese race to take the city. Secondly, the city is in ruins as 
 the North holds it and the South try to retake it. Even though the city layout is the same, buildings 
 have been destroyed so the landscape itself is much different and spawn points have been moved 
 around. I really like these two takes on one particular map even if I still think both are a bit 
 large for what should be an arena for constant combat like Stalingrad and Berlin were in 1942.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: geniustiong
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great soundtrack, intro movie is a big eye-candy, realistic vehicles, great multiplayer 
 concept, advanced AI, loading screens will have you looking at text content based on the war in 
 Vietnam.
  
  The Bad: Common singleplayer AI bugs, tanks look more like toys.
  
  
  Battlefield: Vietnam is based on the war in Vietnam. You'll be fighting your enemies by land, sea 
 and air. The introduction movie is epic too. Then we come to the loading screen, which is also 
 epic. This is because of the loading music and the text content inside. If that wasn't enough, 
 it also contains one or more pictures. If you have a slow PC and your loading speed is ultra slow, 
 then take your time and have a look at your screen while it's loading.
  
  Now we come into the battlefield, welcome to the jungle. It's beautiful...... But deadly too. You 
 will be browsing through infantry classes and selecting spawn points at the beginning of the battle. 
 Then you'll notice that the graphics are great and the weapon modeling is also another eye-candy. 
 You will also be fighting against vehicles too. Now some of us might not of played any Battlefield 
 at all. No, it's not just tanks. There's also APCs, jeeps and AA trucks/tanks. Then there's the 
 patrol boat that has a mounted machine gun on it and a surprise i wouldn't wanna reveal. You can 
 also dogfight your enemies in fighters, do bombing runs and all that. The vehicles themselves are 
 very realistic. Forget bunnyhopping in here because you won't jump high enough to do that and there's 
 that nice delay between jumps.
  
  The singleplayer mode itself is already a great addon if you want to take a break off the multiplayer 
 mode. The AI is advanced, you can adjust the skill and ammount of the AI. Once you're done with 
 that, you can get into instant action which gives you practice. If that wasn't enough, the maps 
 themselves are already arranged in correct order, you'll be playing the single player mode and 
 thinking it was campaign mode. There's also a lot of eye-candies in there so keep a lookout for 
 them, even in the battlefield.
  
  
  Yours truly
  Bryan Tiong 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoringGlorioso
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  1942 and is ex pacs were huge hits in my eyes, but Vietnam opened the world of warfare in games. 
 I mean theres not one thing to not love about it.
  The radio in every vehicle with hit songs, the graphics are great for 04, and best of all is weps. 
 Im a history buff and when there are some cool weapons to shoot, Im on it like a cat on tuna. Every 
 nation has different weapons, and every weapon has its own abilities. As Americans I like the M14 
 with the mortar, and the M16 assault rifle. As Vietnamese I like the SVD Dragunov and the AK47. 
 then as the US Special Forces, I like the CAR/XMB15. Then there are the South Vietnamese who have 
 Us weps.
  Next best are the vehicles. Helicopters, boats, and jets. Like the F4 phantom, Mig 21, and the 
 Chinook. Oh wait there are tanks, armored cars, floaty tanks, motorcycles, and mobile artillery 
 tanks. And last but not least the maps are absolutley beauts. Online play, Lan, Single Play, and 
 all of the above make this the best Battlefield of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  Well, before I start I wanna make it clear that it's a EARLY 2004 game.. there, in 2004 option, 
 this game graphic is pretty good actually.. I hate people comparing nowaday standard with older 
 generation..
  
  I bought this game in right at march 26 2004 (My brithday) and fell in love with it.. it was my first 
 game played and loved.. so much that I finally put it down in late 2006 to early 2007..
  
  It is not a perfect game, I admit that.. A. I could be either too stupid or too accurate just depend 
 on level you choose on..
  
  I don't care their A. I actually, I choose their A. I to be easy and set bots-64 and enemy to friendly 
 ratio-IMPOSSIBLE. That means It's 54 enemy to 8 of your teammates, including yourself..
  
  That's what INSTENSITY is like!!!!! Enemy kept pouring onto your location and M60 was roaring and 
 die die die die..
  
  It's great to me, as a killing spree lover rather than "tactics" shooter..
  
  To tell the truths, 
 I kill about 150 in a singleplayer map and die only 2 to 3 times.. sometimes I don't even die..
 
  
  It's very exciting and relaxing to me at that time.. 
  
  As for multiplayer, I loved the idea of co-op team play with friends against hundreds of vietcong..
 
  
  In conquest part, it's good, fine, just like what it should be like in a battlefield game..
  
 
  And the sounds are really good.. you can check lots of 60s-70s songs and immerse with the vietnam 
 war world..
  
  The war where over ten millions people died.
  
  Where it's meaningless and bloody.. where soldiers were abandoned and betrayed by countries.. where 
 hopes were crushed in the 15 years long war..
  
  You can also upload your own mp3 in the file to play in game..
  
  I present this in my 2004-2007 
 playing expierences and I swear to god I played this longer in this than anyone..
  
  Graphic-8.5/10 (Never very good, but fine)
  Gameplay-10/10 (SIngleplayer with enemy ratio IMPOSSIBLE)
 
  Gameplay-8.5/10 (Multiplayer conquest and co-op)
  Sounds-9/10
  Value-10/10 (to me)
  
  BTW, I played ALL battlefield series, but I still loved this one the most.. BF1942 and its expansion 
 are boring compared.. BF2 is fine but buggy where this one is superb smooth.. and while BF2 offer 
 no singleplayer.. at last BF2142 is just another BF2..
  
  Overrall I would give this game a 9.5/10.. 
  
  Forever Battlefield Vietnam!!!!! (The game that 
 none could remember..) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallinTears
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  This game is great. If you have a good graphics card it can be awesome. The gameplay is amazing. 
 Battlefield Vietnam also has a great multiplayer. The ability to drive and fly aircraft and vehicles 
 is a definite plus. Also the music in the game is pretty good aswell. This game, with the propper 
 requirements is definitly one of the best war games of all time. Like i said in my title. Battlefield 
 Vietnam: Doesnt get much better than this. This game is a definite must play and i also recommed 
 playing it Multiplayer (Online) aswell. If you want to find more about this game it has a website 
 all you have to do is google "Battlefield Vietnam" and it should be almost on the top of the list. 
 I believe that this could be EA Games' best work yet. But dont forget this game is 4 years old. 
 So you cant expect THE BEST gameplay and graphics comapared to newer games for next gen systems. 
 But, it is what it is and You wont be dissappointed.
  
  Sincerly ,
  FallinTears 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspeck_1
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I got the EA Warfare gift set, complete with MOH: AA, Battlefield 1942, Vietnam, 1942: Road to Rome 
 and MOH: Pacific Assault. Naturally I played 1942 first, and loved it (duh!) but Vietnam just isn't 
 as fun. Maybe it is that planes just don't have as much flying area, or that some of the new quirks 
 are well, quirky. I can't know for sure, but I just isn't the same. If you are a first time Battlefield 
 gamer don't get this one as 1942. 2 and 2194 are all better alternatives.
  There are still lots of classes, vehicles, etc. but this game does not feature a SP campaign and 
 the maps fell all the same, with few exceptions. A high point however is being able to listen to 
 hits as War! (Edwin Starr) Respect, Fortunate Son, and other Vietnam-era songs at the load screens 
 as well as in-game, and the option of adding your own (but it must be mp3 compatible) Finally, 
 the WWII MOD ROCKS, and it is too bad that more maps could not be included. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Im_bettr_than_u
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  battlefield vietnam puts u in the war of vietnam which i think happened in 1965.... anyway this 
 game was acturly made for multiplayer... i cant see a campaign in it!... so u can play solo.. by that 
 i mean with and agenced computer controled soldiers. in this game u can either play as the vietameese 
 or the american troops, each with different weapons, viechles and abilities like camoflage and 
 artillary.
  in some of the maps u are able to fly planes and helocopters which allows u to unlease carnage 
 on enemy ground troops... but the only thing holding u back up here are 2 simple things... enemy 
 anti-aircraft guns.. and ofcouse.. other enemy aircraft.
  in these games the way u win is the either capture all command posts or wipe out the enemies reinforcements.. (very 
 similar to battlefront) ...
  and when u die u can respawn at a command post or somtimes in a viechle.. u can also choose new 
 weapons for yourself such a rocket launchers and matine guns.....
  and in this game u can almost do anything.... piolt a viechle, sniper, man artillary or just go 
 crazy and run around killing everything!....
  its a good game if u like shooters!..
  oh.. if u want u can add me on myspace.. my url is;
  
 
  i accept all friend requests and probably we can be friends!..=] ..
  (i need more friends on myspace! = [)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingBoy2009
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Vietnam is not a huge step to were Battlefield 1942 left off but it is still a decent 
 game. There are 4 factions to choose from in this game: America, North Vietnam Army, Vietcong and 
 South Vietnam. Battlefield Vietnam runs on mostly the same type of engine that Battlefield 1942 
 uses: A multi-player based game were you can play as a soldier on either side. You pick a soldier 
 class such as sniper, medic or assault. If you get killed, you respawn at whatever flag is available 
 until the tickets run out, run out of tickets and you lose.
  
  The graphics have been improved and there are a variety of new weapons to use from the Vietnam 
 war including M16, M14 and AK-47. You can also fly in the 1960s era jet and helicopters including 
 the F-4 Phantom, Mig-17 and the AH-1. However, I dont believe this is as good as BF 1942 because 
 it doesnt feature as much maps and it doesnt have a single player campaign. Sure there are single 
 player missions to play but you just choose a map and go while BF 1942 lets you play a campaign 
 style single player game. I dont like the bugs that come with it either. The bugs mostly appear 
 in single player maps. Very bad AI and its a glitch fest. For example, a soldier approaches a tank 
 and then he lays on the ground and tosses grenades at it. The tank will come closer and he wont 
 get up and ends up getting run over. Sometimes your own allied tank can run you over while your 
 shooting. Obviously, EA and DICE focused heavily on the multiplayer.
  
  The reason I believe this is the most immersive Battlefield game is that it features music from 
 the 60s and early 70s including Creedence Clearwater Revival and Edwin Starr which really give 
 you that feel that your in the 60s fighting in Vietnam. Also, the levels are very well made with 
 jungles, huts and thick foliage which really gives that Vietnam feel. Also its realistic that your 
 enemies can hide in the jungle and they can ambush you and you have no idea were they came from. 
 If you dont like the soundtrack, you can create your own custom soundtrack. Theres a section were 
 you can put MP3s in and in the game, you can listen to them in any vehicle you drive with the press 
 of a button.
  
  The good: Good graphics and realistic jungles and weapons.
  The bad: Not as much maps as Battlefield 1942, no single player campaign.
  
  Overall I would 
 say that this game is decent. I recommend it to anyone who loves multi-player based games. Also 
 if your a Battlefield 1942 player looking for something new while having that Battlefield style 
 gameplay, then give Battlefield Vietnam a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  So first of all Battlefield Vietnam is not a bad game. If you liked the other Battlefield games 
 than you will like this One. But for me, it was not that much better.
  
  This time you play in a bunch of Vietnam battles. The game play is pretty much the same, except 
 for ner weapons. There are a few maps to play on that are fun but most of them are kind of boring.
 
  
  The graphics are good looking and the sound still sounds pretty good.
  
  If you liked the first Battlefield than tou will find some enjoyment with Battlefield Vietnam. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  While the gaming industry has done World War II a million times over, the latest war-du-jour these 
 days is the more morally ambiguous Conflict in Vietnam. Chances are nobody will be able to capture 
 it with quite the panache of Dice and Electronic Arts, the duo that put together our 2002 mutliplayer 
 game of the year, Battlefield 1942. Battlefield Vietnam has all the flavor of the era, most of 
 the hardware involved, and some of the best multiplayer gameplay you'll find in a war-themed first-person 
 shooter.
  
  Don't expect realism here. As with 1942, Vietnam focuses on gameplay. You'll drive tanks and jeeps 
 and APCs, patrol rivers in gunboats, soar through the skies in jets and hover over enemy territory 
 in choppers. It has the flavor of real combined arms tactics but the fast pace of an arcade game.
 
  
  Back when Battlefield 1942 was released, it revolutionized the way gamers looked at multiplayer 
 first-person games. The original game is not only still going strong, it has also spawned an active 
 modification community that put together such hits like Desert Combat, not to mention a Vietnam-themed 
 mod in the form of Eve of Destruction. This puts Battlefield: Vietnam in the unusual position of 
 competing with its predecessor.
  
  When it's all said and done Vietnam doesn't wow us the way that 1942 did in its day, but it's a 
 step forward graphically, a leap ahead in the sound department, and just as much fun as the original.
 
  
  What's New in 'Nam?
  
  There's a variety of battlefields, including dense urban streets.
  Two big changes and a handful 
 of tweaks set Vietnam apart from its predecessor. The most obvious change is in the graphics engine: 
 ground clutter covers the hillsides with thick vegetation and heavy forests sway in the wind. This 
 favors some new gameplay, as it's much easier than before to go prone amidst a clump of underbrush 
 unseen by the enemy. Occasionally machinegun fire will rip out of the jungle from unexpected angles, 
 cutting you down before you can even get a look at your assailant: Welcome to 'Nam! Being able 
 to hide in the jungle makes it a little easier for one solider or a small group of soldiers to 
 defend a location, but fortunately this isn't so effective as to slow down the brisk pace of the 
 game. Expect to be frustrated by snipers and hidden enemies, however.
  
  The second big addition to the Battlefield franchise are the helicopters that played such an important 
 role in the war. Fans of the series might have already swarmed the skies in helicopters from the 
 BF1942 Desert Combat modification, but here the choppers are better integrated into the game and 
 much more intuitive to fly. The strategic ramifications are significant: It's now relatively easy 
 to airlift a huge mob of troops to nearly anywhere on the map. Helicopters can also hover above 
 a location to capture it, which is particularly effective if you've got a couple of guys hanging 
 out the side doors using the .50-cal machineguns. The addition of helicopters -- for transport 
 or for dishing out firepower -- emphasizes vehicles and gives the game an even more frantic pace. 
 Our only complaint is that it wasn't possible to have individual control configurations for jets 
 and choppers; joystick settings that felt good for planes were too sensitive for the helicopters 
 and vice-versa.
  Marketing for the game highlights the fact that you can now airlift tanks or jeeps to the front 
 lines via helicopters, but in practice we found that it was a difficult art (it took this reviewer 
 ten minutes to do it the first time. With practice it gets easier.) You'll need a skilled helicopter 
 pilot and vehicle driver smart enough to drive into the chain to get hooked up, preferably in less 
 time than it would take to drive across the map. It's hard to imagine this coming into play very 
 often in a chaotic Internet game, but if you've got even a half-decent team together the ability 
 to plop a tank down just about anywhere can quickly turn the tide of battle. It's worth practicing 
 to get it right.
  
  Numerous small additions keep the game fresh. Engineers can now set down static mortar firing stations, 
 great for taking out infantry. You can fire your weapons out of the car while riding shotgun (no 
 pun intended) in jeeps. The VC can dig tunnels to other part of the map, which is represented by 
 a single spawn point engineers can move around. This little trick doesn't often come into play, 
 but when it does it can really frustrate and confuse the Americans. (Welcome to 'Nam!) These little 
 tweaks don't drastically change the gameplay: this still feels like a Battlefield game, but is 
 has the flavor of a different war.
  
  Multiplayer: It Smells Like ... Victory
  
  How do you spell relief? N-A-P-A-L-M.
  Vietnam is intended as a multiplayer game through and through: 
 skip it if you'd prefer to game offline. At its core the gameplay is the same as what you'd find 
 in the original Battlefield: a mix of vehicles supported by infantry is your best bet for capturing 
 and holding territory. It's an enjoyable game even on a server full of idiots, and absolutely incredible 
 with two skilled teams going at it. Vietnam is an awesome game for LAN parties.
  
  Unfortunately, it also suffers from one of the problems that plagued the original Battlefield: 
 the object of the game is to capture and hold points on the map, but there's nothing to stop players 
 from zipping away from everyone to take points far from the action. Some map designs mitigate this 
 problem, but you still sometimes have problems where you're chasing down strays the whole time 
 instead of fighting big battles on the front lines.
  
  However, one drawback from the original Battlefield is gone. Most foot soldiers now have powerful 
 machineguns and more anti-vehicular capability, and there are more vehicles (with more seats!) 
 to go around. As a result, Vietnam is a much faster game with more to do and less 'down time.' 
 It's fast, furious, and fun from start to finish.
  
  Guided missiles in action.
  Vietnam has some play balance issues that might not surface until a couple of months after the 
 game has been on shelves, once all the players master the strategies. Unlike 1942, the two sides 
 in the game have very different armaments. One of the options for U. S. players is to carry both 
 a heavy machinegun and a rocket launcher: there's virtually no reason to pick any other class! 
 In general, as with the real war, the U. S. has all the advantages in equipment. On some maps, a 
 swarm of American choppers can descend on VC positions from any angle. There are lots of antiaircraft 
 options available, but once players master the game skills, will more than a couple of the maps 
 turn out to be balanced? Our playtesting seems to hint that this might be a problem, but then again, 
 Battlefield has always been about crazy over-the-top fighting and not about serious tournament-style 
 play anyways.
  
  A variety of game maps keeps the multiplayer exciting. You'll be fighting in anywhere from exposed 
 grasslands and rice paddies to dense Cambodian jungles to inner-city alleyways between shelled-out 
 buildings. Some maps are vehicle-intensive, with jets and choppers filling the sky. Other maps 
 emphasize infantry, with tanks carefully threading their way through muddy roads while rockets 
 roar unexpectedly out of the underbrush. There's even a new Evolution mode, where a pair of historically-related 
 multiplayer maps are linked together and team tickets carry over from one battle to the next. The 
 multiplayer game is extremely rewarding.
  Missing In Action
  
  A pile of small problems and a poor single-player experience prevent Battlefield: Vietnam from 
 making the jump from great game to outstanding game. Long load times between matches are a real 
 buzzkill. During gameplay, even with a broadband connection you may experience some stuttering 
 with a lot of people on the screen. Sometimes running down a set of stairs will cause you to take 
 falling damage. On at least one map we experienced a repeating sound glitch that didn't stop until 
 we exited the server. These little problems tend to sort themselves out in subsequent patches, 
 but why do we have to put up with them?
  
  Vietnam offers a single-player game against bots in order to familiarize yourself with the gameplay. 
 There are many games that do this well (Unreal Tournament 2004 is a slam dunk) , but Vietnam's bots 
 are profoundly poor. For one thing they seem to ignore the camouflaging effects of ground cover, 
 meaning you'll often be shot by enemies you can't even see. On top of that, we've had them shoot 
 us while partially clipped through walls and invulnerable. Moreover, they're strategically slow: 
 they'll hold heavy weapons like tanks back in the rear for no apparent reason. As a result, you 
 can't even really get a feel for the multiplayer game when playing against the bots. No, online 
 is where this one's at.
  
  Music to Contain Communism By
  
  Battlefield: Vietnam really captures the feel of the era.
  One thing the game does an outstanding 
 job of, however, is capturing the feel of the era. The art, the menu designs, even the loading 
 screens nail the turbulent late 60s/early 70s. But the music in particular needs to be singled 
 out: Electronic Arts has been making an effort to really step up the music production in games, 
 as seen by the licensed tracks in franchises like Madden. But Vietnam is probably the first wargame 
 with a licensed soundtrack. This isn't some audio guy's weak attempt to capture the 60s on his 
 keyboard; it's not a bunch of cover bands doing their impressions of the music; no, it's the actual 
 tracks that defined a decade of conflict. From CCR singing Fortunate Son to Jefferson Airplane 
 crooning Somebody to Love to the Bobby Fuller Four admitting I fought the Law, you're simply locked 
 into the period. You can now play music from the car radios or listen to propaganda broadcast from 
 your base. And yes, you can even blast Ride of the Valkyries from your chopper as you pepper an 
 enemy beach with rockets. Kudos to EA for taking game music as seriously as films do in Hollywood.
 
  
  Along those lines, the sound effects in BF: Vietnam are leagues better than in 1942. The zip and 
 clatter of bullets crashing through the bamboo around you is unmistakable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 started an open-ended style of game in the vein of Unreal Tournament. The catch 
 in this series is the flavour of authentic weapons in an open ended battle where you can select 
 your team and your role. Vietnam just updates the battle context and takes you to near-modern warfare. 
 Plus you get to hear the great music of the sixties and the early seventies -- reflecting the sonic 
 culture of that time. In addition, you get to hear a lot of commands in Vietnamese -- which is a 
 change from hearing things in German language when playing against the Americans. Being an anti-war 
 and anti-Bush guy in reality, I loved playing the Vietnamese to defeat the Americans again and 
 again (I hold nothing against the liberal Americans) .
  I like all games to be playable in both multi-player and single-player, but Vietnam was made basically 
 as a multiplayer game like BF 2142. On the weaker side, this game does not offer you very extra-ordinary 
 stuff. It just successfully feeds your addiction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgtfoxy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Battlefield Vietnam continues the series started by Battlefield 1942. This game launches you into 
 the plains of Vietnam and other surrounding countries. The spawning and flag capturing remain much 
 the same except for one outstanding feature (That I love) ! Its a clock that shows how much time 
 is left until you capture the flag! It allows you to judge whether you should stand at one flag 
 for a minute and a half or go capture a flag that has 15 seconds to capture. One of the best upgrades 
 in gameplay is the addition of 2 guns per class rather than one. The downside is that they removed 
 the medic class. The graphics are average, but the sound is lightyears ahead of Battlefield 1942. 
 Instead of playing the same song over and over they now have a playlist of songs from the era. 
 On multiplayer another huge step has been made! CO OP! Now you can kill nearly useless AI with 
 a friend! A guranteed fun-for-all-ages sport. This game is overall one of the most fun I have ever 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thaheo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  Battlefield Vietnam (BFV) is a game based on the Vietnam War. Choose between two major factions, 
 the NVA or the ARVN.
  
  The weapons and vehicles are impressively accurate. Though after playing the game for a while and 
 experimenting with the weapons in awe, you'll get increasingly frustrated with the limits of weapons. 
 Famous weapons such as the M16, M60 and Ak47 are included. In gunfights or recons you can find 
 yourself running out of ammo quickly: this can be a bit annoying but it makes the game more interesting.
 
  
  The gunfights aren't usually intense: someone on either side would eventually find a flanking position 
 and mow down the others... but you can still be caught in the fights and find yourself in a role-playing 
 feeling, whether your flanking some VC from the back or taking cover as your own allies fire aimless 
 shells into the sector.
  
  There's not campaign... shocking. But like all the Battlefield games, there isn't ever gonna be 
 an actual campaign.
  
  If you're playing with good players in multiplayer, the game would seem more interesting. If you're 
 in a stupid, amateur and unorganised team, you would definitely become frustrated and feel crap 
 at the game.
  
  Overall, I recommend this game for a person who likes an average team shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greendayrocksss
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  As you read, it is the second game in the series, and not unlike the two expansion packs of BF 
 1942, you can sadly only play in quick battle-, not campaign-mode. Even though it has that setback, 
 it is still a cool game comprising of levels including major battles such as The Siege of Khe Sahn 
 and The Cambodian Incursion . Battle Field Vietnam is much cooler than even the Secret Weapons 
 of WWII expansion to BF 1942 because they have eliminated the medical class and allow everyone 
 or no one to have the medical kits, in addition, there are many cool new weapons such as the M-16 
 automatic assault rifle and semi-automatic sniper rifle , the M-12 semi-automatic rifle, C-4, caltrops, 
 time bomb, pungi sticks, and the blowtorch. Overall, no matter what side you are on, you are going 
 to have fun because of the unique wepons and attributes of both the Vietcong and the Americans 
 and South Vietnamese. Sadly though, there is no more multiplayer even though there is an awesome 
 South Vietnamese troop carrier. I would strongly recommend Battlefield Vietnam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reeve92
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 14, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  this game is rubbish even when patched up to date sooo many bugs are about i have a athalon 5600+ 
 4 gigs of ram and the latest gforce graphics card but noooo even on the lowest setting it runs 
 like a car on a elastic band it is all notchy and rough round the edges graphics are brilliant 
 but the gameplay sucks go and buy bf 2142 that is a much much better game with gameplay that dont 
 make ya want to go and buy a hammer to smash ya computer with !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! basicly get battlefield 
 1942 battlefield 2 battlefield 2142 but NOT battlefield vietnam 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theBLITZmaster
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 10, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  This game is quite amazing. I am not really a fan of historic shooters but this game is my favorite. 
 What I really like about this game is that its not your WWII fad game. The weapons are great (I 
 miss the M1 Carbine) now with an MG and more accurate rocket launcher. There is no story in SP 
 as it is a multiplayer heavy game. There are flaws during the gameplay as well. I know that some 
 weapons have low ammo in a magazine. and when you have no bullets left and your opponent is still 
 alive, it is really stressful when reloading. It takes like 5 sec. to relaod which is too much 
 and they go from useless animations such as keeping an empty mag and hitting the mag with the palm 
 when its already on. I like these fancy animations but it is not fun having to reload and then 
 doing it again while an enemy hits you. Unlike other FPS you have mags instead of a cache like 
 Call of Duty or Resistance and force you to come back to the base and get more mags. It is still 
 a great game that will make you beg for Internet if you dont have it (but without Internet you 
 wouldn't be reading this) . I recommend you get this game and download as many mods you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good game... It is a good battlefield game set in the vietnam universe it just gets 
 way old after awhile.. The soundtrack is good if you are into hippy bands but is ok. The fact is 
 that the game has bad lag even with a high speed connection in 20-32 player rooms... The lower 
 the better your lag is but it is not as fun.. As for the single player do not even bother it is 
 horrible. The multiplayer is fun and lasts for a while and the vehicles and weapons are vietnam 
 based... Just dont expect exteme fun out of this game but, it is fun for a couple of months I guess........ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game I was expect a great Vietnam War game, crawling into underground burrows 
 with a flash light and a pistol, and great control over a variety of weaponry and vechicles, but 
 in the end this game left me slightly dissapointed and even bored at times. Gameplay in the game 
 was decent. For people playing the game and wanting to get good at it they might want to take a 
 few hours on the map before actually seeing your name at the top of the leaderboards. The maps 
 are enormous, also along with the gameplay they added something new that not many games could pull 
 off: vechicle control. The vechicles range from anything from a jeep to even helicopters. Yes helicopters, 
 don't get your panties in a bundle about that in my opinon its not all that great when you find 
 out how hard it is to control them, but control is another story. Control is much like that of 
 a ordinary FPS. The things that really brings it down is the control of the vechicles. Vechicular 
 control in games has always been a problem, but when watch every helicopter take off and then crash 
 a few hundred feet away, it shows me that it's tough. Yeah a lot of people will say It's a helicpoter 
 what would've you expected? Well I expected it to be easier.
  
  Graphics are one of the few nice things about this game they are decent and the enviornments are 
 enormous. That shouldn't mean that the graphics are going to look bad right? Wrong the graphics 
 are good for all of that space. When look down your sights it makes it a little more noticable.
 
  
  Sound was the thing that I personally enjoyed the most. I loved the perfect music choice for this 
 time period, especially during loading screens and the menus. Hearing some of those Vietnam song 
 brought back memories of the war... never mind...
  
  Multiplayer was in all honesty great, but lets face it when you go into a room and just want to 
 play, but end up being shown up by a bratty five year old (probably more like 11) then having them 
 trying to rub it in your face makes the game fall just a little bit more
  
  Overall this is not my favorite FPS, but its not my least favorite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buubua
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Vietnam is an awsome multiplayer game, whether your playing with bots or other people. 
 The graphics are not the best but they are pretty good. Battlefield Vietnam has a wide varity of 
 vehicles which I loved since I am a vehicle person on about half my games. It has lots of tanks, 
 jeeps, attack and transport helicopter, boats, jet and propellor airplanes. It is the most realistic 
 Vietnam War game I have played yet. The AI can get very hard if you set them high enough, they 
 get up in the skies and get in dogfights with you and they will get in thier tanks and try and 
 blow you away. The objective of the game is just to try and capture the majority of control points 
 until your opponents tickets run out. Just like all of the other Battlefield games in the series 
 it is a great game and I strongly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darussell1958
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  The game has no mission-based play at all, instead it offers up single and multiplayer combat set 
 on a series of well-crafted maps. The single player games are filled with friendlies and enemies 
 controlled by the computer. While it provides a good place to master the basics, this mode of play 
 quickly loses its appeal once you've learned game play. Multiplayer however is another story all 
 together, supporting up to 64 players at the same time who take on the roles of U. S. forces and 
 the Viet Cong. What really makes this game such a blast to play is the developers' understanding 
 the importance of vehicles and aircraft in the Vietnam War. You can control or just catch a ride 
 on everything from Jeeps and tanks to helicopters and jets. Many of the vehicles also have weapon 
 systems that can be controlled by the driver or other players in the vehicle.
  The weapons selection is also uniquely Vietnam with guerrilla weapons like punji sticks and caltrops. 
 You can even use enemy engineers to dig tunnel spawns in the center of U. S. military camps.
  
  Music also plays a big role in setting the stage in this game. With Viet-era hits and the voices 
 of U. S. and Vietnamese propaganda blaring over the loud speakers, it really helps to remind you 
 where you are playing. The graphics arent exactly cutting edge, but the use of well rendered foliage 
 and very rugged and believable terrain, more than making up for the par character art.
  
  All in all Battlefield: Vietnam is a fun and engrossing shoot-em-up that does nothing to tackle 
 the deeper issues of Vietnam. Theres nothing wrong with that and if youre spoiling for a modern 
 warfare fight, this is the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACESandElGHTS
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Want to combine every reference from every Vietnam movie you've ever seen into a frantic, often-hilarious 
 video game? Good, because Electronic Arts did it for you. This sequel to Battlefield 1942 shares 
 most of its combat characteristics with the earlier game, but adds more automatic weapons, mortars, 
 aircraft and strange Vietnamese weapons like punji sticks. The gameplay as a whole is made more 
 enjoyable by features like late-60s rock'n'roll which plays when you enter a vehicle. Fans of Full 
 Metal Jacket will enjoy jumping in a helicopter or tank and hearing B-b-b-bird bird bird, bird 
 is the word... as they move on to attack the enemy. Other excellent like-you-were-there touches 
 include a hilarious Hanoi Helen sort of voice (with virtually no concept of proper English) on 
 a loudspeaker system reminding GI that his people don't support him and he should come to his new 
 Vietnam family which is waiting with open arms. Battles in the jungle are slightly ho-hum, as Battlefield 
 matches often are. But the city battles are often very fun, including air support, armor and artillery, 
 (plus scooters, don't forget little scooters to get around on) all within the confines of an urban 
 area. Fans of FMJ should note that Hue, setting for the movie, is included in BVN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drago34
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the BF series for awhile now and have spent too much time playing them all. 
 The idea of having the play list while in vehicles was a nice addition that I would have liked 
 to see on the later games but oh well I guess. This one is way better than 2142 and probably the 
 most overlooked game in the series. I honestly feel that EA did a better job on this one than on 
 what the managed to with 2142 even though it isn't as beautiful as 2142 it looks good enough. It 
 is also easy to pick up and play like the rest of the series and just simply better than the rest. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotdarkcloud
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  The greatest game in the series thus far (2007) . Even though it is extremely similar to BF1942, 
 BFV contains a feel unlike any other BF game. The music that comes with the game is simply a very 
 nostalgic feature that will take you back. It also contains the feel of jungle combat without losing 
 all of the head on warfare. Who wouldnt love using an AK-47 or RPG while listening to Credences 
 Fortunate Son blaring from a nearby helicopter? Only minor problems in the game will be noticed, 
 and the easy to use mod support will be loved by many online programmers and gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Vietnam is a good Vietnam game. Don't even go into this game looking at it as a Battlefield 
 game as much as you do a game based on Vietnam. The other Battlefield games are better (well maybe 
 not 2142) , and generally very different than this one, so you cannot really judge it based off 
 of the other BF games. The AI is really really stupid. I mean brainless. I mean these guys are 
 STUPID! Play online if you want to have any fun. (Well actually offline play will be fun for a 
 little bit, i wont lie, until you get good enough to start noticing the AI) Online is pretty fun, 
 possibly the biggest problem is finding a server with a lot of people. This detracts from the game, 
 the fact that not many people play, and you find even less servers with 48 or more people in them. 
 This is too bad, because the best maps really need more than 48 players to fill them adequetly. 
 The jungle maps are the best maps in the game by far, because they are what really shouts out vietnam 
 to you when you play. Ho Chi Minh trail is probably the best map in terms of vietnam atmosphere. 
 Gameplay-
  
  Well I will have to admit it, all battlefield games have really fun and great gameplay (except 
 2142, due to tremendous amounts of bugs...) and this one is no exception. one thing i have to note, 
 and if youve read my other reviews youll know i always am picky about this is that it hardly takes 
 anything to take someone down. the most bullets i have probably eer had to use to kill someone 
 was 3 or 4, now 3-4 bullets is usually the minimum in most games to kill someone. i would say in 
 most games you have to shoot someone at least 6 times to kill them, maybe 2 if you hit their head, 
 thats just annoying if you ask me, so this is a welcome break from the flow of games that do that. 
 the guns are pretty accurate though taking some of this away, because you can generally hit people 
 pretty easy, and you go down so fast, but its not so bad where it becomes a problem. the best part 
 of gameplay is that you can use foliage as cover and use stealth, that is a cool feeling to crawl 
 on the jungle floor and evade groups of vietcong soldiers.
  
  graphics-
  
  they are aged, but get this, the somewhat mediocre graphics actually help make it feel more like 
 vietnam, due to the gritty and dark nature of them. it feels like a war, although the view distance 
 could have really been made further, especially in city maps.
  
  sound-
  
  everything you would expect and more. generally excellent war sounds and gameplay sounds but then 
 the music comes and i would almost say the music is one reason i played the game as long as i did. 
 also the fact that you can listen to music in jeeps and other vehicles and choose which songs and 
 everything the music is just perfect in this game. value- good value nothing to complain about, 
 it comes with the WWII mod which is kinda fun to play for a bit if you played 1942. overall this 
 game is really good. if you manage to find a full server than you will have hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Payne
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  I had originally purchased this game when it came out, but since then I've upgraded to a newer 
 computer and totally forgot about some of my old games. I came across the BFV CD a few days ago 
 and decided to install it, for old-time's sake. I've been enjoying the gameplay ever since I put 
 the CD into the drive. I forgot how much fun it was flying around in my Huey Gunship with Ride 
 of the Valkyries blaring over the sound of the rotors. Maybe it was due to my old PC, but the graphics 
 and sound seem so much better now, enough to rival much newer FPS games. Sound is excellent and 
 can help the player to hear enemies in the jungle before you can see them. Maps are varying in 
 style from wide jungle rivers to destroyed cities with many buildings to attack from. I especially 
 enjoy the helicopters. They are very responsive and can help to move your team from one point to 
 another quickly. Multiplayer is highly addictive, even more so if you can get a team that works 
 together. You can probably get this game for next-to-nothing now, and it will be well worth it. 
 It can still rival many FPS games of today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkthewindow
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Most gamers have atleast heard of the Battlefield franchise, and all PC gamers have played it, 
 most of them online. The Battlefield franchise also includes a traning mode or single player. Many 
 people buy the Battlefield series for it's multiplayer, but there are some people, like me who 
 eather have a modem connection or simpially a slow internet.
  
  Now, on with the review.
  
  Battlefield Vietnam was made for the PC back in 2004. At the time it was considered a meagor 
 expanion pack for Battlefield 1942, or just Battlefield 1942 with new graphics. But, I can tell 
 you that it is alot more then that.
  
  The gameplay of Battlefield Vietnam is nearly flawless. It has a great mix of gameplay styles, 
 all avalable in the one game, and though one load screen :) . In a standard half-hour of play in 
 Battlefield Vietnam you could start out defending a Mekong Delta village against Vietcong attack, 
 get tired of that and jump in a PBR (patrol boat,) get blowen up by a Vietcong helicopter, grab 
 a sniper rifle and go on a sniping frenzy, jump in a helicopter and take some shots at ground troops, 
 lay some mines or man your mortar, jump in a jet and engage in some air-to-air combat and finally 
 grab an anti-tank, and blow up a tank with your powerful RPG or LAW.
  
  There are also several mods for Battlefield Vietnam, such as the Official World War II Mod, which 
 adds a few maps from Battlefield 1942 to Battlefield Vietnam.
  
  The only flaw of the gameplay in Battlefield Vietnam is the slightly bad AI. Helicopters and jets 
 can be hard to fly, but with pratice you can be a good pilot :) . The controls in Battlefield Vietnam 
 are fully costomisable.
  
  Graphics are not next-gen, but they suit the game well. Don't come into Battlefield Vietnam expecting 
 Xbox 360 or PS3 style graphics, but expect an amazingly rendered jungle, full of traps, mines and 
 landing zones. Or, find a bombed-out town, with accuracy down to some smoke effects, creaters and 
 holes. The reason I rated the graphics so high is not because of the technilogical superority, 
 but because of how they suit the game.
  
  Sound in the game is flawless. You can hear greanades, footsteps, gunshots and even the voices 
 of your friends (and foes) though your speakers. Another great feature is the inclusion of 70's 
 music to play during loading screens and in your helicopter. You can replace this, though with 
 MP3's of your choice.
  
  Battlefield Vietnam is fantastic value for money- I got it for $20 at my local EB Games.
  
 
  Well, thats the review! To conclude, Battlefield Vietnam is a great game, that should be remade 
 for Vista and DX10. But, the current version will run on nearly any computer on the shelves today. 
 I would recomend buying this game, as it is hard to find at a rental store (old) and is cheap.
 
  
  Test Systems:
  
  Generic Windows buisness PC
  Dual Intel Pentium 4 clocked at 3.06 Ghz per core
  Intel GMA 950 graphics, up to 128MB VRAM shared 
 with RAM
  512 MB RAM
  80GB HDD
  Windows XP Pro
  Runs: Fine, but with the lowest graphics setting, and choppy at times.
  
  MacBook Pro 17'
 
  Intel Core 2 Duo 2.33Ghz per core
  ATI Raedon X1600 graphics with 256MB dedicated VRAM
  2GB RAM
  160GB HDD
  Windows XP Pro (dual-booted wtih Mac OSX)
  Runs: Perfect with highest 
 graphics settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 70x7
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 20, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Lets first start by asking ourselves what about the first Battlefield (1942) offered us gamers 
 that made the game a must-own for most PC gamers (I say PC gamers because the console ports were 
 horrible) .
  
  The immersiveness of the game, without making it an all out MMOFPS, the environments the game offered, 
 the perfect vehicle combat system. All of those are amazing featues that made 1942 an instant classic. 
 Vietnam, such a vibrant era of war, that could have been made immaculately into a game. They just 
 failed... plain and simple. The graphics weren't amazing, the sounds were nice but thats just because 
 they had Hendrix blaring. The levels were poorly designed, and the gameplay was far from balanced. 
 It is to this day riddled with inconsistent coding and bugs, and save a few close quarters maps, 
 the gameplay still is lacking to the max. About the only good thing I got from my time playing 
 the game was being able to run over the enemy with a moped.
  
  Now lets look at what they improved upon when making Battlefield 2, and how the failure of Vietnam 
 served as the stepping stone from an amazing game (1942) to a decent title (part 2) . The flight 
 system is much improved, where as it was horrible in the past. The vehicles are equalized, and 
 flying a helicopter around doesn't make you a god. Level design is suprisingly good, and most maps 
 offer up a very fun experience, for everyone, from the infantry to the tankers to those pilot-types. 
 The graphics when it was released were just as good looking as every other game out at the time 
 despite the large scaleness of the battles. They really took the mistakes of Vietnam and fixed 
 them.
  
  Question you have to ask yourself is do you really want to experience Vietnam's abysmal lack of.. everything, 
 or would you rather just play the other titles in the franchise? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saw100
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 18, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  Well first I must say that this game has got no big difference from BF 1942. It's the same gameplay 
 system, sound and almost the same graphics. Only difference is maps and weapon-looks. It's actually 
 the same old BF 1942 with different maps and weapons. So if you have BF 1942, you probably won't 
 play this game too long because it's almost the same as 1942. But if you really want some jungle-action 
 and more present weapons, and you really are a BF fan, buy this game. But for those who have played 
 BF 1942 way too long, BF Vietnam is not a must-get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkaddict1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 8, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield delivers a solid multiplayer game, fun vehicles, balanced weapons, different character 
 classes, but the single player doesn't suck the player in as well as 1942 did. The point-capturing 
 is still intact and now oh-so-fun with helicopters and more modern weapons. The levels are excellent 
 (but the new 'traps' are kind of lame-the trigger is tiny and its easier to shoot the enemy) and 
 the cover is fun to use against human enemies; apparantely the A. I. has x-ray vision when it comes 
 the flora of the game, so good luck hiding in tufts of grass.
  But when it comes down to it, the game doesn't last that long while playing alone. Sure, it is 
 fun adjust the settings to outrageous odds, but it still is mostly about fine-tuning your skills 
 for the online play. Had Digital Illusions added some sort of incentive to play alone for hours 
 on end (even 1942 made you play through each map with some sort of background story) , the game 
 would have lasted so much longer. This is not say that the game isn't fun; far from it, in fact, 
 but buy it mostly for the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  People are still playing this game, which is not a lot different than Battlefield 1942 other than 
 the combat environments, vehicles from that time period, etc. The graphics and sound are decent 
 but the loading times when it goes to the CD/DVD drive are annoying. The soundtrack with 60's music 
 is cool. Considering that you can now purchase this and Battlefield 1942 together for around 20 
 bucks, I'd say it's a buy if you aren't engrossed in another online shooter at the moment or you'd 
 like some variety on the cheap. People are still playing both games and probably will be for a 
 long time to come given how fun they are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dezapa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  it might be a 2004 game but in my opinion it holds up to the games out today........ theres something 
 about the jungle thats different from desserts and towns..... i cant get enough time daily on it. 
 i play so much that in the morning i wake myself up speaking nam language...... like mumbow and 
 doy sim loy........... all the battlefield games rock, i havnt played 2142 for my pc is only 1.8 
 ghz and a gig of ram and 256mb card........... i know id be disapointed if i did install it for 
 battlefield2 barely runs..... so i will wait to try it out and get that top of the line rig to do 
 so. at first it might seem your better off on foot because when i first tried the heli's i would 
 crash almost as soon as i took off... now my best means of kills are in a huey or cobra.... ive practised 
 with a joystick (microsoft sidewinder pro) 2 weeks later i was flying under trees down the roads, 
 getting kills left and right. i feel like im an asset to any team im on. sure ya die if theres 
 two guys with rocket launchers and hit ya at the same time, but hey thats war. this game has had 
 no expansions
  nor a vietnam number 2 ???? that would make my year to see a new addition to this game. all in 
 all anyone looking for a fun shooter should at least try this out, i promise you wont be disapointed. 
 theres alot of fans who play this and have taken the time to make new maps, 129 i beleive for download. 
 go buy this if you can find it. ive seen redux for 9.98 at superstore and thats a good price for 
 hours of extreme fun...... enjoy and watch yur six. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deugar
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Vietnam is a multi-player based action game set in the jungles and cities of Vietnam (Mostly 
 in the Jungles) . Just like in Battlefield 1942 you will be able to use Tanks, Airplanes and Ships. 
 The new weapon in Vietnam however is the helicopter. The helicopter is the ultimate weapon in Vietnam, 
 and the fun part is most people can't fly the damn thing . The graphics in Vietnam are better then 
 1942, but you will notice that beyond some graphical polishing it's the same engine (That means 
 physics as well) . The classes are quite different in Vietnam. There are 2 versions of every class, 
 which means there are 2 versions of the Heavy Gunner, Sniper, Standard Assault and Engineer (No 
 medic class ) . The AI has been greatly improved since 1942. Not only are bots better in combat 
 but they also understand how to take control points. To be honest there is one flaw in the game 
 i would like to tell you about (Not that it matters allot anyway) . The best class when you are the 
 Americans is the Heavy Gunner. The Heavy Gunner is a complete Rambo class using his unstoppable 
 M60 to gun down any infantry and destroying any tanks in his way with his Law/Grenade Launcher. 
 Beyond this unfair class and the fact that the maps are mostly too small i really like this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamebills
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 21, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  A beautiful and great addition to any online gamers collection. This game is great when played 
 competively with many other players, it's like a giant war raging in which you must use stealth, 
 tactics, and firepower to overcome other players. Think CS with vehicles and huge levels. Thats' 
 how sweet this game is.
  
  Already having Battlefield 1942, this game was more of an... expansion for me... at first. Until 
 I played hours after hours with my brother on a LAN line against a bunch of bots. I then realized, 
 it is it's on game. Totally redesigned with some awesome vehicles, boats, helicopters, guns, and 
 not to mention some very well thought out levels.
  
  Tha graphics are nothing short of certified sick as hell . They do a great job putting you one 
 tha lone boat landing on tha island or tha skilled helicopter pilot with players leaning out the 
 sides firing at ground troops. Textures are some of tha best around and tha character models are 
 even better.
  
  The sounds are great, every gun has its own distinct noise and there is a soundtrack from the 60's 
 included. Featuring Surfin' Bird, Sombody to Love , Really got me and many more popular songs in 
 the timeperiod. And its great cause its like tha GTA radio in every vehicl and helicopters with 
 Surfin Bird add a great effect to the battle and mayhem surrouning the soldigers rifts. Truly amaziing.
 
  
  The gameplay seems slow at times due to the relativly slow walking speeds of large levels... i can't 
 decide. But the jets still fly by super fast and the copter dog fights are some on the best online 
 action around.
  
  The repetiveness is there, but I still play this game alot and it is some of the best LAN fun. 
 the updates can be hard to get, but at least they still upgrade it every now n then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I guess you could say that I sort of dislike this game due to the fact that I have gotten use to 
 BF2. The graphics are okay but a viet soldier running and sliding about 50 feet (no joke) when 
 he goes prone is a little dumb. & bodies be blown-up after their dead and flying ten feet in the 
 air is cool... but not when the posture of the body remains exzactly the same as when he died. The 
 whole -bouncy-a**- camera thing for moving seems like a good idea but only a midget that weighs 
 about three hundred pounds would bounce this much. No selective fire on weapons... no iron sights, 
 weapons are all left-handed in a right-handed soldier's arms & the whole gameplay seems too much 
 like a cartoon or comic book. I downloaded POE & Homefront & all the rest & the gameplay remained 
 that ol' cartoony-feel. I guess the good graphics, superb gameplay & arruracy of weapons & vehicles 
 is what makes me love BF2 and uninstall this. I would have loved to have a Vietnam-Era game but 
 this one isnt it... I really only bought it on ebay (11.00) to sort of have a collection of the 
 BF2 games and to help hold me out untill BF2142. Simply put... Imagine CS (not source) blended with 
 BF2 & Men of Honor with a cartoon/comic essence. BTW: dont buy this expecting much urban warfare 
 (Khe Sanh) this is all about hills & jungles baby... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commandercow011
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  this game is the second best battlefield game out there, in my opinion ( I havnt played BF2 yet 
 so i dont know how good it is.) i love just playin online or not online with people or bots or 
 both. its awsome. another awsome part is the weapons choices. the M60 with the grenade launcer 
 ( LAW???) is the best combo in the series for sure. i used to play in a room with 40 computers 
 all Connected to each other (LAN) and these people were for the most part nerds, and i would run 
 around with this combo and beat everyone. even though now that i think about it it would be us 
 40 people, against around 100 bots. but it was still pretty wicked. the campaign was fun too, although 
 i only played it around once or twice so i dont really know. but anyway the graphics in this game 
 where good, sound was good, gameplay was phenominal, and all of the other stuff was good too. the 
 only drag in the game was the graphics where a little slow. that is about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geom1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  This is the sequel to battlefield 1942. It has both offline and online gameplay however not playing 
 online does take a lot of the fun out of the game. It plays pritty much exactly like 1942 except 
 that it includes helicopters as well as aircraft. the game has an excellent selection of interesting 
 maps however some can be a bit small for aircraft combat despite that they are in the game. however 
 this is more than made up for the the fun you can have with ground combat. it will take a while 
 to get the grasp of the gameplay as you may find yourself dieing time after time if you have not 
 had any previous expereince. learning to fly aircraft is probably the hardest thing to learn. flying 
 planes is wild at best and ehlicopters seem to want to crash as soon as you start. of course after 
 an hour or two you wille ventually get the hand of them. I would suggest that all hardcore fps 
 gamers give theis game a try. while online experience may vary its generally good. there are no 
 real downsides to the game but it does have quite a steep larning curve and graphics are not exactly 
 the best but they are manageable. i have found that this game immersed me in the vietnam them very 
 quickly. so if you feel like picking up an m16 or an ak47 an taking a trip into "da nang" then 
 you should pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Beckham
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 31, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  was blown away from the gameplay experience i get from this game......
  This is way better than Battlefield 1942 because of the jungle maps and in here you can get helicopters 
 and pack them with people and they can shoot them camping noobs!! 
  The people might walk a little bit weird similar to counter strike but both are awesome.
  -The 
 maps are HUGE
  -The gameplay is fun 
  -BUY IT NOW!!!!!
  
  O. K I know i didnt say nothing bad about this game but the only thing i dislike about this is that 
 people rarely play like the real army would using teamwork but thats not only in this game, the 
 same problem also happens in other FPS online team games.
  
  
  Peace and i hope this review is helpful... Remember all gamers have different opinions about fifferent 
 games so this is mine and if you want to hear an opinion from a person who was dissapointed, go 
 to the reviews that gave it a weak score :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leoisfat
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 22, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Man this game was so fun until i got battlefield 2 but now i'm gonna try and play it again. I remember 
 that this game was like the coolest game i ever played.... all the levels were really good, the 
 multiplayer was phenominal. Most the weapons were good. Accurate music and style of that time and 
 a cool feature of puting in your own music that you can hear while driving a tank, heli, jet, etc. 
 This game is a really good game to play for people to play, especially if they just got a good 
 computer gaming system and are trying out online games for the first time......... i also recommend 
 that you play this game before you buy battlefield 2. This game is a great bargain too, even if 
 you have battlefield 2 i suggest you buy this awesome game that's only like $20!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmc123456
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 15, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  The game is great BF Vietnam is a great game it has everything BF 1942 had but better. Graphics 
 are much better than BF 1942. The game has many fun thing u can do like ride down a river in a 
 river boat and shoot at the commies on land or be a commie and shoot RPG's at a river boat. The 
 maps are great, they're small but the weapons and vehicles more than make up for it , like howitzers 
 or massive tank battles, the weapons are shabby to like the M-60 or the M-16, you also can equip 
 yourself with mortars to pound the enemy, the classes are about the same, just with something special 
 for each class like an M-14 with a mortar or a M-60 with an M-79 grenade launcher. The multiplayer 
 is great to u can play online with ur friends in much larger maps. This game is excellent, although 
 the sond isn't that great the overall game is,8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield has a lot to offer with the 1942 set and other additions, but Vietnam adds a slightly 
 more relatable war game in terms of the weaponry, vehicles and mayhem.
  
  It has been labeled as just another update to the series, but it is more than that. The 1942 series 
 focused on WWII in Germany and Japan. Vietnam focuses on . . . well, Vietnam. The game offers all 
 of the great features that the other games provide, such as multiplayer up to 64 players online 
 or 63 additional bots, a campaign mode, and record keeping. It also does not have the same types 
 of glitches that the other games in the series have had and been repaired with postrelease patchwork. 
 The graphics are better, the sound is phenomenal, and the story is dramatic in comparison with 
 the 1942 series.
  
  I would recommend this game until of course the next Battlefield hit breaks through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xalenite
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  My friend wanted to borrow BF2 for about 3 weeks so I just let him since I was grounded for 2 weeks. 
 After that 2 weeks I decided to check out the previous BF games and I saw Vietnam at Half-Price 
 Books for only $6.00!!! I bought and played it instantly since I was craving for more Battlefield. 
 This game is just awesome even though its pretty old. I saw how this game evolved into the awesomeness 
 of BF2. This must've been the most anticipated game of that time. Even though BF2 may be better 
 than this game in almost all areas... it's solid. Graphics are good with only minor glitches. The 
 mediocre sounds of machine guns has never given me more chills. Piloting air vehicles was still 
 hard back then but even to this day people still play online with plenty of good pilots. Single 
 player may just suck badly but multiplayer shines. Yes... there are only 600 people playing now 
 but its awesome when you find a game with 30 or more people. Weapons in the same class are all 
 the same thing but with different looks and ammo capacities but who cares. Changing you're player 
 look can't be simpler than this but it doesn't matter because being on a team full of clones is 
 an experience. The oldies soundtrack fits the game perfectly during some parts like piloting helicopters 
 while playing "Flight of the Valkyries" or running amock with a jeep playing "War" (my all time 
 favorite song) . This baby has it all! Great graphics, fun multiplayer, mediocre sounds (gotta love 
 it) , plenty of vehicles and awesome gameplay. For those that can't find, afford or have a computer 
 strong enough to play BF2 need to get BF Vietnam because at only $10.00... this is the game to get. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhduh8_2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 25, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  i wish this game had single player missions. this is no battlefield 2, but still great. You added 
 10 burelia to the market, at 1500 gold each. That also turns out to be 15000 net cost. 
  You added 10 burelia to the market, at 1500 gold each. That also turns out to be 15000 net cost. 
 
  You added 10 burelia to the market, at 1500 gold each. That also turns out to be 15000 net cost. 
 i wish this game had single player missions. this is no battlefield 2, but still great. You added 
 10 burelia to the market, at 1500 gold each. That also turns out to be 15000 net cost. 
  You added 10 burelia to the market, at 1500 gold each. That also turns out to be 15000 net cost. 
 
  You added 10 burelia to the market, at 1500 gold each. That also turns out to be 15000 net cost. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-mE_16
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  battle field vietnom is the from the battlefield 2 series. it takes place obviously in the vietnam 
 war. it is a very fun game still with lots of the same action as it battlefield 2 and still has 
 some good kits. it has almost all the same kits as in battlefield 2. there is assault, engineer, 
 sniper, anti tank, medic, and one more icat remember. if you were to go to the store now and but 
 a copy and couldnt choose between battlefield 2 or battlefield vietnam i would say to choose battlefield 
 2 scince its more new. but still go ahead with what you want. you picking between grapghics and 
 just which you prefer either modern combat or world war 2 style 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wirbelwind1038
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 16, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  I can't tell you how many stupid Vietnam games are ot there, trying to capture the gritty, bloody 
 reality of the war through the eyes of the grunt; it figures that the only good Vietnam game is 
 the one that completely glorifies the war, with a blazing oldies sound track, outrageous effects, 
 and mediocre weapon sounds. When I got BFV, I felt like I was playing 1942, only in a jungle with 
 a weird new graphics engine. Ever since I first got 1942, I have played the multiplayer perhaps 
 20 times at the most; I seriously believe that I am the only one who enjoys the Single player of 
 both of these games. Admitedly the AIs are EXTREMELY stupid, but the sheer number of them on those 
 huge maps is what always attracted me to it. Anyway, BFV is a great iteration to the series with 
 tons of new features, some better than others, and I personally love flying a Cobra over an NVA 
 base playing "Flight Of The Valkyries"; only in BFV ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell26
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 9, 2006 1:49 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 takes FPS genre to a whole new level. With the games detail, historical accuracy, 
 vehicles, and focus on team play, it couldnt get much better. Soon the great game would be followed 
 up with two expansion packs and a modding community that rivals that of the ancient Half-Life. 
 Mods like Desert Combat, Eve of Destruction, and Galactic Conquest took BF1942 to Operation Desert 
 Storm, Vietnam, and even to a galaxy far, far away.
  
  Now EA and Digital Illusions take us to another battlefield, Vietnam. Its not another expansion 
 for BF1942, its a whole new game with several updates based on their experience with the ever-so-popular 
 Battlefield 1942.
  
  The Main features include Commaning powerful Vietnam-era vehicles -- ruling the skies in the F-4 
 Phantom, airlifting vehicles in transport helicopters, and more. 
  You need to master the weapons of jungle warfare including pongee sticks and booby traps. 
  Also 
 you can Wage war online from dark jungles to villages on the Ho Chi Minh Trail. 
  Go to war as a Viet Cong, Green Beret, or other soldier types, each with multiple character skins. 
 
  And Finally head into battle with a generation-defining soundtrack blaring from your chopper, including 
 songs by CCR, Jefferson Airplane, and more. 
  
  Overall This game is amazing. I hope this helps.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meweus
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 25, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  this game rules!!!!! 
  everything about it is awsome!!!!!! 
  bots are no problem, because single player sucks!!!! 
  but bots are stupid!!!!! 
  single player 
 sucks but u wont realy care sence u will spend most of u time on mulitplayer!!!!! 
  the only problem i got with this game is realy the reloading when u take damage while reloading 
 u will have to start the process all over again!!!! 
  
  SOUND TRACK  best sound tract ever!!!!! 
  more guns 
  u 
 can chose how u want u guy to look like!!!!!! 
  choppers and jets here!!!!! 
  but there are alot of chopper noobs!!!!! 
  so single player and bots only problem with this game!!!!!!
 
  go buy this game now!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 3, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  A huge, open environment to fight in.
  The radio being played in the game.
  Easy to mod and there's a good amount of content out there 
 for it.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  Way too much lag most of the time. Sometimes there's so much lag, you really can't even play.
 
  Graphics seemed a little dated when the game was released.
  No ranking system.
  
  :Overall:
  A decent game but not near as fun as Battlefield 1942 or Battlefield 2 for that matter. 
 Still, the Redux version is out and is well worth the $20-$10 these days. If you liked Battlefield 
 1942 and can't afford Battlefield 2, then this is a cool game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt5thboard
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 1, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  Well, if you play Battlefield 1942 before, then it's preety much the same. But the graphics are improved 
 and some new weapons like the M-16 and the AK-47. You also have the 60's music during the loading 
 screen and they also sow you some facts about the vietnam war.
  But I think that the starting menu to be just like the origianal. All the buttons are so packed 
 together and when you started the game, weapons selection is just awful and well, althpugh more detailed 
 but messy unlike battlefield 2. The crosstail isn't impressive because even you hit a person. they 
 don't have that crosshair lines that appears around the default crosshair.
  
  Either way, Battlefield Vietnam is a good game but for some reason it doesn't suits me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yozee306
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 30, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  this is just a amazing game and there is just so many things to talk about so ill break it down 
 to picies...
  
  gameplay-this game has some very good offering gameplay a good variety of weapons and some very 
 well designed maps mostly sprawling from 100-150 km and there's lots of vehicles to try out.
  
  graphics-the graphics on this game are just beutiful i have a good video card so it runs smoothly 
 on my pc and i have tryed it at all graphics quality and even at the lowest it still looks like 
 a good game and when you are using the m60 its prety cool how when you walk the bullets move and 
 jingle around.
  
  sound- another part of the game is the sound. the sound is also a cool feature the guns sound nice 
 and the explosions from say a jet for example just sound so real and this game also has a good 
 70's soundtrack that really blends in with the action considering the vietnam war took place in 
 the 70's.
  
  overall-this game is a great experience that you defintaly don't wanna miss yes there are a few 
 bad things about the game like there is no campaign but if you try this game online you'll be blown 
 away it's probaly the best multiplayer experience you'll ever have from a game in along time... 
 enjoi :) ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 30, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  The Good: great graphics especially in high-end pc's obviousely. great sound as well. and a couple 
 of great arsenals. as well as quite a lot of vehicles, and the multiplayer is a lot of fun.
  
  The Bad: the loading times can be extremely long. the helicopters and the planes controls takes 
 some time to get used to.
  
  The Bottom Line: this game has good graphics but the graphics could be like half life 2's or far 
 cry's graphics engine but it's still have good graphics. the loading times on very fast pc's is 
 very fast with no disscusion. but in general it need kind of work.
  
  you should play this game or at least give it a try but play battlefield 2 instead cause battlefield 
 2 is perfect and..... yeah....... a lot better!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  WW2 themed games are growing large today. You may recall games 
  based on WW2 ,BATTLEFIELD 1942" Call of Duty, Medal of honor and the enterttaining Wolfenstein!. 
 But what about the other war that torn the world apart, and also change the way we look at war. 
 Ofcourse im talking about the Vietnam War. Now you can experience the harsh battles of Vietnam 
 by playing Battlefield sequel.. Battlefield Vietnam!
  Seem as though Vietnam war games are over looked so i'll do my best to review as many Vietnam war 
 based game for all you guys!
  Anyway back to the game.. The game Battlefield Vietnam does take you in the boots of both An American/and 
 South Vietnamese soldier and in Northernn Vietnamese soldier. 
  This is a multiplayer based game, where youll have to battle against one another in historical 
 battlefields and make good teamwork and good fire power. Youllhave the power to create your own 
 soldier look ( well sort of) you can choose over a dozen of amazing weapons.. such as M16, M60, M79, 
 RPGs. RDP, Ak47 c4, mines, bouncing bettys and much more. There is different classes such as a soldier, 
 engineers, supportgunner , sniper and etc. And hey.. it aint Battlefield without... driving them cool 
 vehicles!!! You now can fly Choppers, combat Boat, Jets, huge tanks and the good old jeep.
  To top it all off, it aint the 60's without music!! Now you can listen to some great 60's hits... such 
 as Jefferson Airplane, War, Nowhere to Run and many orther.
  Well overall, i was really impressed with Battlefiled Vietnam, The graphic was good, excellent 
 sound, lots to do, great battles and did i mention great 60's beat... So put on your boot, load 
 you M16 and pop in that Jimmy Hendrix!!
  
  PROS: good graphics, great sound, good multiplayer, 60's soundtrack
  
  CONS: Very poor friendly 
 and enemy AI, graphics could have been better.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  This is a very fun game. I love having tons of guys on a huge map and being able to just have fast 
 paced, blazing action! The graphics are sweet and the gameplay is extremely solid! The only thing 
 that sucks is when you lose a spawn point close to the action and have to start out all the way 
 across the map! Of course, that's the fault of your team if you can't take out the other guys so... 
 It's a very fun game though and is definitely worth picking up if your comp can't handle the new 
 Battlefield 2 game (you have to have a sick graphics card to play that one) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocker500
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Story- 9/10: It's not really a story, but more of a re-creation of famous Vietnam War battles, 
 and I'd say it does a pretty good job of doing that.
  
  Gameplay- 9/10: Great gameplay; it's a huge massive warzone that really makes you feel like you're 
 there.
  
  Graphics- 9/10: Lots of improvements over BF42; in fact it was so much better, they even made a 
 WWII mod that took battles and stuff from BF42 and gave them a graphics overhaul.
  
  Sound- 9/10: The guns and vehicles and stuff sound incredible; plus the soundtrack is a good addition 
 to the game too.
  
  Value- 9/10: You will never want to stop playing this game, unless you have to use the bathroom 
 or eat or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishpunk90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great upgrade from bf1942. The game takes you into the jungles of vietnam and lets 
 you get hold of helicopters and jets carrying napalm. The speed of the jets takes a while getting 
 used to, especially if you learned to fly in 1942. The choppers are much, much better than those 
 used in the Desert Combat mod for 1942 because they are much more responsive. It doesn't feel like 
 your trying to fly a destroyer anymore. The gameplay is the typical Battlefield stuff, with all 
 it's intensity. The soundtrack to the game is simply amazing, and it alone warrants buying the 
 game. Going for as low as $15.00 in some places, this is definately a game worth getting, or at 
 least checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EchoSae
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  Everyone was sent into instant shock to simply play Battlefield 1942 but when this came out, everyone 
 was blone out of their minds. You could drive, hike, or even fly across massive maps. Battlefield 
 Vietnam contains great multiplayer for anyone. The graphics can be adjusted for best quality on 
 your computer. You can even play music while in your vehicles.
  
  The greatest part of this game I believe are the helicopters and the awesome job done on the vegetation. 
 Unlike in Battlefield 1942, Vietnam encourages players to use their camoflauge and suroundings. 
 If you stop and listen foot steps of the enemy can be heard approaching you. You can even hide 
 in brushes and sneak up on enemy troops to kills them with your knife or a nice surprising gun 
 shot.
  
  The helicopters can be harder to learn how to fly however. They may be probaly the funnest part 
 in all of the Battlefield franchise but that's only if you can knock a few pilots out of the sky. 
 Most people use the Huey's, they like them loaded with tons of missles and maybe even a copilot 
 to provide extra fire power. Helis are great ways to get around the map at fast speeds and with 
 dangerous weapons. However, if you're not careful a tank can blow you out of the sky if they're 
 at the right elevation. Even sneaky ground units carrying laws and SA7s can be a pain in your bottom 
 half. 
  
  Planes as well are included for all you bombing geeks. They can carry napalm and load of bombs. 
 Don't rape bases though- with helicopters either -because people will cuss at you and then boot 
 you off the servers and that wouldn't be good. This game is good for any Veteran of Nam or game 
 geek. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Battlefield Vietnam wasn't that tremendous leap forward that everyone thought it would be. Graphics 
 wise, it wasn't all that far off from 1942. It did show improvements, but they were somewhat subtle. 
 The gameplay is the same, vehicle/infantry based combat of all BF games. The maps are all pretty 
 much fun to play. The idea of running through the jungle and through rice paddies really brings 
 the feel of being in vietnam home.
  
  The sound is good and it's really funny when you start crankin out the soundtrack in one of your 
 vehicles. I don't think it's as good as Desert Combat, but I'd certainly rather play Vietnam than 
 1942.
  
  The modding community has done some amazing things for this game as well. The perfect example would 
 have to be the Point of Existance mod. That is great. I highly recommend that mod if you get this 
 game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jims-Kid
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This game had the most phenominal multiplayer i had ever played , until i played BF2, (almost the 
 same but in modern combat, not vietnam war, much better though) , which you can check my review 
 for Battlefield 2 as well. This game is cool, very good levels, very cool. But the singleplayer 
 is kind of lame. The comps are pretty RETARDED (Iiterally) , they fight like their in a coma. But 
 seriously, jets, tanks, helicopters, everything else is the best. I recommend this game. YOU have 
 to get it. This game can change your taste in games! EXCELLENT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! You won't be dissapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Battle Field Vietnam was an ok attempt at another Battle Field game, but in my opinion it fell 
 short of what i expected. Like its predessesors it was a multiplayer game and thats where it stood. 
 When i loaded it up i was able to easily find my way around the interface and setup what was needed. 
 The gfx were ok for the time, nothing amazing, and the sound was decent. But the major, noticable 
 downsides to the game was a lack of real life feeling. I never really felt like i was in Vietnam 
 fighting these damn commies. The weapons and vehicles were standard and were based well off real 
 Vietnam arsenal. So that was good.
  I guess what im saying is that you could safely skip over this game and play the new BF2 or something 
 similar to fill that historical, FPS urge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchiha-clan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a really excitng game to play for anybody who enjoys shooting games. A cool thing is that 
 you can pick many diiferent types of weapon seletions to go along with your soldier. It is fun 
 to play because the setting is in Vietnam and has the same things that were in the Vietnam War. 
 You can ride on cars, go by sea in boats, and fly in planes and fast jets with heavy firearm. I 
 would recommend this cool game to any body that have fun playing shooting games like Counter Strike. 
 It is a great addition to the series of Battlefield games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenSilence87
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I have spent a ton of time, to date, playing Battlefield Vietnam. Its a great game, a great multiplayer 
 game that should satisfy the lust of anyone who is in the groove for a good shooter. 
  
  As you might expect, the game is based on real conflicts during the Vietnam War. You'll fight in 
 the streets of Hue, in steamy jungles in Cambodia and on the Ho Chi Minh trail among others. There 
 are plenty of vehicles to fight with (Tanks, jeeps, helicopters and even motorbikes) and plenty 
 of kits and weapons to blow stuff up with. 
  
  Naturally, this leads to great gameplay and Battlefield Vietnam has enough of that to last for 
 months. The gunfights are intense and sometimes nerve wracking when securing a spawnpoint and a 
 enemy is hiding in the grass nearby. The addition of helicopters makes for some great (To quote 
 Bush) strategery as attack helicopters swarm bases while APCs and infantry attack from the front. 
 It creats some truly memorable moments. 
  
  The graphics are fine, but the sound is truly where this game sticks out. You have, in every vehicle, 
 a list of 25 songs from the greatest artists of the era (The Kinks, Joplin etc) that truly add 
 to Vietnam's arcade, movielike, feel. 
  
  Vietnam's biggest flaw is its singleplayer. Nautrally, the game is aimed for multiplay but the 
 single play is simply atrorcious. While players might get a feel for the maps and weapons and vehicles 
 in this mode, it is rendered almost pointless with the horrible enemy AI. Dont believe me? Just 
 load up a map with air power and watch the AI try to fly it. It seems that DICE simply tacked this 
 on at the last minute. Its utterly useless for players trying to get a feel for the enemy in multiplayer. 
 
  
  Bottom Line? Its a good game, and if you have the multiplayer lust, one that should satisfy you 
 for a long time to come. But if your here for the single player (And who is for a EA game?) I'd 
 stay away. But then, you arleady knew that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Vietnam is a game that is more on the multiplayer side than single player. Multiplayer 
 is fun and all but some people can be really make you mad by asking for reinforcements or pickup 
 1000 times. It is extremely annoying but this game is pretty fun. The Americans are the soldiers 
 who have the better weaponary while the Vietnamese have less effective weapons, but they can also 
 make death traps. This gives the game a more unique feel to it but unless you are always playing 
 as Vietnamese soldiers this doesn't happen much unless online. If you want the true Battlefield 
 gaming experience get 1942 or even Battlefield 2. I got Vietnam because it came with my Battlefield 
 1942 pack so I decided to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukeriela
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 12, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  From the second I started playing Battlefield 1942 I wasn't able to put it down. The well-balanced 
 weapon sets, the mildly entertaining campaign mode, and all the unique maps kept me playing for 
 hours on end. When I heard about Battlefield Vietnam, no doubt I was excited.
  
  With that said, Battlefield Vietnam fell well short of my expectations. Most of what I loved from 
 1942 had been thrown out. The well-balanced weapon sets gave way to weapon sets containing a fully 
 automatic machine gun and a rocket launcher. The un-balanced weapon sets took away much of the 
 choices when I realized that some weapon sets were just way more powerful than others. Who would 
 choose a weapon set with an M-14 with grenades, when you could have an M-14 with a rocket launcher? 
 Also, even though the single player in BF1942 was a mere after thought, the campaign still offered 
 some rather entertaining battles. Instead of trying to expand on the single player, they trash 
 it instead. There is a single player component in Vietnam, except there is no campaign and the 
 enemy AI is even worse. If you didnt already know the AI in BF1942 had the brain the size of a 
 pea, somehow though DICE actually downgraded the AI. Now the AI reaches stupidity levels of Paris 
 Hilton. I have seen an enemy troop stand right in front of me for a couple minutes and not shoot, 
 is my character really that hot?
  
  The next thing in my long list of flaws is the maps. In BF1942 there were exciting maps like Omaha 
 beach and Stalingrad, in Vietnam there are maps like Hue, Reclaiming Hue, Quang Tri, and Quang 
 Tri 1972. There are about fourteen maps in BF Vietnam, although in my mind there is only about 
 seven. The only difference between Hue and Reclaiming Hue is that there is a speaker with some 
 Vietnamese lady trying to convince the American troops to go back home. DICE also took two other 
 maps: Quang Tri and Ho Chi Ming trail, changed them slightly, and slapped on another name. Even 
 ignoring the fact that most of the maps seem very similar to other maps, most of the maps just 
 arent balanced. The maps themselves have good size and have pretty good game play elements like 
 well-placed vehicles and well-placed spawn points, but the problem is they arent balanced. There 
 are maps where both teams start out with the same amount of tickets (points that go down with deaths 
 and decrease when your side has less spawn points than the other side) , although the Vietcong control 
 five spawn points and the Americans control one. It is utterly frustrating to be the Americans 
 in this situation because the second you spawn you are killed and its not too fun to be the Vietcong 
 because all you are doing is just picking off each troop that spawns at that one spawn point.
 
  
  While there are many flaws in BF Vietnam some of the small additions are nice to have. Probably 
 the best addition is the music, when you get into a vehicle you can choose from a long list of 
 songs, all of the songs are ones of the Vietnam time era, but you can also make your own custom 
 soundtrack with whatever songs you want. While this isnt realistic (when was the last time you 
 saw a tank blasting seventies music) , it add to the just-for-fun feeling of the Battlefield series. 
 Another addition is the helicopters, while it does have some terrible physics; it is a nice new 
 addition. Also you are able to use all the great weapons from the Vietnam War, which is expected 
 from a game about the Vietnam War, but some of the weapons are just really fun to use (even if 
 their not balanced) .
  
  Other than the fun seventies tunes, all the other sounds in BF Vietnam are just plain irritating. 
 That Vietnamese lady in Reclaiming Hue that I mentioned earlier just really gets on your nerves 
 (you can blow the speaker up, although it spawns again about a minute later) , and the fact that 
 the Vietcong actually talk in Vietnamese is just annoying. The American phrases are also annoying, 
 and it doesnt help at all to hear we are getting wasted soldier, PULL BACK!!! The graphics also 
 are annoying; while annoying usually isnt a word you would use to describe the look of a game 
 it actually fits BF Vietnam quite well. The graphics are obviously a lot better than BF1942, the 
 character models and gun models all look pretty good, with that said the view distance is terrible. 
 If you are a sniper it is annoying, because the whole point of snipers is to take out guys from 
 far away. At some maps you can barely see a guy thats twenty feet ahead of you because of a weird 
 fog that blocks your vision. While BF Vietnam doesnt look terrible, it needed some polishing on 
 the graphics.
  
  While Battlefield Vietnam doesnt live up to its predecessor, it does offer some entertaining multiplayer. 
 I cant recommend this game to everyone, but if youre looking for a good multiplayer game, Battlefield 
 Vietnam wont deliver the experience in game play; it will offer a good multiplayer experience 
 with fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyoe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  I bought bf 1942 back in the day and got addicted to it then after for my birthday I got bf vietnam 
 and it was one of the best games ever. Though there isn't much tactical teamwork but its still 
 really fun the ai has improved a whole bunch since bf 1942 (now they actually follow you) but the 
 main focus is not the single player but the multiplayer which is soo fun with 30+ players online. 
 All in all you should buy this game or any other game in the bf series and if you cant buy bf2 
 or bf 2 mc this is definately a good choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok straight to the chase of this game...
  
  Gameplay: It is still the raw, fast paced action I knew from BF 1942, however, the balence issues 
 were extremely prevelant in this game. Which somewhat bothered me. But with patches this was fixed. 
 Gameplay is same old, but that doesn't entail that its bad.
  
  Graphics: Update from Bf1942. Much more lush environments, and nice texture models. Overall very 
 good graphics with no stand out glitches in my hindsight.
  
  Sound: Is good but not excellent like gamespot claims it to be.
  
  Value: It's a Battlefield 
 game, so the value lies in the multiplayer which makes it great replayability. However, this game 
 for some reason got boring quicker than BF 1942 to me. I guess cause the community went back to 
 Desert Combat until BF2 like I did haha.
  
  Overall a decent game that kept me occupied for a while, and for $10 it was a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghostagent
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Battlefielld vietnam is awesome this game kicks mayjor ass in fact the game was made by mayjor 
 ass. any one who has a clan on just have a group of friends that they play online with will know 
 that it rocks. and not just the plan 0ne you'v got all the paches like POE http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/battlefieldvietnam/download. html? sid=6126694 
 and the WWII paches wich i dont use cause they are just like MOH (Medal of honor) . this game kills! 
 for online but the single player is good just not the best in its class. the reason i gave it a 
 9.4 is because it's game play is all good but its graphics are just ok they could be alot better. 
 
  i feel that for the time peiod that this game was mad it is very good and i highly recommend it 
 to people how dont have top of the line computers 
  
  1Difficulty verious during online play
  2iv had the game for a few years so i have a lot of hours 
 on it 
  3its not that hard to learn wsda, e, r, z, and mouse for fire
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andydickinson02
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  Battlefield Vetnam is a great game online ( or so i am told) but it lacks harshly on single player 
 with poor AI. i think the addition of vehicles to the game is great such as the F-4 Phantom which 
 can drop napalm by the way gotta love it. the hueys and the rest of the choppers are difficult 
 to fly though. the new weapos are great such as the m-16 and m-60. this game has great graphics 
 but they are not up to par with battlefield 2. i think this game is good online but since my internet 
 connection is severed i cant do it ( i know it sucks) but this is a great game with an amazing soundtrack.
 
  i think in future EA should make a singleplayercampaign but this is a great game none the less 
 it will make you want to smell the napalm in the morning! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vickfan44
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 14, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Well my title basically sums it up just awesome online play and thats about it but there are some 
 awesome combat sequences with guys on old school mopeds get blown up while going after a tank trying 
 to look funny which they succeded in. But let me get to the point the game has awesome graphics. 
 Some awesome maps wish there where more than 12 or however many there are lol. But i like the game 
 i love playing online with my guild. The variety of guns is nice but not awesome i wish there where 
 alot more than they put on the game but i like this game and if like vietnam games alot and like 
 PC online play get this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemmox
Rating: 3.6
Date: Feb 9, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  Desgraciadamente este es uno de los juegos que mas me han decepcionado, ya que se trata de un juego 
 con una graficas decentes (cosa que no puedo negar) pero con un gameplay terrible, no se y a lo 
 mejor yo estoy mal pero el modo de juego es muy limitado solo te aparecen los mapas de los escenarios, 
 escoges uno y a pelear; se termina el mapa y a escoger otro para poder seguir jugando... eso para 
 mi es un asco total, ya que no tiene un trama, no tiene historia, no hay una linea de juego, simplemente 
 es escoger un mapa y listo.
  Lamenteblamente gaste mi dinero en una porqueria que solo sirve para jugar en linea, de ser asi 
 hubiera comprado otro juego que solo me sirve para jugar online y hasta eso serian mas divertidos. 
 
  Yo no niego que online no sea divertido, pero tomando en cuenta que los juegos BATTLEFIELD tienen 
 una linea de juego como en BATTLEFIELD 1942 en donde si no tienes internet a lo menos puede tratar 
 de jugar a dominar al mundo y si te derrotan no hay problema porque hay mas mapas y lugares que 
 conquistar.
  En mi punto muy personal les aconsejo... NO COMPREN ESTE JUEGO !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr33nHippo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 3, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Vietnam is a good game overall once you get into it. The graphics have been slightly 
 improved from BF1942. The sounds of your footsteps, bombings, gunfire, and Vietnamese voice commands 
 are superb. The selectable soundtrack incorporates the best war songs from the 60s and 70s. The 
 music is played while you are in a vehicle, and sometimes you get a little carried away and start 
 joy riding. 
  
  Where this game is hurt the most is in its gameplay. The weapons are too realistic for their own 
 good, and make aiming hard especially with big guns. While playing online you will experience very 
 low fps from times to time, which makes aiming harder. The planes in this game are much harder 
 to control than the ones in BF1942, especially the helicopters. 
  
  Overall i would recommend this game to fans of the original BF1942 who are looking for another 
 online fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylemack14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I excitedly bought this game when it first came out. I played a ton of single-player game ( somewhere 
 between 150-250 hours) and of course was hooked. Then I went online and had fun there. The graphics 
 in this game were pretty good. Of course a great video card helps those frame rates. The gameplay 
 was good; there's not much to it, just shoot enemy and stay alive.
  The music during load times was a nice nostalgic- like some 60's stuff. If you like shooting people 
 from back in the day and have a nice video card then this game is probably for you. Have loads 
 of fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  The Battlefield 1942 series was amazing. I really loved the huge maps, lots of vehicles, and intense 
 moments when you tried to take the flags in each of the levels. The good news is, all of the great 
 multiplayer is still intact, but the maps are much smaller and the vehicles aren't really the stars 
 of the game, it's more about the foot action. With lots of new weaponry, both on the Vietnam and 
 American section and much more weaponry to choose from and some outstanding music scores/weapon 
 sounds, really makes for an enjoyable title overall. I still wish the vehicles were more of the 
 stars, but the maps are much smaller, thus making it much more intense and less long walks with 
 nothing happening that will likely freak you out.
  
  Battlefield Vietnam doesn't really have a story, well you can listen to speeches given by both 
 the US and Asia during load times, but that's about it. The really great thing about this game 
 is that it's pure multiplayer and nothing else. So if your a fan of either the Battlefield franchise 
 or Unreal tournament, this game will definitely appeal to you.
  
  The big thing about Battlefield Vietnam that is very interesting, is the fact that the AI is very 
 well done. They put up one hell of a fight and never let you win at any cost. The bad thing about 
 this, is at times you can almost feel like your fighting the war by yourself, since your allies 
 don't really help, but thankfully, they do help at the right times, and the AI isn't all that, 
 so the difficulty isn't to bad, although when the AI, either friendly or foe, get into a vehicle, 
 they tend to really rule the road and be spot on when shooting.
  
  Battlefield Vietnam does have some really big flaws. For starters, there isn't to much reliance 
 on vehicles since most of the terrain is hilly and full of trees, and the maps are much smaller, 
 which is a good and bad thing. It's good because you can get a lot more fighting in, but it's also 
 bad because you really don't have a lot of places to move, so you might get fragged like crazy, 
 thus making vehicles almost obsolete.
  
  Still, this is a game that is all about capture the flag, and with all the maps and different terrains, 
 this is a game that you will be playing for a while. Plus, the sound is phenominal. The few voice 
 acting is perfect and weapon sounds will make you jump each time, plus the musical score will make 
 you cry, it's so great.
  
  I really loved Battlefield Vietnam, and in many ways it's better, but in some ways it isn't. Still 
 if you loved the original Battlefield 1942 series, then this will be an interesting change of pace. 
 It's really not the same type of game, so even if you didn't like the Battlefield 1942 series, 
 you might enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Max_Power_17
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 16, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  Well i dont play many war games (this is the first actually because im sorta againts it) But i 
 enjoyed it at the same time. if that made sense. I liked the graphics and the control the game 
 had on u. i dont know the right word for it but like the effects and stuff. For example when i 
 shoot someone the hole gun goes up in the air... not many fpsing games that i have played do that 
 and like i said i dont play many. It good because you can just run around and do your own thing! 
 And the characters are kool... like they stick wif you are u can shake them off u can pretty much 
 do what you like, I suxd at the flying part tho! OMG that was sooooo funny. I would get in and 
 take off and smash into the buildings or the water! classic. And i would always get lost so maybe 
 if it was easier to know wat you are doing would help.... or maybe it was just me but all and all 
 i have a good time. I was very real like aswell. The graphics and the people my god awsome stuff 
 guys check it out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qubit101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  THE BAD: 
  
  Theres ALMOST nothing to this game that differs from bf1942. The helicopters are extremely hard 
 to control, consider geting a joystick. The jets go so dang fast theres no point to using them 
 , withing 6 second of take off you'd be out of the map, and it's hard to stay inside the map at 
 such great speed. Unless you seriously think Battlefield Vietnam is a simulator, which it's not, 
 than there should be no problem with the way the M60 is used!!!!! These aren't the freakin navy 
 seals!!! in vietnam no one really cared how they used their dang weapons!!!! Haven't you ever seen 
 the movie platoon!!!!!!!
  
  THE GOOD: 
  
  The ai is much smarter, there is a point to using a willys, jeep the passenger can fire his weapon 
 while the other drives the jeep. The weapon skins, and sounds are great, the graphics have improved 
 a bit, and not every engineer, rifleman an d sniper look the same because the are different character 
 skins!!! That Rocks!!!!
  
  Overall:
  
  Battlefield Vietnam is a great sequel in the battle field series.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemasta456456
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Vietnam is a great game, but their is no campaign mode!!! Just instant action mods 
 and multiplayer. That tells me this is another multiplayer focused battlefield game... Here are 
 some of the reasons y i have mixed reactions to this game....
  
  Pros
  + Great Multiplayer
  + Nice Graphics
  + The vehicle, weapon, and troops skins are nice
  + 
 JETS RULE!!! Especially the ones wioth napalm bombs
  + The graphics make it look like that u r really in the jungle of nam
  + The new maps are detailed
 
  
  Cons
  - No campaign!?
  - The heli controls are hard to learn (but u might get the hang of it)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: War_Tourist
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I've probably spent more time with Battlefield 1942 than virtually any other game in the last five 
 years. Its combination of depth, tactics, team work, kitchen sink design ethos all held my attention 
 well past faves like Half-Life (+ TFC/CS/etc) . My thoughts on BF: Vietnam. 
  
  * Neat weapon modeling: Sure virtually every gun in bf1942 was fully automatic, but these machine 
 guns just feel different. Their rate of fire seems through the roof, their sound effects are shredding 
 and kinetic, and their lethality at range is devastating. Besides the stable assault rifles, you've 
 got a kick ass grenade launcher, WWII-o-phile fave the M14, and a bunch of unconventional weapons 
 like punji sticks, booby traps, claymore mines, and SA-7 surface to air missiles. Theyre almost 
 all a pleasure to use and have used against you. 
  
  * Map audio features: Something BF: V does well is introduce audio into FPS tactics and maps. The 
 Hue maps have this lady constantly berating the US, somewhat convincingly, about the error of their 
 ways. Some US Airfields have a broadcast from a 'good morning vietnam'-esque DJ. The ability to 
 blast Surfing Bird from your scooter after claiming a conquest point is pretty exhilarating. We'll 
 see how old they get, but combined with the licensed pop music from the 1960's, audio seems in 
 many ways to be this products defining feature. Never mind the enemy can hear you coming from miles 
 away. Sometimes just blasting the Kinks after owning some teenager cant be helped. 
  
  * New Multi-Station vehicles: My favorite vehicle in bf1942, hands down, was the inflatable raft 
 their introduced in the Secret Weapons of WWII expansion pack. Think jeep on water. There are a 
 few variations on this in bfv, the most notable being the PT boats. These 3 station fast attack 
 craft are an absolute blast to use and the maps provide a constant sense of discovery as you find 
 some heretofore unknown water way. In an interesting twist, virtually every flying vehicle is multi-station. 
 The 6 person chopper is pretty wild when used for invasions and even the phantom's need two team 
 members operating them to use all their firepower. Fun! Most jeeps are now 3 people, which while 
 kind of cool, is stupid dangerous to use. The old fan favorite from Codename Eagle of the sidecar 
 passenger being able to use their own weapon is back, so you can really tailor a jeep to any purpose 
 (if you're crazy enough) . I had a lot of success with a driver, a guy on the mounted MG and the 
 passenger with a SA-7. 
  
  * Classes: There are only 4 classes to each side as opposed to the 6 in bf1942. Each of those classes 
 have two 'kits' though, so in a sense there's a total of 16 classes. In general it seems like each 
 class has a number of different options, so if one tactic isn't working, you're equipped to tackle 
 another. In most of my games, people gravitated towards the m60/law soldier class which is a clear 
 "killer for all seasons" uber class. The NVA anti-air class by comparison is virtually useless 
 at anything other than unloading SAMs at planes. Engy's can now dismantle enemy vehicles while 
 occupied, which is pretty devastating. 
  
  * Mobile Spawns: DICE fooled around with these a little in SWoWWII with the plane/mobile spawn. 
 Here you've got a boat that fulfills the same type of role, but you have fancier methods available. 
 One is to have a chopper airlift this crate to wherever it likes. The NVA can 'dig up' a spawn 
 and then replant it else where. They all seem like pale imitations of Planetsides mobile spawn. 
 And in general, the choppers CAN airlift other vehicles, but its pretty dangerous. I saw more 
 than my share of Patton tanks dropped from 800 feet by over reacting newbs (myself included!) . 
 Choppers arent easy to fly, dont get me wrong, as the collective modeling is a little twitchy. 
 
  
  * Destroyable Structures: Adding a little C&C Renegade to the mix, you can now destroy control 
 towers at certain locations to shut down vehicle spawning. On a few maps the NVA can spawn at these 
 un-capturable airfields. Get any anti-armor weapon over to it and start slugging away at the tower. 
 Not really a destroyable structure, but there are ambush spots on various maps. One I got caught 
 in was a bunch of tree trunks with spikes rolling down a hill (it automatically resets after a 
 period of time) . 
  
  * Maps: Neat overall though there are only 14. Flaming Dart and Game Warden were probably my two 
 favorites. The first is a partially successful attempt at doing modern air combat in a first person 
 shooter. The other is a rambling, delta of waterways. 
  
  * Stability/Bugs: Well, not too many problems but not great. Performance was uniformly below what 
 I experienced in bf1942 or UT2004 but that may have more to do with slim pickings on servers than 
 the code. I locked up twice and dumped to desktop once in my play sessions yesterday. 
  
  Final Comments: B-. Neat, incremental additions crammed into an aging engine on a compressed time 
 table. I predict I'll be playing it for a few weeks, but nothing akin to my addiction to the original 
 product. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jernas
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 7, 2005 8:28 am PT
Review:  First you must now that Battlefield 1942 was a great on-line (and off-line) game and BF Vietnam 
 looks just like a mod for it. That means it is good. But how good is actually BF Vietnam? Very 
 good. With better graphics and more powerful weapons it is the best online war game (accept BF 
 2 course) . First game had no choppers - boring, but this one has them. Choppers rulz. And there 
 are good old rock sounds. But nothing is perfect. First: Single player sux
  Second: Some crazy online players are killing their own people.
  So this game still is one of 
 the best war games ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nazi100
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! The only flaw is i didn't like the singleplayer you are like the only one who 
 shoots a shot. It's too easy no matter if it's on hard mode. The multiplayer beats any other game, 
 especially a crap game that's only fun with friends...... STARCRAFT! I totally recommend this game. 
 If you don't have a decent video card i wouldn't buy this, plus make sure you don't only have the 
 minimum requirements, with lagging this game isn't that good. DO NOT PLAY WITH WIRELESS CONNECTION!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 This game is based on your computer's performance. The best thing about this game is you can use 
 any vehicle.  
 more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:37 pm PT
Review:  When i first got the game i loved it... after a year or so later i dont like the gameplay as much... This 
 game would of been WAY better if they worked on the gameplay more. Still around 500 people online 
 so if you like vietnam war i suggest you get it. I still play it every now in then. BF2 has taken 
 over though. If you are not sure about this game rent it first. This game is also way underrated. 
 REPEAT: When i first got the game i loved it... after a year or so later i dont like the gameplay 
 as much... This game would of been WAY better if they worked on the gameplay more. Still around 
 500 people online so if you like vietnam war i suggest you get it. I still play it every now in 
 then. BF2 has taken over though. If you are not sure about this game rent it first. This game is 
 also way underrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari20091
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Vietnam is one of many battlefield series games. The 1st thing that you will notice 
 is the great music at the start, and the music is the best part of the game. The AI in the game 
 is absolutly horrible and dosent react to you or anyone else in the game. The bad AI makes the 
 game way to easy and the only way to make it hard is to turn dufficulty hardest and bots the highest 
 then it is almost inpossible. The graphics arn't the best either. The Friendly in the game also 
 just trudge around not really doing much so this leaves you as the lone soldier. This is a disstrous 
 failer in the battlefield series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 10:29 am PT
Review:  This game is just amazing. 
  
  The gameplay is just like the other Battlefield games. Your always thinking about how you are going 
 to take over the next flag or how your going to take our the group of guys coming for you. Your 
 always thinking of something to do next. The only bad thing is that your guys always shoot you 
 in single player. Like you could be about to kill a guy and then all of a sudden you get shot by 
 one of your own guys from behind. The helicopters take a while to get used to so expect to have 
 to fly it around a little bit before going in and reaking havok on the enemy.
  
  The graphics are amazing. They are just like any other EA graphics which are the best. The gun 
 textures are just amazing. They look so real. The soldiers look amazing to.
  
  The sound is amazing to. The guns sounds real, the helicopters sound real (yes there is a difference 
 between what the NVA's and the USA's helicopters sound like) , everything sounds real. The explosions 
 are great also.
  
  Overall, this game is definetaly worth getting. If you have played Battlefield 1942, then you should 
 get this game. Even if you have not play BF 1942 you should still get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ma21212
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 1:59 pm PT
Review:  i loved this game as soon as i played it at Best Buy .... the music is grate about 20 songs i thik 
 .... the game has many wepons and tons of vicles to do as much damige to you enemy as you can .. their 
 is many fun thing to look for but when you start shooting .... thats it your never gonna stop their 
 are a lot of ways to win ( boby traps ,mines, giant falling pices of wood mition guns ,guns!!! 
 ,tanks , planes, chopers and boats) some times you can disable your enemy by destroying thier comand 
 tours and that kinda of stuff ....... you have to get this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Ninjah
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:00 am PT
Review:  This game is straight up sweet! It's one that you just can't stay away from. Playing with the bots 
 is awesome, up to 64! literally unreal, OR play with a friend or two and take on an army 3 on 61. 
 The vehicles are pretty cool, especially the choppers, with the ability to get as many people in 
 it as it will hold. They can be tricky, but hey, if you start to spin out of control or you end 
 up flying straight towards the ground... no worries, jump out and parachute the rest of the way....
 
  This game was well worth the money I paid for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxkrauth
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2005 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of the Battlefield series. I own every game they produced, from the original 
 to the newest one, Battlefield 2. I have enoyed every aspect of the game, and the gameplay only 
 helped me grow fond of the series. Recently, I picked up Battlefield Vietnam Redux, a recent addition 
 to the Battlefield series wich included many of the recent mods and updates for Battlefield Vietnam. 
 I plopped this baby into my computer, and my addiction to this game began.
  
  Right from the start, the sound is what draws you into the game. Many hits from the Vietnam era 
 are in this game, blasting at you from the minute you turn the game on until the minute you turn 
 it off. Infact, you can even play some of these Vietnam classics during gameplay, as long as you 
 are in a vehicle. Even though it makes up a major part of the sound, the music isn't the only thing 
 that is remarkable. Bombs exploding, guns firing, mortars falling, and jets lying above all sound 
 life-like and exciting. You can hear the buzz of bullets as they nearly miss your body. The famous 
 "whine" of a mortar round can be heard right before it blows you from existance. The cries of your 
 teammates after they get shot makes you cower for cover. But, what really stands out, is the roar 
 of the helicopter overhead, coming to rescue you from an enemy advance or coming to destroy the 
 tank you are in with rockets. The graphics are wonderful, with locations ranging from the streets 
 of Hue to the thick, dark jungle in the map "Cambodian Innsurection". There is plenty of foliage 
 that you can hide in, from towering trees to grass as high as your waist. In fact, there is an 
 abundance of it. There is almost no "plain spots" in this game, where grass, bush, and trees are 
 non-existant, a major problem in Battlefield 1942. Snipers can hide and never be detected, for 
 the grass coveres their body by a foot. Character models are average, but many of the vehicles 
 look as if they are the real thing. The gameplay of Battlefield Vietnam is multiplayer focused, 
 just like the other games of the series. An easy to use multiplayer screencan get you playing in 
 a breeze. You also get many more maps and gameplay features than you do single player. However, 
 if you are stuck offline, dont worry. The computer AI is better than that of the AI in Battlefield 
 1942, but not by much. You still can regulate time given to the AI, AI skills, etc., but they do 
 little to help computers skills. Using vehicles are easy to use, still very arcade like, and a 
 blast. However, there are a few issues with control in helicopters, and many vehicles overpower 
 others in an unbalanced way. Otherwise, the gameplay is very similar to what you would expect. 
 Overll, this game is a blast, and, without a doubt, a must have to any Battlefield fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 14, 2005 3:17 pm PT
Review:  This is an accurate and fun game. Vietnam in this game is very precise. It is swampy and humid. 
 There are also rice patties which is a plus. Now to the game play. Very fun especially during massive 
 battles was all your comrades are being blown apart and an allys jet drops napalm. Graphics are 
 as best as they could be in this type of game. The sound is exceptional sounds as if you were right 
 there with every one. This game will keep you busy and you will have a lot of fun with this game. 
 This is the best game in the Battlefield series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsconnection
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 26, 2005 9:09 am PT
Review:  Battlefield Vietnam is just a fun playground to dance in. Great multiplayer experiences all around 
 but the single player is really lacking good AI. Lets face it, your not buying any Battlefield 
 game just for its single player attributes. Your in it for the multiplayer! Nothing beats playing 
 against another human player in a "Battlefield", command post-taking environment. 
  
  The maps are large and immersive, the vehicles are varied and fun, and the weapons are very satisfying 
 to fire thanks to some convincing graphics and great sound effects. The only bad thing about vehicular 
 combat are the choppers. They tend to be very difficult to fly. It makes the game more realistic 
 but if I wanted strict realistic flying, I'd pick up a helicopter sim. This game should just be 
 fun to play with vehicles not adding to stress. Choppers do that in this game. If a bunch of players 
 load into your chopper, they expect you to fly the thing without loosing control. I don't think 
 I'd even gotten close to flying a chopper to a successful destination. The controls are very slow, 
 delayed and sluggish.
  
  The games graphics and player count solely depends on your PC's specs. If you have a minimum requirements 
 PC running this game, I suggest you do not enter any games (single or multiplayer) with more than 
 24 players total. Any more than that, the game becomes unplayable and choppy. Even if you toggle 
 all video settings down to the minimum. 
  
  Watch out playing multiplayer. The bots in this game are terrible. Sometimes, enemy bots will stand 
 right in front of you and not even acknowledge your existence even if spraying him with bullets. 
 Other times, your picked off by a bot 1/2 mile away while you are immersed in foliage. This IA 
 swings either way which hurts the value of owning this game. Single player should only be played 
 as a means to practice and prepare for multiplayer. Nothing more. It's really unfortunate the IA 
 could not be improved making this game an instant classic. That's about all that stops this game 
 from achieving greatness.
  
  I was on the wall for a long time debating whether or not to get this game. If your into squad 
 tactical shooters that don't take themselves too seriously, this game is for you. If you have a 
 thirst to play Battlefield 2 but don't have the PC to run it, this game is a great alternative. 
 If you played games like Battlefield 1943 and Star Wars Battlefront and really liked your experience, 
 go add this game to your collection. Just don't expect much from bot teammates and enemies while 
 playing single player.... you'll beat your head against the desk enough to give you a migraine.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meatcleaver84
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 22, 2005 4:43 am PT
Review:  This was an overall good game. The five or six mods I tried were all buggy; maybe they could update 
 their mod support. Also, I would have liked to see a campaign mode, like in Battlefield 1942. The 
 graphics are not all that great, but they are OK. I like the additions to vehicles and that type 
 of thing. The sound is awsome, especially the radio and the "Stars and Bars" radio program at the 
 American bases. Varying difficulty, but it can be very hard if you set it to the highest setting 
 and good amount of bots. I would give this game an 8.8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moneybush
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 9, 2005 5:01 am PT
Review:  Boy where do i begin. Well to start off the graphics are really goos not the best but good enough. 
 The Sound is really good! You hear the birds chirp and the bullets zip! But the game is not really 
 meant to be played for single player, it was kind of like and after thought. But this game rocks 
 on multiplayer. The game beats the heck out of BF2 on multiplayer but no on single player. Like 
 Just The other day i was playing on this server and i was a m60 helicopter gunner, and i was shootin 
 down some VC and the chopper was goin full speed and then 3 more chooper where next to us flyin 
 by our side shootin everything that moved like the real NAM. And at that moment i thought to myself 
 This is Vietnam! The veichles are easy to controll and I think The Huey Chopper is the funist to 
 Drive. But this game is action packed and will have you hooked. Somtimes the combat gets so intense 
 you feel like your really in the NAM. But i love the game and i hope You did or love it TOO!!! :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 24, 2005 12:21 pm PT
Review:  just don't get it. How can you have 1942 around for so long, and see what's so great about it, 
 and then screw it all up. 
  
  Yeah yeah, it's cool to play the radio in your vehicle, but it aint that cool, and it's actually 
 more annoying to hear 10 different songs playing at once. 
  
  The game lags like hell. AMDXP2400, 512DDR400mhz, 9800pro, Audigy 2. I think I more than exceed 
 the min reqs. I'm updated in every driver I can possibly update, so far as even flashing the BIOS. 
 
  
  So don't talk about how yours doesn't. BF1942 has some network issues at times, but you'd think 
 after the amount of time with BF1942 out, they'd fix it. It lags because it's coded badly. If I 
 play all by my lonesome, with maybe 1 or 2 people on a server, then it runs fine. But I haven't 
 seen a server yet that can stably run more than 8. Framerate drops. Sound bugs out. And the usual 
 lag switching weapons *a persistent problem in 1942) is present. 
  
  And the sound...... the sound bugs out even if no one is there. Frequently, sound can be heard, 
 server wide, that are like loud static noises, bleeps, or istants of radio chatter. Across the 
 whole map. On many different servers. 
  
  It aint me, and it aint my comp. The game, and ESPECIALLY THE SOUND, already needs a patch.
  
 
  If UT2004 has vehicles, but plays like the original UT on foot..... then it's the game to buy. This 
 game, right now.... just aint cutting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grass21
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 12, 2005 12:20 am PT
Review:  The Vietnam era shooter hasn't been very profitable, but when EA came out with Battlefield Vietnam, 
 it all changed. With the very successful Battlfield 1942 series, EA advanced the the next major 
 war and attempted to have the same success. Battlefield Vietnam doesn't have a campaign which is 
 dissapointing but atoned for it using an instant play option instead which allows the player to 
 go against 64 opponenets in a non-stop action arena. The environments range from jungle to war-torn 
 urban areas. Also the variety of weapon sets allow the player to change fighting styles from guerrilla 
 warfare to covert sniper to front line warrior. Plus the variety of vehicles allow the player to 
 go for a drive by with the jeep or a vespa scooter or to tear through the enemy stronghold with 
 a T-54 tank. Also the AI of the bots has been greatly increased from the original battlefield games 
 so enemies will actually use their vehicles rather than just sit in them. Plus the best feature 
 of the game, is the ability to use helicopters to airlift vehicles and troops into a hot zone. 
 And how can one forget the devistating napalm attacks that can be unleashed from the F-4 phantom. 
 If bots are getting to easy for you, you can try your skills against people online. In Conclusion, 
 Battlefield Vietnam is a solid shooter for those who are in the modern day combat and are who are 
 looking for a variety of environments to test their skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhandle76
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 2, 2005 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I think I haven't played a game this much since my first NES, playing Mario Brothers. Once you 
 play online (it's the only way to play this game, the single mode is not what this game was meant 
 to be played on) you will get hooked. I have spent countless hours just roaming those huge maps 
 shooting random strangers from around the world. You will need a high speed internet connection 
 to apreciate this game ever more, slow connection just makes the game unbearable. The replay value 
 of this game is infinite, I am still learning about stuff to do in the game after more than a year 
 playing it. I would recommend anyone this game and I would not hesitate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hormagaunt
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 18, 2005 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Difficulty:
  As there are many good players out there, but not as many as in other games, the difficulty is 
 just right.
  
  Learning Curve:
  As a multiplayer game, the more you play the better you get.
  
  Classification:
  If not a 
 long life game, rent it for a week and then ussually you wont have an urge to play it anymore.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Only multiplayer works here, and as versions vary quite alot it can get very frustrating, but it 
 has ok gameplay. Good maps
  
  Graphics:
  On the highest level they arnt very good.
  
  Sound:
  This is the first game where huge battles are quite silent, a couple of "Boofs" and "Piews" 
 then your dead. No voices at all, just the same repeating radio voice.
  
  Value:
  Rent it first, then buy it if you really like it!
  
  
  Its ok, its not that bad, but its 
 definatly not GF standard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cortot20
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 30, 2005 8:41 pm PT
Review:  When I originally played this game I did not see it as an improvement on 1942 but the more I played 
 it I realized that it was a very different type of experience. 1942 is all about large scale assualts 
 where as Vietnam features smaller scale battles, Because of this the Chopper becomes the winning 
 factor for any team. Because the chopper is both an effective support vehicle for both assualt 
 and for transport it becomes the key to victory in a very fast paced game. Because of this, I enjoy 
 the game a little more than 1942 because it offers more variety. A team that does not use its air 
 support effectivley will lose the match every time. The jungles are another added feature because 
 it makes assualts much less direct. In 1942 the large open fields made an attacker stand out like 
 a sore thumb, but with the jungle its easy to blend in and make life hell for a defender. The music 
 is a really cool addition to the abilty to play music in your vehicle is a fun addition. The game 
 provides a very different experience and is more of an expansion pack then a real sequel. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlosandrade
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2005 1:26 am PT
Review:  I was blown away from the gameplay experience i get from this game......
  This is way better than Battlefield 1942 because of the jungle maps and in here you can get helicopters 
 and pack them with people and they can shoot them camping noobs!! 
  The people might walk a little bit weird similar to counter strike but both are awesome.
  -The 
 maps are HUGE
  -The gameplay is fun 
  -BUY IT NOW!!!!!
  
  O. K I know i didnt say nothing bad about this game but the only thing i dislike about this is that 
 people rarely play like the real army would using teamwork but thats not only in this game, the 
 same problem also happens in other FPS online team games.
  
  
  
  Peace and i hope this review is helpful... Remember all gamers have different opinions about fifferent 
 games so this is mine and if you want to hear an opinion from a person who was dissapointed, go 
 to the reviews that gave it a weak score :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man_boobs66
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2005 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, I'll begin by saying this. This game is great, but I mean do not buy it if you have no 
 intention of playing multiplayer. the single player is very easy and you tend to crave for more 
 as did I. Multiplayer is the best way to go because you're playing on the same maps and more, and 
 the players are actually good at what they do.
  The last thing bad is the numerous bug errors, these although can be fixed easily with all those 
 patched out there so it's not too much a problem there.
  
  The great things in this game are there is immense replaying ability. You can do anything possible 
 to get anything you want, which I love. The graphics are also pretty good, not the best, but pretty 
 good. The sound quality is EXCELLENT! They have some pretty sweet music in it.
  
  And also, remember all those Vietnam movies you saw, where the guy was in a helicopter saying "I 
 owned your ass!" Well, this happens in the game to, it creates very cinamatic scenes. Such as you're 
 strolling in a PBR listening to The Troggs or something and you're ambushed and you all get in 
 a frenzy. Or when you're in a helicopter and they all come out of nowhere and you take your machine 
 gun and start gunning them down for instance all to the sweet tune of Edwin Starr. Or firing missiles 
 at a little village?
  
  In conclusion, but this game, not for the single player, but if you crave multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoRay31
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 22, 2005 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer fun aside, this game is exceedingly average. The lack of cohesion between campaign 
 segments is disorienting and interrupts continuity. Flying the helicopters is challenging and fun 
 but certainly doesn't save this game from being a fairly straightforward shoot-em-up.
  
  Simply linking the campaigns together would have done this game a world of good. It seems though 
 that since the fan base for the series is set, EA felt no real reason to change the flow of the 
 Battlefield setup. This still works; it just doesn't distinguish the game in any meaningful way. 
 Perhaps the greatest redeeming quality is the ability to put your own tunes on while playing.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kruegersc4
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 8, 2005 1:16 am PT
Review:  Those who got Battlefield 1942 probably got this game. Though it's not as good, it's still a wonderful 
 addition to your game collection.
  When you're online, lag can be a problem. There are usually about 30 people playing on the same 
 map, so gameplay can get very choppy. I recommend a cable connection and a very fast computer. 
 Many players who have slower connections can slow down those who have better internet. Most servers 
 have PING restrictions, but some are a little too strict and can kick people who cross the line 
 only a few times in the game.
  This game is not worth playing offline. The AI is stupid, so your not going to have too much fun 
 trying to win; most of the time it happens for you. Online, however, there are usually people just 
 as good or better playing with you, so you'll actually have to try.
  Like the previous Battlefield game, there are plenty of 60's era military vehicles from planes, 
 tanks, and helicopters, to jeeps with mounted guns and gas powered scooters. These make the game 
 much funner, but you can also treat this game as a regular FPS, and fight on foot. There are about 
 6 different weapons and tools for each division, so you have a good selection for what to use in 
 battle.
  The maps are designed very large, which sometimes gets in the way of the gameplay. Sometimes it 
 takes a long time to get from your base to the battle, and you can get very board walking, driving, 
 or flying to your destination. If they were made a little smaller, it would make the game much 
 funner with a little less lag.
  The soundtrack is amazing for this game. All your favorite 60's hippy music is featured in it, 
 and you can play it in vehicles for all to hear. You can act out all your favorite Vietnam War 
 movie sequences using the music you loved!
  Though not as good as its predecessor, you can still waste hours playing Battlefield Vietnam, and 
 have plenty of fun doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swamprat_basic
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 30, 2005 7:14 am PT
Review:  Good multiplayer, but not quite as good as some of the mods for the first Battlefield game.
  
  Battlefield Vietnam is a very good game, but it is not as big an improvement over the first 
 game as I would have liked. If you did not like 1942, you wont like Vietnam, plain and simple.
 
  
  The graphics and sound are much improved over the first game, but they are still not specatular. 
 And I need to reduce them quite a bit in order to play at a good clip online.
  
  The single-player battles still suck, though, so only get this if you have a good online connections.
 
  
  I would recommend this if you liked the first Battlefield game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and you will not be dissapointed in it at all. It might not please everyone 
 in the group but for what you get in the game it will not be a waste of your time.
  
  Some games you get and you just feel let down and ripped off well this game isnt one of those types. 
 I believe there will be a community for this game for some time to come and the support for it 
 will be around awhile also.
  
  The graphics and sound quality are great and wont be out of date for a long time. Overall you probably 
 will leave this on your computer and not uninstall it anytime soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPSpecOP
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2005 11:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best online games to date. The gameplay brings something to the table that 
 was never tried before. However, you cant just overlook the big flaws this game has. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay is the best part of the game. It is a mix between the battlefield 
 gameplay that you love and Far Cry. What I mean by this is that you will have to use cover and 
 stealth mechanics in order to survive. This works perfectly and adds a new demension to the gameplay. 
 You will feel just like rambo when you are sneaking up on a group of enemies without them having 
 the slightest clue that you are there. The feeling is amazing. The gameplay does have its flaws. 
 Like the first the ground vehicles handle perfectly, but flying planes and helicopters is still 
 a mess. The controls are too sensitive and just dont work during most firefights. Especially with 
 the Helicopters. If you do somehow train yourself to master the air vehicles you will pretty much 
 controll the game which is pretty sad. Usually only 1 out of every 5 games has an air vehicle expert 
 in them but when a game has one, the opposing team is usually helpless until the vehicle is taken 
 down. Overall the gameplay is really amazing. It just has flaws.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound is amazing. They definately improved on an area that the original lacked. Each gun sounds 
 different, which adds a layer of stradegy. When you here a grenade launcher you know not to venture 
 in the area because you fear for your life. It is pretty amazing. The vehicles all give off their 
 authentic sound too. So when you here a tank you know too run and when you hear a jet or helicopter 
 approching on your position you know that you need to get the hell out of there before the bombs 
 start dropping. You really feel like you are in a battlefield. Proboably the best addition to sound 
 was the option to blast the stereo when you are cruising in a vehicle. You feel pretty bad ass 
 when you are in a tank blowing things to bits with the song "war" blasting from the vehicle's stereo. 
 The sound is amazing. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Well we reached the worst portion of the game. I can describe them in 1 word "mess." Dont get me 
 wrong the character models and the environments look fantastic. Those are not the problems. The 
 problem is the framerate issues. I have a top of the line computer and I get low framerates for 
 no particular reason. It is frustrating because you cant play some maps do to the sudden drops 
 in framerate. Even on low graphical settings you will get these problems. This is what brought 
 the game down. The graphics are amazing. Especially for an online game, but you will never get 
 to see some of the best looking maps do to framerate problems.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS
  
  Overall Battlefield vietnam is an awesome game. It really shouldnt be missied. However the graphics 
 problem cannot be overlooked and really brings the game down. If you are one of the lucky people 
 with no problems you are in for one of the greates online games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2005 2:22 am PT
Review:  Face it, Battlefield 1942 kicked ass, so I welcomed Battlefield Vietnam with open arms. Plus I'm 
 already interested in the Vietnam conflict and the technology/weapons/aircraft of the era.
  BFV includes just about every weapon, airplane, helicopter, etc from the Vietnam war, and makes 
 good use of them. Instead of being a pro-american fictional potrayal on the war, BFV tries to show 
 each side as the rule, and it makes for a great multiplayer game.
  Online it is about the most fun I've had other than Counter-Strike, and teamwork can actually help 
 you.
  
  If you're into multiplayer shooters or military themed shooters, Battlefield Vietnam might become 
 your new love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Bebop
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 14, 2005 11:09 pm PT
Review:  It really is a good game. It has potential. It has style, class. Everything a good war game is 
 made of. Its downfall is the lack of stability. The game doesnt crash or anything... for most computers... 
 but it has the ability to screw up your game play. My game had the annoying little thing of my 
 guns, characters, and vehicles turned all pink. It had potential for a great game... game of the 
 year even. But the lack of stability is where the game is not worth the money. Buy it if you want 
 to but i suggest you have a really good computer with high-end parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S7ATER
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2005 12:01 am PT
Review:  Vietnam is considered one of the most brutal wars we have had since WW2. The game taking place 
 after 1942 does have quite a bit to offer. BFV has the ability to use your camouflage in the grass 
 and trees which gives snipers the ability to use there stealth abilities on the battlefield. The 
 new weapons work well in the environments that you are presented. Vehicles in this game didnt really 
 work well though. The battlefield was way to small for your helpicopters and jets. Your ground 
 vehicles really werent useful either since trees were always in the way and water destroyed your 
 vehicle like someone stepping on your toy truck. The soundtrack was a nice touch when you go into 
 your game menu instead of the drum pounding of 1942. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: var1000
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 17, 2005 4:09 am PT
Review:  I have always been a big BF 1942 fan. I started playing that game when it first came out. I also 
 liked the follow up Road to Rome. BF Vietnam is just lacking something. I cannot say what it is, 
 but there does not seem to be the intensity that BF 1942 has. I am not sure if it is the maps, 
 or the vehicles or what, but it just is a stretch to say this is any better. I had way better conflicts 
 and fun in BF 1942. One thing that doesn't work well is that the maps are too small for the vehicles, 
 i. e., the jets fly fast and the map is too small. This was also a issue in the Desert Storm version, 
 but in Desert Storm it just didn't seem to be a big deal. In this game, it just gets annoying. 
 Plus, the ships in this one are not that great. The tanks are not anything new. The most fun I 
 have had thus far is turning on the radio and listening to some cool music. Also, I got to mention 
 that the graphics are not that great. I have a ATI 9600 w/ 1.5 GB of DDR RAM and I found the game 
 to be a bit sluggish and the graphics are weird. The edges of the things are to thin and it is 
 hard to distinguish objects. Even though I harped on some of the bad stuff, it is still a decent 
 addition to the BF library. I would have to say save your $$$ and wait for BF 2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bidybag
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 20, 2004 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Well i thought this game would be a lot better but there are a lot of things which are much better. 
 Because i was playing Desert Combat for so long on BF1942 it made Vietnam not as good and made 
 me want to just stick to the mod Desert Combat. Vietnam is better than BF1942 but it is not better 
 than Desert Combat. For the people who dont know what Desert Combat is, it is a mod for BF1942 
 which is free to download and it makes the game totally different. Vietnam had the nice extra feature 
 of flying a helicopter but DC allready had this so it didnt make it much better. If you like the 
 mod DC there wont be much point in buying Vietnam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 18, 2004 8:10 am PT
Review:  Battlefield Vietnam is a good game. I don't think it can possibly live up to its Battlefield 1942 
 heritage, but it does stand up well on its own. The game takes the Vietnam conflict and puts it 
 into a hectic Battlefield combat situation. 
  
  The environment is very fitting. Foliage, Vietnamese propoganda playing in the background, 60's 
 soundtrack, the game does quite a bit to suck you into the era. The biggest complaint I have in 
 this area, is that the jungle does not feel real enough. I look at a game like Far Cry that has 
 a very realistic jugle setting that provides good cover and wish that could of been a part of this 
 game.
  
  The game does have a steep learning curve in my opinion, will take some time to get use to it. 
 Also, the M-60 seems to be a bit overpowering for the game. 
  
  You will not go wrong with this game. It is not as great as BF1942, but never the less, it is a 
 good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 12, 2004 7:34 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the Battlefield series, but this game just felt half-baked. The net code is terrible, 
 anything over a 32 player server becomes pretty laggy. What made the original series so amazing 
 was the balance between the classes, the weapons, the maps, and the vehicles. Vietnam doesn't quite 
 cut it in this department. Despite the balance issues though, by no means do they make the game 
 unplayable.
  
  I've had a lot of fun playing this game, but when the "newness" of it wore off, I felt myself returning 
 to the original series. The maps start to get old very fast as you play through the same jungle 
 or urban environments over and over again. The map design also leaves you running back and forth 
 from flag to flag, trying to hold them as there are no squeeze points on any of the maps due to 
 the open style of them.
  
  On the plus side, the game is starting to get some mod support now, and the WWII port by dice was 
 a welcome addition to the game, but only 3 maps, and nothing more than a graphical upgrade from 
 the original game plus a flamethrower leave much to be desired. I already can play those maps on 
 BF1942 (though the foliage in the new graphics engine does add a bit to the gameplay) , servers 
 with more than 32 players are still unstable, and I can't play CTF like on the original, so it's 
 still a downgrade if you look at it as a whole.
  
  Don't bother with this game if you already have BF1942, and if you don't have either... buy BF1942. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fots
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 27, 2004 11:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is a total let-down. I bought it a day ago for I - a fanatic BF1942 player - wanted an 
 update for the eve of destruction mod, which is being continued on the BFV engine. 
  I was really hoping that this game would pack the same intense and balanced gameplay BF1942 had 
 (after it had to be patched 9 times!) . Sadly enough this game suffers from the same draw backs 
 the early versions of BF1942 had. The game is very laggy... no matter what graphics configuration 
 you use and no matter what connection to the server your playing on is.
  I don't get it how this game can be so poorly performing when it doesn't look that different from 
 BF1942 (must be an over usage of shaders I guess) . It is extremely frustrating to be killed knowing 
 that if that 180 degree turn had gone smoothly you might have seen where your killer was or even 
 would have gotten a shot at him. I really do not hope that like BF1942 I have to wait for another 
 5 patch updates or so before this game gets to a playable state of performance. 
  What bothers me the most though is how EA Games got away with it... Even Gamespot is giving it 
 an 8+ score as did many other review magazines and sites. I feel I have been tricked into buying 
 this game by all those reviewers who were guessing that the game would eventually get better balanced... gameplay 
 wise and performance wise. 
  MY POINT IS: A GAME SHOULD NEVER GET A BIG SCORE WHEN IT IS CLEARLY NOT FINIISHED WHEN IT IS RELEASED... NO 
 MATTER HOW GREAT IT BECOMES AFTER SEVERAL PATCHES. The game developing industrie should start realizing 
 that when the get the low scores (and thus hopefully the low sales) the deserve with their unfinished 
 business. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostthemaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 26, 2004 7:59 pm PT
Review:  A few years ago EA released a game named Battlefield 1942, it was revoloutinary. The online was 
 a great new twist on the online FPS genre. So who can blame EA for making a second? The critics 
 and public loved 1942 so it seemed obvious. They revealed Battlfield Vietnam. 
  
  Obviously the game changes from the bombed out cities and deserts of Africa to the lush vietnamese 
 jungles. This is a great change for the infantry out there. Giving them cover when an unstoppable 
 tank comes rolling along. It also gives the chance to try out the geurilla warfare the vietnamese 
 used. With all the foilage that the jungles have, you can launch an ambush on the infantry and 
 wipe them out without them even knowing!
  
  O. K no time to get down to the real stuff. The gameplay is fast and arcadey, with an unfair advantage 
 to vehicles. The infantry only serves as target practice for helicopters, tanks and jets. The helicopters 
 are incredebley fun to fly as you sweep down and fire a rocket at a tank, taking it out reliving 
 the infantry its attacking, come on that feels great!
  
  Now the graphics on high are great with all the lighting and shadowing thats impressive for a online 
 FPS, if you go lower it, well isn't. Arms go through walls, the uniforms look like pajamas, and 
 the smoke is just a large green blur? The environments though on any level are really nice. It's 
 like you actually stepped into war torn Vietnam. The jungles are nicely done with the jungle and 
 foilage everywhere. Once again its as if you walked into a jungle.
  
  Here comes the Sound. This is great if you have a good sound system. You can practically feel the 
 jets soring over head, or a tank rumbling by as you hide in the foilage scared. The weapons of 
 course all sound different, as I would hope and the voice acting is nicley done. Also you can play 
 different songs from the 60's such as Fortunate son or I fought the law. This is great for people 
 who are into the classical rock (such as me) .
  
  The value for this game is amazing, the multiplayer never gets old. Well actually there is one 
 problem. There are alot of guys out there who do not like to work as a team, the whole point of 
 the game, but hey who cares thats what clans are for!
  
  The game has two really weak points. You will never get into a huge match with like 20 per side. 
 And the single player is horrible. The AI will gladly take a knife to the face, that is all you 
 need to know.
  
  Overall great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwidower
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 21, 2004 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 was one of the greatest surprises to come along in a long time. I can still remember 
 getting it with my CGW as a demo. I had never heard of the game before, and decided to try it out 
 as I was bored. So started a gaming nirvana for me, sparking a desire to get a new rig and a new 
 chair.
  
  Consequently I had insanely high hopes for Vietnam, maybe too high. I loved the new game, loved 
 the flora, the new weapons. But something was lacking and I couldn't put my finger on it. After 
 about a week I stopped wanting to play it, and it was a good couple months before I started back 
 up again. Then I played 1942 again and realized I liked it better for some reason, regardless of 
 the inferior graphics. To this day, I still have not completely figured out why this is.
  
  Consequently, this game rocks..... for 2 weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 10, 2004 2:56 pm PT
Review:  The mod BF 1942: Desert Combat remains the best Battlefield experience to date ( I admit not to 
 be a BF addict ) . Vietnam is a drawback next to it, at best the equal of the original '42. The 
 gameplay mechanics are the same, with some additions like the control point meter. The overall 
 flow is a bit laggy, even on high-end machines.
  
  The vehicles are greatly presented in the grand BF tradition, especially planes & copters. We must 
 admit THIS IS the feature implementation attracting the mass of casual gamers, and Vietnam ( like 
 '42 ) is a rousing success of popularity: for it is effectively '' casual-friendly''. Now, just 
 imagine what the game could have been WITHOUT all those good vehicles: an empty shell. Why? Poor 
 infantry combat; and a terrible AI. The developers have apparently neglected the AI and offline 
 coding on a point it's really a shame to see the broken results. It is not uncommon to witness 
 3 AI units stucked in a vehicle jammed in the far border of the spawn camp, in the opposite direction 
 from the action. Sad, pathetic, this is frankly unforgivable even if the game is purely designed 
 for online gaming.
  
  The MP gameplay modes are well coded - yet nothing original here. 14 maps at retail is quite underwhelming 
 ( especially when comparing at all the content offered in other big online games such as UT2004 
 ) . They all share the same vietnamese swamp design which is hampering down in time the lasting 
 appeal. Graphics are decent, and at the same time not fully optimized as well as the sound coding: 
 all the technical aspects of the game seem to lack the polish of one of its main competitors - 
 Call of Duty. Urban maps generally offer a better online experience; the others are often plagued 
 by too much vegetation hiding spots for more dispersed action opportunities, too much even for 
 a tactical FPS. Ho-Chi-Min Trail has a good layout though; and Flaming Dart is an excellent short-range 
 map for practice and learning to fly some air vehicles.
  
  Battlefield: Vietnam is not a bad game, it's even slighlty just above the average mediocre title 
 nowadays. However you can easily find better vehicular action games in the market with much more 
 content and gameplay versatility. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masdecke
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 6, 2004 8:40 pm PT
Review:  BFV is good; the online element makes it great! There is nothing that I could truly add that has 
 not yet already been said. The game stability is solid, the sound and graphics are marginally better 
 then in BF1942. Even though, Im still partial to BF1941, this is not the place to compare apple 
 and oranges. I would like to say that BFV offers a gaming environment that is intense. It does 
 not take long before you can begin to recognize the user names of your venue by which you either 
 swear at their skill or revel in your own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rabid_Possum
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 1, 2004 2:50 am PT
Review:  
  A great game that really makes you feel like you're in Vietnam. The addition of helicopters is 
 great, and although DC had them, these are much easier to control. When on the ground, there's 
 many different weapon sets you can choose from, and it really feels like guerilla warfare like 
 in Vietnam, not just running around wildly firing. You must take cover at every oppertunity, for 
 just blatently running down the center of a main road is sure to get you shot by a hidden sniper 
 in one of the building windows. The vehicular combat, however, really makes this game shine. Many 
 different kinds of tanks, artillery, helicopters, APC's, etc. really make this game fun. The only 
 problem i have with the vehicles is that the planes, one of the main draws to the game (who doesn't 
 want to napalm the enemy going 500 mph in an F-4?) , are a bit short in the ways of numbers. 2 planes 
 for each side seems a bit low... anyway, the ones that are there are very fun to drive, so i shouldn't 
 be complaining. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9
  
  Great, responsive controls, great interface (especially with the 3-D map, making the spawn points 
 much easier to locate) , and great balance between the 2 factions and thier vehicles (vehicles are 
 no longer supermachines!) . Only problem is that the aircraft and helicopter controls can be a bit 
 tricky to master. 
  
  GRAPHICS: 8
  
  Tons of well-designed trees and buildings to hide and take cover in, OK character models, great 
 representations of guns and reloading and great vehicle models. The landscape really feels like 
 Vietnam. Only problem is that you cannot alter it in any way. When you napalm a group of trees, 
 don't you think they should burn until they're no more?
  
  SOUND: 10
  
  Easily the best soundtrack for any game out there. Whenever you're in a vehicle, pick from a list 
 of great Vietnam-era songs. It's very exciting to hear 2 friendly tanks going by playing "fortunate 
 son" by CCR to go attack an enemy base with you. In the U. S. bases, a radio is playing constantly 
 that really makes you feel like you're in camp.
  
  VALUE: 10
  
  Countless hours of multiplayer fun. Skip the single player; only use it for practice. The bots 
 are horrible and it's a waste of time unless you're getting used to the controls, weapon sets, 
 vehicles, maps. etc. 
  
  TILT: 10
  
  A true follow-up to 1942. It really makes you feel like you're fighting in Vietnam. Best multiplayer 
 game out there (besides maybe HALO...) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: child1
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2004 12:12 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942, which is a great game, is still great today. There is so much to the game in 
 regards of Gameplay and mods that you pretty much cant get tired of it. The new installment, BFV, 
 is pretty much the same kind of game, but improves graphics, sound, and the general look of the 
 game. Bfv also obviously adds the Vietnam War which is a big change when compared to ww2 because 
 of the advanced weapons, vehicles, and different scenario (Jungle) . Although BFV is a more updated 
 version of Bf1942, it doesnt really add too much new in Gameplay wise, which is OK, but the lack 
 of maps in BFV may startle people since the ww2 version had tons of maps that never got you bored. 
 With only 12 maps, the game doesnt do too much in regards to variety in battles when compared to 
 ww2 version. As a result, people often may get tired of the game since you will find yourself playing 
 the same map constantly over again.
  
  BFV is a good game, but the lack of maps AND the general feel of the game just isnt as revolutionary 
 as the original battlefield. Also since this game takes place in vietnam, and the battles were 
 in tight spaces, you could expect the maps to be generally small, which they are. And this is where 
 the average battlefield lover really starts to feel that negative feeling towards the game, since 
 the game doesnt offer anything special in variety. Overall though, BFV is still a great game that 
 has a lot of different ideas that other games dont have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Element_TAW
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 3, 2004 8:00 am PT
Review:  Battlefield Vietnam is a great multiplayer based game, with a lot going for it. Interesting, large 
 variety of weapons and vehicles with great interaction between all gameplay elements. That being 
 said, there are a few issues with the game engine and in game balancing. The game takes a good 
 while to load if you do not have a gig of RAM. That would be completely excusable if the game did 
 not have similar issues related to lag. I frequently experience '30 second plus' lag spikes while 
 in game. I feel that if a little more care went into creating the gameplay engine, this would not 
 be such of a problem. There is also the issue of complete helicopter dominace of maps which leads 
 to un-fun experiences such as spawn camping a base with a single helo with rockets that can't be 
 accessibly shot down. But beside these relatively minor issues, I would definately recommend picking 
 up this game if your computer can handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colt45fool
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 29, 2004 8:55 pm PT
Review:  When Battlefield 1942 came out, it basically showed us all what a multiplayer FPS really is. It 
 came out with excellent gameplay, amazing multiplayer, and some great graphics. Battlefield: Vietnam, 
 while can be called a "rehash," is a worthy enough game to come into the Battlefield series, even 
 if it's basically BF1942 in a diffrent setting.
  
  BF: V is basically a multiplayer foccused game between two teams set during the Vietnam War. One 
 team is of the VietCong, the other is the Vietnamese. You're main object is to conquer the whole 
 "battlefield" at which you and the other players are on. You will be stocked with a pistol, and 
 a basic assualt rifle, along with the abilities to jump into tanks, vehicles, helicopters, and 
 jets. You are even allowed to have more then 2 people in a vehicle at a time. For example, in the 
 tanks, you can have more then 2 people. One person might drive, the other might shoot with an assualt 
 rifle, and another might shoot with the attached gun on the tank. All of these vehicles, helicopters, 
 and jets do take practice and skill to drive.
  
  If you've ever played BF1942 you know the music in the game was meh at best. This game is just 
 the oppisite of the original. The songs are all songs I'm sure you've heard that are set during 
 the time of the Vietnam War - everything from protesting war songs, to classic 60's and 70's peace 
 songs. The graphics are pretty good, and the gameplay is kept intact from the original which are 
 all good things.
  
  BF: V does have it's drawbacks however. One of them is the fact that it's very much like BF1942, 
 giving it the possible tag of a rehash. Therefore it hurts the actual value of the game (as you 
 can see from my rating) . Although BF: V is a great game, it's one drawback hurts it dramitically. 
 I reccomend a definite purchase from anyone who doesn't have BF1942. If you do have the original, 
 then you might want to forget about this game all together.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawgz_Homies
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2004 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Battlfield Vietnam lives up to all its promises and in the end its an amazing multiplayer experience 
 (dont even bother reading any more of this review if your looking for how the single player is) . 
 With a cable connection and a pretty decent computer (AMD Athlon 1.5 GHZ 512 mb ram and GFORCE 
 TI 4200 for me) this game can be very enjoyable. It still had the glitches and bugs of the old 
 battlefield when it first came out but now its all been fixed thanks to the patches! Slowly but 
 surely more mods are releasing (already 2 big mods have released PoE and the WW2 mod) . Vietnam 
 is a great setting for battlefield and the game hasnt lost its charm but in fact added more (thanks 
 to old school 60's-70's era music and the atmosphere with the foliage system) . But in the end dont 
 be asking for too much, this aint a real sequel to 1942 but more like a fun expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2004 7:38 pm PT
Review:  It might not be as addicting as Battlefield 1942 was, But it's a real good game. This one fits 
 around the vietnam war. The guns and everything are very true to the time of that war. You have 
 boats, Helicopters, jets etc to play around with. The levels are nicely designed, The graphics are 
 great, they are colorfull and good to look at. However, there is no single player story, just instant 
 battle and multiplayer. The online is fun!, theres not much things funner then flying up to someone 
 and seeing they stop as you blast them away with rockets!. With the release of the WW2 mod made 
 from EA Games themselves, it brings back old mem's on a real great graphics engine. It comes with 
 punkbuster also... so no cheaters :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-Dog
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 24, 2004 8:29 am PT
Review:  I've had some time to play it now and I'm really enjoying it, so here is a little rundown of my 
 thoughts. Just a quick comment, anyone thinking this game is Battlefield 2 completley redone is 
 in for a shock, like UT2004 it is a perfection of a great formula.
  
  Graphics/Performance:
  
  *Looks very nice indeed. The textures, vehicles and weapon models 
 are all an excellent improvement on Battlefield 
  *Effects - rockets, explosions are improved a lot. I particularly like the way the water sprays 
 when you are in a helicopter or the dust flys up. 
  *Foliage and trees are everywhere an excellent improvement on Battlefield and gives the game that 
 "Vietnam" feel. 
  *Long load times and very system/ram hungry.
  
  Main Gameplay:
  
  Loving it! A lot more team orientated, will be great for clans. More men mean quicker base captures 
 and the helicopters add a lot to teamplay. 
  Shooting out of vehicles is great, very useful exspecially in jeeps, APCs and helicopters 
  Class 
 are so much better than original Battlefield. They are all useful and you don't find yourself in 
 a situation where you are gimped because of your class choice. Anti-Tank is an excellent example, 
 now you have a rifle that is perfectly capable of killing people with and your anti-tank equipment. 
 Most classes consist of basic kit (IE, grenades and a gun that can kill someone) plus something 
 to suplement it (Rocket Launcher, Mines, or a more effective gun in the case of normal infantry) 
 
  Vehicles are all great, I'm really getting the hang of helicopters and filling one full of men 
 then hovering over a base is an excellent capture method. 
  Single Player bots are (Suprise Suprise) suitably stupid. They do now respond to commands such 
 as "Pick me up" which is a nice touch, but they often sit around doing nothing, stand in front 
 of enemies and once I got in a helicopter with one he took off and crashed it. Another time he 
 flew to a base and without any warning just bailed on me. 
  Foilage adds a lot more to the gameplay. Infantry combat is a lot better and the trees and foliage 
 make it a lot more exciting. 
  I could go on, basically, it's improved in every way.
  
  Maps:
  
  These get a special mention because they deserve it. 
  All the maps are really really 
 well done. I can't really describe them all, but without exception they are all great, some really 
 stand out such as Operation Irving (Very much like the Charlie Don't Surf part of Apocolypse Now) 
 Ho Chi Minh Trail (Nice if you want some infantry/jungle action, great for a change of pace) Operation 
 Hastings (Waterways + Helicopters = Fun) and Keh Suhn (Lots of planes and ariel attacks) 
  My only complaints is that there arn't that many maps and that about 3 of them are altered (Although 
 quite heavily) versions of others.
  
  Sound:
  It "rocks"! My only complaint is that I hate having to select a track each time I get in a vehicle. 
 Very annoying, not really a "radio" if you have to do that. 
  Just to confirm, gun noises, music, helicopters all sound great. 
  Amusing talk from American 
 radio stations when you are at an American Base.
  
  That's the meat of it. I'm enjoying it and think Gamespots review covers it pretty well and the 
 score is about right. In a few patches time with some more maps the game will be even better. Now 
 to save up for another 512 ram 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent_Killer12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 24, 2004 5:15 am PT
Review:  Every body knows Battle Field 1942 was one if the greatist WW2 shooters of all time. But is Battle 
 Field Vietnam better than the original? Well no... There are to many glitches, graphics errors, 
 and negitave things to make this game "an amazing experiance". BFV might be fun but is it a game 
 of the year like Bf1942... well no. I suppose BFV is a worth playing game, but even with patches 
 and mods this will not be able to beet its daddy battle field 1942. My opinion is that EA games 
 rushed this game to much. They should have taken there time and this game could have surpast its 
 master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1alboogie
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 9, 2004 12:03 am PT
Review:  Not to bad, but not the greatest. The gameplay isn't too bad, but as far as realism goes, it must 
 have went. The graphics aren't too bad, but you'd think they would try and do a little more with 
 them since BF1942. The game itself is alright to play, if you can find a server that you can play 
 on, right out of the box you might be able to join maybe two or three different games, but other 
 than that you have to download and download and download some more if you want to play on more 
 than just a couple of servers, what's up with that? It would've been nice to play at least all 
 the games listed in the first place and then download more, but who knows what who was thinking, 
 go figure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furiosus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 24, 2004 1:23 pm PT
Review:  A great follow-up to Battlefield 1942, with an updated graphics engine, smaller maps for faster, 
 more furious gameplay, and an F4 Phantom, that can drop Napalm on your enemies!
  What makes this game great is that you can play 60' era tunes while driving a vehicle in battle. 
 Nothing made me more smile than jumping in to a Huey Gunship, popping up my song list, and starting 
 to play Wagners "Ride of the Valkyrie" while I was chasing footsoldiers down. What great HAVOC!
 
  
  Classes were balanced with the last patch, to even up the things more on both sides. Vehicle combat 
 is not as dominant as in Battlefield 1942, due to dense foliage, and close combat encounters with 
 the enemy.
  The games atmosphere is great, with infantry combat, aerial dogfights, tank battles and the map 
 dependent, occasional, river boat mayhem.
  
  All in all it is plenty of fun, of course as long as your system runs the "recommended" hardware. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyrids
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 6, 2004 2:25 pm PT
Review:  After being an avid fan and player of Battlefield 1942 I was more than eager to buy the next game 
 in the series, Battlefield Vietnam. I bought this game the day it came out but I have not played 
 it as much as I wish I had. First of all the Gameplay is pretty similar to BF1942. There aren't 
 much changes from the original formula of ground infantry, air combat, tanks, jeeps and boats. 
 The only main change is that with the era the technology has improved and in some ways that makes 
 the game more fun than the original. One thing I don't like about the gameplay is that it feels 
 somewhat sluggish. I had suspicions that it was just my less than par system but I asked friends 
 and they said they suffered the same problems. The graphics have been through many improvements. 
 On the highest settings the game looks absolutely beautiful. Textures and models are all very good 
 looking and the animations are much improved from the original. If this game was to have one major 
 downside it would be the sound. I find most of the sounds in this game to be of very low quality 
 and I even have some problems with the sound like I did with the original Battlefield. This does 
 not detract from the enjoyment of the game very much though. Overall I think this is a very good 
 game and worthy successor of the popular Battlefield 1942. All fans of the original BF1942 owe 
 it to themselves to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swamination
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2004 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever broken up with a girlfriend/boyfriend? Typically you move on to someone better for 
 you (we all hope) , and not back to the same trouble or, forbid, someone of less quality. This is 
 the quandary I am in.
  
  I came from playing BF1942, the predecessor to BFV, and loved the game, especially since EA Games 
 supported it with great patches to create better play value. As BFV was announced, EVERYONE had 
 high expectations. The game came out, and I suddenly felt like pulling out my "Chicago" cassette 
 and moping over lost love.
  
  I still had the spawn-point wars, vehicle mayhem, and entertaining historical-era feel. But gone 
 were the good times had by a buddy interface! Gone was the love of antialiasing and antisotropic 
 filtering! Gone were the tender moments of high res textures coupled with complex shadows! 
  
  BFV is a GOOD relationship. Good enough to keep me from heading back to my last love, yet frustrating 
 enough to whine and opine to a computer monitor at odd hours of the night. The gameplay and tactics 
 are great as always, but are hindered by stumbling GUI bugs (try clicking on your currently selected 
 weapon, and you have to wait for the menu to time out and vanish, or you have to switch weapons 
 back and forth) . The graphics COULD be good, but are limited by some unknown problem with the new 
 engine the devs came up with. Many shelled out large amounts of cash for pixel shader cards with 
 more pipelines than the Middle East, yet only crashed or suffered frame rates like 56k streaming 
 video. The sound is fantastic, and only gets better with good hardware. Headphones don't cut it. 
 Send the family away and crank it up.
  
  This game is solid in tactics, and will be a whole game once the 1.1 patch arises. I do not anticipate 
 a fix to allow better performance; I suspect that issue will die as more PCI-E players open up 
 video bandwidth to gobble such heavy requirements. EA should have waited until the game was done, 
 yet they know that they have $ in a solid franchise with a loyal fan base who is addicted to a 
 tactical fragfest.
  
  You shouldn't pass this one up. It will only get better, and EA IS listening to the forums and 
 the complaints players are sending in. Many of the changes in the patches are due to player input. 
 EA waited too long for standard features that we all had in our last love back in 1942, though, 
 and I can't give this new love more than an 8.
  
  Swami 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RetroHelix85
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 25, 2004 1:18 pm PT
Review:  On paper, BF: V looks like little more than a BF42 mod, but in practice it stands on its own quite 
 well.
  
  The graphics are much improved over that of BF42's. The player models are especially more detailed. 
 New effects such as the napalm are dazzling.
  
  Sound is good. The booms boom and the bangs bang. The best part, though, is all the classic late 
 60s early 70s music.
  
  Gameplay-wise, BF: V is similar to BF42. You still take control points and have spawn tickets, but 
 small improvments like giving time bonuses to capture times when tamwork is used make a dufference.
 
  
  If you liked BF42, you'll love BF: V. Similarly, if you disliked BF42, BF: V won't change your mind. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 10, 2004 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game for people who love war games i think. The graphics are great and gameplay 
 is also. Also, the weapon fire and other sounds in the game really contribute to how great this 
 game is. One thing that i love about it is how you can play a custom game and set the number of 
 bots that you want to play against. This is great when your bored or just need to get better at 
 the game by gradually increasing the difficulty level. On the other side, the foliage is not a 
 great place for cover. The enemy can still easily detect you and kill you. But overall the multiplayer 
 is fun to but i usually just play the custom games that i create. The new planes and helicopters 
 are a great edition to the game too and really distinguish this game against others. I give it 
 a 8.6/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakanguard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2004 7:25 am PT
Review:  I just recently bought this game, and have been putting in some serious hours. I have to say that 
 this game is great, I dont know why a lot of people say it needs to be fixed, to me things are 
 great, and I havent noticed anyone going all out with the m60. Everyone seems to have a different 
 weapon. Another good point is that there doesnt seem to be many sniper's in this game, which is 
 a plus in my book. The control's are simple enough to use, and jumping in a vehicle is easy as 
 well. The only thing is heli's and jets, practice before you get in one of those I cant count how 
 many times I have crashed jets into buildings or walls, even the ground because i didnt know how 
 to fly. If you dont have this game, and want to see how the battlefield games are, than jump into 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christots
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 26, 2004 1:24 am PT
Review:  I think what makes BF: V such a great game is getting a few buds from work or school, setting up 
 some sort of VoIP service (like TeamSpeak) , getting on a server and fighting together. Teamwork 
 works and having five people, working together, take out a base being held by 20 other people running 
 around like chickens with their heads cut off makes for a good talk around the water cooler the 
 next day. BF:1942 was well supported with patches, extra free maps, and add on packs and one can 
 only expect the same for BF: V. When you consider that and the support for the modding community 
 built in to the game it is only going to get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chutney_Ferret
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 25, 2004 6:01 am PT
Review:  The recent 1.01 patch has addressed the balance problems with a couple of the weapons and has made 
 a huge difference to the game. It's now much more fun and a lot less frustrating. All in all, BFV 
 is not as good a game as BF1942, but then it did take 6 patches to get BF1942 right. Graphics are 
 better as is sound, but the mix of vehicles isn't as broad - tanks are next to useless here for 
 instance. That said, as BF1942 is currently the best game in the world (imo) then coming second 
 isn't that shabby - definitely worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowmark
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 18, 2004 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Wow!
  
  Usually Gamespot is right on in their reviews of games but I would have to think this reviewer 
 was an EA or DICE employee at some point. This game has nice graphics and a few nice additions 
 to BF 1942 but that is it. HORRIBLY unbalanced is saying it lightly. Any 2 year old after playing 
 it for 10 min would notice how wrong the M60 kit is on the blue side but for some reason this was 
 missed by the developers? This game is a beta of an expansion. To make matters worse, no word from 
 EA or DICE for 3 weeks then a statement saying only a "few" people were having issues with the 
 game and a patch would be out "sometime". A few? Go read the BFV messageboards or try a game where 
 the US side has 22 and the Viet side has 10 due to the imbalance. Last DICE/EA game i will ever 
 buy. You guys really dropped the ball on this one. Save your money for something else folks.. this 
 aint it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kastigador
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 5, 2004 12:05 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of Battlefield 1942. However, I'm not a competitive clan person. I liked Battlefield 
 1942 for the novelty of being more slow paced, a tad bit realistic, and also the teamwork involved. 
 Battlfield Vietnam kept most of what Battlfield 1942 did best. True to EA's typical cash cow tactics 
 however, it also improved very little. I won't kick a dead horse here as you can read details in 
 the other reviews. To the point: The AI sucks and is completely useless. Why they even pretended 
 to put it in the game is beyond me. The graphics are good, but the draw distance is horrible. Flying 
 in this game is a royal pain in the arse and often pointless to use as an assault option due to 
 awkward camera angles and over-sensitive controls. Throw a bunch of non-veterans in the game and 
 it quickly becomes a frustratingly unorganized parade of newbies trying to pick up boats with all 
 the helicopters and US being overloaded and uneven with heavy assaults. Sure, this might smooth 
 over in time with more experienced players sticking around, but are you willing to pay $40 for 
 this now though?
  
  I say, strictly on principle, you shouldn't buy this game for the price. EA put very little effort 
 into making this anything more than an expansion pack to Battlfield 1942. Say hello to their next 
 big cash cow. Turn around and look at real online game winners with real developmental leaps and 
 the addition of value. UT2004, for instance, deserves this recognition. Sure, if you're a hard 
 core BF1942 player, you'll appreciate BF Vietnam. But you're actually reading this review, so odds 
 are you're not and you'd do better to spend your money on games that aren't half-baked and developed 
 simply to feed an EA cash cow. EA promised so much improvements on this new release and delivered 
 very little. Check out the official Battlfield Vietnam features page and compare that to the typical 
 complaints everyone lists in their reviews. You'll notice most the improved features (short of sound 
 and graphics (partially) ) must have never made the final cut. That alone speaks volume. That's my 
 $40 I spent on this game talking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dammskog
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2004 1:08 pm PT
Review:  well what can I say, a game that could and should be great has been utterly and totally destroyed 
 by bad bad bad bad audio. The supposedly great FX is nonexistant and what little there is of the 
 sound is low volume and often cut off. and the really strange thing is that my sound cards technology 
 EAX (creative EAX top-end card) is blatantly and offensivly shown on the cover of the game saying 
 that things should work great and dandy, but they dont.... they dont work at all, even though they 
 lie on the cover..
  
  
  this game wont be worth your money and time until at least 2 patches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weirjf
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2004 9:45 am PT
Review:  I fell in love with Battlefield 1942 with the first release of the demo. I have been a devout player 
 ever since. When I heard about Battlefield Vietnam being developed; I salivated. Unfortunately 
 as-is Battlefield Vietnam is not all it could have been. They dropped the physics and damage system 
 of BF 1942 for a more realistic system.
  
  Gameplay:
  I do not enjoy the gameplay in BF: Vietnam. The new realistic system is bugged and unbalanced. 
 The M60 can mow down people from a standing position, one after another while their victims empty 
 their clips at the M60 user with their inferior weapons. 9 out of 10 people on the allies side 
 choose this weapon because it is so cheesie and effective. You can also kneel and squeeze off a 
 couple rounds and kill an enemy at long distance with a weapon that in reality would take a miracle 
 to hit anything with. On the other end of the spectrum, the infantry-to-vehicle damage is pathetic. 
 You can shoot a chopper in the belly with a LAW rocket or RGP three times to just have it limp 
 away, smoking. The guided missiles are also too slow to hit jets, which harass you at every step. 
 Even tanks shrug-off RPG and LAW attacks. These weapons are only truly useful against infantry 
 and non-armored vehicles such as jeeps. It amazes me that the game was allowed to ship in its present 
 condition. The beta testers must have been HIGH.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are not spectacular, and are not functional. Despite being in a jungle, you cannot hide 
 in the bushes like you should be able to. You stand out in stark contrast among the lush greens 
 of the jungle. The maps ARE detailed and interesting, though.
  
  Sound:
  The weapon fire does sound more impressive than in BF: 1942. The music blasting from vehicles is 
 impressive and has a good effect. Id like a louder ambiance to the choppers and jets, though.
 
  
  Value:
  A couple of patches and balances could increase this score and the Gameplay/Reviewers Tilt score 
 greatly. After 60 hours of game play, Ive boycotted BF: Vietnam until issues are resolved and 
 balancing is done. This is not the final score for BF: Vietnam, just the score for its present 
 condition. 
  
  Reviewers Tilt:
  What can I say, I wanted a game that was as fun as BF: 1942 and I was sorely disappointed. The 
 initial rush of it all was great, and I had a lot of fun, but then the issues became apparent. 
 M60 raping has become rampant, and jets and choppers fly around with distain despite guided missiles, 
 RPGs and LAW rockets. It has become less a game of tact and talent, than a game of cheese and imbalance. 
 My only real satisfaction as of late has been going into enemy bases and booby trapping vehicles. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2004 7:24 pm PT
Review:  A definite improvement on BF 1942, but the game was released to soon, and needs a patch. The ingame 
 music causes significant lag (shut it off & frame rates noticeably improve) , & the games inability 
 to support the latest (9700 & 9800) ATI based graphics cards without severe artifacting is inexcusable 
 (this can be overcome by allowing the software to determine the AA & AF settings in D3D mode) . 
 The AI isn't; except for the enemy AI's cyborg like ability to pick you off at extended range through 
 the fog/mist with unerring ability. Did I mention the AI can shoot through walls and hilltops too? 
 Anyway, the game isn't that bad, & who buys EA's Battlefield Titles for their SP content anyway? 
 A good game; did I mention it needs a patch out of the box? LOL! Oh, one other thing every one 
 I play against in MP should play the in game music when they're riding around in the vehicles (APCs 
 etc) because I can hear them coming a mile away! Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barramundie
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2004 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game. The Gameplay is awesome, it's incredible when you're flying with a bunch 
 of other Huey Gunships as Ride of the Valkaries is blasting from the 'copter next to you.
  
  One thing i wouldn't like about BF: V is it's kind of buggy. I mean, i just bought a new computer 
 (just for BF: V actually) it's a 2.7 Ghz processor and a 128mg DDR video card, and I have the graphics 
 on medium at 800x600 and it runs great. This game is great, as long as you are willing to turn 
 down the graphics, at least untill the next patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 20, 2004 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This Game is Pretty good I find it very satisfying for its price of of course 50.00 and I must 
 say I like the adjustsments and diffrences they made from BF1942 but dont get me wrong I actually 
 rather prefer BF1942 because I enjoy WWII more than vietnam but it was a new and worthy change 
 from Atomic to Semi-Modern age. From bolt action to semi automatic rifles but I must say the weapons 
 in this were OK the AKMS is just a smaller version of AK-47 but I thought they go classic and just 
 make regular AK-47 as the one they give you bulky and musclely looking its seem sorta out of place 
 because it just seems too big like its not long enough or something but this game is pretty good 
 sound is OK its of course not too realistic but not bad enough were its really noticable or bothering 
 so this game was defianatly worth the 50.00 I paid. And another thing I loved was the music thats 
 what really I must say was awsome old 60's music just was perfect I mean if was such a great fit 
 I mean not just because you know vietnam was in the 60's and stuff and hippi peace music played 
 but its almost like perfect combat music dont ask me how its just great I mean I love listening 
 to WAR! HOO WHAT IS IT GOOD FOR! NOTHING! right before I step in its just pumps you up for some 
 reason so this game like I said is worth buying. and im sure with updates like they did with BF1942 
 itll be great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirby8890
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2004 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I got Battlefield Vietnam a few days ago and I think it is a very good game. It has a smooth frame 
 rate and the graphics are very nice. The animations while reloading and using other items such 
 as claymores and mortars look very crisp and add to the realism of the game. Vietnam is more infantry 
 oriented than 1942, which some people may like and others may bane, but it makes sense since land 
 vehicles are not effective in the jungle. The urban levels are very dense and a bit different than 
 the large, open plains of Europe found in 1942. Helicopters are a nice addition to the series and 
 are very fun to fly and destroy with. Overall, Vietnam adds a lot to the series and is a good deal 
 for $40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcook22
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 19, 2004 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I played BF: 1942 from pretty much the first day you could DL the Wake Island demo. To say that 
 I was blown away by the wonderful integration of FPS with team play and vehicles/airplanes would 
 be an understatement. BF: Vietnam (BFV) is a great game, but like the Gamespot video review says, 
 suffers by comparison with its predecessor. It's hard to be blown away by the same kind of game 
 with astronomical improvements to the previous. That said, BFV is a wonderful game in its own right. 
 The Vietnam era weapons add a great deal of lethality to the game. The infantry fights are MUCH 
 more intense than in 1942 (Except for maybe the Berlin and Stalingrad maps) . The tank battles of 
 the previous game are gone, but so are the tank battles of the second world war. We didn't see 
 that kind of combat in Southeast Asia, and we won't really see it again in modern warfare. If you're 
 a tanker longing for Tobruk or El Alamein, you won't find it here. But if you like to mix it up 
 in an urban setting with snipers and assault rifles on full auto, then you've come to the right 
 place. That's why i gave the gameplay an 8. it lost a point for being basically the same game as 
 1942, and there are weapon balance issues I'll talk about later.
  
  The graphics are great. I think they're an improvement of 1942. The foliage looks wonderful, and 
 functions well as concealment, especially in the darker jungle maps like Ho Chi Minh Trail, and 
 Cambodian Invasion. The helo's, though very tough to fly, are rendered nicely. From the ground, 
 an infantryman can even tell the difference between a huey gunship and a huey troop transport by 
 the "tiger teeth" painted on the underside of the fuselage at the nose. The MiG's are nicely done, 
 and it does my heart good to see a beautifully drawn F-4 streak across the sky. I also like the 
 attention that was paid to the different body and skin textures for the various soldiers and marines. 
 The Vietnamese soldiers have a very rich skin tone, and its nice to see that the US skins include 
 an African American. One question that was often asked or commented about online during 1942 games 
 was "Why are there only white guys on the American side?" Well, segregation left the American Military 
 soon after WW II and I'm glad to see this change was implemented in BFV. The only reason BFV doesn't 
 get a 10 in graphics is because I've played the Far Cry Demo, and once you see how jungles can 
 be rendered, you'll agree that BFV is not a 10 either.
  
  The sound got an 8 because when it works, it's fantastic. But the game seems to be suffering from 
 some of the same problems 1942 did in the beginning. I don't usually complain about things, but 
 that is an issue Dice should be familiar with. There's really no reason for there to be a delay 
 of up to a second between when I fire my weapon, and when I hear the shot. That issue doesn't happen 
 all the time, but it comes up. My sound tends to be a bit freaky after I've been in a vehicle jamming 
 to some Kinks or Jefferson Airplane, or whatever, and then I get killed. On respawn, my sound is 
 screwy. But the guns, and the helicopters, and the planes, and the crickets all sound great. One 
 other thing for my wishlist: Please make it possible to have all radio transmissions in english. 
 In 1942, you could set your default to english for all radio transmissions regardless of what army 
 you were fighting for. I mean no offense to the vietnamese people, I'm sure the language is colorful, 
 and rich, and all that good stuff, but I'd just rather hear english voices telling me that enemy 
 armor's been spotted. That's one piece of authenticity I'd rather opt out of.
  
  The value got a 9 because the game is worth the $39.99 I paid. With many games selling at $49.99, 
 BFV is a bit of a bargain. EA could have sold just as many titles at $50 as they do at $40, so 
 that's nice to see. that said, the game is similar to 1942 (which might add value in some cases) , 
 and it needs to be patched. If the game didn't need patching, the value get a 10. I'll be playing 
 this game for a while.
  
  The tilt is an 8 because of patching and implementation of the multiplayer server interface.
 
  
  First, is it just me or is it impossible to sort the servers by ping? Also, the scroll bar on the 
 side doesn't scroll. I have to hit page down or use my mouse-wheel. No fun. The 1942 interface 
 was better. Maybe there's athrid party client that works better.
  
  Now for the balance issues. Basically, the M60, which in reality weighs more than 30 lbs. and fires 
 at a lower rate of fire than the M16, is, in BFV, an effective full auto sniper rifle. I have killed 
 with and been killed by the M60 at ranges that have no business being effective from that weapon. 
 The truth is, as it stands, there is little reason for U. S. players to take any class other than 
 the heavy weapons guy. You can hit at range. You have a 100 round magazine with an insane rate 
 of fire, and you also carry the vehcle destroying L. A. W. rocket. Carrying the M60 really doesn't 
 even slow you down like the Panzerfaust would in 1942. That gun needs serious tweaking. The first 
 patch needs to make M60 weilders slower, and the gun should be MUCH less accurate when being fired 
 from a standing or crouched position. Prone doesn't bother me, but it should still have a slower 
 rate of fire.
  
  All that said, there are a great deal of choices for soldier kits, and the maps are highly varied. 
 I'm still learning to fly choppers, and I haven't been too effective with the mortar as yet, but 
 I'm learning. I think one of the greatest and most effective ools in the game is the mobile spawn 
 point, and the tunnel is better than the ammo drop. I'd like to see a map marker of some kind that 
 shows NVA engies where the sawn point is so they can get it and move it. Also, if FF is on, be 
 very careful with caltrops, punji sticks, and bouncing betty's. You can really do some damage to 
 your score. And I giggle incessantly when i booby trap all the enemy vehicles in Hue and rack up 
 the kills. 
  
  Patch this game a bit and its perfect.
  
  Oh, and I run an Atlon XP 2500+ Barton in an NF7-S mobo with 1 gig of Kingston PC 3200 Dual Channel 
 RAM, and a Radeon 9800 PRO 128 MB. I Have no problem, read that zero, nada, playing this game. 
 I only have a 17" monitor so I play at 1024x768/16 with everything set as high as it can be, and 
 it's like buttah.
  
  Buy the game, you'll be glad you did.
  
  Dan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donerik
Rating: 2.2
Date: Mar 19, 2004 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good and fun game. However, one thing I was hoping for that so many other games 
 now provide is the "iron sights view" for small arms in lieu of the "zoom view". Recent games like 
 Vietcong and Call Of Duty feature iron sights view. This is more like bringing your rifle to your 
 shoulder to fire it. Furthermore, if "iron sights view" could be added I would also like to see 
 the ability to disable the glow in the dark "aim point". This would give realism guys more enjoyment 
 from games like BF-1942 and BF-Vietnam.
  
  Also, if this is not already possible from the server side, I would like to be able to limit soldier 
 classes. Other games like Vietcong and Call Of Duty feature this as well.
  
  Maybe iron sights could be handled in a realism mod. The only problem with doing this is not everyone 
 will have this or even know it exists. So, nothing is ever perfect for everyone i guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunyerbiz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 18, 2004 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Release first, patch later. That appears to be the mantra with the EA/Dice team. B1942 was a well 
 documented bug farm on it's initial release, and it looks like it's sequel is following right along. 
 Sure, B1942 was eventually patched into a really great game over time... but COME ON! You'd figure 
 Dice would have learned something from that experience. Oh well, on to the game. 
  
  Gameplay: B1942 with lots of trees and grass. The engine still doesn't do a great job at "straight 
 up FPS", but the infantry play is much improved. The weapons and kits might need some balance tweaks, 
 M60 w/ LAW comes to mind, but it's a good start. Land vehicles are still fun to play with on some 
 maps, but usually aren't much use when actually fighting. The cover provided by the jungle makes 
 ambushing vehicles far easier than in BF1942. In a tank you can provide some fire support from 
 a distance, but chances are you're just one half-blind, very large, very noisy target for the enemy 
 hiding in the brush. Planes and choppers are a blast for the most part and are implemented very 
 well. Map design is tight and offers maps with lots of bottlenecks and ambush points. Overall, 
 no major complaints about the gameplay. The only real thing needed is some infantry weapon balancing. 
 (The vehicles ruled the day in 1942, the infantry rules the day in BF: Vietnam. I hope they keep 
 it that way!)
  
  Graphics: I won't go into all the various bugs and whatnot, as those will eventually be pathced. 
 That said, this is BF1942 with a new dress and lots of makeup. It's the same engine overhauled 
 to allow rendering of grass and lots of trees. Still, it works well for what it is. Fans of BF1942 
 won't be dissapointed, but will probably be underwhelmed. 
  
  Sound: The "music played from the vehicles" idea is a neat gimmick, that's it. People are already 
 realizing that broadcasting your location to the enemy by using loud rock music probably isn't 
 very bright. The sounds overall are well recorded but poorly implemented. The overall gameplay 
 and ambient sounds do have incredible potential, just need a patch. Sometimes sounds trigger, sometimes 
 they don't.. Sometimes they stutter, sometimes not. Same issues that plagued the early versions 
 of B1942. Dissapointing. 
  
  Value: Even with the bugs, balance issues and lack of substantial innovation from 1942, BF: Vietnam 
 is a blast to play. The current unpatched version of the game seems to only be able to handle about 
 30 or so players at once before performance becomes ugly. That being said, I've played a number 
 of games that involved intense firefights and prolonged infantry battles for control points. While 
 the weapon balance turns everybody into an M60 wielding Rambo, I see the potential once this is 
 resolved. The intensity level is definately cranked a couple of notches from 1942. 
  
  Tilt: Just like it's predecessor, this game will be worthy of a 9.5 overall rating by the time 
 the third patch comes out. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentWarrior
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 18, 2004 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say that they have made some great improvements since Battlefield 1942, but it 
 is still missing the really great teamwork. Don't get me wrong i still like it alot, but it doesn't 
 have as much teamwork as a game like planetside. If that game and battlefield were combined it 
 would be one of the greatest games ever. Both are missing important parts. One is missing teamwork 
 while the other is missing replay value. I think Battlefield Vietnam is a great LAN party game. 
 It is a lot better when your next to your friends. It increases the teamwork level a lot. The internet 
 is fun, but it is more of a free for all. I think Battlefield is a great game it could just use 
 a little more teamwork. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gREMMEL2
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 18, 2004 12:55 pm PT
Review:  No need for a rewiev for this game i'll just make a list of all the bugs i've found. (I'll stop 
 when i get bored)
  
  1. Heavy Assault packs a LAW and a Rambo style M60 Machine Gun
  2. The deviance on all the weapons are way to small. Just take the M60 for an example. Try hitting 
 a guy with this ~14kg monster while running. I know you've all seen Full Metal Jacket but i can't 
 happen. Ok they tried to make it fun a little over the top i think.
  3. An experienced player will not last longer than a total Newbie. Because u can hit someone better 
 while running.
  3. Strafing in water, come on. 
  4. Releasing the game uncompatible with Nvidia's graphics cards???
  5. Ever tried to airlift 
 something. I got it twice. And i tried for about half an hour. Anyone going to be angry while noobs 
 are on a server hogging the Choppers and trying to airlift with them?
  6. Ok that they made tanks a little harder to drive, not easy in the bush. So us tankers will have 
 to stay on the road. But as soon as a assaultguy comesalong and throws 4 nades at you, u get killed. 
 Why! Ever tried to throw a fragnade at a tank! It would in fact kill you instead. The only thing 
 u take out a tank with is LAW and mines. And mines don't blow the entire tank up. 
  7. I tried to play as a "covert" player one round. i had -12 in score. Those bouncing bettys are 
 really cool. But because the small narrow maps they've made everyone are running at the same spot. 
 So don't defend flags is that it? How about a mine indicator?
  
  Just read max 100 words. Hope all this get in! I have more bugs if u want them! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trickyb77
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 18, 2004 11:10 am PT
Review:  All in all, BFV is a pretty good game. Lets have a look at the different scoring attributes and 
 why I rate them as I did. 
  I gave the gameplay a mediocre seven not because the gameplay is mediocre, but because it needs 
 patching. The two main issues with gameplay are the lag and the server selection UI. It seems that 
 in its current state the game cant run a match with more then 40 players without some severe lag 
 that leads to 'rubber banding' and frequent connection lost message. Second, the server selection 
 screen is a bit of a dissappointment in that it is less sophisticated then the latest update of 
 the BF1942 server selection screen. You can not add favorite servers, and often when you exit a 
 game the Internet server selection screen won't come up unless you first switch to the local server 
 selection screen then back the Internet one. A third gameplay issue is that the teams dont seem 
 balanced yet, many of the NVA specials such as booby traps and punji sticks appear to pretty useless, 
 where as the US forces weaponry seems superior. This may well be realistic, but this is a game, 
 not real life, and right now the teams tend to be unbalanced (unless the host server uses autobalance) 
 with players favoring the US side.
  The games graphics are nice. The water looks almost as good as the water in Morrowind, and the 
 under/overgrowth gives the game a great jungle feel and plenty of oppurtunities for sneaking around 
 control points. 
  The audio is where the game truely shines. The soundtrack is first rate, and my friends are getting 
 tired of me singing "B-b-b-bird bird bird, bird is the word!" All of the weapon and vehicle sounds 
 are distinctive and powerful, and you can often tell who is firing what weapon just by the sound 
 it makes. 
  All in all BFV is a good game that will be even better after a few patches that we shouldnt even 
 have to be waiting for. Definitely worth your money, but if your not in a hurry, wait for a patch 
 to be released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamingguy87
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2004 7:16 am PT
Review:  Battlefield Vietnam
  
  DICE has done it again; Battlefield Vietnam (BFV) has managed to live up to all the hype that was 
 behind it, which isnt very common in games today. Though some people are experiencing graphic 
 issues with lag, I have none at all, and that is with everything set on high, the light-mapping 
 and shadows are turned off. The only lag experienced is during online play do to slow servers.
 
  
  Already there are about 1.5K people playing at any given time, there are hundreds of player-made 
 servers up, which are a good thing, since EA kept the old BF1942 servers and is running BFV off 
 of them, which is what is causing a lot of lag.
  
  The graphics are anything but bad; every little detail has been accounted for. The mud that flies 
 up behind a jeep and from the sides of a tank is convincingly real; the same goes for the grass 
 that is blown up for a chopper that is landing in a grassy knoll. The character models are much 
 better, body shape and facial positions are more detailed. The environments are very large, though 
 not as big as BF1942, which is a good thing because now there are no wide open fields with nothing 
 covering them. Every area is a jungle, with grass, bushes, and trees everywhere. The 2 city maps 
 are very well made, you can go in every building, and sometimes you dont know where enemy fire 
 is coming from.
  
  BFV does a great job of making you feel like youre in Vietnam. The skies are cloudy and partly 
 sunny and light barely shines through the thick canopy of the jungle. You are able to understand 
 the hectic close quarters and long range combat, since the camouflage actually works and you cant 
 see people when they are prone, unless you are looking hard. Also, BFV includes a nice soundtrack 
 of Vietnam era war protest songs. All the sound bugs from the first game have been fixed, and now 
 you can hear the drop of every shell.
  
  Overall BFV does a great job of living up to its predecessors name. If you can manage to look 
 through the few graphical bugs and some server lag, which will all be fixed in the patch, then 
 BFV is easily the game of the year.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: terminus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 17, 2004 7:21 pm PT
Review:  AMD 3200+
  512 DDR400
  ASUS NFORCE400
  ATI 9800 PRO 128
  AUDIGY LS... blah, blah, blah
  
  YES!!! THIS GAME IS JERKY ON MY SYSTEM... IT TAKES TURNING OFF 
 SHADOWS, LIGHTMAPS, AND PUTTING OTHER SETTINGS TO MEDIUM... ALL OF THEM.... I THAN CAN RUN AT 1600 
 BY 1200... PRETTY FAST... WITH MINOR LAGG HERE AND THERE... I COULD ALSO REVERSE.... LOW RES.. HIGH 
 TEXTURES... I LIKE REZ THOUGH... THERE ARE A HOST OF BUGS... ONE THAT I HATE IS IN PRONE.... WHEN YOU 
 TURN... THERE SEEMS TO BE THIS ANNOYING BUMP.... EVEN IF YOUR IN THE BACK OF A JEEP MANING A GUN... AND 
 TURN LEFT AND RIGHT... THE WHOLE SCREEN MOVES WITH YOU OR UP AND DOWN... REALLY ODD.... SOMEONE MENTIONED 
 STATICSOUNDS AND NOISES LIKE RADIOCHATTER... I THINK YOU HEARD THE LITTLE RADIOS THAT ARE ALL OVER 
 THE ENVIRONMENTS... THEY MAKE THESE SOUNDS... I TOO THOUGHT IT WAS THE GAME... THE MENU MUSIC IS CHIRPY 
 THOUGH... LIKE A LOW HERTZ OR SOMETHING... SOUNDS LIKE OGG OR MP2 FORMAT.... HOWEVER, IN GAME MUSIC 
 IS TOP NOTCH QUALITY!
  
  THE GRAPHICS ARE BETTER... IF YOU CAN RUN HIGH SETTINGS OR REZ.... THE WATER IS BETTER.... TREES ARE 
 WORST... MORE LIKE SECRETWEAPON TREES... ENVIRONMENTS ARE GREAT... LOTS OF HILLS AND FOILAGE... LARGE 
 ARE SOME.... ANYWAY.... I LIKE THIS GAME ALOT, I GAVE IT A 8.6, AND I T H I N K I'LL LIKE THIS TITLE 
 MORE THAN BATTLEFIELD.... CAUSE I KINDA DO.... IT'S JUST LIKE BATTLEFIELD ALL OVER... LETS JUST HOPE 
 IT DOESNT TAKE 6 PATCHES TO MAKE THIS GAME RIGHT!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnugBall
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 17, 2004 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a very exciting game. Many have asked how it stacks up to the already popular Battlefield 
 1942. In a nut shell, BF vietnam is just as good, with just the right amount of new stuff thrown 
 in to make things really fun for veteran players. Graphics wise, the new game certainly beats the 
 old one, but don't excpect a huge difference. My personal favorite new graphical feature is the 
 huge increase in static objects and their creative design... the battlefield is much more believable, 
 and the sound, well, it puts you right in the mix with bullets wizzing, bombs going off in the 
 distance (Think ARCLITE) The sound is superb (Radio music is a novelty that will wear off, but its 
 fun for now) . Theres been alot of complaining about gameplay balance and the controlability of 
 certain vehicles, frankly, I don't see what the fuss is about. Right now, you will see the american 
 side win most games but, thats because most people go straight to the american side and unbalance 
 the teams. Everyone wants to pilot the choppers (obviously) and this is why the teams are usually 
 unbalanced, not so much because one side has better technology. However, in my opinion the American 
 army does have a slight advantage with the M60 troop, he can carry the awesome M60, but whats more, 
 he can carry 4 law rockets as well.... this makes this troop quite powerful. It would be nice to 
 see the VC side get a simular troop to balance things a bit more (Not nearly as big a deal as some 
 are making it) . Other than that, both sides have their advantages, and its really too early to 
 say one side is deffinately better than the other. A note on Helos: The control of the choppers 
 is absolutely perfect in my opinion. It takes more than a few hours to really get good at piloting, 
 this is a good thing because everyone wants to fly, but only a small percentage will be pros. As 
 long as people understand that its a team game, and being farried by someone else is not about 
 pride, its about kickn' butt and drinkin beer! Happy St. Patricks Day!!! Get this game if you liked 
 battlefield 1942, just make sure you have decent hardware. For those who experiende lag but have 
 a low ping, your not alone. Some servers don't run the game well... Don't know why that is, but 
 you can be sure a patch or two from now, things will be sweet as pie. Awesome game, see you on 
 the battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sunni_Phono
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2004 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good I guess, but I really think it needs a patch. The sound is buggy and the 
 gameplay is choppy. I felt this same way about BF1942 when it was released because it ran so crappy, 
 but BF1942 after a couple of patches ended up being one of my favorite games of all time. I hope 
 they can get the sound issues and choppy gameplay down and under control with patches. This game 
 could end up being a classic if they get they smooth it out more.
  
  On the plus side though, you can choose to listen to cool music in the vehicles and the foliage 
 and 3D map are well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngdi
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2004 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I just don't get it. How can you have 1942 around for so long, and see what's so great about it, 
 and then screw it all up. 
  
  Yeah yeah, it's cool to play the radio in your vehicle, but it aint that cool, and it's actually 
 more annoying to hear 10 different songs playing at once. 
  
  The game lags like hell. AMDXP2400, 512DDR400mhz, 9800pro, Audigy 2. I think I more than exceed 
 the min reqs. I'm updated in every driver I can possibly update, so far as even flashing the BIOS. 
 
  
  So don't talk about how yours doesn't. BF1942 has some network issues at times, but you'd think 
 after the amount of time with BF1942 out, they'd fix it. It lags because it's coded badly. If I 
 play all by my lonesome, with maybe 1 or 2 people on a server, then it runs fine. But I haven't 
 seen a server yet that can stably run more than 8. Framerate drops. Sound bugs out. And the usual 
 lag switching weapons *a persistent problem in 1942) is present. 
  
  And the sound...... the sound bugs out even if no one is there. Frequently, sound can be heard, 
 server wide, that are like loud static noises, bleeps, or istants of radio chatter. Across the 
 whole map. On many different servers. 
  
  It aint me, and it aint my comp. The game, and ESPECIALLY THE SOUND, already needs a patch.
  
 
  If UT2004 has vehicles, but plays like the original UT on foot..... then it's the game to buy. This 
 game, right now.... just aint cutting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazzzyko0ter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2004 5:08 pm PT
Review:  First, this looks to be a good game if I could only play it. It causes my system to reboot and 
 it does not run very well on my system as I only have a gig of RDRAM 2.8 Pent4, 128 ATI 9700 Pro, 
 Audigy 2 SB card and duel 80 gig harddrives with Raid 0 array. Go figure. I mean with specs like 
 this should it run well?
  Second, Disappointed that there is no Ironsite nor can you lean arround corrners. 
  Finally, 
 This game is fun for the brief amount of time I can play. Could have been better. Very buggy but 
 overall fun. Worth the 39 dollar price tag. I would say yes. Worth the headache to get it to run, 
 no. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Signal_Jam
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2004 12:47 am PT
Review:  Hey you all, this game is friggin excellent. It's easily one of the top shooters of all time. It's 
 a lot different from BF42 in that is much darker. Forget the sunny skies, the uplifting carefree 
 atmosphere that's present while driving your buggy on a suicide run. Now it shall be spent in the 
 bowls of hell, wading through confusing jungle terrain, stalking the enemy. The scenarios so far 
 seem to much smaller than that of the original Battlefield, but, as I've only played a handful 
 of maps over a period of several hours. The darker, more intense campaign has it's benifits, as 
 well as it's sucky points. for one, the combat is far more intense and mind wrenching. On the other 
 hand, the whole carefree feather in the wind fun gameplay of the first game has been replaced by 
 scenarios that have bring what seems to be a small taste of the real insanity of the Vietnam war, 
 with poor vietnamese english spouting propoganda over the loudspeakers in certain areas. This creates 
 a tense and possibly foul experience to the player. That being said, the original was an excellent 
 game, that didn't provoke any emotional connections with the actual WW2, however, this game actual 
 brings a dose of atmosphere that immerses the gamer in ways that BF42 never could. If you are a 
 fan of the original, and can take the darker, more demanding requirements that new, evolutionary 
 gameplay requires, then this game will kick your ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessedavison
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 16, 2004 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin, I preface my remarks by stating that I am an avid player, and huge fan of BF 1942, 
 despite the fact that many would argue that the game hadn't been completed until the most recent 
 1.6 patch.
  
  Two words describe my experience with BF Vietnam - absolute disappointment.
  
  If you own an 
 ATI Radeon 9800 Pro you will be disappointed in the most extreme sense of the word. AA and AF do 
 not work at all, even with the new Cat 4.3 driver package, and best semi-playable game resolution 
 is about 800x600 on most maps. Shame on EA and Dice for releasing the most bug-ridden game I have 
 ever had the misfortune to attempt to play. Given the ATI 9800 series has been on the market for 
 quite some time, and works quite well with 1942, this is an inexcusable miasma of ineptitude on 
 the developer's and publisher's part. Absolutely abysmal EA and Dice - I would have rather waited 
 another month or more for the release and received a complete, bug-free, and playable product. 
 As it stands all I have to show for the anticipation and subsequent purchase, are my disappointment, 
 a set of 3 $39.99 coasters and a shiny gimcrack box. 
  
  Thanks EA - who do I talk to about my refund?
  
  Current system:
  
  AMD XP 3200+
  512mb 
 (2x256mb) PC3200 DDR RAM
  nvidia nforce 2 ultra 400 motherboard
  Sapphire ATI Radeon 9800 Pro 128Mb.
  CL SB Audigy
  80gb WD 8mb buffer HDD
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: predator32
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2004 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome I've played a few games so far and I love it... Graphics are very good, sounds 
 good, and music is very nice 70's music makes me feel like i'm in vietnam. I had no problem's flying 
 helicopters,... If you've played 1942 this is a must buy, it has more content then bf1942. A lot 
 different feel fighting in vietnam. The jungle enviroment provides a lot of cover from aircraft... 
 Taking out a tank is a lot easier then in 1942, The tanks and jeeps are fun to drive, and using 
 a Skyraider to drop napalm is very cool... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frugus
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 16, 2004 6:53 pm PT
Review:  My experience with the game is so similar to Battlefield 1942 that my initial tilt with the freshly 
 unpackaged game was quite dim. The fact that it comes with a good deal of tweaks and bells makes 
 it worthy of a stand alone game but at some point or another you WILL tell yourself that this is 
 mainly a very rich and finely detailed mod of the original game.
  
  
  The intro FMV is a tad bland but the menu and interface make up for it. There is alot of 60's/70's 
 era music in there, it helps alot in terms of nostalgia, plus there are bits and bites of info 
 about the conflict so you don't get bored during the long loading periods.
  
  New vehicles (especially the interesting choppers) , new ways of handling classes, heavily revamped 
 interface, better textures, it's all good stuff but in the end it's the same gameplay. The problem 
 has more to do with people who already had their dose of BF1942, they will not find much here that 
 could get them hooked on again for long. On the other hand if you did not get to try BF1942 (I 
 doubt because it was too popular for a while to ignore) than by all means go for it, you will not 
 be dissapointed. That... or you liked BF1942 but could not stand the WW2 gendra anymore, this is 
 a great alternative.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mop88
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2004 5:55 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game for several hours straigt i can tell you that it is a great game. If your 
 a fan of BF1942 or just a fan of FPS i strongly recomend that you go out and buy this game. The 
 graphics in the jungles and character models are amazing and all of the guns and vehicles sound 
 so real that i wanna pee my pants. Being able to play music in vehicles is great fun. Fighting 
 is much more intense in Vietnam than in 1942 because the usage and abuse of vehicles has been greatly 
 toned down so that that game focuses more on infantry. The game adds a big new type of vehicle 
 to the game, helicopters. If you have played the popular Desert Combat mod for 1942 as i hav, helicopters 
 will be of little surprise to you. They handle slightly differantly but it doesnt take long to 
 get the hang of it. Overall the game is very intense and very fun, go buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trules942
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2004 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is outstanding!!! I just bought the last copy at gamestop and i can not stop playing 
 it. It is a must buy for any PC gamer. The graphics are outstanding and the new engine really shows, 
 sound is incredible!! it makes you feel like you are in the jungles. There are only a few minor 
 problems, the requirements are very steep and will not run well on a slow computer, and there are 
 occasional graphical issues that will hopefully be fixed with the next patch or two. All in all 
 this game is very good and is a very very good add on to your battlefield collection. Enjoy people. 
 
  
  --Trules 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deepcold
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 16, 2004 11:24 am PT
Review:  Let's start by saying that Battlefield is a winner... we all know that the concept of the game is 
 on the first step of the podium so, Battlefield Vietnam is a winner with a more polish graphic 
 engine and, a better sound environement especialy, the 1960's songs and speech that you can hear 
 in the base. The weapons choices are truly a goodies and the vehicules are a pleasure to drive 
 or fly. I really liked the booby traps that the Vietcong are using and, the Allies personel mines 
 are a great idea too. The map are definitly better than is predecesor BF1942 with more places to 
 hide and tunnels. But, as a new game, there's always some bugs to deal with... first, the game performance 
 need to be tweak with future patches and some minors bugs are part of the game (i was playing on 
 the allies side and i had the vietcong speech instead) but, i will not complain because EA did a 
 great job with BF1942 and, i will be patient and wait. Don't hesitate to buy that game because 
 it worth every dollars you're gonna pay for it. My present score is 8.5 but, my score with a futur 
 patch that will fix the bugs and raise the graphic performance will be 9.5 It's a "must buy" for 
 every real Pc Gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiden_1012002
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 16, 2004 7:52 am PT
Review:  Man! this game just great, nearly every single thing is perfect. The sounds are really good and 
 the graphics are just breathtaking. Even some small touches like the bullet tracers, the dusts 
 and pieces of grass flying off when a heli is over a land etc. The gameplay is way more balanced 
 than BF9142. I am a pro heli pilot from original game (DC, EOD) so i didnt have problem flying them, 
 infact, the heli controls scheme are great, especially the feature where you can hover. Another 
 amazing stuff is the heat-seeking missile, that makes dog fighting much easier for me but sometimes 
 dangerous for me, because people can shoot me down. The bots have beem amazingly amproved althought 
 sometimes they can be stupid.
  
  In short, the best multiplayer ever in history! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kfogleman
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2004 10:10 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome! I've only played a few games so far and I love it. Graphics are very good, 
 sounds good, and music is very nice 70ish music makes me feel like i'm in Nam. I had a problem 
 flying helicopters, that takes some getting used too. If you've played 1942 this is a must get, 
 it has more content then the first one. A lot different feel fighting in the jungle. The jungle 
 enviroment provides a lot of cover from aircraft and some for vechs. Taking out a tank is a lot 
 easier then in 1942, the Americans have LAWs (light anti-tank) and NVA or VC have rpgs. The tanks 
 and jeeps are fun to drive, and using a Skyraider to drop napalm is cool. 
  
  Even if you haven't played 1942 I suggest you get this game. Everything is good about it and that's 
 why it got a 10 in everything. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
