-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlefield 2: Euro Force
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/battlefield2euroforce/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 European army brings variety and new toys to the virtual war.
 Some beautiful and exciting new maps to fight on.
 Battlefield 2 combat still as intense and wild as ever.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only three new maps, only one of which features China.
 Airpower has become a huge balance issue.
 Existing Battlefield 2 quirks remain.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 21, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.2, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 937 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Digital Illusions
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Mar 15, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The first booster pack for BF2 adds some welcome new content to the popular online action game. 
 

  It's a bit difficult to evaluate Battlefield 2: Euro Force, the latest addition to the wildly popular 
 Battlefield 2 franchise. Euro Force isn't an expansion pack in the traditional sense. It has only 
 half the content of most expansion packs, and you won't be able to buy Euro Force in stores. This 
 official "booster pack" for Battlefield 2 can only be bought online, and it's the first of what 
 EA probably hopes to be many booster packs for the game. While Euro Force does indeed sate the 
 voracious appetite out there for more Battlefield 2 content with some great levels and a new army, 
 you can't help but wonder if EA is also installing a direct pipe to fans' wallets at the same time. 

          Euro Force is very armor heavy on desert maps, so be prepared to go antitank a lot. Meanwhile, 
 there's not much you can do against enemy airpower.     

  As its name indicates, Euro Force introduces a European army into the ongoing virtual modern war 
 between the United States, China, and the fictional Middle Eastern Coalition. This is undoubtedly 
 a welcome addition for Battlefield 2's many European fans, but it's also a treat for fans everywhere. 
 The European army brings some nifty variety to the war, and the "war by committee" Europeans can 
 be fun to listen to with their many different accents. And despite any popular misconceptions that 
 Europeans can't fight, these Euros bring some formidable firepower to the fight in the form of 
 the HK21 light machine gun (which has a wonderful report) , the Leopard and Challenger main battle 
 tanks, and other new weapons and vehicles.  

  The pity is that you can only see the Europeans in action on the three new maps in the booster 
 pack. Two of these maps are really amazing. Great Wall is set in and around a section of China's 
 Great Wall, and it's designed to make for an intense and wild fight. There's something for everyone 
 to do, from infantry running and fighting atop the wall itself, to armor slugging it out for tactical 
 chokepoints or in the open areas outside the wall. Sadly, this is the only map where the Europeans 
 can battle China, because the two other maps pit the Europeans against the MEC. The best of these 
 Euro-vs.-MEC maps is Operation Smoke Screen, which is set amid a burning oil refinery that's pumping 
 out thick black clouds of smoke, which kills visibility in some areas. It's a cinematic level that 
 will remind you of movies such as  Jarhead  at times. The other, Taraba Quarry, is a more open 
 level where both armies slug it out over a wide expanse, though it doesn't have any of the scenic 
 vistas that the other two maps possess. Both the desert maps are reminiscent of the desert warfare 
 maps found in the original Battlefield 1942, because they're very armor heavy. Whereas the core 
 Battlefield 2 map gives each side only a handful of tanks at a time, Euro Force gives you armor 
 and vehicles almost everywhere, and it's not unusual to see tank squadrons and platoons form up. 

  And this brings us to the point where Euro Force gets a bit controversial. The emphasis on vehicles, 
 while a welcome change of pace, can make being an infantryman downright brutal at times on the 
 desert maps. While armor isn't so much an issue, thanks to the infantry antitank class, airpower 
 pretty much trumps all. It's gotten to the point where the best pilots can dominate a map, and 
 it's getting out of hand. Attack helicopter pilots have perfected the art of continually sweeping 
 over a spawn point, spraying a lethal stream of lead before you have any chance to even escape. 
 Meanwhile, jet pilots take out armor with near impunity. Yes, ideally your team's pilots should 
 counter the other team's pilots, but unfortunately that seldom seems to happen, because your team's 
 pilots get caught up in doing the same thing to the other team's infantry and armor. The tweaks 
 to the antiaircraft missiles made in the 1.2 patch helped the ground pounders a bit, but they were 
 nerfed in the 1.21 patch that's required to install Euro Force. It's simply gotten to the point 
 where EA and DICE must implement some sort of infantry antiaircraft class to level the playing 
 field, because it's almost ridiculous how things fare right now. We unloaded two magazines from 
 a PKM machine gun into a Eurocopter and it didn't even start smoking. The Eurocopter, meanwhile, 
 traced back our tracers and took us out with its cannon.  

  With that said, Euro Force can be as wildly fun to play as Battlefield 2, but keep in mind that 
 it shares many of the same quirks and balance issues that affect the core game. In addition, the 
 notorious red tag bug, which sometimes color-codes teammates in red rather than blue, still rears 
 its ugly head, despite the many attempts to date to squash it. Still, when the game is going, you're 
 caught up in an over-the-top battlefield experience where all sorts of crazy things are happening 
 all around you. We've participated in desperate firefights, watched as the European army ground 
 to a halt at the gates of the Great Wall, escaped death by a hair's breadth dozens of times, and 
 died even more. If you can team up with a good squad that's on microphones, Battlefield 2 remains 
 one of the most intense and fun action games that you can play online. And if you're not running 
 with a squad, there's still plenty to do and see.  

          Fight atop the Great Wall in perhaps the booster pack's best level. There's something here 
 for everyone, on foot or in a vehicle.     

  At $9.99, Euro Force is a solid value. Yes, it has only about half the content of a traditional 
 expansion pack, but it also has a price tag that's about half the price of a traditional expansion. 
 While you technically don't have to buy Euro Force to continue enjoying Battlefield 2, you may 
 find that you have to in order to keep up with the servers online. That's because unlike the Special 
 Forces expansion, the Euro Force maps are listed on the same servers used for the core game. This 
 is great, because you don't have to run a separate executable to enjoy the new content. This is 
 also bad, because if you've got a favorite Battlefield 2 server, and that server incorporates the 
 Euro Force maps and you don't have them, you'll be kicked off as soon as the server switches to 
 a map that you don't have. It's a hassle, and the only way around it is to buy the booster pack. 

  This is a situation that will only get worse as additional booster packs are released and the server 
 base is segmented even further. Still, if you're a Battlefield 2 fan who has logged dozens, or 
 even hundreds, of hours playing the game online, Euro Force is probably a must-have. Despite its 
 warts, it adds some great variety and content to one of the best action games on the market. And 
 if you find yourself wanting even more Eurocentric content, rest assured that EA will probably 
 make another if this one proves successful, and you'll have to pay for that one, as well.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (55 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  In Battlefield 2: Euro Force, the European Army joins the Battlefield fray for the first time on 
 PC. Complete with seven new weapons and four new vehicles, the European Army will be sent into 
 battle against MEC and Chinese forces on three brand new maps. "Operation Smoke Screen" takes place 
 amidst the burning wreckage of an oil field on fire. "The Great Wall of China" will see Chinese 
 Forces attempting to repel a European attack in the shadow of the ancient landmark. "Taraba Quarry" 
 takes place in a large canyon which holds a vital tactical advantage.
  This is easily the least impressive of the BF2 add-ons (expansion and/or booster packs) , however 
 it is still fun enough and provides enough content to be worth the $10 price of admission. Enjoyed 
 the new vehicles and weapons... maps were nice as well. No new kits, although that is to be expected 
 as no other expansion/booster packs have added new kits. In summary, I like Euro Forces a lot, 
 if I had to choose however, I'd probably go with Armored Fury as I enjoyed the maps and new vehicles 
 in that booster pack a little more. If the first Battlefield game you ever played was BF2 then 
 I can imagine you not enjoying this booster pack. It is very reminiscent of the larger scale tank 
 battles of Battlefield 1942 that I loved so much. It is less focused on infantry combat, which 
 I know has upset many BF2 fans. However, if you enjoyed BF1942's tank combat and were missing it 
 ever since BF Vietnam, you are in for a treat. I sure was. 
  
  The map Taraba Quarry is my personal favorite out of the three included in this booster pack. It 
 is suprisingly spread out even in the 16 player version and basically takes place on rolling fields. 
 So perfect for tanks. There are also around 6 tanks (possibly more) for each side to use at a time, 
 so this is definately a first for battlefield 2. It's great to see this side of battlefield come 
 back and shine in bf2. The only way you're really going to survive on foot is if you have a well 
 balanced squad that knows what they're doing. You definately need one or two antitank's because 
 you're going to run into a vehicle every minute or so, and you're goign to need a support gunner 
 both because the P90 isnt that powerful and they are going to be firing their rockets every chance 
 they get. 
  
  I think you can get the gist of it that i am very pleased with this booster pack, my favorite aspect 
 of the series returns in full battlefield 2 glory, and you get some awesome new vehicles and weapons 
 ..... not a bad deal at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  10 - 4 = as before described in the main battlefield 2
  
  10 - 1 = No cheat supported for multiplayer mode. 
  
  10 - 1 = Unpopular with consumer due 
 to online download. Wondering who the oversmarted Dog poo's ideal of using EA's downloader Manager 
 to purchase this boaster pack? Reason can tell from the Multiplayer mode is not popular with the 
 ranked server around the globe because customer alway prefer to own thing physically after purchasing. 
 BF2 and BF2 Special Forces are more popular on the multiplayer ranked server. Don't like the connection 
 account when using this game. Prefer log in when going for multiplayer mode. Prefer not to log 
 in for casual single play cos good for those does not connect online 247/365
  
  10 + 2.5 = Finally, this expansion is merged with the main BF2 except BF2 special force. Wondering 
 why EA does not patch the BF 2 Special Force to merge with the main BF2?
  
  10 + 2 = Innovative.
  Therefore : 
  10 - 4 - 1 - 1 + 2.5 + 2 = 8.5 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunder350
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is a blast. The new maps are all done very well and the new weapons are great and fun 
 to use. I especially love the Famas and the fact that they gave it to the medic class. The new 
 vehicles are pretty good even though you only get 4.
  
  The first map Great Wall does have some good infantry moments, but there's still plenty of armor 
 going around. The map is based on a kind of fort within the Chinese wall. Inside these walls in 
 the fort is where the main battles will take place. Both teams have two entrance points to this 
 staging area. One entrance is for infantry only and the other for vehicles as well. Both infantry 
 and vehicles will play a big role here, meaning the teams will have to be balanced in what kits 
 they use, but there's enough ground defense possibilities like stationary rocket launchers like 
 the TOW to keep the armored vehicles at bay. The Great wall map I would say is the best, all the 
 close range, infantry fighting on the giant walls are nice and setting up ambush's from the walls 
 for the tanks coming by is fun.
  
  The next map is Operation Smokescreen. It's a big desert with oil sources burning here and there. 
 The battles here will mostly take place between tanks, choppers and fighter jets. The good thing 
 is, there are no bombers like the SU34 or the F15 on this map which gives the ground forces a bit 
 of a breathing space to have one less worry. The fighter jets can still take out tanks, but it's 
 a lot harder for them, which means the tanks stay alive a bit longer. Overall the jets will mostly 
 keep themselves busy with each other and the choppers. It's a great map with well balanced fun 
 for everyone who likes huge fights.
  
  The last map is Tabara Quarry. This map is pretty widespread, barren and mostly covers ground battles 
 by armor as well. Apart from all the ground vehicles there's also a fighter jet and a bomber on 
 each side. The bombers can be a very big pain in the behind for the ground troops, unless the fighter 
 jets keep them busy. There's a huge river flowing through the two camps and to get on the other 
 side you have to either use the bridge in the middle or go around the north side if the bridge 
 gets destroyed. This can get pretty boring especially when most of the tanks spawn at the camps 
 in the south and it's quite easy to get taken out by a bomber while traveling all the way to the 
 north. If everyone on both teams knows exactly what they're doing and all the vehicles get used 
 to their max abilities then you can have a great battle, but in public servers this map can become 
 quite annoying for ground troops if your team doesn't act like a "team". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Euro Forces adds the European army with a bunch of cool weapons, and three new multi player maps. 
 The new content in this game is fun. You get the European army which has a bunch of cool looking 
 weapons, and some pretty fun maps, like the Great Wall. But this booster pack only adds on a little. 
 This game has about half the content the Special Forces had. But it is still a great game to get. 
 
  
  Unlike Battlefield Special Forces, Euro Force addes directly to Battlefield 2, instead of making 
 a seperate expansion.
  
  The graphics still look nice, but they are starting to show age, and the sound still sound realistic.
 
  
  If you like Battlefield 2 then you should get Battlefield Euro Forces, but if you want and multi 
 player game that lasts long then you should pass on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beowulf2525
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: It tops Armored Fury, yet falls short of Special Forces. It's the in-between game. Great 
 new weapons, vehicles, and maps. Controls and interface is very easy to handle. However, just like 
 Armured fury, one can hardly ever find a server to play it. And those are rarely populated or completely 
 full.
  
  Graphics: Just like all the others, nothing has changed.
  
  Sound: This has the best improvement in sound compared to the others. Since the player is now a 
 E. U. soldier, the differant kits have different accents making it a very believeable game. Most 
 of the guns have new sounds to them although there are a few familiar weapons. With brand new vehicles, 
 the player has a better idea of what is coming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cayden
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  When you think of an expansion you immediately think of improved weaponry, more sophisticated maps, 
 and enhanced graphics. This expansion is equivalent to a user-made mod. Fun to play, but not evolutionary. 
 The best map of the pack is Great Wall. This provides the best balance of infantry and vehicles. 
 Vehicles are limited to running directly through the fort in the middle of the map to get to the 
 other side. This makes for some great confrontation in the middle two flag points. However, stealthy 
 infantry can bypass the middle and run along the walls to sneak past emeny forces and capture bases 
 behind emeny lines.
  
  The other two maps are progressively less fun to play. Operation Smoke screen is largely dominated 
 by the air forces. Without expert pilots on your team you will have no chance against the enemy. 
 On the other hand, with the plethora of vehicles there is ample opportunity for amored skirmishes. 
 The last map is a stalemate. Infantry is basically worthless here because there are large expanses 
 of terrain without cover. That being said, speed is the key to victory on this map (accompanied 
 by sufficient forces to hold the forward points) .
  
  Fun to play, but not to pay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  an expansion for battlefield 2, euro force takes the battle to the middle east with the European 
 Union at the Helm. The idea of bringing the europeans into the game was smart, in real life, they 
 would back us up in a war like this but back to the game. EU has all the same warrior cast except 
 with new weapons, equipment and Vehicals. Including four new maps and an excellent gameplay engine, 
 Euroforce is a great expansion pack. the anti tank unit is now my favorite because its got an anti 
 tank rocket launcher and with a magnifficent P90 Sub-machine gun. so go out and try it, if you 
 like B2, you will love this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 29, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Starting with Battlefield 2, EA thought to themselves: What if we were to sell a smaller expansion 
 at a premium price, which is completely optional to the player? Battlefield 2 ended up receiving 
 two Booster packs , which are small supplemental expansion packs. And with what comes in this booster 
 pack makes me wonder why this wasn't in the game to begin with.
  
  Battlefield 2: Euro Force is the first booster pack, the second being Armored Fury, which came 
 out a few months later. Initially retailed for $10 online but can now be bought in stores if you 
 don't want to jump on the downloadable content bandwagon; Euro Force adds in new things to Battlefield 
 2: Three new maps, a handful of new vehicles, and a new fourth faction: The European Union.
  
  The European Union takes the place of the USMC in this booster pack, and like Battlefield 2, 
 the maps face the EU against the Middle Eastern Coalition and the People's Liberation Army of China. 
 The three maps themselves are based on relatively believable locales, such as a map that takes 
 place on the Great Wall of China ( Great Wall , obviously) , a map around a river nearby the Caspian 
 Sea ( Taraba Quarry ) , and a map involving retaining oil reserves in the middle east ( Operation 
 Smoke Screen ) .
  
  Since the European Union is a new faction, there are new weapons, some of which you can either 
 unlock in Battlefield 2 or appear in other Battlefield 2 expansions such as Special Forces, new 
 voices, and all that. The voices themselves sound a little flat and odd. I understand Europeans 
 sound significantly different than Americans, but when the lines they speak sound very stilted 
 and dull, it's hard to believe the speech they're saying is authentic. Other than new victory/defeat 
 music for the EU, there is no other new sounds or music.
  
  There's a bunch of new vehicles in the game, but a lot less than there really should be. There 
 are new tanks like the Leopard 2A6 and Challenger 2, a new plane called the Typhoon T1, and the 
 Tiger HAP helicopter. The rest are basically camouflaged versions of tanks and planes that the 
 USMC use in Battlefield 2. At least it's nice to spruce up some old and put in some new, even if 
 it looks very limited.
  
  Euro Force is like its big brother in every way, since it's not really a modification, more of 
 a map pack that you pay $10 for. Seriously, it's $15 more than you really should pay for. Since 
 it's like a map pack, it plays in the main Battlefield 2 application, and still features some of 
 the problems with that particular game, such as having a poor single player component, load times 
 of up to 2-3 minutes (if you don't have a top-of-the-line computer) , game slowdown and brief pauses.
 
  
  Also, unlike the other maps in Battlefield 2, Euro Force has only 16-player and 32-player versions 
 of the three maps. Since some of the servers for this booster pack hold more than 32 players, seeing 
 64 players on a map built for 32 is extremely hectic. Although this is not always the case, as 
 some maps made for 32 and 64 players have little differences, so it's not that big a deal.
  
  Euro Force is an expansion pack that should've been released either for free or for a very 
 small fee (I'm thinking more in the range of $5 or less) . Unless you are a Battlefield 2 completist, 
 there is not much rhyme or reason to buy Euro Force.
  
  Pros: New teams, vehicles and maps.
  Cons: You're paying too much for very little, same game 
 engine problems like Battlefield 2 (long load times, graphical chugging) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-boy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  If you looking to rank up on armor and antitank combat this place to start.
  My favorite map is the great wall of china, this map focus on infantry combat, fast pace combat 
 this map is urban map sick and tired playing deser combat, this map is beatiful has forest and 
 urban. The two maps focous on tanks battles maps like tarraba quarry big open area so people dont 
 hide from your tank this great with 64 playes, this boring when you joing server with 32 players, 
 I recoment tha join server that has more 40 players on server for more player more action this 
 expacion pack has three new maps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alrenchy1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 15, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Okay first of all the Battlefield 2 and Special Forces are well made and fun. Well, knowing this 
 it looks like the developers are taking advantage of this and so they made this expansion pack 
 hoping some sucker out there would buy this. For $19.99 you can have the CD that is really no different 
 to the main game, except you're now $19.99 short. The gameplay is more of vehicle, than infantry 
 due to the vast plains and nothingness. Looks like they made this game for 2 days flat. Just couple 
 of buildings here and there and some trees. Wow, pretty impressive for a 3 year old. I find some 
 of the maps on this expansion are not avialable to play in multiplayer mode since, well it sucked 
 and no one's wasting time and electricity to run the maps. So like I said, don't even bother to 
 get this game, for it has shown no improvements with the original installment. Save your money 
 on something else like a six pack or a bag of tootsie roll, you'll be satisfied more on those. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ears1991
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Well i was all hyped up about this booster until i played it, real lack of new stuff and the accents 
 were annoying lol...
  Still for bf2 addicts it makes a cool change from the same old maps.
  If your thinking about gettin it its only like &pound;5 so its not the end of the world if you 
 dont like it, but i think any bf2 veteran would.
  New guns and vehicles + maps are pretty cool but nothing to wet yourself over so yeah... worth 
 a try but i dont rate it highly, never play it at all...
  
  Not much else to say about it really, its cool though that EA offer these boosters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemasta456456
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  The British Miliraty has Entered the War on the USMC's side. They fight the chinese at the Great 
 Wall, The MEC at A Quarry and An oilfield mostly destroyed. You are given new weaponjs and vehicles 
 and new places to fight. Neat vehicles like the Tiger Helicopter and the Eurofighter! Weapons that 
 are featured as unlocks the the P90 or L96, or weapons that are brand new! Enjoy!
  
  + Great weapondry and vehicles
  + Graphics are good (depends on ur graphics card)
  + Sound 
 is great on high settings
  + Multiplayer is great!
  +
  
  +/- Halfway Decent maps
  
  - Nothing honestly new
  - Maps arent really balanced 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 5, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Nice and (too) short booster pack for BF2. Good stuff:
  - 3 new and pretty cool maps
  - new weapons
  - prevents you from getting bored with BF2 base
  - sound and graphics rather 
 good
  
  Bad stuff:
  - armor and air dominate this booster pack ... meaning if you are looking to use new machine guns 
 there is much less opportunity to do that Stuff that pisses me off:
  - have to be online to play single player (I guess EA wants to make sure that you are not pirating 
 $10 of their goods so it constantly checks your online account with your local install)
  - EA downloader has to run and you can't uninstall it if you want to play the 3 missions
  - figuring 
 out you account and passwords and the difference between an EA user name and BF2 nick makes all 
 this totally messy (unless one is a totally organized type bordering on anal retentive)
  - finally, after all this online BS ... there are not many servers offering the missions in this 
 booster pack -- read: total waste of time of setting everything online when you'll be playing it 
 by yourself and AI.
  
  Otherwise the game per se is what you'd expect from a BF2 title ... fun and pretty good.
  
 
  PS. Update 10/05/06 -- lol , that's what happens when you put all your eggs into online basket 
 like EA does with booster packs -- you simply can't play game today (singleplayer or multiplayer) 
 since the account servers are down. It sucks big time : ( . $10 lost .. oh, well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaiderRadeon
Rating: 3.2
Date: Sep 27, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of all the battlefield games this booster pack is the worst yet... I cant belive 
 they would really put something out like this... To top it off I cant get my 10 dollars back I 
 would have rather bought a pack of smokes or something else useless because, or rather burnt ten 
 dollars and filmed it because thats what this game has done to me.... please oh please stop making 
 booster packs for BattleField 2 because that game was just good as it was...
  By the way, I preordered 2142, two months in advance.....
  So I am just not talking, I do love 
 the games and hope 2142 will be the best FPS, next to half-life, counterstrike, and the sources.
 
  
  Thanks for taking my money EA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korlis612
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 6, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  So, Euro Force - where to begin? I decided to bite the bullet it and give it a try. You get three 
 new maps, a new army, and... well, that's it. Bear in mind that the original Battlefield 2 shipped 
 with a pretty skimpy selection of maps, so anything new has to be good, right? However, no matter 
 how good this pack - or it's comrade, Armoured Fury - proved to be, ultimately it comes down to 
 one question: can you actually play it? The answer is probably not very often, unless you can find 
 the rare servers that host the maps from it. The quality of the content included is high, but really, 
 given that it is not mandatory and has not been purchased by a majority of the player base, nor 
 has been pushed by EA/DICE on the servers to encourage people to take it up, the amount of use 
 you'll get from it is severely limited. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-1000000000000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 19, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  I can really pick many faults with this game, maybe the prices of the booster packs and the lack 
 of players who can take me down, however its such a good game that dilusions of greatness become 
 every player. Some people even try to shout at ea for a faulted game, however, in search of greatness 
 your expect to find and remove all the flaws, no game is flawless, but this game is great!
  
  If you get one game this year, get BattleField 2.
  
  If you get more than one game, get 
 the expansions!
  
  Keep your eyes peeled for more great games and mods using this awesome engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllanJC
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 28, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Its an awesoem game, would well recommend, although the EU never really happened lol, but ignore 
 that, its great, A++++, also cant use the new weapons if your offline, but thsi game is really 
 designed for online play, so if you want the full thing outta this game then u ahve to play online 
 really, i still think armoured fury is better, although the guns in euro force are good, :) plus 
 the challenger 2 tank is awesome, i would reccomend its great value plus it has a new selection 
 of guns outfits and vehcles what can go wrong with adding more to BF2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 24, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  New weapons, new ribbons, all the goods but wait.... cant get it on SP!!!! Once again.... if you 
 play SP only THINK B4 U BUY!!!! This and AF are not neccessarily intended for SP players. You must 
 be online to play offline... wow, EA is really confusing me here. I have a mobile laptop sp I can 
 play games whall not near a power inlet and/or a tele-modem, but wait.... cant do it on Euro Force! 
 Overall the new kits are okay and balance out about the same, the maps are a little interesting 
 as op. smoke screen reminds me of news broadcasts from op. desert storm & op. iraqi Freedom ( I 
 refuse to say Jarhead as I hate jake gillenw/e and the movie barley had a damn thing to do with 
 op. DS!) so... online player=buy it, offline=your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  This expansion pack for BF2 is not the best expansion pack avaible for BF2 but for the price that 
 is set for it $10 for the US it is worth the price. It adds three new interesting maps, one new 
 army, and some new weapons a few other new things. Again the update plan for this game messes it 
 up a little bit with BF2, and you also still have a long load time plus steep software requirments 
 but otherwise it is fine. My advice: "Buy BF2 SF expansion pack first and if you want more for 
 BF2 then buy this expansion pack." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiders5000
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 10, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  I got this booster thinking it would be added to the original BF2. It wasn't and thats disappointing. I 
 enjoy playing the maps because its like total chaos. and the tanks roaming all over the place really 
 makes this game come alive. To be perfectly honest, this booster should've been called AF because 
 the tanks own in this add-on. I also like the fact that teamwork is more of a must in this booster. I 
 mean, you could still be a lone wolf, but it really isnt effective as in the other maps of BF2. The 
 problem here is the servers. Dude, there are none. I found one server that allowed us to play the 
 BF2 maps and the EF maps in rotisserie. Believe, there's nothing more fustrating than buying something 
 only to fine out you cant play it. There's supposed to be a medal for playing this game 50 hours. DUDE? 
 I done how you're gonna get it. There's only a handful of servers. AF runs pretty much everywhere 
 since day one,................... but EF?.......... Nope?
  The gameplay is better than BF2 IMO, just cant play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpapa123173
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 10, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Euro force not all that bad, I would rather play Armored Fury or BF2. Its still a great booster. 
 As always thanks EA/ Dice you guys keep making Ill keep paying for them! I found that Euro force 
 had some pretty big open maps. I myself am not a fan of the HUGH open Air maps. One reason specific 
 for that is because the lack of more planes to fly. Two planes for each side when it takes a little 
 bit too even think about getting to the other side. My favorite map in Euro Force is the great 
 wall. You can get in to some pretty nasty battles in those upper junction ways; I have sat there 
 with squads and fought picked battles for a whole map at times. Well I do think it is a god booster 
 pack. I hope that EA/ Dice will continue to at least give us a few more booster packs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bossyboy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely worth you 5.99 ($9.99) you might pay for it, and it is an awesome game, 
 and sure to lengthen the life of BF2, exept for a few tiny problems that could occur installing 
 (Which if you bough Special Forces Expansion, you may have had problems too) . But apart from that, 
 the jets and vehicles are addictive, and the new weapons are spectacular. There are 3 new maps 
 in Euro Force (Taraba quarry, Great Wall and Operation Smoke Screen) . Personally I like all 3, 
 but the best has got to be Great Wall, its a break away from being constantly killed by jets and 
 helicopters, although it can be a little confusing trying to get onto the wall itself, you might 
 somtimes find yourself travelling to the other side of the map just so you can get into the action. 
 The other 2 are just like your average BF2 map, only a little different. The new team in BF2: EF 
 are the European Union, there is 1 new medal, and 7 new weapons.
  
  Overall BF2: EF is fantastic, and is a must for hardcore BF-Fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingman15
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 31, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy this expansion. New maps are always welcome especially when they are quality maps 
 like the three found here. The best part is that they are NEW maps, not rehashed maps like the 
 lame Wake Island 2005 map that came in a patch. 
  
  The maps offer a varitey of gameplay styles with Great Wall looking to be the community favorite. 
 This map offers great sniping places and good ground combat. No air vehicles are on this map so 
 its just foot soldiers and tanks. 
  
  The other maps offer all vehicles and are bigger maps that have more open terrain. These are great 
 for pilots, but tough on tanks.
  
  The new armies and weapons are nothing special. They add more to the game. The vehicles are the 
 same, just new skins. 
  
  The real point of this booster for me was the maps and I really enjoy them alot. I look forward 
 to the next booster and this is well worth the $10 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CitizenOne
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I have mixed feelings about Euro Force, but at the end of the day, It just wasn't worth departing 
 with my five pounds. There are three levels; Great Wall Of China is the only decent one surprisingly 
 enough because it's so beautiful and tightly packed. As for the new army.. What can I say? They 
 bring some neat new weapons too BF2, but again, they're mediocre and dull. Personally the only 
 new weapons I like are the FAMAS, the new MP5 and the L96A1. The two Mec maps are, to be frank, 
 pointless. And you won't survive unless you're in a tank and even then one good jet pilot can own 
 you in a few seconds. And no, I am not a noob . Trust me on this. The worst of the worst when it 
 comes to Euro Force is the pure lack of servers running it, there are only three populated servers 
 running Euro Force ever (probably none now) and even then they get boring because of the MEC Maps 
 going on forever. IMHO, don't buy Euro Force. It is hard enough downloading it through the unreliable 
 EA downloader, and when it's finally playable, you'll wish you had never brought it. Spend your 
 five pounds else where, you could buy a headset with that money, or a magazine. Even a stupid keyring 
 with Mario dangling from it would be more worth you while. Stick to the core BF2 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_hodges
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 9, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  ............... when EA has given out free maps in the past. 
  
  There's no need to review every map and every detail. Gamespot has already done it. But what the 
 player needs to know is the value and replayability.
  
  One recurring theme in the maps are the "chokepoints". It seems like we always meet right the middle 
 for one big shootout, especially the Great Wall. Good or bad, it's hard to say. It makes for spectacular 
 shootouts and frustrating moments. 
  
  Everyone is saying, if you're not in a vehicle or aircraft (which there are more of in these maps) , 
 you're dead.... which is true to an extent. You'll find yourself playing Anti-tank or spec ops 
 alot more in these maps.
  
  
  Overall, it's nice to have new maps, new scenery. Don't expect updated graphics or gameplay, as 
 this is just an extension of BF2. I'm not completely sold on the 10 bucks. Oh well, see ya on the 
 battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braverysquad
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 1:51 am PT
Review:  The booster pack itself lacks what even independent mod developers can acheive. The community of 
 BF2 is a very troublesome group. Take a look at the images section, and take a look at the text 
 on the left hand side. Almost every screen has someone arguing about how this game lacks. My opinion 
 is that EA/DICE should adress ALL of the communitys complaints and abort ALL projects until they 
 are adressed. The delays we get and the quality the game lacks after EVERY patch infuriates me. 
 My advice to anyone going to buy BF2, or Euro Force, OR SF, is hold off until this game is FINISHED. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: takenori
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 28, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  The maps are great, theres a few new weapons, and u get a new playable team.
  
  that is most definitely not enough to call a "booster pack"
  I've seen player created mods with 
 more effort.
  to me it seems as if euro force is the metaphorical "deleted scenes" of the special forces expansion.
 
  i say to you ea, dont rush crap out. work on it, add more, make it interesting.
  plus it was a **** to install, first you have to create an account with ea/pogo then you have to 
 download ea downloader, set up ur account, buy it, download, then if you made any mistake adding 
 ur bf2 account to your ea/pogo account. you're screwed with tech support trying to change ur bf2 
 account.
  
  overall a good add, however it wasnt thought out enough.
  Ea should have taken into mind that a booster pack should be things that people really want. like 
 for instance, special forces.
  that was really good
  
  i give euro force a 3/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcsteve61
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  
  Not a lot going on here: 3 new maps, some new vehicles and the EU army, which has some nice standard 
 alternatives to the usual weapons. The three maps are good. The standout is Great Wall, but the 
 other two are fun as well. Not sure why people would bash it; it's only 10 bucks, and you get what 
 you pay for here.
  
  People seem to be more bothered by the EA downloader. I don't care really. Allowed me to buy and 
 play the game without leaving my chair. And this not "owning" thing is dumb. If you lose it or 
 change PCs are something just re-download it. And don't even mention single-player. If you're not 
 playing BF2 online, than you're kidding yourself.
  
  I know we all wanted a serious expansion, but this isn't it. its a 10 dollar add-on. And not a 
 bad one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanberlil
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 8, 2006 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Only one problem. You have to pay for it, but you can't have it. You don't own it, you just pay 
 and play. That's a real big problem. I and most of you goof on the computer. We upgrade, we install 
 we un-install. We play and re-play. So you'll have to log in every time you want to bring the game 
 up. Even if you only want to play the single player events. Next year, when the EA download server 
 has dropped out of existence, you will have paid for something you can't ever have. And their site 
 doesn't tell you that, until about the time you have the EA DOWNLOADER software up and running. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycho_serb
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 2, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The Euro Force Pack is an "okay" addition to the BF2 Series, mind you one may find himself in a 
 bit of a situation when it comes to balance of firepower between teams. Also there are a few maps 
 at the moment, expect for more to come just not now. As for weapons, everyone likes new weapons, 
 and mind new the euro force throws in some fun weapons: D. As for new Vehicles, well there just 
 beautiful you gotta love them all. So in conclusion, this booster pack is so far an okay addition 
 to the BF2 series so far it's not great, if in the future more is added and more maps as well this 
 game will be more than decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_zax
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 1, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  For the past few months BF2 has been a let down. Even though DICE is trying to make it more realistic, 
 it feels more and more like I'm playing a class based version of UT2004.
  
  Euro force adds more guns, more maps, and in the end, some realy great garbage to the game.
  
 Sure I love the new sniper rifle, FAMAS, and P90, but I can only play with them in a few maps until 
 I get my next rank, and since I have cut way down on my BF2 play time, I may quit playing before 
 I get them.
  
  The maps are cool and I do like them better than 90% of the originals, but there aren't many new 
 maps.\
  
  Bottom line, it's good, but not $10 worth of goodness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberstix171
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 28, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I believe that this "booster" was not worth the wait. It's like the movies that you go see because 
 the trailer looks cool, then you ifnd out, the trailer was the entire movie. There's nothing really 
 cool about it. It plays just like the rest of the game. Plus it just adds another butt load of 
 unlocks that i'll never get to because I don't sit in front of my computer playing BF2 14 hours 
 a day. One can argue that it adds a nice change, and that BF2 was getting "stale". That's not true 
 I believe. What about Special Forces? That just came out right before christmas (not that long 
 ago) It was long before that when it was just plain BF2 until SF came out. Anyways, when you've 
 done everything, and has a million+ points, then sure, drop 10 bucks in it. Otherwise, just go 
 buy SF and keep fraggin' into the night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spakis07
Rating: 1.9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately im personally disappointed, i have downloaded and installed BF2 Euro Forces "booster 
 pack". 
  
  I do understand that this is a booster pack so im guessing it will be embedded in BF2 and BFSF 
 ? Right ?
  
  These are just sum of the questions im left with asking myself after i have installed the game 
 "booster pack", It is highly possible that im doing something wrong but i dont have any help / 
 readme files to look at or some other documentation to tell me what is different with the booster 
 pack.
  
  i have even emailed EA to help explain to me the subtle diffrences and how i go about joining a 
 mulitiplayer online game to use these new units / weapons/ vechiles. but as usual have had no reply 
 (1 week and counting)
  
  On a positive note
  
  I did find that at such a low price and effecicey of broadband downloading the booster pack was 
 done within 1-2 hrs at most.
  
  Summary:
  
  Great Concept with directly downloading booster pack but poor on support and information. 
  
 
  I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipeman99
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  Okay, when i first heard about this, i was excited, but not to mention annoyed that EA postponed 
 it 2 or 3 times. The day after it was out, i bought it and was excited, until i played it. The 
 maps werent very good, they were neatly engineered, but on Great Wall it is seemingly impossible 
 to find action for sustained periods. Personally, i thought that the best origninal map was Strike 
 at Karkand, because its easy to find action, straightforward and good clean fun. 
  
  The sound and graphics are excellent, the maps arent. I dont perfer maps were people who drive 
 armor all ways win. The maps are also pretty wide open... 
  
  My Verdict: If you have 10 bucks to spare, you may find it worthwile. But i would recommend that 
 you wait for Battlefield 2142. That definiately Looks promising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silvenight1
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Single Player Game against bots, not on a MMORPG mind you, but on a FPS should be accesable from 
 that players PC. Not needing to be logged into a online gameservice to play it. I would love to 
 talk about the possible quality issues of the actual game play, however since I can only play the 
 levels that I purchased for $10 smakers can only be played at a relitives house on there high speed 
 internet service since I am a college student living in a dorm, I can't. I love the Battlefeild 
 Series as a whole but I only play against buddies in LAN parties and against Bots when not. I am 
 writing this as a point of contintion towards EA. And as a way to warn fellow frag fest lovers 
 in the same boat as me. Either let the pack be accesable from a personal PC or do not market it 
 as having single player support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zootia
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I was seriously dissapointed at Special Forces, because DICE canada just did an overall sloppy 
 job on in. (reused weapons, vehicles, voices, framrate issues.. etc) So, I initially had low expectations 
 about Euroforce as well. But when It came out it was pretty cheap, so I bought it anyway.
  
  And boy was I wrong.
  
  Its true that it only adds 3 new maps, but those 3 maps are a welcome 
 change of pace to the the Karkand-Sharqi-Mash City drag. And you get and entirely NEW army, with 
 nothing reused! Even new voices! I say thats a good buy for 10 bucks.
  
  The new maps are pretty solid, and pretty vehicular. (so if you like infantry combat, stay away 
 and play SF or some more Karkand) The new vehicles are pretty much the same as their counterparts 
 but feel fresh. (unlike how all the new vehicles in SF felt like FAVs with diffrent models and 
 skins)
  
  Overall, its a solid add-on for BF2 players that are getting sick of the monotony. And it has pretty 
 good value too, with more entirely new content than SF!
  
  oh... but EA still sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corran_xgx
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  When i first heard they were making a euro booster pack i was well excited (may even have wet myself 
 a little) , but then i found out the finer details. As i looked through the weapons list on the 
 official site i straight away saw some very odd and rediculous things
  1. the famas assault rifle is an assault rifle an therefore needs high penetration power to peirce 
 through enemy body armour but in game it has been given damage of a sub machine gun an can only 
 acheive medium/low damage, not only that put it is fitted with a scope which in actual life is 
 not standard issue to the french army but it is in game.
  2. the hk21 as a support machine gun, hk21 is basically a g3 rifle with a heavier barrel to sustain 
 prolonged fire. As far as i know it is not used in any of the major euro powers (britan, france and 
 germany) , the main support weapon is either the lsw (light support weapon) version of the sa80 or 
 the g36 which however are not true support weapons but in fact more infantry section assault sniper 
 rifle, the real support weapon of europe is the gpmg or m249 which if used properly can kill at 
 up to 2 miles away (with enough elevation) .
  3. the hk 53a.... basically a 5.56mm mp5, its an smg designed for police forces around the world 
 but the 5.56 version is mainly used by military police for its compact size and armour penetration. 
 however it is not designed for warfare on a battlefield wen its limited range or 50-100 yards an 
 low power mean the user will be screwed if the other person shootin at him is using an actual assault 
 rifle! for some unknown an bizarre reason ea have made this smg pretty much the best gun in the 
 game with its medium/high accuracy an power which she actually be low power medium accuracy (highly 
 accurate close range but not designed for medium or long range)
  4. the l85a2 the standard issue to the british army an has been known to be the most accurate rifle 
 used in common wealth and internationally, as every1 knows its had its set backs but they are countered 
 with cleaning the rifle properly an frequently, in game they have added a grenade launcher to the 
 rifle which it does have in real life but its a 20 year old american one not the brand new german 
 one which does have. I also noticed it has no susat (scope) even though the rifle comes as standard 
 to the infantry with one and only engineers medics an logistics dont get susat as they are not 
 meant to fight but to defend them selves an wait for infantry to take care of hostiles. ea has 
 it in for all assault rifles as they keep making them weak an not that accurate compared to over 
 powered smg.
  5. why dont some of the kits come with a kevlar helmet? or armour? in real life every1 has a full 
 armour if they are going into a battle or warzone.
  6. the 2a6 german leopard tank, yes it has 3rd generation composite armour but composite has been 
 around since ww1!!! so it has make up for lackin armour tech by havin upto lots an lots of armour 
 they weighs it down an loses much needed speed an maneuvorability (cant spell :P)
  7. thee most well protected tank in the world is the challenger 2 tank wiv its highly secret chobam 
 armour which is only supplied to 1 other country apart from britain an that is america, it does 
 have slightly less power but does have better accuracy cuz the barrel is rifled not smoothbore 
 like a musket lol This shud be the main armour of euro force as not only does britan always commit 
 to wars (unlike other "allies") but we also have more of them.
  anyway thats my moaning done an if they get these probs sorted i mite play the game more but at 
 the mo im not that fussed about it. wy dont ea get military advice on this stuff? common sense 
 or what :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogeye58
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  At first I was not used to the maps or the jets or the choppers (typical) then, I played a few 
 more rounds and quickly got used to this great expansion. It offers 3 great maps, of which two 
 remind me of the good old Desert Combat Days, and the other map is very BFVietnamish. It's fun. 
 Worth the $10.00.
  
  The new EuroFighter is very deadly in the right hands. It is able to fly very slow and out manuver 
 faster jets during dog fights. The new weapons are great. I still have a raging hardon for my DAO 
 auto shotty. The P90 can be deadly at the right range. M96A1 is laser sharp and fun. This patch 
 seems to have fixed accuracy issues with guns and AA.
  
  EuroForces is like another layer of icing on my BF2 cake. I like how you don't have to load up 
 another copy of BF2 like Special Forces. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: haulboss
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Since EA/DICE can't support IE7, Granted it's still in Beta, but theres not much differance between 
 IE6 and IE7 except the looks, there not making many friends out there with the continued problems 
 with the EA Downloader and glitches that are still in the game. But from the trailers it looks 
 like it will be a welcome update, when they fix it!. I'm hoping that when the next update, I refuse 
 to call it an expension pack, comes out they have all the bug fix. I'm wondering if this is some 
 sort social science project with them. if you read the EA forums and all the complantes that there 
 getting there. I'm supprised they've as good reviews as they've gotten. If they fixed all the bugs 
 and glitches, they might be able to start work and make more money for EA if they made it work 
 correctly the first time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sir_inverno
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  What would be a resonable patch was transformed by EA into a booster pack.
  It's just a few maps and some new skins. No city maps or resonable maps whatsoever. No new content 
 everithing is just old content dressed as european.
  Don't waist your money. BF2 was good despite all effort of EA to turn it into crap but Euro Forces 
 is just like a picture of EA. Try to take as much money as possible as fast as you can then move 
 along to buy a new game house... no concern on long term value since people have short memory.
 
  Wait for Quake Wars and dont waist your money in EA schemes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cigarillos
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Here's a thought, make it more interesting to be a pilot and move up the ladder through dog fighting. 
 The morons at EA need to find a better balance for pilots that keeps them engaged. Perhaps AI drive 
 AA systems that can bring down planes in hot spots. 
  
  The maps are great, the game play is still solid. Would have been nice to have added more maps. 
 But I like the model of $10 for an upgrade right when some people have the older maps down to a 
 science, hurting us more casual gamers.
  
  You'll be happy you bought the game if your a pilot and semi-happy if you can hold the shift key 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaunh
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  I've still only played two maps of the three - China Wall and Smoke Screen. The other map is harder 
 to come by. 
  
  I've hard-crashed twice though since installing, so to me, it appears less stable. And I feel bad 
 for those that don't have the booster pack and one of the maps is mixed in with standard maps. 
 Once a few more booster packs come out, I think it will be a big barrier for newcomers, since the 
 cost of getting the game plus all boosters will be quite high. 
  
  That being said, I love the $9.99 price tag. It's at just the right impulse-buy sweet spot. Keep'em 
 coming.
  
  Oh, and, seriously Dice/EA - fix the red tag bug already. You've had enough time to work it out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whalenapp81
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  there is a new expansion pack for bf2, it has new maps, weapons, and vehicle's, its all pretty 
 standard bf2 fare, great graphics and sound, same gameplay bugs, aircraft dominate too much, the 
 new maps r great, intense action, the europeons have some good vehicles, but they r under powered 
 compared to their enemies, overall i really liked this expansion pack, it defenitelyt adds to the 
 original game, i hope ea comtinues to come out with more, but i would like to see more content 
 in the next expansion pack, also be forwarned that this expansion dosent fix any of the bugs that 
 have been plagueing bf2 since its release, but worth the 9.99 if ur a bf2 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  There's no question that Battlefield 2 is one of my favorite games of all time. With over two hundred 
 hours logged, and no end in sight, I've played this game probably more than any other. The first 
 of two announced booster packs for the core game, Euro Force (currently available for $9.99 exclusively 
 via download from EA's website) brilliantly adds some much-needed meat in the form of three awesome 
 new maps. As good as the new maps are, though, it's impossible to separate them from the main game, 
 which still suffers from a number of infuriating problems. Set against the backdrop of Asia, Euro 
 Force introduces four new vehicles (the Leopard 2A6 and Challenger 2 battle tanks, the Typhoon 
 T1 attack jet, and the Tiger HAP attack chopper) , the EU as a fighting force, and seven new weapons. 
 I experimented with the new weapons and for the most part didn't find them to be good enough to 
 override the weapons I had already unlocked. That said, it is nice having access to several weapons 
 as battlefield conditions change. As a medic, for example, you can choose between three different 
 guns. The three new maps are Great Wall, Operation Smoke Screen, and Taraba Quarry. Of the three, 
 Great Wall is my early favorite. It sees the EU battling against the Chinese around a section of 
 the Great Wall of China. It's a nail-biting battle that takes place on several fronts: in the open 
 areas around the Wall; within the interior sections of the Wall; and on the Wall itself. Great 
 Wall perfectly combines urban and open combat into one finely tuned mixture of total mayhem and 
 destruction. Entire squads can slug it out on top of the wall, oblivious to the action taking place 
 below them (and vice-versa) . And because there are only a couple of entrances into the interior 
 area, it's one of the few maps where engineers can mine a choke point and expect some level of 
 success. In fact, every class can effectively contribute on some level, which is a huge plus. Fighting 
 on the Great Wall is intense, insane, and damn fun. The other two maps, Taraba Quarry and Operation 
 Smoke Screen, are both large, wide-open maps that focus on large-scale combat. Taraba features 
 two choke points -- a long bridge and an open area at the top of the map -- which results in extremely 
 intense fighting. The thing I love about Taraba is that a wily squad can hop into a jeep, and if 
 they have the patience, make a long run around the edges of the map and attack deep within the 
 enemy's interior. Those are the kinds of tactics that win matches and really emphasis how important 
 squad coordination is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I gotta say, I was skeptical about getting this game. #1. I was a bit worried after having a bad 
 experience with the Special Forces expansion pack. #2. it only comes with 3 maps, so how good can 
 it be?
  
  I was wrong. I think this game is actually a blast. The new maps are all done very well and the 
 new weapons are great imo. I especially love the Famas and the fact that they gave it to the medic 
 class. The new vehicles are pretty good even though you only get 4. Probably one of the best things 
 about the new expansion is that you can actually line up the maps and run them with the original 
 BF2 lineup. No more "Expansion Pack Only" servers. Much better when you don't have to rotate between 
 only 3 maps.
  
  So this is one of those times where I have to say I was glad I bit the bullet, and got the game 
 even though I said I wouldn't.
  
  So for all you BF2 Fans, I recommend this lil gem. At only 9.99, it's a good expansion. Bring on 
 Expansion 2!!! Looking forward to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  Im a big time bf2er so I did got EF for $8 from an online distributor, 1st and most importantly 
 if you buy from EA directly you wont get the CD-key and with that you can not transfer ownership 
 later, worst yet unlike any other game EA has the CD-key is tied in to your in game name (game 
 spy account) NOT installed on your computer  so if you share your computer with family members, 
 friends OR (like me) have several accounts for bf2 you can only use it for ONE. WE NEED RANKED 
 MAPS this is obvious to every bf2 gamer this pack has 3 after playing for a few hours I realized 
 that the only usable maps is great wall and even that is far far far not the quality amateurs 
 can do for free (unfortunately they not allowed to be ranked as we all know) so we stuck with this 
 junk EA sells us  YES I GOT IT and recommend every bf2 gamer to get is  still Im pissed about 
 the low quality of the maps  I get it because I have no choice not because I find this product 
 good. Sure new armies and weapons and stuff are great but really who cares there are already more 
 then enough vehicles and weapons added to bf2  MAPs is what we need and i might add not always 
 the same "sand hill with a flag + bush" type of maps but PLEASE some variation and ideas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:49 am PT
Review:  i brought this the other day and i couldnt wait to install it.
  but one magor problem is getting this thing to work! it is hard to install it if you have already 
 brought the code, i didnt understand if i needed to pay another $9.90 (USD) for it. It takes forever 
 to download (with good reason i understand) and another fair while to install it, if its worth 
 it, i would think so.
  It is cheap, but i wouldnt just sit and wait for it to finish...
  
  But anyways, onto the game. The European Union have really cool/funny accents (yes i know it 
 has nothing to do with the game) they have some pretty good weapons, some being unlocks for e. g. 
 USMC forces.
  
  I'm not sure why they added either 1 or 2 (im not sure, sorry) new tanks, because on the new levels, 
 you can catch a command post then about 10 different tanks will appear. But the new tank is awsome! 
 trust me!
  
  I have yet to fly in one of the new planes or helicopters so i cant comment on them.
  
  The 
 new maps are alright, the great wall of china (Euro v Chinese) is a good map, good for sniping, 
 just make sure no one gets you from the side. it is a good close-corner fighting. Then the other 
 2 new maps are best for tanks and arial fighting. One is called Operation Smoke Screen (Euro v 
 MEC) .
  
  All in all i say its worth it, since it is cheap, and after you FINALLY get it installed its pretty 
 good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingDisgrace
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Euro Forces is part of EA's commercial genius. Tens of thousands of players starved 
 for new maps, new vehicles and weapons do indeed get their ear scratched, but at a price, 10 dollars. 
 So what, 10 dollars? It's not much compared to what EA has already robbed me of, so 10 bucks....
 
  
  You get the point. It's an addiction.
  
  But for having so much time to develop new maps, only 3 MAPS, it feels like EA simply obeyed their 
 idiotic fans.
  
  "MORE TANK MANG, MORE AIR 2!"
  
  "Should we?"
  
  "Well, they'll learn. Sure, give it to 'em."
  
  What we get is the proverbial cream pie in 
 the face. So many people got what they thought they wanted, only that is turns out that so much 
 wide area, so many tanks, and so many helicopters and planes, with the added anti-air firepower, 
 is a pretty crappy experience, especially as the number of players goes up. It's impossible for 
 a land troop not be spotted by a vehicle, it's impossible for tanks to get away from the helos 
 and planes, it's impossible for the helos and planes to get away from the anti-air, and it's impossible 
 for anti-air to fight against anything else. Euro Forces will not light up the scoreboard because 
 they are so few flags on the air maps named Taraba Quarry and Operation Smoke Screen do not stress 
 teamwork. Teamwork is so far gone in those two maps that lone wolfs are really the only people 
 who could have fun with this game. Even by assembling a squad and supporting each other, a few 
 stray AT mines or a good bomber can rain on everyone.
  
  Also, detail among the map is so lacking, you'll wonder what your CPU usage is so high for. Taraba 
 Quarry is simply 3 bases on each side of a river, with one in the middle. And in the middle, one 
 neutral base. And in the middle of this? Nothing.
  
  "Wha?"
  
  Desert. I mean, there's not even one shrub out there. No lonely tree, just mud-colored desert. 
 Even worse, no protection from Mr. Bomberman. You might think you're looking at Advance Wars from 
 the top-down look of the Commander screen, because everything is so uniform... And... symmetrical. 
 Eww.
  
  So, if you are a true BF2 fan (AKA fanboy) and are truly loyal to the BF2 franchise (AKA... I got 
 nothing better to do) , and don't mind spending the 10 bucks (AKA As if another 10 bucks into the 
 ****ter will make a difference) , Euro Forces is for you. (AKA OMFG MEDIOCRE MAPS! =D)
  
  Them Europeans though... They're funny. (AKA 8 for sound)
  
  Have a good one. (AKA See you 
 in a few hours when you piss 10 dollars down the drain like I did.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampira506
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  It's not bad by any means, but it doesn't give us anything truly special like the Teargas, Zip Lines 
 and Grappling hook in SF, or even the night vision (which I hate) . It's just three random maps, 
 two are dominated on the ground by tanks and the tanks are dominated by constant bombing runs by 
 jets.
  
  The Eurofighter sucks, the new battle choppers are ultra sensitive on landing and simply works 
 like a flying brick.
  
  The one infantry server is already receiving numerous complaints for everybody sniping (although 
 I haven't had this problem) and being claymore wh0res.
  
  All in all, I'm still happy I got it since I was aching for new BF2 maps. They'll be useful when 
 mixed in a rotation with BF2 Vanilla maps but on their own, they have no chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RangerG
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  I find that it takes practise if you dont buy it right away and get playing you fall behind and 
 gets hard to keep up with the other people so you get killed alot. It has great graphics just like 
 the other BF2 games and the european accents are pretty funny! :) The maps are pretty awesome I 
 enjoy the Great Wall of China the most. And the new guns are cool but they made the European sniper 
 rifle less accurate then on the origional BF2. I find it hard to use the Euopean Challenger 2 because 
 the cannon is on a different side then on BF2 so you sometimes get confused. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 18, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay ---8 This offers the same great fun of the BF2 series not really changing a lot, but look 
 for some diffrent strategies with the new additions!
  
  Graphics -- 8 Amazing as always, trees and bushs can sometimes look flat, but still a great looking 
 game, especially considering the origonal was released alomst a year ago
  
  Sound -- 9 Awsome sound effects, you can hear bullets whizzing past trees and hitting the area around 
 you
  
  value -- 10 For 10 buckz.... simply amazing!
  
  All and all, it dosent really matter what any review says, this expansion is going to become required 
 to continue to play this game competivily online. For those of you who think its a waste of money, 
 think of this... going to the movie theater and getting food costs 10 dollars for 3 hours max of 
 entertainment. Your looking at anywheres from 40+ hours for the same price... so this is a good 
 investment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlineterrorism
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I am not disappointed in spending 10 bucks for a good booster pack like Euro Force. However, it 
 is like a mod and should have been available by free download. It is worth paying for though. I 
 just feel that this should have been free so everyone that isn't willing to pay can download it 
 and play on servers with random maps including Euro Force maps. The 3 maps included are well-created 
 and gives both sides a fair advantage. They also differ from the original BF2 maps as Euro Force 
 maps tend to have genuine war-torn enviroments as well as the atmosphere. The weapons are awesome, 
 especially the quick-shooting Famas. Overall, its a shame that these weapons cannot be used on 
 the original BF2 maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irongrinder1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  The first thing you need to remember is that it's only 10 dollars (or 10 euro's) and that it's 
 only a booster pack, not an expansion. That's where most people go wrong and flame the booster 
 pack for being nothing more but a little extension to the original..... duh!
  
  A big part of the community has been screaming for infantry maps, but they will not find those 
 here in this booster pack. 
  
  The first map Great Wall does have some good infantry moments, but there's still plenty of armor 
 going around. So is that a bad thing? No it's most definitely not a bad thing! The map is well 
 balanced unlike some of the original BF 2 maps where some maps start out with one team on the defence 
 and one team on the attack. A lot of those maps end in the same way every time with a particular 
 army usually winning. Here in Great wall there's none of that. The map is based on a kind of fort 
 within the Chinese wall. Inside these walls in the fort is where the main battles will take place. 
 Both teams have two entrance points to this staging area. One entrance is for infantry only and 
 the other for vehicles as well. Both infantry and vehicles will play a big role here, meaning the 
 teams will have to be balanced in what kits they use, but there's enough ground defence possibilities 
 like stationary rocket launchers like the TOW to keep the armored vehicles at bay. Overall it's 
 an interesting map which reminds me a bit of the Hue maps on Battlefield Vietnam (my favourite 
 maps on BFV I might add) .
  
  The next map is Operation Smokescreen. The map resembles the good old maps Gazala and El Alamein 
 from Battlefield 1942. Mix that up with the burning oil images from the movie Jarhead and you've 
 got yourself a new map. It's a big desert with oil sources burning here and there. The battles 
 here will mostly take place between tanks, choppers and fighter jets. The good thing is, there 
 are no bombers like the SU34 or the F15 on this map which gives the ground forces a bit of a breathing 
 space to have one less worry. The fighter jets can still take out tanks, but it's a lot harder 
 for them, which means the tanks stay alive a bit longer. Overall the jets will mostly keep themselves 
 busy with each other and the choppers. It's a great map with well balanced fun for everyone who 
 likes huge fights.
  
  The last map is Tabara Querry. This map is pretty widespread, barren and mostly covers ground battles 
 by armor as well. Apart from all the ground vehicles there's also a fighter jet and a bomber on 
 each side. The bombers can be a very big pain in the behind for the ground troops, unless the fighter 
 jets keep them busy. What's another downside of this map? There's a huge river flowing through 
 the two camps and to get on the other side you have to either use the bridge in the middle or go 
 around the north side if the bridge gets destroyed. This can get pretty boring especially when 
 most of the tanks spawn at the camps in the south and it's quite easy to get taken out by a bomber 
 while travelling all the way. If everyone on both teams knows exactly what they're doing and all 
 the vehicles get used to their max abilities then you can have a great battle, but in public servers 
 this map can become quite annoying for ground troops.
  
  So much for the maps. The other new thing in this booster pack is the Euro Force army. First thing 
 you'll notice is the funny voices (everyone is speaking English with either German, French, Dutch 
 or what ever accent.) , but ok, what are voices in a battle game. You'll get used to them soon anyway. 
 After 30 minutes playing with the Euro army I didn't even notice it anymore.
  
  The new things with this army are also weapons. All the kits on the Euro side have received new 
 weapons (except for the P90 and L96A1 already seen as unlockables in the 1.2 patch) . Some of these 
 like the FAMAS for the medic are very powerful, but you won't be able to use them outside of the 
 Euro Force maps. They don't really add anything new to the game as they just present the player 
 with a different choice in fire possibilities for one side on the euro force maps.
  
  Next are the vehicles. There are a total of 4 new vehicles to represent the countries participating 
 in the Euro army. First there's the German Leopard 2A6 tank and the British Challenger 2 tank. 
 Both have a bit different armor and firepower, but you won't notice much in the heat of the battle. 
 Then there are the air vehicles. These are the most sensitive in changes. The Tiger HAP chopper 
 flies differently and will take some getting used to which is good. It means it's not the same 
 chopper as one of the older models with just another look. it flies a bit more sensitive and wobbly, 
 but it's a valuable addition to the game. Last, but not least there's the Euro fighter Typhoon 
 aircraft. This fast manoeuvrable jet can stand on his own when in battle with the Mig-29 from the 
 MEC forces.
  
  So is it worth the 10 dollars? It depends on you, the buyer. Are you interested in more maps and 
 you like big balanced fights in vehicles, go ahead and buy it. It's 3 more maps adding a nice chance 
 to scenery and more land to conquer. Don't expect new gameplay, it's not an expansion.
  
  If you only play maps like Strike at Karkand, Mashtuur city and Sharqi Peninsula just for fast 
 points or because you only like infantry fights, stay away from this boosterpack. 10 dollars is 
 not much, but make sure you like the idea of those battles before you spend it. As for me, I'm 
 going back for another round of operation smokescreen.
  
  See you on the battlefield!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nandito3555
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is almost perfect, the gameplay, the graphics, the sound and
  the value are awesome. This game improves over it's predecesor and ads a lot more.
  
  GAMEPLAY- 
 It doesn't change for good, because they work over an already almost perfect formula.
  
  GRAPHICS- So great that we don't need to wait for the xbox360 version of Battlefield. That says 
 all.
  
  SOUND- Envolving, the steps and movements sound as in the real life. A granade blows and even the 
 dust sounds. GORGEOUS!
  
  The only thing that I would like to improve is the AI. It isn't bad but doesnt ad anithing. I wish 
 the include more maps.
  
  Resuming this is the best Battlefield expansion ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icegbear19
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  It seems like people only play 3 maps from each set to begin with. For Example in normal BF2 people 
 really only played Sharqui, Karkand, and Mashturr City. In Special Forces, that moved to Ghost 
 Town, Warlord and Surge or Mass DEstruction. No one really plays the Night maps, and how many server 
 even play those night maps? so the 3 maps they give you 2 of 'em are awesome. Playing Great Wall 
 is Great though, it's like being back in the Medvil times with Castles, but with Modern Weapons 
 as you either try to overtake or defennd the castle. But It's really Messed up that the Chinese 
 seem to always be the team that's left outside of the walls, I mean it's their homeland they should 
 be the ones on defense. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
