-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlefield 1942: The Road to Rome
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/battlefield1942thertr/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  6, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.2, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,853 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Digital Illusions
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Feb 2, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While The Road to Rome isn't the most ambitious expansion pack ever made, it makes a great game 
 even better. 

 Digital Illusions' 2002 award-winning game Battlefield 1942 is a remarkable game for many reasons. 
 It's a first-person shooter set in World War II, featuring lots of weapons and usable vehicles 
 modeled after their real-world counterparts, and it's also great fun to play. Battlefield 1942's 
 unique combination of fast-paced run-and-gun gameplay and easy-to-pilot vehicles (including tanks, 
 planes, and battleships, among others) is so enjoyable in multiplayer games that early adopters 
 of Battlefield 1942 were willing to look past the game's technical shortcomings, such as online 
 lag and hardware compatibility issues, at the time of release. The game's popularity has only grown 
 since then, and the Road to Rome expansion pack adds a total of six new maps and a number of new 
 vehicles to the already excellent game. And while The Road to Rome isn't the most ambitious expansion 
 pack ever made, it makes a great game even better.           The Road to Rome adds new maps and 
 new vehicles to Battlefield 1942.    

  The Road to Rome adds a total of six different maps to Battlefield 1942, each of which is densely 
 populated with varying terrain features and some combination of the game's nine new vehicles. However, 
 the expansion doesn't add any new play modes to the original game -- the main modes are still deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, capture the flag, and conquest, although conquest, in which players on opposing 
 teams attempt to capture and hold control points on the map, remains the most popular mode in multiplayer 
 play. Battlefield 1942 is all about multiplayer and so is The Road to Rome -- though you certainly 
 can play the game offline with computer-controlled players, it just isn't the same as tearing across 
 a battlefield online with up to 63 other players at once.   

  The Road to Rome's new features improve on some of the inherent imbalances in the original game. 
 For instance, the new maps are quite large, but they're a bit more balanced with respect to on-foot 
 and vehicle battles. One of the most exciting and enjoyable aspects of the original Battlefield 
 1942 is jumping into a vehicle and driving or flying into battle, but in many cases, such as on 
 the popular Wake Island map (in which both opposing teams have access to fighter planes and other 
 vehicles) , if your teammates and enemies grab all the nearest vehicles, you're basically out of 
 luck, forced to hoof it to the next base or to try bumming a ride from a teammate. The Road to 
 Rome's large maps are clearly laid out to encourage both vehicular and infantry skirmishes, since 
 they feature many open areas for vehicles to travel across, as well as many smaller, somewhat enclosed 
 areas for battles on foot, and they also have plenty of stationary machine-gun nests and antiair 
 guns so that if you get caught on foot, you won't always be at a great disadvantage against an 
 enemy in an armored vehicle.   

  The Road to Rome's excellent new vehicles also promote better teamplay. Specifically, in the original 
 game, many two-man vehicles can be piloted by a single player, though they also have a mounted 
 gun on top that can be manned by a second player -- but most vehicles offer hardly any protection 
 for this gunner position, so any player who decides to try being a secondary gunner usually dies 
 a quick and grisly death. The Road to Rome's new armored tanks and artillery trucks provide good 
 protection for both the driver and gunner positions, and they're most effective with two players, 
 since most of them can't be driven and made to fire by a single player, though you can still switch 
 positions quickly while moving if you prefer to go it alone.   

  The Road to Rome doesn't try terribly hard to improve on the technical aspects of the original 
 game, though it does ship with the version 1.25 patch, and since the most recent 1.3 patch is now 
 freely available, The Road to Rome runs much better than Battlefield 1942 did at launch. The original 
 game had an annoying sound problem that would cause all the game's audio to drop into static with 
 some sound cards; this problem has been fixed, and Road to Rome's hard-hitting sound effects for 
 its various weapons and vehicles, plus its full audio speech, fit perfectly with Battlefield 1942's 
 already-great audio, just without the technical problems. In addition, the game's online performance 
 has improved during the past months, though it's still subject to occasional periods of lag, depending 
 on what server you choose to play on. Battlefield 1942 is best played on a high-speed connection 
 (broadband or better) , and the same is true of The Road to Rome.           The impressive view 
 from the top of Monte Cassino.    

  While some objects in The Road to Rome, such as a fallen soldier's equipment pack or some scenery 
 elements, can look blocky and ugly when you pause to look very closely at them, you'll very rarely 
 pause at all while playing this fast-paced expansion pack. In fact, you may be too busy taking 
 in the sights of panoramic stretches of green hills and arid deserts while soaring through the 
 air in a German BF-110 bomber, or sending your enemies (or their corpses, anyway) flying with a 
 satisfying blast from behind the wheel of an allied M3 Grant. Battlefield 1942 looked great when 
 it came out last year, and its graphics hold up well in The Road to Rome.   

  If you were, for some reason, hell-bent on finding something terribly wrong with The Road to Rome, 
 you might consider how much value it offers for the money. The Road to Rome carries a very modest 
 retail price of $20, and though it adds only six new maps and nine new vehicles, these additions 
 definitely justify the purchase price. The Road to Rome adds even more great gameplay in the form 
 of more-balanced maps and more-balanced vehicles to an already enjoyable game. If you're a fan 
 of Battlefield 1942, you owe it to yourself to get The Road to Rome as well.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (28 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Okay, with that all out of the way, Road to Rome supports up to 64 gamers (on select maps) , playing 
 as several infantry classes, controlling many weapons available to the Axis and Allies, and commanding 
 numerous land vehicles, ships, and aircraft. Much like the original BF 1942. I noticed that the 
 maps do seem larger than that of the predecessor. The Road to Rome's large maps are clearly laid 
 out to encourage both tank and infantry skirmishes. The maps have many open areas to travel across, 
 which makes having a vehicle very nice to get you to the action quickly. On the other side, there 
 are plenty of smaller enclosed areas like bombed out villages that make the infantry battles quite 
 fun. Those broken down buildings make great spots to set up an ambush or pick off men from afar 
 with a sniper rifle. There also seems to be more of the stationary guns like machine gun nests 
 and anti aircraft guns to go around.
  
  The key elements to this new expansion are the new maps, vehicles and weapons. Unfortunately, if 
 you like the campaign side of the game, there is nothing really new here. There is a single-player 
 mode that has the 6 new maps in a battle style format. There is no scripting involved so each new 
 game should be a bit different. The main reason for getting this title is plain and simple. New 
 maps and toys for the MP games. It does come with the 1.25 patch to get you up to speed on some 
 bug fixes in the original, but low and behold there is already a new release 1.3 at the Battlefield 
 1942 website. So if you have already downloaded that, which I'm sure any true fan has this patch 
 on the CD means nothing to you. But for a MSRP of 20 bucks, you really can't miss.
  
  All that being said the quality of the maps are fantastic to say the least. The Refractor 2 engine 
 does a superb job of rendering the action. So if you are looking for quality and not quantity, 
 I'm sure any fan will be satisfied. Personally I like both! Not to say that I am not happy, quite 
 honestly I love the expansion, I just want more. So I will be looking forward to another expansion 
 if one does come out! My personal feeling is that looking at the big picture on what you are really 
 getting in this expansion, it could have been easily downloaded like the newest patch is. I would 
 gladly pay top dollar for a game that would continue to grow rather than keep paying for additional 
 expansions. Again for 20 bucks, it's still worth it especially if you take advantage of the online 
 play.
  
  This review was on the expansion and not the entire game. If you are new to BF 1942 head over to 
 Kevin Krause's review to get the skinny on the game. I did not want to restate what he has already 
 said in his wonderful review.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942: The Road to Rome is the probably one of the best First PErson Shooter out there. Even 
 if the campaign isn't as fun as the multiplayer it still brings it's intensity and the awesome 
 gameplay. You will need to do certain missions in the singleplayer campaign which will take you 
 some time to complete.
  The main atraction of this game is it's muliplayer. As Battlefield 1942 before it, this game has 
 an improved multiplayer ,it has many more paps and the feel you have while playing it is incredible. The 
 multiplayer can support up to 64 player online or LAN. Almost every map includes vehicles and good 
 places to take cover.
  The gamplay is brilliant and all the weapons feel different from eachother an sound different too. As 
 a plus the graphics also look good and the game features from some small frame issues when online 
 for those with a not so powerful machine but for those with a more powerful one the game runs smoothly 
 at all the time.
  I would recommend this game to anyone, for the starters in First Person Shooter or for the hardcore 
 fans.
  
  My Score 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falcon159
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I wouldn't recommend investing in this by itself; if you're looking for some old-school shooter 
 action the only reason you should look for this expansion is if you are going to pick up the deluxe 
 version of 1942 and it is bundled. The additional maps are nice and such, but the content does 
 not have a substantial feeling by any means, and you really struggle to feel what your money has 
 given you. The content is really just repackaged stuff and unused stuff from the original game, 
 that is there for continuity in the sequence of events of WWII. No question that it is necessary 
 and should be part of the game if you own it, but overall it is hard to say it is really worth 
 the price, it all feels like they released the orginal game to soon and this was a way to play 
 catch-up -- should have been a free content DL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I had to come back and rewrite this review. Previously I had played Battlefield 1942 and maybe 
 it was just the late night hours I was playing but I had trouble then finding servers with Road 
 to Rome maps. Tonight I had no trouble getting into some fun Road to Rome action and I enjoyed 
 it very much.
  
  As mentioned in the Gamespot review, infantry is more viable here and since I like playing infantry 
 at least as much as the vehicles in this game I was happy to experience that firsthand.
  
  Of course, nowadays any purchase of Battlefield 1942 is going to be in one bundle or another that 
 includes this expansion but that's a good thing and I would encourage anyone playing to be sure 
 and check out the Road to Rome maps too.
  
  This game may not be the latest and the greatest but overall the presentation still holds up well 
 with decent visuals, good sound and most importantly fun gameplay and plenty of other people playing. 
 This game is cheap now and its a great deal for the money. If you're looking for some good inexpensive 
 multiplayer online fun in the WWII setting, look no further. Go grab a copy of this and enjoy. 
 This is one of those games that will probably continue to be around for a very long time online 
 simply because it is a lot of fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HioMyMan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 14, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  so, battlefield 1942 the road to rome, brings you into sort of.. the forgotton battles that arent 
 really talked about much in WWII. Featuring the Italians and French. Now there isnt any story mode, 
 its just instant battle and online, which kinda stinks because i would of liked to see how these 
 battles were brought up and whatnot. There is only about six maps in this.. after all it is only 
 an expansion pack, so there isnt much. Theres a few new tanks, and weapons too. Then there is all 
 the normal stuff in the original BF1942. The graphics are good, no different from the original, 
 but the sounds are nice. Adding some french and italian language into the game, pretty cool. Now 
 about the 6 maps, there pretty cool, large in size and whatnot. its nice to play some new levels 
 because ive been getting very bored of the normal BF1942. Its cool seeing the Italian and French 
 land battles. Well that pretty much sums this one up, like i said, its only an expansion so really 
 not much to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 12, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  This 2nd expansion pack for BF 1942 doesn't work so well as the 1st one (serect weapons) because 
 it only adds three maps to the game. Even with the two new armies added (the Free French and the 
 Italians) they only appear in two maps each so you don't see them as much as you would want to. 
 There are a few new vechicules and weapons that make the expansion pack a little bit better but 
 less is added than special forces. Aside from that it is still action packed and fun to play. However 
 the command interface is confusing once again and the AI still sucks. The graphics and sound are 
 alright and you will once again enjoy the game better when you play with others online instead 
 of just the AI. Also once again no auto-reload is in the expansion pack. My view is don't buy this 
 expansion pack unless it is on sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurricane04343
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 21, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  A very solid expansion pack to BF1942 for all fans, if a tad light-on in content. Very few games 
 have covered the Italian theatre of WW2 and Road to Rome gives a satisfying taste of these oft-forgotten 
 battles. But there are only six new maps, a handful of new vehicles, a couple of new small arms 
 - oh - and Free French and Italian troops of course.
  
  Gameplay:
  Great fun. WW2 fragging on land, sea, and air has been taken to a whole new level with the BF1942 
 series. Road to Rome will not disappoint hard-core fans looking to expand their battlefields.
 
  Husky (frantic beach assault) and Monte Cassino (storming a hilltop ruin) are the best maps, where 
 even the bots put up a good fight. Anti-tank guns make a welcome appearance. The new maps are mostly 
 well thought out and encourage greater teamwork.
  
  Graphics:
  Very solid as per the original game. Road to Rome offers a good presentation of the hilly Italian 
 landscape. New vehicles are nicely done. No new special effects, but the original ones still hold 
 up very well. Great physics continue to lend extra realism to the visual richness of BF1942.
  
  Sound:
  Very good. The sounds convey the dynamic chaos of war in a convincing fashion. There's 
 nothing quite like ducking desperately for cover behind a low wall, frightened out of your wits. 
 You can't see much but artillery shells are screaming just overhead, bullets are ricocheting about 
 your ears, and somehwere you hear the drone of a plane's engine and you wonder if it has seen you 
 cowering below. You never know quite when and how death is going to strike you in this game, but 
 you resolve to die gloriously at least. You stand up.. rallying your buddies for a valiant charge 
 when... you are struck between the eyeballs by a single fatal bullet. C'est la vie! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocker500
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Story- 8/10: It's not really a story, but more of a re-creation of famous WWII battles, and I'd 
 say it does a pretty good job of doing that.
  
  Gameplay- 9/10: It's a lot of fun to get into a plane, or boat, or jeep, or tank, or something 
 of that nature, but some vehicles are malarkey compared to others, like the Howitzer and the Wespe 
 vs. a Panzer or a Sherman.
  
  Graphics- 7/10: I think they could've done a better job in this area with a little more polish.
 
  
  Sound- 8/10: Not the best, but it still captures that WWII feel; it's not like it sounds like a 
 toy gun or anything.
  
  Value- 10/10: Like I said, you'll probably spend over 100 hours playing this game. But that only 
 goes if you don't have BFV or BF2. Or, if you have those games, but you don't like them as much 
 as BF42. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyboy04343
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  A very solid expansion pack to BF1942 for all fans, if a tad light-on in content. Very few games 
 have covered the Italian theatre of WW2 and Road to Rome gives a satisfying taste of these oft-forgotten 
 battles. But there are only six new maps, a handful of new vehicles, a couple of new small arms 
 - oh - and Free French and Italian troops of course.
  
  Gameplay:
  Great fun. WW2 fragging on land, sea, and air has been taken to a whole new level with the BF1942 
 series. Road to Rome will not disappoint hard-core fans looking to expand their battlefields.
 
  Husky (frantic beach assault) and Monte Cassino (storming a hilltop ruin) are the best maps, where 
 even the bots put up a good fight. Anti-tank guns make a welcome appearance. The new maps are mostly 
 well thought out and encourage greater teamwork.
  
  Graphics:
  Very solid as per the original game. Road to Rome offers a good presentation of the hilly Italian 
 landscape. New vehicles are nicely done. No new special effects, but the original ones still hold 
 up very well. Great physics continue to lend extra realism to the visual richness of BF1942.
  
  Sound:
  Very good. The sounds convey the dynamic chaos of war in a convincing fashion. There's 
 nothing quite like ducking desperately for cover behind a low wall, frightened out of your wits. 
 You can't see much but artillery shells are screaming just overhead, bullets are ricocheting about 
 your ears, and somehwere you hear the drone of a plane's engine and you wonder if it has seen you 
 cowering below. You never know quite when and how death is going to strike you in this game, but 
 you resolve to die gloriously at least. You stand up.. rallying your buddies for a valiant charge 
 when... you are struck between the eyeballs by a single fatal bullet. C'est la vie! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 road to Rome is the first expansion to the successful Battlefield series. Battlefield 
 1942 road to Rome has 6 new maps and all of the original Battlefield 1942 maps. There are also 
 new weapons, vehicles, and environments with this expansion. It would have been nice is there was 
 just a bit more of all of this, since lets face it, 6 maps and a few new vehicles and weapons just 
 doesnt cut it for an expansions, but fans will be pleased with the new maps for sure. The new maps 
 are both urban and rural and they are set in Italy. The Italian is the new Axis country you can 
 play as or go against. All of the new maps take place in Italy and for the most part, they are 
 all well intact. Battlefield 1942 road to Rome doesnt really mess with the Battlefield 1942 formula. 
 All of the maps have the same type of gameplay where you try to take each others flags and dominate 
 the map. Although it hasnt been messed with, it is worth noting that 6 maps arent too much for 
 an expansion. Although there are different types of tanks and jeeps that share the same looks the 
 Italians had in World War 2, and some Italian rifles and machine guns have been added, ultimately 
 Battlefield 1942 road to Rome just doesnt add a whole lot to the Battlefield universe. The graphics 
 for the most part, havent been messed with and still have the same looks as they did in the original 
 Battlefield 1942. Although they have aged a bit, some of the particle effects and explosions have 
 been tweaked, making a title that does stand out a bit more than its redecessor. Battlefield 1942 
 road to Rome has some excellent sound. With the weapons fire as good as ever, and huge explosions 
 that make you jump, Battlefield 1942 road to Rome adds to some great weapon sounds and explosions 
 that is something you would almost expect from a title like this. It is worth noting though that 
 there is no real music that plays, so since most of the maps are pretty big, it can oddly quiet 
 when all you hear is your own footsteps. Battlefield 1942 road to Rome is a worthy expansion that 
 fans of the series have already bought and are probably enjoying right now, and since most people 
 do love the Battlefield formula of capture the flag, most people probably will get this expansion. 
 As I said before, it would have been nice if there was a bit more to the expansion though. It would 
 have been nice if there was a bit more to the expansion though.
  
  Cover Artwork ~B+~ Better then Battlefield 1942 but still the same consept. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric121
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  This Game is the most War Game Addiction........ The missions are pretty Harder.... You need a 
 little bit of BRAINS to decide the way to tackle the hard & Real time situation........
  This game is done perfectly well in all aspects ie., From the point of view of the Story Line to 
 the End of the Game........
  
  This Game's Graphics is really good......
  It's Gameplay is Excellent.......... You won't feel like to QUIT..
  It's Sound is SIMPLY STUNNING........... 
 I Mean there is no words in my dictionary to explain about the MUSIC which is present in the game......
 
  
  The Time for Learning is not that tought........ You will be able to catch up the keys in the game 
 to use with not less than 30 Minutes of Dedication.......
  
  If You are a Person.... Who is interested in WORLD WAR.....& who want to know the Real Toughness 
 of WORLD WAR & How Important is the Life Of a Person In Real Life........ Then this is the game 
 which will tell you the TRUTH.................
  Overall... This game is AWSOME....... 
  SEE YOU ALL LATER WITH MORE GAMES........ TILL THEN GOODBYE.....
  ( BY :- ERIC121....) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 2, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  We generally expect new things to be added every time there is some sort of an expansion for a 
 game. Battlefield 1942 does just that as it brings in new vehicles and new maps for players to 
 play with within the game. Besides that the overall gameplay of the game itself is still quit ethe 
 same with its raging gunplay where you run around shooting the living day lights out of your foes. 
 When you die you can automatically respwan with little to no downtime which allows players to easy 
 get back into the fold to get revenge for probably getting shot in the pack in a previous life. 
 With different modes of play, this is definately a agme for someone who lives on the edge and wants 
 a game where causing chaos is what life is all about. I definately recommend this game for anyone 
 who has time to kill and wants to create a lot of chaos with the help of friends. The concept of 
 team work can be heavily emphasized in this game as there is no such thiing as a one man army, 
 no matter how good you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt5thboard
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Well, actually I was expecting more thing in this expansion pack but, what do they give,6 maps and 
 and the French and Italian Forces? Co mon', that's all, I was impressed by the new British submachine 
 Guns which is beetr tha the Thompson. There new vehicle's like the Grant 3, M10 and the mosquito 
 bomber. But the good thing is that they did not change the gameplay.
  
  In the multiplayer however, you can only play this expansion with another room with the same version, so 
 you can play with a battlefield 1942 player if you are using the Battlefield 1942: The Road To Rome. Kinda 
 sucks do ya?
  
  Overall, this expansion pack really is a good one but need to add more things in it to be really 
 called an expansion pack.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the first game in the series. Then they bring out the big guns, or tanks I should 
 say. The combination of foot missions, air assaults, and tank wars make this a must own on the 
 PC.
  
  When I jumped into my first plane and crashed into the ground about ten seconds later, I started 
 to question the makers of this one on their ability to make a set of worked vehicles. Then after 
 some practice, I was flying like an ace. Bombing destroyers is quite fun. My favorite thing to 
 do is to hide off somewhere away from the fighting and sneak up on unsuspecting targets. The sniper 
 rifle allows me to stay far enough away to not attract attention, but also pick people off without 
 taking any damage.
  
  If you have the first 1942, get this one as well. It is a great addition to the start of the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 road to Rome is the first expansion to the successful Battlefield series. Battlefield 
 1942 road to Rome has 6 new maps and all of the original Battlefield 1942 maps. There are also 
 new weapons, vehicles, and environments with this expansion. It would have been nice is there was 
 just a bit more of all of this, since lets face it, 6 maps and a few new vehicles and weapons just 
 doesnt cut it for an expansions, but fans will be pleased with the new maps for sure.
  
  The new maps are both urban and rural and they are set in Italy. The Italian is the new Axis country 
 you can play as or go against. All of the new maps take place in Italy and for the most part, they 
 are all well intact. 
  
  Battlefield 1942 road to Rome doesnt really mess with the Battlefield 1942 formula. All of the 
 maps have the same type of gameplay where you try to take each others flags and dominate the map. 
 Although it hasnt been messed with, it is worth noting that 6 maps arent too much for an expansion. 
 Although there are different types of tanks and jeeps that share the same looks the Italians had 
 in World War 2, and some Italian rifles and machine guns have been added, ultimately Battlefield 
 1942 road to Rome just doesnt add a whole lot to the Battlefield universe.
  
  The graphics for the most part, havent been messed with and still have the same looks as they 
 did in the original Battlefield 1942. Although they have aged a bit, some of the particle effects 
 and explosions have been tweaked, making a title that does stand out a bit more than its predecessor.
 
  
  Battlefield 1942 road to Rome has some excellent sound. With the weapons fire as good as ever, 
 and huge explosions that make you jump, Battlefield 1942 road to Rome adds to some great weapon 
 sounds and explosions that is something you would almost expect from a title like this. It is worth 
 noting though that there is no real music that plays, so since most of the maps are pretty big, 
 it can oddly quiet when all you hear is your own footsteps.
  
  Battlefield 1942 road to Rome is a worthy expansion that fans of the series have already bought 
 and are probably enjoying right now, and since most people do love the Battlefield formula of capture 
 the flag, most people probably will get this expansion. As I said before, it would have been nice 
 if there was a bit more to the expansion though. It would have been nice if there was a bit more 
 to the expansion though.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:41 pm PT
Review:  The Road to Rome adds a total of six different maps to Battlefield 1942, each of which is densely 
 populated with varying terrain features and some combination of the game's nine new vehicles. However, 
 the expansion doesn't add any new play modes to the original game -- the main modes are still deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, capture the flag, and conquest, although conquest, in which players on opposing 
 teams attempt to capture and hold control points on the map, remains the most popular mode in multiplayer 
 play. Battlefield 1942 is all about multiplayer and so is The Road to Rome -- though you certainly 
 can play the game offline with computer-controlled players, it just isn't the same as tearing across 
 a battlefield online with up to 63 other players at once.
  
  The Road to Rome's new features improve on some of the inherent imbalances in the original game. 
 For instance, the new maps are quite large, but they're a bit more balanced with respect to on-foot 
 and vehicle battles. One of the most exciting and enjoyable aspects of the original Battlefield 
 1942 is jumping into a vehicle and driving or flying into battle, but in many cases, such as on 
 the popular Wake Island map (in which both opposing teams have access to fighter planes and other 
 vehicles) , if your teammates and enemies grab all the nearest vehicles, you're basically out of 
 luck, forced to hoof it to the next base or to try bumming a ride from a teammate. The Road to 
 Rome's large maps are clearly laid out to encourage both vehicular and infantry skirmishes, since 
 they feature many open areas for vehicles to travel across, as well as many smaller, somewhat enclosed 
 areas for battles on foot, and they also have plenty of stationary machine-gun nests and antiair 
 guns so that if you get caught on foot, you won't always be at a great disadvantage against an 
 enemy in an armored vehicle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemasta456456
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This expansion is sorta disappointing... Roasd To Rome Is Not As good as Secret Weapons of WWII. 
 This multiplayer focused expansion for the all Famous Battlefield 1942 is actually the same as 
 all the others... The single Player is BORING but the multiplayer is good. The onlything new is 
 the Italian and French armies and their weapons, Plus some new cool vehicles like the American 
 halftrack mounted with a pretty BIG gun. Here are my "mixed reactions" to this game.
  
  Pros
  
  + Great multiplayer
  + New interesting weapons including the Sten
  + New Vehicles
 
  + The new armies are cool
  + The new maps are interesting
  
  Cons
  
  - The same as the other battlefields
  - No Campaign mode?!?!!?!?
  - Needs to add more new stuff
 
  - Like is said the singleplayer is BORING!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:19 pm PT
Review:  this game has just about everything you could ask for in an fps! and thats a fact.
  the whole concept of being able to respawn as different members of your team, as a differnet class 
 and in a different place is just immense. it no longer matters too much if you get rocvketed by 
 a tank, you simply respawn as an anti tank ,man and kick his german butt. the graphics are what 
 you would expecvt from a game like this, but its not relaly the graphics that matter, i dont care 
 rally, its the gmapelkay that does it for me. although there is no story to the campaign mode, 
 you dont need one, you dont even need to read the intro to the msisions, you simply get the idea 
 that its take the ene, y flags and kill em all until they run out of lives, its great! then you 
 get to the multiplayer, what can i say, its revolutionary because its so much bloomin fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 5:07 am PT
Review:  Well, I didnt expect this one after first (best in series by the way) expansion pack Secret 
 Weapons of WW II. But for WW II shooter fans this is another expansion for their collection. It 
 worth to be played and collected. 
  It has got great multiplayer and a few modifications to the vehicles. I liked also gameplay, there 
 was addition to this game, and you know you always fight with nacist but here you fight with fascist 
 as well. I must say that road to hill was definitely tough one. I would say I spent more time to 
 finish this game than other BF 1942 games. 
  But at the end I really felt that this was good. 
  
  Enjoy your game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swamprat_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2005 7:07 am PT
Review:  Very good expansion to an already great game.
  
  The only reason why I wouldn't recommend this game is that some of the modern combat mods to the 
 original Battlefield game are more fun than the World War II setting.
  
  Otherwise this is a very good expansion. If you liked the first game, then you probably will like 
 this one. Though, if you didn't like the first game, this isn't going to change your mind or anything 
 like that.
  
  I'm not that good at these games, but they are fun to play.
  
  I still have the same complaint as in the first game. The single-player battles are atrocious. 
 The bots simply suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 28, 2005 7:21 pm PT
Review:  So let me reiterate my feelings on this expansion (note: gift from family member along with the 
 original) This series stinks! Thank God I didn't subject myself to much to trying to endure this 
 game. 
  
  So the review:
  That is no understatement. I originally got this game after it had been out for about 5 months 
 and can say right now that the online game play was the worst. The spawn points were choke hazards 
 which usually ment a well placed grenade into the spawn resulted in five to ten deaths on some 
 of the larger maps. Granted this game gave you the ability to pilot different vehicles which could 
 be fun at times but dangerous at others.
  
  The single player is ment as a warm up to what the online play will be like. I wish I could say 
 it prepared me for the spawn camping and slow server connections, but it didn't. Instead I was 
 introduced to some of the most gruesome online play I had ever experienced.
  
  OK, quick notes.
  Graphics: OK to good.
  Sound: OK.
  Gameplay: Low to OK.
  
  I really 
 don't feel like giving this much more energy as it was not worth my time or yours. 
  
  End of Review.
  
  Oh yeah, I don't feel like wasting precious time on typing out what was already 
 said in a previous review. This expansion offers nothing to fix the problems from the first game. 
 So IMO that makes it worst than the original since in my mind, an expansion should be addressing 
 concerns and issues from the first. Not adding new maps, vehicles and terrains to an already bad 
 situation. So as a result, my scores will be even lower for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satori
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 11, 2005 3:09 am PT
Review:  Wow, is all I had to say after playing Road to Rome. I think the entire thing was over priced for 
 the few maps I got, but so what, it's a great addition. 
  The only negative thing would pass on is that I have to say that I was a little disappointed with 
 the lack of Canadian forces in the road to rome battles. That's not much negative really. The addition 
 of a 2 seat German bomber and the oh so fantastic mosquito was pretty great. Flown by a good pilot 
 the Mosquito can beat most fighter pilots. The maps felt very European, a nice touch after seeing 
 so many ww2 games that feel like WW2 is happening in North America. 
  Great add-on for a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2004 11:16 am PT
Review:  Same review for this expansion as for secret weapons... just not enough going on here to make it 
 a worth while addition.
  
  It's a good addition to the series, and has some new interesting gameplay tweeks, but the fact 
 is, you just don't need it. The original game is as good as it comes, and while the new add ons 
 to the game are kind of interesting, they just aren't anything fabulous. You'll also find a lack 
 of servers running any of the maps for the expansions. This is just another instance of EA squeezing 
 as many pennies out of their customers as possible.
  
  If you're new to the Battlefield series, may as well get it in the 3 for 1 pack, but otherwise, 
 don't bother with this add on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punker_Gamer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 31, 2004 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I found this game at $9.99 so i have to say that it's a great value. Now we have the Italian campaign 
 to play in BF1942. It's the usual BF1942 fun, but nothing really new except for a few vehicles 
 and some nice new maps. Hard to find servers for this game, but once you do, it's really fun. I'm 
 running this game on a 6800 GT so the graphics are as clean and sharp as they can be. The sound 
 affects are just like the original, the guns sound fairly unrealistic, but besides that some good 
 sounds. If you have BF1942 and want a little more of it, for 10 bucks by all means pick up Road 
 to Rome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2004 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Great expansion, however i didn't like this as much as secret weapons of WW2 expansion. It's a 
 great add-on (the first add-on for the series) and it adds some new elements that the orignal Battlefield 
 1942 game didn't have, There are some glitches (but hey, doesn't every game have atleast 1 glitch?) , 
 but it's a fun game, it's not a single player game, it's more for the multiplayer then anything 
 else, so it's not really for people who have dial up. For fans of first person shooters, this is 
 a great way (and easy way) to play for hours and hours online. I recommend this expansion for any 
 bf 1942 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstarTS
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2004 3:15 am PT
Review:  OkListen up everyone! Ill tell you about this game. 
  
  This wont take long. If you dont know already, this is an expansion to the original Battlefield 
 1942. It adds a few more maps and vehicles to an already fantastic game. However, even though the 
 new maps and vehicles are a great addition in my opinion, you wont see hardly any of then used 
 in online games. Its mostly all the original bf1942 maps. I'm not exaclty sure why. Probably because 
 the orignal maps are just better. So if you get this game youll probably be playing the new maps 
 by yourself or on some LAN (good luck getting that many people together) . I still think its worth 
 buying because the expansion has been out long enough that you can get it pretty cheap (around 
 $10 or less on ebay) . 
  
  So despite the fact that you may not play it online much, for the price tag its still worth getting 
 just to say that you have it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barren_CPM4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 25, 2003 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Overall, BF1942 R2R is a great game. Given that most creative users have sound prolems and the 
 game only runs well when played on fast computers. I, however, don't have the sound problems with 
 the Creative Audigy card, and I have a pretty powerful gaming rig. So I have no complaints about 
 this game, except that round after round of "Aim and Shoot" can get boring after a bit. I am quite 
 generous with my ratings seems as how I am really into first person shooters for the time being. 
 BF1942 is what I have transitioned to after years of Half Life's Counter Strike. And the switch 
 has been well worth it, even though Counter Strike remains a good game. So until Counter Strike 
 Condition Zero is released, BF1942, in my humble opinion, will remain the online FPS of choice. 
 Good job DICE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrinReaper
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2003 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. I recommend it to anyone. The new maps are fun and exciting. The multiplayer 
 on a lan makes this a must buy. With the AI fixes in the latest patch 1.3.1 the bots are much more 
 realistic. If you have a home lan try playing multiplayer co-op and have a differnt computer host 
 the game. I have a PIII 1.1 Laptop with 512 Ram hosting and I can have 50 bots and have it still 
 run smooth. Also there are maps on bf1942files. com they are a lot of fun also. Pick this game up 
 and play at lan parties! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
