-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battles in Normandy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/battlesinnormandy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  8, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.9, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 59 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Matrix Games
Developer: Strategic Studies
Genre: Wargame
Date:     Sep 13, 2004

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you like wargames and can stomach the price, Battles in Normandy definitely provides enough entertainment 
 to earn its keep 

  Take one of the best operational-level World War II wargame engines ever devised, improve it, and 
 cross it with one of the most compelling campaigns in military history, and you get Battles in 
 Normandy, the latest entry in SSG's Decisive Battles series. The new game has the same basic engine 
 and gameplay as The Ardennes Offensive and Korsun Pocket, but it incorporates several improvements, 
 including a deadlier computer opponent, a streamlined interface, and much better in-game support, 
 which can be relied on to present answers to most questions with simple mouse-overs.  

          There's nothing better than a hex-based wargame that doesn't rely on generic terrain tiles. 
     

  This turn-based wargame lets players invade (or defend) Normandy in multiple campaigns and scenarios, 
 and many enhancements to the combat engine were made to handle the unique aspects of this epic 
 clash. Naval units can now bombard the coast, which dovetails nicely with a new amphibious operation 
 component that was added to handle the D-Day beach assaults. Fail to clear a path with the US Navy 
 and the boys on the ground are hit hard when they disembark from their landing crafts. The system 
 is specifically devised so that infantry units are more likely to survive an initial assault than 
 are artillery or antitank gun units, which forces players to make realistic decisions regarding 
 the order in which units land.  

  Aircraft were vital components in the Normandy war machines, and their importance is reflected 
 in this game through interdiction and carpet bombing capabilities. Interdiction existed in previous 
 editions of this series, letting players commit aircraft to disrupting the enemy's supply lines, 
 and here the interdiction model is improved because of changes in the antiaircraft system. The 
 Allies have overwhelming air support, but the Germans can somewhat diminish its effects by committing 
 antiaircraft assets to areas affected by interdiction strikes. This causes some tough decisions 
 for the German player, who needs to decide whether antiaircraft assets are needed more in the rear 
 (to blunt interdiction strikes) or on the front lines (where they were historically used to blast 
 Allied tanks) . Carpet bombing is only available at certain times during certain scenarios, and 
 it's tremendously useful for softening up large groups of units. You just have to be careful not 
 to hit your own troops in the process.  

  This is obviously a complex game, requiring players to make tough decisions at every turn, but 
 the excellent interface makes things much less complicated than they could be. Combat is driven 
 by underlying CRTs (Combat Result Tables) , which are spreadsheets that show the battle odds for 
 various types of terrain. A little luck is added by incorporating dice rolls during combat to spice 
 things up. However, as the game progresses, players always have enough information to know if they 
 are making well-informed decisions, taking calculated risks, or gambling wildly.  

          Combat result tables may look complex, but they are very easy to read with a little practice. 
     

  If looking up combat odds sounds tedious, don't worry. The combat advisor feature that made previous 
 entries in this series so manageable is back. With one click, players can instantly see the overall 
 odds for all possible combat, which are overlaid directly on the game's map. This reduces reams 
 of data to single, meaningful points that are easy to understand but challenging to act upon. For 
 example, seeing good initial odds in several areas along the front doesn't necessarily mean that 
 you can punch through all of those areas on a single turn, because if you commit enough resources 
 to a single attack to put the odds in your favor, it takes those resources away from some of the 
 other areas and shifts the overall odds in further attacks. Also, taking advantage of high-odds 
 attack situations isn't always the best choice, because it can leave the attacker exposed, or it 
 can cause a breach in your lines, which is never a good thing. The real challenge in this game 
 comes from collecting enough units in one spot to successfully attack a weak spot in the enemy's 
 line -- but without spreading your forces too thin elsewhere. And here the combat advisor helps you 
 to avoid costly mistakes.     

  An excellent set of tutorial scenarios is included, but veterans of previous editions can get an 
 immediate feel for some of the changes by jumping into a smaller scenario, like the amphibious 
 assault on Omaha Beach. This is a 10-turn assault that takes an hour or less to play but provides 
 an excellent overview of how the system works. We played from the American perspective, so we bombarded 
 both shore and inland strongpoints with tremendous barrages from offshore destroyers, cruisers, 
 and battleships before bringing the ground forces across the English Channel. Our initial wave 
 of infantry, tanks, recon vehicles, artillery, and antiaircraft guns made it ashore with surprisingly 
 little difficulty, quickly carving out a beachhead and clearing a path for the inevitable reinforcements. 
 Things went very well, until we decided to intentionally create a small gap in our lines to see 
 what the AI would do.  

          The combat advisor tells you the odds for all possible combat situations and dramatically 
 simplifies gameplay.     

  The results were immediate and dramatic. When it became the German team's move, German units poured 
 through the gap and into our rear echelon, where they wreaked havoc among our helpless artillery 
 and antiaircraft units. They quickly brought tanks up to apply pressure on our front-line troops, 
 and although we managed to push ahead somewhat and established a modicum of cohesiveness in our 
 main line, the damage was already done. A few of the units on our extreme right and left flanks 
 were encircled, and with their vital supply line severed, they quickly exhausted their ammunition 
 and died miserably. Moreover, our main force had forged ahead too far in the center and was also 
 cut off from the supply line as German units swarmed toward the beach. It's nice to see a system 
 where real-world weaknesses, like the one we created, are not only exploited by the AI, but also 
 are available for human players to exploit.  

  Graduates of the smaller scenarios can take on larger challenges, like the full, 32-turn Operation 
 Overlord scenario, which plays out on an enormous map of northern France that extends from Cherbourg 
 in the northwest to Argentan (and a bit farther south) in the southeast.  

  The graphics are excellent for a wargame. The topographical maps have a pseudo-3D look and are 
 detailed enough that you can easily tell what type of terrain you are about to move into. If there 
 is any doubt at all, you can simply right-click a hex to see a pop-up window that contains the 
 terrain type, roads and rivers that affect the hex, and other information. The nicest aspect of 
 the map is that the entire thing is handcrafted, so instead of using generic terrain hexes that 
 would give the game the look of an old-school board game, each hex flows together to create more-organic-looking 
 graphics. The game doesn't run in a window, which is actually a boon, because it scales to fit 
 any size monitor (using either 1024x768 or 1280x1024 resolution) and looks great even on the 21-inch 
 display we used during most of our testing.  

  Unit graphics are sharp and legible and contain a great deal of information, despite their small 
 sizes. Players should get familiar with standard NATO unit symbols to get the most out of the game, 
 but mousing-over, clicking, or right-clicking on a unit brings up enough information that anyone 
 can keep their troops sorted out. Sounds effects are limited to typical wargame battle and movement 
 sound bites, and the score consists of some decent period music.  

          The included scenario is very powerful, and some people in the community have already released 
 monster, 72-turn campaigns.     

  The developer was nice enough to include an updated version of The Ardennes Offensive in this package, 
 which takes full advantage of the new rules and tweaks. Only the main, 28-turn battle is included -- there 
 are no smaller scenarios -- but it comes with its own map and adds a great deal of value to this 
 package. If that's not enough, any of the included scenarios can be completely customized in the 
 included battle editor.  

  Despite all of the content that is included, the game's relatively steep price is its main drawback. 
 It is sold only through Matrix Games, so price drops are unexpected. Additionally, for the money, 
 it's a shame that the game doesn't come with any printed documentation, because the full-color 
 PDF versions of the manual and the tutorial handbooks look terrific. If you like wargames and can 
 stomach the cost, however, Battles in Normandy definitely provides enough entertainment to earn 
 its keep.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Prophet1980
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 21, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best wargames of 2004 and should not be missed by anyone with a vauge interest 
 in WW2 Turn Based strategy games.
  
  It beats bigger named titles like Hearts Of Iron and Axis and Allies into the ground.
  
  Such 
 a shame then that this game has been overlooked by the majority. Why? Because smaller developers 
 simply cannot afford to market their games as widely as they would like. Publishers Matrix Games 
 are partly to blame for this however.
  
  Once you get past the tutorial which to be fair, is rather heavy going, you will find this game 
 to be absoloutely fantastic. You wont be able to put it down. You will find a simple to play, difficult 
 to master game under the hood, where every battle outcome is decided by an odds table dice roll. 
 This makes for some tense stand offs.
  
  Never before has a hex based WW2 game looked so pretty. The graphics are a joy to behold in their 
 own way. My only niggle with the DB series is the sound. Authentic sounding WW2 music really isnt 
 my thing and the sound effects arnt anything to write home about. But you can tun the music off 
 anyway so its no real problem. Not only is this a game, its also a history lesson. Every division 
 that was there in normandy is here in this game.
  
  The computer AI when turned up slightly is a very cunning opponent and is a worthy adversary in 
 single player.
  
  The fun really kicks in when you discover the RUN5 community and start playing against other human 
 opponents via PBEM games.
  
  The community is really thriving at the minute and with the custom scenarios like market garden 
 and operation typhoon, the DB series really is something you shouldnt be missing. Do yourself a 
 favour, go check the DB series out over at http://www. ssg. com. au you wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
