-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlefield 2: Armored Fury
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/battlefield2armoredfury/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Forget the desert The battle now shifts to America's suburbs and highways.
 The new levels are well designed and a welcome change of scenery.
 The new scout helicopters and ground-attack aircraft are integrated well and don't unbalance the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The game engine shows its limitations in that it can create pretty environments but interacting with them is another issue.
 If server adoption is the same as with Euro Force, the first booster pack, then don't expect to see this content on any of your favorite servers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  6, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.7, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 874 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Digital Illusions
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     2006

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The global war of Battlefield 2 arrives on American shores, and this new booster pack delivers some 
 great new battlefields. With that said, the big question is going to be how many servers will adopt 
 this new content. 

  If you find yourself missing the brief Reagan-era invasion genre of the 1980s ( Red Dawn ,  Invasion 
 U. S. A. ) , then here comes Battlefield 2: Armored Fury, the second booster pack for EA's popular 
 multiplayer action game. Like the first booster pack, Battlefield 2: Euro Force, Armored Fury is 
 a moderately priced collection of new maps for Battlefield 2 that's available for purchase and 
 download online only through EA. In Armored Fury, the global war between the United States, China, 
 and the fictional Middle Eastern Coalition finally shifts to American soil, as China tries to seize 
 the Alaskan oil fields while the MEC storms the Eastern seaboard to seize the capital. While that 
 does sound a bit farfetched, it's nothing more than an excuse to battle it out among America's 
 suburbs and highways. And like with Euro Force, Armored Fury has plenty of good content for a decent 
 price, though the big question is will Battlefield 2 fans bite?  

          Armored Fury is the second booster pack for Battlefield 2, which means that you'll need 
 to own that game in order to enjoy the three new maps set on American soil.     

  Armored Fury packs three new maps that are a refreshing change of pace from the desert battles 
 of Battlefield 2. In Midnight Sun, the Chinese attack over the Bering Straight and race to seize 
 the Alaskan port of Valdez, a strategically important source of crude oil. This is a fairly confined 
 level, as the map is defined by narrow roads that carve through a river valley. Meanwhile, the 
 MEC keeps America's defenders -- already stretched thin by the global war -- busy on the East Coast. 
 In Operation Road Rage, the MEC battles to control a critical highway junction, while in Operation 
 Harvest, the fight shifts to the rolling hills and pastoral farms of Pennsylvania Dutch country. 
 These are more open battlefields and really embrace Armored Fury's emphasis on tanks, armored personnel 
 carriers, and mobile antiaircraft guns. The emphasis is on vehicles, and you'll definitely be most 
 effective behind the wheels of something. At the same time, infantry aren't completely helpless, 
 thanks to some clever use of the terrain and the environment. There are plenty of woody copses 
 that hide infantry in Operation Harvest, while concrete highway barriers offer a way to stay out 
 of sight in Operation Road Rage.  

  We must note that while these new environments are pretty, some of the limitations of the engine 
 shine through. For example, it's frustrating to see 60-ton armored vehicles come to a sudden halt 
 when hitting a white picket fence or a hay bale, especially since you can still knock over flimsy 
 objects such as road signs. This wasn't a problem in Battlefield 2, since there are few white picket 
 fences or hay bails in the desert or the Chinese levels, but here it can be annoying, especially 
 after your APC blows up for slamming into a wooden fence!  

  Though Armored Fury doesn't introduce a new army (like Euro Force did) , it does introduce a couple 
 of new vehicle classes: light helicopters and ground-attack aircraft. And while the addition of 
 even more airpower might elicit a groan at first, especially since airpower is unbalanced in Battlefield 
 2, these new aircraft actually fit in well. The scout helicopters are quite fun to fly and considerably 
 easier to control than their larger and heavier counterparts. Though armed with a light canon that's 
 suitable only for killing infantry and soft vehicles, the scout helicopter can be dangerous if 
 used correctly. Two passengers can ride on either side of the helicopter and drop C4 charges or 
 mines onto targets below, while the scout helicopter's detection ability (it's just like a UAV, 
 though with a smaller scan radius) can make it useful for spotting enemy infantry trying to avoid 
 detection. On the flip side, though maneuverable, the scout helicopter is very fragile, and it 
 can be knocked down without too much effort, which is good news for Battlefield 2 players with 
 nightmares of helicopter gunships that will not die.  

  The ground-attack aircraft can also be potent in the right hands. To help with the aiming, vehicle 
 targets appear boxed in on the heads-up display, which gives you enough time to line up a shot. 
 Also making things easier is the fact that the ground-attack aircraft are slower than the regular 
 fighter jets. However, this also makes these mud movers more vulnerable to antiaircraft fire, and 
 thankfully, there are plenty of antiaircraft missiles and vehicles on these levels. There are also 
 lots of TOW missile emplacements, which are incredibly useful for killing scout helicopters or 
 helicopters hovering over a flag.  

  It's also worth nothing that you can commandeer civilian vehicles in Armored Fury, though the selection 
 is a bit weird. Considering that the United States is a nation full of sport utility vehicles, 
 there are none in the game. However, you can jump into a muscle car or a big rig. These civilian 
 vehicles aren't armed, and passengers can't even shoot from the shotgun position, so their presence 
 comes off as gimmicky, at best.  

          There are civilian vehicles that you can commandeer, such as this muscle car. It's a bit 
 hokey, though.     

  Armored Fury doesn't feature any improvements to the graphics, aside from the larger color palette 
 at use in these new levels. After endless battles in the desert, the cool green hills of the American 
 heartland are refreshing. The audio remains unchanged, save for the fact that longtime Battlefield 
 fans will welcome the return of the classic Battlefield 1942 musical theme in updated form. After 
 all, these are basically all the same vehicles and weapons from Battlefield 2.  

  There's no question that Armored Fury has some interesting new levels to battle around. The bigger 
 question is just how valuable will this booster pack be? While Euro Force, the first booster pack, 
 also packed lots of great content, the sheer fact remains that there are only a handful of servers 
 that feature Euro Force levels today, most of those run by EA. The vast majority of servers hosted 
 by clans and other third parties skipped Euro Force so as to not alienate anyone in the player 
 base. If the same goes for Armored Fury, then odds are you'll only find a handful of servers that 
 support this booster pack. That's a pity, too, because American battlefields are something the 
 Battlefield 2 community has wanted since day one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (35 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  Just a year after the release of Battlefield 2, EA is ready to release the second of their booster 
 packs, Armored Fury. As the title suggests, Armored Fury puts an emphasis on tank combat but that 
 doesn't mean that there's not plenty of fun to be had by grunts and flyboys. Armored Fury isn't 
 quite as massive a pack as last year's Special Forces but its new maps and new vehicles (not to 
 mention its ten-dollar price tag) make it a very attractive proposition for Battlefield 2 players. 
 
  
  The new booster pack finally brings the fight to the United States. After fighting in far-flung 
 lands, the US Marine Corps find themselves defending America from a two-pronged attack. The Chinese 
 have landed in Alaska and are preparing to seize an important port complete with its oil pipeline. 
 Meanwhile, the MEC have landed on the East Coast where they're struggling to gain control of the 
 rivers and highways that will lead them to Washington, DC. There are three new maps here, each 
 of which depicts a unique area in the conflict. While it would have been nice to see fights taking 
 place in familiar locations like San Francisco or Washington, DC, the maps in the booster pack 
 make for some intense fighting in familiar surroundings. 
  In Operation Midnight Sun, players take part in a nighttime invasion of an Alaskan port. The Chinese 
 have established a beachhead at Valdez and are now pushing inland. After securing a nearby town, 
 the Chinese have to push across a wide river to seize positions held by the US Marines. While planning 
 their own assault across the river, the Marines will also have to consider how to defend the massive 
 pipeline and oil refineries near their starting location. 
  
  Operation Harvest sees the MEC pushing through Pennsylvania Dutch country. The fight will rage 
 across vast wheat fields, amid quaint farmhouses and silos and even a grain loading operation near 
 a railroad line. Visually, it's the best level of the bunch, perfectly capturing the feeling that 
 you're fighting for land that is undeniably American. As an added treat, there are some massive 
 storm clouds overhead. Though it doesn't affect the gameplay, it adds tons to the flavor of the 
 level. Things are very intense in Operation Road Rage. Here the MEC and the USMC are fighting over 
 a crucial highway that grants access to a number of important targets on the East Coast. The whole 
 map is dominated by a massive cloverleaf intersection and a long stretch of highway. The flag in 
 the middle is on an elevated section of highway making it very hard to sneak your way onto it. 
 As long as the defender can defend in both directions, you're basically stuck with gaining the 
 objective through sheer weight of numbers. Though that's the main objective, fighting is sure to 
 spill over into a number of surrounding areas, from the crowded strip mall to a pleasant suburb 
 development. 
  Over the last few days EA has been hosting matches for industry types. From our experience in those 
 matches, these new maps are just as balanced and exciting as the existing ones. We had many back 
 and forth matches where the winning side only had a handful of tickets left. There are bound to 
 be small imbalances that appear once thousands and thousands of people start playing but, so far, 
 the new maps seem very even. 
  
  Though Armored Fury is a tank-focused game, that doesn't mean that infantry can't be effective. 
 Sure, they still can't go toe-to-toe with a T90, but with a little forethought and a little caution, 
 there's no reason an infantry soldier can't stay alive long enough to make a difference on the 
 battlefield. The designers have made it easy on the poor infantry by providing lots and lots of 
 cover at each flag point. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  10 - 4 = as before described in the main battlefield 2
  
  10 - 1 = Again, EU refers to British Army, right? if it is so, how the hell on earth did the Germany 
 Leopard Tank L2A6 gets involved in the Euro Fighters? IMAO! Because British Army uses Challenger 
 2 main battle tank which it is a joint venture R & D with Germany. Reason : Voice is British Accent. 
 And I still prefer UK Challenger 2 tank. 
  Also, UK army does not uses buddy vehicle, hummer and APC Lav25. lol. VERY few MAPs!
  
  10 
 - 1 = Unpopular with consumer due to online download. Wondering who the oversmarted Dog poo's ideal 
 of using EA's downloader Manager to purchase this boaster pack? Reason can tell from the Multiplayer 
 mode is not popular with the ranked server around the globe because customer alway prefer to own 
 thing physically after purchasing. BF2 and BF2 Special Forces are more popular on the multiplayer 
 ranked server. Don't like the connection account when using this game. Prefer log in when going 
 for multiplayer mode. Prefer not to log in for casual single play cos good for those does not connect 
 online 247/365
  
  10 + 2.5 = Finally, this expansion is merged with the main BF2 except BF2 special force. Wondering 
 why EA does not patch the BF 2 Special Force to merge with the main BF2?
  
  10 + 2 = Great Armoured Fury Warfare, great armour warfighting. Vast landscape of playing. Great 
 single play mode.
  
  Therefore : 
  10 - 4 - 1 - 1 + 2.5 + 2 = 8.5 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunder350
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  The maps are awesome and I love playing ALL of them. What surprises me most is how wide open the 
 maps are in this booster. When EA said we were going to be fighting on American soil, I was thinking 
 it would be inside major cities with tons of skyscrapers and unlimited hiding spaces. I thought 
 it would be a snipers paradise. Thats not the case in AF. The Eastern coastal map has a a huge highway 
 that runs down the center of it, It's so wide open, I swear we're playing two games here instead 
 of one. My next favorite is the night map. It's got a ton of wooded areas and snow. But what I 
 like about it, is that to get in certain areas, the roads are extremely narrow. So when the enemy 
 comes rolling on in with their tank convoy, your squad can setup a perfect (and fun) ambush! It 
 really sucks for snipers though. The nozzle flash will give you away quicker than an informant. 
 The last map is set in the country. I like this map too because (again) it's so wide open. The 
 only reason I rank it third is because there aren't enough vehicles on it. And when they called 
 this booster Armored Fury, believe me, it is because theres tanks everywhere. I really wish there 
 were more maps, but these 3 are fun enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Armored Fury is another booster pack that adds three new maps to Battlefield 2. This booster however 
 does not include a new faction or new weapons.
  
  This booster packs brings back the American team as the battle starts to take place in America. 
 The three maps are really fun to play on, and it is good to see the American team back in Battlefield. 
 This booster pack is short like Euro Forces so it does not last long, and this expansion also addes 
 directly to Battlefield 2. The maps in this game are a lot of fun to play on, and will keep entertained 
 for a while.
  
  The graphics still look good like in all the other Battlefield 2's, but the graphics are started 
 to look dated, and the sound still sounds great.
  
  If you want some new maps, or the American team back then you should play Battlefield 2 Armored 
 Fury. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beowulf2525
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Great new vehicles and maps add for instant action. However, just like Special Forces, 
 this booster pack adds nothing new except those two things. Even more disappointing is the lack 
 of online servers. Out of the 700 + servers, maybe 10 +/- run this game.
  
  Graphics: As stated earlier, nothing has improved since Special Forces.
  
  Sound: Nothing new 
 other than the sounds for new vehicles. Overall, it's a slightly disappointing booster pack to 
 the popular BF2 series. With more time and effort, it could've been a truly incredible game. Don't 
 get me wrong, it's a nice addition to your arsenal of BF2. But no guarantees that you'll use it 
 very often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RangerG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I have played every expansion pack, booster pack and BF2 vanilla but this is my favorite of them 
 all to play. The largness of each map is simply amazing, and the fact that you are virtually never 
 without a vehicle to get you places is a relief. But of course because of the fact that it is a 
 Battlefield game means that you will always be competing for air vehicles.
  
  there are three maps, Operation Road Rage, Operation Harvest, and Midnight Sun. I personally enjoy 
 Operation Harvest and Midnight Sun more than Operation Road Rage. Operation Harvest:
  
  Pro's:
  -Two bridges in the middle of the map that can end up being a good stalemate point.
 
  -Only One Attack Chopper and one Recon Chopper per side
  -Good cover for tanks and snipers
  
  Con's:
  -MEC has a captureable base to start while the 
 US has a non-captureable base
  -Tons of trees and AA which make helicopter hell
  
  Operation Road Rage:
  
  Pro's:
  -A unique turnpipe in the center of the map which makes a 
 deciding point to capture
  -Many good ambush positions for Engineers and Spec-ops -You can find and drive a semi-truck which 
 won't help you at all but is fun to drive... go heavy on the horn
  
  Con's:
  -Two jets per side which at times can be overpowered
  -Recon chopper that does virtually nothing 
 on this map
  
  Midnight Sun:
  
  Pro's: -night time setting that is totally unique to BF2 (except Special Forces)
  -A muscle car 
 that you can find and drive
  -Battles split between a river
  
  Con's:
  -Too many AA vehicles and stationary AA for the amount of vehicles
  
  New Vehicles
  -OH-6 
 Littlebird Recon Chopper for the USA
  -EC-635 Recon Chopper for the MEC and PLA
  -Semi-truck
  -Muscle Car
  -A-10 Warthog (Thunderbolt II) Attack Bomber for USA
  -Su-39 Attack 
 Bomber for MEC -Fantan Q-5 Attack Bomber for PLA
  
  On the homepage for BF2, www. battlefield2. com it includes the WZ-11 attack chopper which may have 
 been used for the Chinese army. The WZ-11 was not used in the game.
  
  The only new award in this booster pack is the North American Service Ribbon. It is awarded for 
 25 hours playing Armored Fury.
  
  I believe it is the most fun BF2 expansion or booster pack to date and I can't seem to get enough 
 of it.
  
  9.5
  RangerG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  including four new vehicals and four new maps, armored fury adds a punch to battlefield 2. the 
 story is america is being invaded by china and MEC Forces. fighting for a foothold in their own 
 country, american troops are on the defensive. the americans have enrolled two new tank mobiles 
 in the hope of getting the edge on the enemy. i have played battlefield 2 for many years now and 
 having new maps and vehicals to play is great fun and refreshes your interest in the game. if you 
 want a more extensive review than look at my original review on battlefield 2. also available is 
 Euroforce and Special Forces Expansions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 29, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  After testing the waters with the previous booster pack for Battlefield 2, Euro Force, EA decided 
 to put out another booster pack, Armored Fury. Like before, this booster pack features a few new 
 things that are optional to purchase, and it costs $10 over their EA Link service. Of course, if 
 you fear digital distribution or something, you can buy the Booster Pack collection which features 
 this and Euro Force for a nifty (but still pricey) $20.
  
  Unlike Euro Force, which added a completely new faction, Armored Fury relies more on the other 
 aspects of the game, such as new vehicles and maps. Like in Battlefield 2, you're still playing 
 as the United States Marine Corps versus the Middle Eastern Coalition and the People's Liberation 
 Army of China. Like with Euro Force, there are only three maps. The maps themselves now take on 
 locations that resemble areas in the United States (which is funny, because this was developed 
 by a Canadian studio) , including a highway on the east coast ( Operation Road Rage ) , an Alaskan 
 oil refinery ( Midnight Sun ) , and Midwestern farmland ( Operation Harvest ) . I have to mention 
 something about the vehicles in Armored Fury. The vehicles are interesting, because you can drive 
 cars and a semi-trailer truck, which are really only useful for transport purposes. Driving the 
 big rig is very entertaining. See gamers, there is a game where driving a big rig is actually fun 
 and not extremely bugged!
  
  As opposed to the other expansions and Battlefield 2 itself, Armored Fury's approach is, well, 
 more towards Armored Fury. There are Jets that deploy dumb bombs, one for each class (The A10 Thunderbolt, 
 Q5 Fantan and Frogfoot for USMC, PLA and MEC respectively) , and scout helicopters for reconnaissance. 
 Armored Fury relies more heavily on tanks and APCs than any other Battlefield 2 expansion, so fans 
 of infantry (servers with no vehicles) might have a hard time enjoying this expansion.
  
  While the sound is the same as Battlefield 2, Armored Fury introduces new load screen music. This 
 load screen is the absolute biggest homage to Battlefield 1942's load screen music I have ever 
 heard. That's not necessarily bad, because the rendition is actually pretty damn good, and should've 
 been in Battlefield 2 itself.
  
  Like the previous booster pack, Armored Fury is basically a small map pack that's played through 
 the main Battlefield 2 program. Which features the same problems as Battlefield 2: Long load times 
 if your computer is weak, slowdown, freezing and the weak single player component. This is not 
 surprising, but it's not like they could improve it with these small handful of maps.
  
  Should you buy Armored Fury? For new load screen music, three new maps and only a smattering of 
 new vehicles, no. This should've had more meat to it, or if anything, sold it for less than $10. 
 Like Euro Force, you should only get this if you want to have all the Battlefield 2 games in your 
 collection, and/or to get the corresponding badges and medals for doing this particular campaign. 
 Otherwise, you'll be fine without it.
  
  Pros: New maps, vehicles, awesome load screen music.
  Cons: Not enough content to justify the 
 $10 price tag, flaws in Battlefield 2 (load times, lagging) appear in here like a bad cold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-boy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  maps most is fast pace action is operation road **** that map focus on tanks battles, tthat map 
 is not too big or too small great for tanks battles.
  Amor fury is great place to rank up in armor combat or antitank or avitor. Second map that I liked 
 is operation harves this map is liked bocage in f bf1942 has only armor vehiches and helicoper
 
  thrird map that I dont like is midnight sun is very unbalce map for infantry and armor vehicles, 
 this great expacion for you looking for vehicle comat. There a few server playing this game , maps 
 are like bf 1942 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkthewindow
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 6, 2007 2:36 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 was a great game, but after a few months, it just became, enter map, frag, kill random, 
 exit map, get promotion. As you can guess, that becomes rather boring after a while. That is the 
 point in Battlefield 2: Armored Fury. It is not an expansion pack, and it can only be purchased 
 online, or in the Battlefield 2 Booster Pack Collection.
  
  Anyway, unlike Euro Force, Armored Fury does not add any new armies or weapons, but it does add 
 new cars, helicopters and airplanes. Driving around American harvest country in a a civillian car 
 is a total blast. Trust me :) .
  
  The maps are good, not as good as the original Battlefield 2, but they add new life, which was 
 the point in this booster pack. The maps range from an Alascan oil pipeline, to a highway, to Dutch 
 farm country. Unlike Battlefield 2, the maps in Armored Fury are about tanks, and tank battles.
 
  
  Midnight Sun is a map set in Alaska, and is a good map. US and Chinese forces are entrentched on 
 two sides of a river, and must try to capture the outposts on the other side, in the double assault. 
 Operation Road Rage is a map that takes place along a highway in America. The US start out in a 
 small suburb\village, and the MEC spawn in a mall. Both sides need to take several CP's, one of 
 which is a highway, and several typical American features.
  
  Operation Harvest is the gem of Armored Fury. It takes place in Dutch farm country, and takes place 
 along open fields, with several open areas for tank battles, and many more for that annoying anti-tank 
 to hide :P. The only bad thing, is that the massive amounts of tanks will own the lone infantry.
 
  
  The Battlefield 2 engine is starting to show it's limits when Armored Fury came around. Sure, the 
 enviroments look amazing, but as Gamespot said in their review, the lack of interaction is really 
 something that gets on your nerve. Thankfully, the upcoming Battlefield: Bad Company will give 
 us 96% interaction with enviroments. No word on a PC version yet, though...
  
  To conclude, Armored Fury is a worthy addon to Battllefield 2, but just don't expect to get as 
 much out of it as you did the original, or even Special Forces. Better then Euro Force, because 
 of the maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alrenchy1
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Okay first of all the Battlefield 2 and Special Forces are well made and fun. Well, knowing this 
 it looks like the developers are taking advantage of this and so they made this expansion pack 
 hoping some sucker out there would be this. For $19.99 you can have the CD that is really no different 
 to the main game, except you're now $19.99 short. The gameplay is more of vehicle, than infantry 
 due to the vast plains and nothingness. Looks like they made this game for 2 days flat. Just couple 
 of buildings here and there and some trees. Wow, pretty impressive for a 3 year old. I find some 
 of the maps on this expansion are not avialable to play in multiplayer mode since, well it sucked 
 and no one's wasting time and electricity to run the maps. So like I said, don't even bother to 
 get this game, for it has shown no improvements with the original installment. Save your money 
 on something else like a six pack or a bag of tootsie roll, you'll be satisfied more on those. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tourismo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 29, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This expansion is fast and furious. If you find yourself without a vehicle. Someone will hunt you 
 down and kill you WITH a vehicle. Thats what this expansion is about, vehicles. Mostly tanks. If 
 you cordinate your attacks with your team you can get 3 or 4 tanks, 2 or 3 APCs and a couple transports 
 to attack an outpost all at once. It really does get crazy. And along with the expansion comes 
 the little bird scout chopper. It has a UAV scanner operating around it at all times to provide 
 vision. I love all the new maps. They are well designed for vehicular mayhem. Wide open planes 
 for tanks and such. Overall I believe its worth ten dollars. Good Booster pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suicidal_Healer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Armored Fury is a "micro" expansion that adds new content to the orginal Battlefield 2 game. It 
 includes maps that take place on the American Homefront. It adds new vehicles, such as the A-10 
 Warthog, and reconosance helicopters.
  
  Gameplay: Same BF2 gameplay you know and love.
  
  Graphics: No noticeable improvement or worsening. As I said, it's just a content addition. 
 Not a full expansion like special forces.
  
  Sound: New sound effects have been added for new vehicles and things like that. Other than that 
 not much of a difference.
  
  Final note: A good addition, but Id much rather have this stuff in a patch than a payed for download. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemasta456456
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  The MEC and Chinese forces strike back landing in america to destroy the USMC forces, they fight 
 back in Alaska (Midnight Sun) against chinese forces who land there and nearby Washington DC in 
 farmlands (operation Harvest) against the MEC armored forcesand on the eastern seaboard fightinf 
 over a highway (operation Road Rage) ..
  
  + 3 new and interesting maps to play on SP and MP
  + New vehicles 
  + The idea of fighting 
 on american soil is cool
  
  -/+ Too many littlebrid and tank whores bad if its enemy good if its u =)
  
  - No new weapons 
 or armys
  - May ge boring after a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Simply Put....... If you want to play it online you need to take an editor's class, it took me 
 forever to covert all the maps to SP (not-connected) compatability on 64size navmeshes and it will 
 still crash due to the lack of ai compatability with it. Damn EA &amp; DICE make the SP community 
 work and pay for their fun. But when it's all said and done, that's exzactly what you'll have.... Fun! 
 If you play online, however, I would suggest it to you in a heartbeat! And whatever you do, be 
 careful when modding as this thing it very picky! Cant believe I dont have 100 words yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  Just like Euro Force Armored Fury is worth it's price of $10. It adds three new maps, and some 
 new vechicules. However you will still experience long loading times, steep hardware requirments, 
 and sometimes the map will load but the screen will turn black and the game will crash and this 
 will force you to restart BF2 again, finally the update system is still very confusing. Otherwise 
 my recemendation is to buy BF2 SF first and then if you really want to buy this booster pack later. 
 Please note that I give the same advice for Euro Force. Some servers host maps for this booster 
 pack and some don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhatSeeJay
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 7, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  What can I say? I like it.
  It is a rather good addon for such a low price.
  A couple of new maps and some new vehicles.
  I missed some new weaponry though since this doesnt 
 affect the original Battlefield in any way.
  Since its already used graphics and sound I cant really give it a higher grade but all in all its 
 a fun addition.
  But I must say I enjoyed this addon better than the previous one since you finaly get to fight 
 inside the american boarders. Very amusing to get a chance to beat them in their home field.
  Nothing fancy, but nothing bad either.
  A good spent ten dollars in my mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcsteve61
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This booster is Euro Force light: same number of maps, new vehicles, etc., but no new army or weapons. 
 Does that hurt the game? A little. 
  
  The thing with BF2, though, is you love it or hate it. 
  This booster won't (or it shouldn't) 
 seriously influence anyone. We all know the gameplay now. The casual bashing is silly and the blind 
 idolatry is worse.
  BF2 is very good, and this continues the tradition.
  Now, these maps are fun, but a little too wide open for my taste. And all three may be a little 
 too similar. (Where is the Great Wall equivialent) ? I would have loved a New York or DC battle 
 map, but that wouldn't fit with their "Armor" theme.
  
  The maps are still fun, but like every BF2 experience, everything hinges on:
  -good team players
 
  -server availability
  
  That said, some people may think this a chinsy booster, but if you look at the 2 together, it's 
 $20 for 6 quality maps, a new army and a slew of new vehicles.
  Sounds worth it to me, but, understandbly, not to everyone.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daigre7
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 30, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  With the maps of Euro force not being what I had hoped, I was hesitant letting EA take 10 more 
 of my hard earned dollars. However, the fact that the maps introduced in AF take place on American 
 soil made me feel obligated to protect my digital homeland. So I purchased and haven't regretted 
 it since. 
  
  The maps of AF are very well designed. With Euro Force, the only decent map IMO was Smokescreen. 
 All 3 maps in AF are a blast and they each have something that makes them very unique from each 
 other and every other BF2 map. The map Operation Road Rage is the most popular AF map and rightfully 
 so. It's very balanced map and is probably th best map to test out the new helicopters and jets.
 
  
  I'll be honest, if you're the type of player that has almost all his/her hours played on Karkand, 
 Armored Fury and even Euro Force won't be your cup of battlefield tea. These boosters, especially 
 AF, are for the vehicle lovers, of which I am one. In fact my ultimate fantasy is Jessica Simpson 
 waiting for me on top of a M1A1 Abrams. Anyway, the new vehicles in AF are great. My favorite vehicle 
 type is the helicopter and the new, mini attack helis are pure fun. They hold a pilot and two passengers. 
 In addition to the heli itself, the pilot controls the heli's mounted machine guns. They are very 
 effective against infantry and somewhat effective against light vehicles. The whole heli also works 
 as mobile UAV and spots enemies near it. These helis are very fast, but have virtually no armor. 
 One AT missile or a few seconds of mounted MG fire can take these helis out so try to use its speed 
 to your advantage. These helis also tip over fairly easily so be careful on landings.
  
  The new jets are also very fun. They are made to take out ground targets and they do so quite effectively. 
 They are very slow and have no air-to air missiles, but have 4 bombs instead of 2 and have very 
 powerful machine guns. The best way to take out a target is fly up to 300-350 meters and come almost 
 straight down on your target. The bombs are most accurate this way. If you do find an enemy jet 
 behind you, these planes aren't very maneuverable and don't last very long against those powerful 
 MGs so your best tactic is probably to locate a friendly AA vehicle on your radar and fly over 
 it hoping your teammate will take out the enemy following you. 
  
  To put it simply, I love vehicles, especially helis and jets, and I probably would have bought 
 Armored Fury even if the maps weren't very good. Luckily, maps are some of the best BF2 has to 
 offer and this booster gets my seal of approval.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: houtx1836
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 30, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  BF2 (and the good ole boys at Dice and EA) is back - only to charge you $10 (again!) this time 
 for what should be a free standard update. Don't get me wrong - I'm a BF junkie - I still liked 
 this booster pack. If you're hooked on BF - get it - it is cool but don't expect much. This is 
 not an nearly the size of BF2 SF. It has a few more maps. I like the Red Dawn feel this time of 
 being home in the United States. It seems current trend as of late to sell a full game in pieces 
 ( like Half Life Episode One and SIN ) and BF2 in on this wagon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 21, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This was a good add to one of the best game ever made. Ok this add on had some good levels to it 
 and some good stuff and the online game play is still fun like always and its worth getting if 
 you are a big battlefield 2 player. Gameplay still good like always just like on the main battlefield 
 2. Graphics still the same like on battlefield 2, there might have been a differents but I didnt 
 see it, you tell me. Sound was there and I was happy for that, cuz with battlefield 2 it lost points 
 for not having good sound but this had good sound. The rest to my review is that get it, just get 
 the game its so worth it you will love it.
  
  
  Thanks for reading
  Peter Urban 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  The download price is not so bad, considering the cost of physical media. I recommend it for the 
 new maps, if not for anything else. Although the new vehicles/aircraft are a nice addition, the 
 new environments are a breath of fresh air compared to the dusty looking MEC and wet foggy Chinese 
 maps. I give it a 3 out of 5.
  
  I wish they would make the buildings and other structures destructable. Something about carpet 
 bombing a neighborhood and even the sheds are still standing.. oh yeah, and there must be only one 
 hardware store in the neighborhood because everyone has the same shed in their back yard... LOL!
 
  
  (I know... petty, who cares about the sheds)
  
  Hooyah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 17, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  There are 3 new maps to add to the large rotation of regular BF2 maps. There are many new vehicles 
 add-ons such as the 2 new Transport choppers that are fast and have moving UAV. 3 New jets also 
 come with AF though they don't have missles and their bombs are geared toward infantry rather than 
 armor. The night/dusk effect on the Alaskan Map is a nice feature that doesn't require Night Vision 
 to see in. Armored Fury is only $10 and a bargain for any hardcore BF2 player. Overall it is a 
 good booster pack and EA should have got it right the first time they released their booster packs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 17, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  unless your a fly-boy or your life is in a tank this is nothing for you, seriously this little 
 for $10 is worst deal ever, sure $10 are not much but what you get is even less
  
  The maps are terribly boring and simple, i mean its 2006 and EA still makes maps like years ago, 
 any moder's 1st custom map they create in they life beats this maps, the maps are so bad that if 
 I created them I would be ashamed to admit that it was me  this is not bashing this is my honest 
 opinion as someone that creates maps him self for bf2
  ( I can do better maps with a hand behind my back and 1 eye patched ; ) )
  
  on some of the 
 maps as infantry your dead because all you see is jets raining bombs all over, this game supposed 
 to be balanced, EA wont let us run infantry only maps ranked but YET they create a booster pack 
 witch is jet/tank only, this is an embarrassment for this game
  
  So in short, for free it would be great, but is lacking any quality for a commercial product
 
  
  Save your money and download MOD's they far better quality and they free made by ppl that love 
 BF2 not love the $$$$$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bayhound
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I really like the game, but load time is horrible and of course it is no better with these new 
 maps. I think that when you hit a picket fence or other small obstacle you should be able to run 
 it over. Instead the vehicle you are in gets damaged and sometimes blows up. Nice maps, for some 
 I just dont like Midnight Sun very much, seems to much like Fushe Pass to me. But long load times. 
 Way to many bomb strikes and of course with the new air support it quickly turns into a air battle 
 instead of assualt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PluggedValve
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 12, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  I would love to have both Euro and Armored fury, but, I prefer Windows 2000 over XP. Therefor i 
 cant download it. If it was available to Win2000 users it would have alot more servers open and 
 more clans would use these maps on their servers. It seems the clans are doing the right things 
 by NOT alienating gamers and EA are alienating gamers by creating booster packs that only half 
 the users can use. Since the original can be run on 2000 then the booster packs should also. Win 
 XP costs more to buy than all the booster packs combined and then doubled. That is the only reason 
 i would buy XP right now (to play booster packs) and anyone that made it past grade 7 can see it 
 is not worth over $200 to buyXP and all the boosters to get 9 maps when the original has about 
 that and only costed $60 - $70.
  Maybe if original required XP i could understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiders5000
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 10, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this booster since news of it last year. I'm not dissapointed. The maps are 
 awesome and I love playing ALL of them. What surprises me most is how wide open the maps are in 
 this booster. When EA said we were going to be fighting on American soil, I was thinking it would 
 be inside major cities with tons of skyscapers and unlimited hiding spaces. I thought it would be 
 a snipers paradise actually. Thats not the case in AF. The Eastern coastal map has a a huge highway 
 that runs down the center of it. It's so wide open, I swear we're playing two games here instead 
 of one. My next favorite is the night map. It's got a ton of wooded areas and snow. But what I like 
 about it, is that to get in certain areas, the roads are extremely narrow. Can you say engineer? Mines 
 own on this map!! It really sucks for snipers though. The nozzle flash will give you away quicker 
 than an informant. Thank goodness for claymores. The last map is set in the country. I like this map 
 too because (again) it's so wide open. The only reason I rank it third is because there aren't enough 
 vehicles on it. I mean come on man. This map is bigger than Dragon Valley with half the vehicles. And 
 when they called this booster AF, believe me, it was for this map. The "Bird" heli totally owns on 
 this map. Which is funny because the tanks are almost useless here. I purchased both boosters, but 
 this is the best one by far. I really wish EA would've gave us at least five maps. Other than that, AF 
 rules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Spielmann
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 9, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  First thing first: Armored Fury offers some nice new content, and it's certainly worth purchasing. 
 
  Fighting on the American battlefields, however bizarre, it's refreshing. The new maps are really, 
 really nicely done, and they offer a lot of strategic challenges. It's wonderful to see a map actually 
 working like a real battlefield (in "real" war, enemies shouldn't be coming from everywhere, like 
 if it was CounterStrike) . In that sense, the expansion pack does a LOT to keep the battle under 
 control (several bottlenecks and long distances help) . Infantry junkies, run away, there is no 
 way you can cross the map walking, here... better get yourself some wheels, preferably with a big 
 cannon on top.
  
  The new vehicles are simply wonderful, but the recon choppers excel. They are extremely fun to 
 fly, and effective against infantry. A great addition (and they can also be taken down easily, 
 and we all like that, don't we?) .
  
  However, for me it seems quite silly to fight MEC forces in American Soil... I know, it's a game, 
 but the idea is just too unrealistic to be taken "seriously" enough. The game loses some of its 
 atmosphere. The next installment of BF will also go even further in the sci-fi setting, and that's 
 a turn-off for me... I like the idea of modern warfare or historical settings. I personally forget 
 about it and concentrate on the battle, and battle-wise, this maps are wonderful.
  
  And let's hope the community receives them well. Euro Forces was really badly balanced, this is 
 not the case now, and Special Forces was not so popular also... but fingers crossed, this should 
 be the most popular expansion pack for BF2. The fact that it is not a "mod" (it fits inside the 
 core of the game seamlessly) should also help. 
  
  BF2 lovers, this are 10 bucks worth spending.
  
  PS: And yes, the fact that you cannot cross 
 over fences is quite annoying. Could EA make them destructible? I think that's impossible. MMm... 
 what a real shame, that is.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameboy00j
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 9, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  By now most of us know BF2 and BF2: SF. If you're looking here and don't know BF2, then get to the 
 main BF2 page. 
  
  I enjoyed both BF2 and the SF expansion. I am not one who plays it every night, in fact I had not 
 picked up BF2 in about a month. I had picked it back up for Euro Forces, and set it back down about 
 as fast as I could. I didn't think that many of the weapons were that great, though some were fun. 
 All they added were 3 sub-par maps, 2 of which were just more Air Spam Fodder. Totally Unimpressed.
 
  
  So with the release of Armored Fury I was worried. The premise was there, get rid of overpowered 
 jets and replace with slow sailing attack planes. Add a sleek little chopper to get buddies fast 
 to an airdrop, and build in a radar to scan as you go! (Don't want the 2 guys to jump into a hot-bin) . 
 Add a mustang and a Peterbilt and viola. Right? Well close. 
  
  What REALLY makes AF so good is how well thought out the maps were. Like 15 tanks to start each 
 side off with (exaggeration, but you get the idea) and still infantry has lots of good spots! (I 
 haven't been in a silo since I was a kid *hint hint*) . The first time I stood at one of the farms 
 in Operation Harvest, looked out over the rolling fields and saw 2 enemy tanks roll in and our 
 helo rush overhead to try to nab them, I was hooked. So many ways to play it. 
  
  Operation Road Rage is fun too. Lots of areas to hide if you're AT, and lots of ways to defend 
 against the A-10 and it's MEC counterpart. The balance just feels right. 
  
  Midnight Sun seems nice too. But I have only run that once in co-op mode (bots) . So see, I've only 
 played really, 2 of the maps, and still I'm gushing.
  
  I was also pleasantly surprised about how many servers were serving the maps. I had well over 50 
 or more, and most of them had a spot or 3. I hope a few more fill up soon. Finally, I feel I got 
 my $10 worth, and even recouped some of the $10 I wasted on Euro Forces.
  
  Last of the good stuff. The sound. Neat little cracks of thunder here and there are kind of neat. 
 Adds to the atmosphere.
  
  Is there bad? Of course there is. Good luck getting one of the new planes along with the 10 others 
 standing around. Same story though as before. Same with the cool new little choppers. Oh, and yes, 
 the first time I was barrelling through a field at 30mph in my mammoth tank and a white picket 
 fence stopped me like the hand of God was in my way, that was a bit annoying. It's not perfect, 
 but it's close enough for me.
  
  Happy Tanking!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpapa123173
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  I have been playing since the days of 1942. I was shocked and Awed back then and I still am to 
 this day! I think EA & Dice have done a fantastic job with Battlefield 2, Battlefield 2 Special 
 Forces, and Now both booster packs Euro Force and Armored Fury. Even though there have been many 
 patches and fixes for this title it still is in the top games of all time for me to date. I truly 
 myself have not had very many issues with this game. So too complain I think would be just negative 
 of me. I completely love this booster pack! I think it is the best to date. The graphics are totally 
 amazing. The game play is great! I have so much fun when playing on the new maps. I love the fact 
 that they have finally brought us to the Home land of America. I find that the 3 new maps Road 
 Rage, Operation Harvest and Midnight Sun to be completely awesome and realistic. Of course it would 
 be much cooler to drive an 18 wheeler with the trailer attached to the cab, and be able to see 
 and do a few more things in the world, but it rocks I am totally impressed!! Once again as always 
 I thank you EA and Dice! Please keep the boosters coming for BF2 and then I'll rock out on the 
 2142!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kithooton
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  Well as you all know that you can only purchase the booster packs online, $9.99 in the US and 5.99 
 for the British lads
  Armoured Fury is good. You fight on US shores which the community of BF2 wanted. There is 1 map 
 that reminded me of GRAW but a multi massive shooter mup. The only sad thing about Armoured Fury 
 is it only has 3maps and new Vehicles. In the Euro booster pack you got these plus new Weapons 
 and a new Army to play with. For $9.99/5.99 you got to be a Hard-core Gamer when it comes to BF2 
 for the money you are paying. There no Graphics changes or anything like that, its the same BF2 
 but just updated with new content. 
  I hope EA will put updates on there sites that are free for the booster packs, so there is more 
 content for us to play with.
  
  Carry on Solider
  
  Kit Hooton (U. K)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: imop45
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This game was a big relief from the desert. I love how it was based in the "city" and you actually 
 had real streets and highways. The functionality a your player and of the vehicles was moderately 
 easy to learn and definitely easy to use/control. Even though the walls and building weren't destructible, 
 which puts off a lot of things that you could have done, I guess the price makes up for it. Also, 
 the loading times and things like that were pretty fast, and I don't have a super computer at all, 
 not even a fast video card. There were little errors, but the game after a while did get boring, 
 so I guess the price also makes up for that again. Overall its a great game to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SplinterCellSC2
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  The download price is not so bad, considering the cost of physical media. I recommend it for the 
 new maps, if not for anything else. Although the new vehicles/aircraft are a nice addition, the 
 new environments are a breath of fresh air compared to the dusty looking MEC and wet foggy Chinese 
 maps. I give it a 3 out of 5.
  
  I wish they would make the buildings and other structures destructable. Something about carpet 
 bombing a neighborhood and even the sheds are still standing.. oh yeah, and there must be only one 
 hardware store in the neighborhood because everyone has the same shed in their back yard... LOL! 
 
  
  (I know... petty, who cares about the sheds)
  
  Hooyah!
  Sgt. SplinterCellSC20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingman15
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 7, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  This new booster pack gives the community some things we have been asking for. More maps, new location 
 (The U. S. A.) , the A-10, and more kick butt fun. EA/DICE have delivered.
  
  Pros 
  
  The graphics look amazing. I know they are the same as BF2, but the new colors in the maps really 
 make it look great. There is a lot of detail and a lot to see in these maps.
  
  The maps are good sized and designed for fun. Operation Harvest allows for great tank battles across 
 farmland. Operation Road Rage lets you fight it out for a piece of interstate. And Midnight Sun 
 is a dark, tight, smaller map that adds more tactical gameplay. 
  
  You can't beat the price. $10 is pocket change and it is well spent pocket change at that.
  
 
  Cons
  
  My only complaint would be that that A-10 seems underpowered. I am glad it does not rule the entire 
 game, but it should be a bit tougher than it is.
  
  Over all, this is a great booster pack and I am so glad its finally here. It may be three months 
 late, but it was worth the wait. Now, we need to see what they have in store for us next. Bring 
 it on EA/DICE becaus we want more great content for this game we all love so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irongrinder1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 6, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  The second boosterpack for Battlefield 2 offers much of the same as the first boosterpack Euro 
 Force: three new maps and some new vehicles. Euro Force also added a new army and some new weapons 
 in the mix where Armored Fury does not add any army or weapons. Is that enough to charge ten bucks?
 
  
  The main difference with Euro Force is that this boosterpack adds some vehicles that change certain 
 balance issues with the normal game, for instance the planes. There are no normal fighters and 
 bombers like you're used to from the normal game, instead you'll find the A-10 warthog and its 
 MEC and PLA counterparts. These planes are slower and don't have the afterburner. This makes them 
 a lot more fragile against (mobile) anti air. They do have a bit more armor, but that practically 
 means they can withstand one more stinger missile. What does this mean for pilots? If they don't 
 take out the anti air troops first or get their team mates to do it they're dead. In other words 
 it will be more of a challenge for pilots now that the ground troops pose a bigger threat. Add 
 to that the fact that planes don't come with anti air missiles themselves anymore and you will 
 have a lot more challenging dogfights with the machineguns on the planes. As a regular pilot I'm 
 really looking forward to more challenging fights while flying.
  
  Another new kind of vehicle is the smaller recon chopper like the US little bird (The MEC and PLA 
 side have their own counterparts as well) . The choppers are a lot more agile and pack a machine 
 gun on the pilot seat together with its own little constant UAV. These can be strategically used 
 in battle to help your team greatly and the choppers firepower through the machinegun is great 
 against infantry and also other choppers. An attack chopper without a gunner will have a hard time 
 fighting a more agile recon chopper.
  
  Now on to the maps. First map is Operation Road Rage. This map is based around a big chunk of highway 
 where MEC and US forces have to duke it out with armor, choppers and the tank killer planes like 
 the A-10. Both sides have an even chance and the vehicles do seem balanced unlike certain fighter 
 jets from the original game. The good thing here is ofcourse the scenery, but also the fact that 
 both sides start out with the same amount of flags symmetrically placed. Both teams have the same 
 changes and no team has the upper hand at the start.
  
  The next map is Operation Harvest. This map is largely focused on armor and chopper battles. The 
 MEC side will have to defend all the flags while the US starts out with two uncapable bases. The 
 scenery looks terrific with the farmland and the dark clouds gathering in the north. To make the 
 upcoming storm more real you'll see lightning flashes in the north and even hear the loud drums 
 of nature roll after those flashes. Choppers from both sides will have to be careful for mobile 
 anti air vehicles and stationary anti air as the ground is flat with only trees and farms to cover 
 their tails. The MEC side has to be extra careful not to lose their main spawnpoint where their 
 choppers spawn to not lose their air support completely.
  
  The last map is Midnight Sun. In this map PLA forces fight against the US in Alaskan terrain based 
 around a river running through the mountains. So the road will go up and down a lot travelling 
 from one flag to another. Both teams have one plane, one attack chopper and one recon chopper, 
 while the multiple flags offer plenty of ground vehicles (And yes, even a blue Mustang *wink wink*) . 
 This map also has great balance and resembles Fushe Pass a bit. Just a darker version, although 
 not as dark as the special forces night maps. The big difference with Fushe Pass is that the terrain 
 is faster to travel as the roads are a bit more straight to the point, which keeps the pace of 
 the action for the ground troops on a high level. Dice also tried to help the atmosphere again 
 by adding some nice night sounds which you could expect in such a terrain; insect, birds and even 
 wolves howling in the background.
  
  So again, is it worth the 10 dollars? As I also said with Euro Force, don't expect an expansion, 
 just expect more of the same. Although Dice did manage to add to the experience by taking some 
 of the balance complains away through the addition of the new choppers and planes and keeping the 
 original planes away. Expect more of the arcade game style of Battlefield mixed with a change in 
 scenery, don't expect any pure infantry fights, it's just not that kind of game. 
  
  Is it better then Euro Force? In my opinion it is. The maps seem better balanced and the new air 
 support might be more pleasing to the wintered BF2 player. Will it still be played in a month? 
 I think it will with the theme being fighting on American soil. Of course the more casual gamer 
 might have enough with the original maps, but those still fighting for every badge, ribbon and 
 medal might find a nice addition in this boosterpack.
  
  Carry on soldier! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
