-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlefield 2142
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/battlefield2142/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The new Titan mode is a wild and intense departure from Battlefield's traditional conquest mode.
 a vast unlock system rewards long-term play, and your character becomes more powerful over time.
 the trademark Battlefield formula of infantry and vehicle combat remains strong, even as it's getting a bit too familiar.
 an interesting new setting for what's traditionally been a historically themed series.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only two new factions, and no more North Africans.
 the graphics engine is showing its age, and the load times remain as long as ever.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 16, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.0, 53 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 7,930 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA DICE
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Oct 17, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Battlefield 2142's new Titan mode is an exciting addition to the Battlefield series, though for 
 the most part 2142 offers up minor improvements over its predecessor. 

  Baseball legend Yogi Berra once quipped that "the future ain't what it used to be," which seems 
 appropriate when describing Battlefield 2142, the fourth PC game in the best-selling action franchise. 
 This new game attempts to follow up last year's superb Battlefield 2-- and that's both a blessing 
 and a curse, as 2142 will invite inevitable comparisons to Battlefield 2, even while it's busy 
 trying to break new ground. Nevertheless, while a lot of the changes seem minor, there is enough 
 new content in here to merit your attention.  

          A different sort of Cold War rages in Battlefield 2142, as two factions battle for survival 
 and a new home in the distant future.     

  The plot of 2142 could best be described as Battlefield 2 meets  The Day After Tomorrow , the 2004 
 movie where the world is suddenly encased in a present-day ice age. When billions of people are 
 forced to flee the frigid Northern Hemisphere for the more hospitable Southern one, tensions escalate 
 and shooting wars erupt for the last remaining bits of habitable land. In the game, this translates 
 to the European Union battling the Russia-centered Pan Asian Coalition as they fight to flee Europe 
 ahead of the ice and establish themselves in North Africa. The battlefields will shift from a wintry 
 and war-torn European landscape to the arid sands of North Africa. This also means there are only 
 two factions in the game, though why are the current inhabitants of North Africa sitting idly by 
 while they're being invaded? In any event, these new factions are interesting, even if they are 
 a bit hard to distinguish from one another. The soldiers of the future are clad in the same type 
 of high-tech body armor, though the Russian armor is a bit blacker than the European version.  
 

  If you've played Battlefield 2, then you'll feel quickly at home in Battlefield 2142. The future 
 is a very familiar place, because the designers didn't go too exotic with the weapons and vehicles. 
 There are no laser or beam weapons here; instead, you'll get futuristic versions of today's weapons. 
 There's an assault rifle, a sniper rifle, a missile launcher, and a light machine gun to equip 
 the game's four classes. That's right: There are only four classes in the game, down from the seven 
 seen in Battlefield 2, though these new classes are a lot more flexible and customizable. The price 
 is that you're going to have to play 2142 a lot to access most of these customization options, 
 as this system is designed to encourage long-term play.  

  The designers took the idea of weapon unlocks in Battlefield 2 and put it on steroids, so you can 
 unlock up to 40 different weapons or pieces of equipment. Not only that, but each class has two 
 different unlock tracks, which specialize in a different direction. For instance, the recon class 
 can become a more powerful sniper or a more effective Special Forces operator, who can sneak around 
 and blow up enemy ground stations, thus hampering the ability of the enemy commander to call in 
 various forms of support. However, this also means that you might be in for some frustration in 
 the beginning, as your character won't even have grenades until you unlock them, and you'll be 
 at a disadvantage against those players who have access to the more powerful weapons and abilities. 
 And while the promotions and unlocks come fairly quickly early on, the pace will slow down as each 
 new unlock requires you to accumulate more and more points. So you'll need to play quite a bit 
 to unlock a lot of what makes Battlefield 2142 so different from its predecessors. Or, you'll find 
 yourself playing one class a lot more than the others, since that's where most of your early unlocks 
 will go. This entire process is a bit confusing, as it's not enough to simply unlock new items, 
 but then you must outfit your character when you join a battle for the first time.  

  Of course, Battlefield games aren't just about infantry combat, as the series' engaging mix of 
 infantry and vehicle combat is what makes it so addictive. If you're a Battlefield veteran, you'll 
 find that the vehicles of the future are a familiar lot, save for the cool mechlike walkers, which 
 are essentially walking tanks. Still, you have slightly tricked-out versions of today's buggies, 
 armored personnel carriers, and tanks. Again, there are some new features to make these vehicles 
 feel a bit different. The buggies can kick in a short turbo boost to speed out of the danger zone, 
 while the APCs can launch infantry into the sky on assault pods. The PAC tanks float thanks to 
 hover technology, while the EU tanks rely on conventional treads. If used properly, these new vehicles 
 can be devastating, though they can be countered if infantry teams work together. Of course, getting 
 people to work together has always been a major issue in Battlefield, so we can probably expect 
 the same endless debates about balancing as before. And the big question is the airpower, which 
 was overly dominant in Battlefield 2. Our experience with 2142 is that these aircraft aren't as 
 devastating as those in Battlefield 2, since they're slower and less capable, plus there are more 
 ways to take them out. Then again, we'll probably be proven wrong once ace pilots emerge and figure 
 out how to make these aircraft do stunts that even the designers didn't envision.  

          The unlock system is a lot more complex than in Battlefield 2 and it rewards long-term 
 play, though it also means you won't have a lot to play with at the beginning.     

  As you can probably tell by now, many of the gameplay concepts that were introduced in Battlefield 
 2 return in a slightly more evolved form. The squad nature of the gameplay is back, but now there 
 are incentives in the form of "field upgrades" that reward players for squadding up and playing 
 together. You get more points quicker if you follow orders, too. The commander role returns, and 
 one player on each team can call in satellite scans and aerial drones to detect the enemy, as well 
 as orbital strikes, which are a powerful form of artillery that take a long time to recharge. There's 
 also an electromagnetic pulse strike that temporarily disables any vehicles in the blast radius, 
 as well as scrambles the helmet-mounted displays of infantry. Still, there's a lot here that seems 
 familiar, including the visuals, thanks to 2142 using a slightly enhanced version of the Battlefield 
 2 graphics engine. The engine is getting a bit dated at this point, and there's still no widescreen 
 support, but the good news is that the system requirements haven't really changed, though the drawn-out 
 load times of Battlefield 2 haven't been improved on, either.     

  Thankfully, 2142 has a cool new feature in Titan mode to accompany the traditional conquest mode. 
 This is the first new mode introduced in Battlefield since the series' inception, and it's a great 
 one. Conquest mode requires you to capture and hold various control points on the map while at 
 the same time trying to whittle down your enemy's respawn ticket count. Titan mode gets rid of 
 the ticket count and changes the control points to missile silos. The goal is now to destroy the 
 other team's Titan, which is a floating aircraft carrier/battleship defended by a powerful energy 
 shield. This can lead to lots of frenetic battles to control the various missile silos, as they 
 periodically loft up a missile that can damage the energy shield. Once the shield is down, you 
 have to assault the Titan, either by flying over on a transport or rocketing up in an assault pod. 
 The battle inside a Titan can be intense, as defenders seek to hold off the invaders in narrow 
 corridor battles where the bullets and grenades fly. If the invaders can gain access to the reactor 
 room by blowing up the four security terminals, they can blow up the Titan.  

          Titan mode can be a nail-biter as you engage in desperate firefights in the narrow confines 
 of a floating aircraft carrier.     

  Titan mode requires a bit more coordination than conquest mode, but the results can be wild once 
 people figure it out. What's great about Titan mode is that there are plenty of ways to win. If 
 one team manages to get ahead big, it's still possible for the other team to catch up so long as 
 the defenders onboard the Titan can buy enough time for the rest of their teammates to capture 
 the now relatively undefended silos and knock down the enemy Titan's shields. Then it's a race 
 between offense and defense on two different Titans. The dynamic of the game also shifts, as the 
 boarding action is infantry only, and this means that you have to get out of your vehicles and 
 slug it out the old fashioned way. When you toss in all the cool new toys that you can unlock, 
 such as active camouflage to make yourself semiinvisible, sentry droids that can help cover narrow 
 corridors, and healing stations that can patch up an entire squad at the same time, the action 
 can get really crazy.  

  The whole atmosphere is helped by the excellent quality of the sound production. First, there's 
 the constant stream of chatter in the air, as teammates call out targets or issue orders. The EU 
 forces speak with clipped English accents, while the PAC uses Russian. It'll take a while to recognize 
 what the various Russian phrases mean, though some are instantly recognizable, such as "big robot" 
 when referring to the walkers. The sound effects are also cool, as the weapons of the future sound 
 distinct and unique, while also lethal. Then there's the bombastic and lumbering musical score 
 that wouldn't seem out of place in a Michael Bay movie. Each level has its own rousing theme to 
 get you psyched for the battle ahead.  

  And while the graphics engine hasn't really changed, that's not to say that this isn't a pretty 
 game. Each battlefield has a unique feel to it, from the futuristic fortress that guards Gibraltar 
 to the gutted remains of Berlin. You'll go from picturesque European towns and villages to being 
 surrounded by sleek steel towers to the arid wastes of North Africa. There's plenty of scenery 
 to soak in, but it's the attention to detail that's worth mentioning. The cool little grainy video 
 feed you get when you're manning the gun on a transport or APC, the way your tech garbles when 
 you're hit by an EMP pulse, or just the sensation of being surrounded by a raging battle on the 
 ground and in the skies above you all greatly enhance the atmosphere.  

          The look of the game is impressive, even if the technology behind it is no longer cutting 
 edge.     

  On a peculiar note, even though the world is ending in 2142, it appears that advertising will still 
 be around. Battlefield 2142 features in-game ads, though we didn't get to see them firsthand during 
 our testing. Still, there is a printed disclaimer that comes with the game telling you that Battlefield 
 2142 will analyze certain "advertising data" on your machine to determine what ads to display to 
 you. Ironically, EA says that if you don't want your data shared with its advertising partner then 
 "do not install or play the software on any platform that is used to connect to the Internet." 
 But that would pretty much defeat the purpose of playing Battlefield 2142, wouldn't it? Of course, 
 you could always play single-player against the artificial intelligence, though the AI won't be 
 mistaken for human opponents any time soon, and the single-player is still limited to 16-player 
 maps. Still, this is an example of things to come, as we begin to see dynamic in-game ads appear 
 in more and more games.  

  When you get down to it, Battlefield 2142 is a solid entry in the series, as it feels like a slightly 
 more refined version of its popular predecessor. Aside from the new Titan mode, there's not a lot 
 new here, though, so this doesn't feel anywhere quite like the leap that Battlefield 2 represented 
 from its predecessors -- it's more akin to what Battlefield: Vietnam was to Battlefield 1942. Still, 
 if you're looking for more multiplayer mayhem, it's hard not to recommend Battlefield 2142.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (554 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: killer978452
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 1:01 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is great multiplayer that should not be missed if you enjoy massive FPS multiplayer 
 games. It has almost everything you would want in a game. But it does not improve anything on Battlefield 
 2. Sure there are new weapons and new gadgets, but it doesn't improve any of the gameplay. 
  Gameplay: It isn't that engaging and the gameplay is exactly the same as Battlefield 2. The game 
 takes place 100 years later and the entire world has plunged into war. They call it the Cold War. 
 Global Warming has completely altered the face of the planet. It is colder in most of the world 
 and there are only a few warmer areas. The weapons are the only thing that is not at all like Battlefield 
 2. They have many different weapons that you either start with or you unlock. There are 4 different 
 classes: Assault, Support, Engineer, and Recon. All classes contain the basic equipment, knife 
 and pistol. The Assault class is the main offensive class, obviously. It uses an automatic weapon 
 and a medical hub used to heal you and your teammates. Support uses a machine gun and an ammo kit 
 used to resupply you and your teammates. Engineer has a rocket launcher and a SMG. It also uses 
 a tool used to repair vehicles. Recon is the sniping class. Battlefield 2142 still is using the 
 rank and unlocking system.
  Game Modes: Unfortunately there is no campaign, but there is a single player mode. It's nothing 
 special, it is exactly the same as multiplayer except that they are NPC's and you can control the 
 options of the game. There are a few additions to Battlefield 2142 such as the Titan Mode. There 
 is the regular Conquest mode as well. Battlefield 2142 had a booster pack called Northern Strike 
 which contains another mode called Assault Lines. 
  Multiplayer Action: Even though it is not very engaging, it is still quite satisfying. The game 
 has great land vehicles, such as the Battlewalker. But it has terrible air crafts, only the basic 
 transport and the regular helicopter/jet. The maps are actually quite good. They give you enough 
 room so anybody can be an Assault or a Recon and still have all the action as if the map was built 
 for that need. It is nice how they let you choose the size of the map as well. The amount of maps 
 is also quite good. You can have a sniping contest at one of the larger more open maps. Or you 
 can stage a huge war of everybody firing randomly at each other. Battlefield 2142 still uses the 
 reducing of your ticket points system. In the multiplayer action you can humiliate other players 
 by killing another one with your knife. This was taken from Battlefield 2 but when you kill someone 
 with your knife you collect their dogtag. Dogtags contains the name of the player you killed.
 
  Overall EA Games made a sequel in the hope of creating a futuristic way of Battlefield. They partially 
 succeeded. They needed a single player campaign or even a Co-Op campaign. The game neededwell 
 more of everything really. But if you have never even heard of the Battlefield series, this is 
 a great game. As a starter it has everything you would like in a multiplayer game. I would have 
 to give this game an 8.5 for the great multiplayer experience and the lack of the improvement of 
 the Battlefield system.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: orbit639
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 21, 2009 1:43 pm PT
Review:  this game has all the potential in the world. unfortunately its just another game in a long list 
 of games that have been ruined by the people who play it. graphically stunning, smooth motion and 
 potential out hte wazzoo. the bad thing is that it may jsut be the most unrealistic war game ever 
 made. players can jump over your gunfire, flop to the ground then stab you from 5 feet away, and 
 run around dropping grenades all day. plus people seem more interested in planting bombs and flying 
 around in vehicles more than shooting each other. it gets worse when both teams call in constant 
 air strikes making it impossible to stay alive more than 30 seconds. just another perfect example 
 of what happens when you add points and rankings to a game: people will do ANYTHING to climb the 
 ladder. way to go EA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demi_veritaz
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2009 12:52 pm PT
Review:  The bad:
  The expansion pack maps STILL are not usable.
  Punkbuster is an annoying piece of sh*t that doesn't stop hacks. Believe me, I've tested some of 
 the free ones. Want to know how that sniper got a headshot from 400+ yards away? GUESS. I don't 
 see too many aimbots, but the amount of players who WORK WITHOUT squads and can still see you through 
 walls is baffling.
  I've played all 4 classes and unlocked 100% command, and both loadout trees on each WITHOUT cheats, 
 so I say this from experience. Yes, with netbat and a good squad you pretty much can see through 
 walls. QQ, bawwww, etc. Cheating is a problem in this game, and Punkbuster guts legit users more 
 often than cheaters.
  This game is great on a good server with good, legit players. I recommend it if you love fps and 
 action-oriented gameplay.
  Just remember to distinguish between skill and a cheater. Some people have great aim, have awesome 
 hiding spots, etc. BUT if you suspect cheating, take a screeny and submit it to punkbuster online, 
 considering their software is practically useless here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandakoaladirk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  This game had so much promise before its release. BF2 was such a great hit and turned out to be 
 an excellent platform to build upon within the Battlefield franchise. Instead it appears to be 
 a major flop. There was a patch release for 2142 before the discs even hit shelves and EA has already 
 put in a final patch release with many people still playing the game that didn't fix any major 
 problems. To me this shows EA's confidence in their games. Rather than improving upon games that 
 are already great they attempt to rush a title within that genre that will get sales. They have 
 no faith in their game as they have already given up on 2142.
  The game is easily playable with very little skill needed. Ranking up was too easy with rewards 
 systems dishing out ridiculous amounts of points to assist in granting unlocks. Even this system 
 was flawed however, not giving unlocks when earned or not even registering until days maybe even 
 weeks later. It will take a little more than a couple new maps to regain interest in this game 
 and this genre.
  If you want to play a 2142 type game, return to or purchase BF2. I hope the next one they come 
 out with will actually deliver that "Battlefield Experience" that was easily obtainable in 1942, 
 Vietnam, and BF2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  The most high-grossing and successful shooting series of EA's Battlefield now turns over to become 
 a bit more futuristic. Taking place in 2142, this fantastic game is maybe the best of its sci-fi 
 genre.
  
  After many years the earth has frozen, resulting to abandoning of the south hemisphere and fleet 
 to Europe. But the EU won't allow that, battling against anyone standing in your way. I can say 
 that the overal experience of the plot is quite good, offering a truly inspired background setting 
 to fight in.
  
  In the gameplay, the conquest mode which ensured success for the series is now upgraded. In fact, 
 it is replaced by the all-new Titan mode. You can also upgrade your character, while unlocking 
 many stuff will keep you playing for long. It is good that the new game is true to the serie's 
 roots, while all vehicles and infantry weapons are sci-fi designed, but seem familiar with what 
 Battlefield has used previously.
  
  Nevertheless, the graphics is the major problem of 2142. While an older engine is used, lacklustre 
 effects appear to make it a bit more realistic but they fail. This major con is what destroys the 
 picture of the game.
  
  2142 Battlefield is advancing the series of Battlefield. Everything but the graphics seem to be 
 more advance than ever. And of course you should own a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadeyo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  BF 2142 is a great multi player, online game. What sets it apart from the other battlefield games 
 is its goal-oriented objectives. You are encouraged to join a squad while in game to get more abilities 
 through teamwork. 
  Then entire game pushes you to goal objectives earning you points to gain access to higher ranks, 
 more equipment advances and earning badges and ribbons for more points which gives you more unlocks, 
 etc., etc. 
  The two main game plays are in Titan mode and the other is flag conquer. Once you catch on you 
 will have a hard time backing away from the keyboard. Multiple maps to keep you playing for hours 
 on end. You have to be a battlefield fiend to really appreciate this 2142 edition.
  The Northern Strike expansion pak is also a must to buy. Once you get hooked on the main game, 
 this expansion pak gives you some more maps just for the NS expansion pak and new vehicles as well 
 as more goals to shoot for. 
  The Deluxe pak includes the main BF2142 game as well as the Northern Strike expansion pak. I've 
 seen the Deluxe pak being sold at great prices as opposed to buying them separately. All in all, 
 these are a must have for anyone who is a Battlefield soldier.
  Now get in there soldier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SloICEMAN
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is still my favorite game to fall back on. I buy new games as they come out (Bioshock, 
 Crysis, Fallout) but when it comes down to playing some intense online FPS theres only one choice. 
 
  I know a large portion out there still prefer CS but if you give this game a shot you won't be 
 disappointed and you may find in no time at all that your playing 2142 more than CS.
  Another good thing to put out there is that just like CS there is plenty of difficulty out there 
 playing against/with skilled players. You'll always find a challenge and the best thing to do is 
 find a server that you've got a decent ping to and get to shootin. Had some rough patches in the 
 beginning and there's still some slight issues but they are completely tolerable.
  Grab a deluxe copy for $20, you can't beat that! Last thing, watch out cause it only takes a split 
 second to lose your tags :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JynXcat
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This a extremely fun game.... for about 2 weeks. After playing for a while, i just got dissatisfied. 
 The online was mediocre, lots of lag and hard to even find people to shoot. The maps almost seemed 
 to big to even play on, and they weren't even that big  .  
  This a extremely fun game.... for about 2 weeks. After playing for a while, i just got dissatisfied. 
 The online was mediocre, lots of lag and hard to even find people to shoot. The maps almost seemed 
 to big to even play on, and they weren't even that big  .  
  This a extremely fun game.... for about 2 weeks. After playing for a while, i just got dissatisfied. 
 The online was mediocre, lots of lag and hard to even find people to shoot. The maps almost seemed 
 to big to even play on, and they weren't even that big  . This game WAS fun, but after a little 
 bit, just gets really old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben_Sim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is a game which tells about future warfare between European Union and the Russia-centered 
 Pan Asian Coalition for depleting resources. The game also emphasize the global climate change. 
 The mechanics of the game doesn't go far from Battlefield 2. They have just added a TITAN mode 
 and few other future weapons e. g. Mech destroyer.
  
  In my opinion, this game would be interesting to newcomers to Battlefield series, but for all those 
 battlefield hardcore fans which have since played Battlefield 1942 to Battlefield 2, would not 
 be satisfied how the game turn out. 
  It is not entirely ground breaking and it sometimes makes no sense in buying the game, if the gameplay/feel 
 is the same as Battlefield 2. The new titan mode/ Mech destroyer is not enough sufficient reason 
 to get the game.
  
  To all Battlefield fans, you may add this to one of loyal collection in series or you can just 
 skip it. And just hope that DICE and EA to come up with a better and innovative battlefield game. 
 
  
  Thanks for reading the review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aura_enchanted
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  If you ask any PC FPS player to name 3 titles synonymous with PC arena shooters 7/10 it will contain 
 the battlefield franchise. the others not listed would be CS, UT and quake tournament. theres a 
 reason battlefield is on that list and i will explain why.
  A long time ago battlefield had its first game battlefield 1942 which broke from conventions of 
 the time and made a WW2 shooter. It was a smash success despite its bad rap for being cold hearted. 
 Its success is the reason we have the dismal medal of honor, and the mediocer brothers in arms 
 franchises. battlefield maintained its iron grip on the shooter genre from constantly touching 
 base with wars and areas that other games dare not go. that is the reason there so good.
  
  battlefield 2142 does this in that it brings us a familiar game experience with a subject matter 
 never seen before. There has never been a futuristic wartime shooter that DIDNT feature aliens, 
 mutants and space ships. it delievers soundly on this and for those who bothered to read the manual 
 know that 2142 is a result of our squabbling over resources and our currently enviromental damage. 
 essentially they had Al Gore sit there and tell them what the world would look like if we carried 
 on and survived the global freeze. and then they worked there magic on it to make it fun rather 
 than hopelessly dismal.
  
  The controls are dated, and the graphics do show their age nw and again but thats not the point, 
 they broke ground, made teams much larger, and gave sumthing other than a gif for peoples signatures 
 for ranking up. in fact currently the maximum ranking has only been seen never achieved and its 
 over a few years old still (thats right no one has ranked out) . at the current rate no one ever 
 will really due to its age. battlefield 2 still has a decent community size easily outweighing 
 its battlefield 2 brother on either console or PC. the upgrades are all useful and the game relise 
 on organization and teamwork not lone wolfing it all over the place as we typically see in battlefield 
 2 games. in short this WAS the THINKING MANS shooter BEFORE GRAW 1 and 2. The reason this game 
 gets poor ratings at all is because the franchise made people expect a game where a lonewolf had 
 the same impact as a team player. which is wrong.. very wrong.
  
  mutliplayer is solid, single player bots AI is solid, graphics are dated true and gameplay is a 
 bit familiar. but for being innovative in subject mater u get a 9/10 WELL DONE, and STAY FROSTY 
 :) So this game is definetaly worth picking up and Al Gore and you other environmentalists out thre 
 for prooving us wrong in a video game i owe each of u a virtual cold one, ill start right now *pulls 
 out keg*,*starts pouring it into equally portioned e-pints*...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maynza
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game i've ever played! i've had it for a while now and it is very good. There 
 is soo much to do in this game which includes all new titan mode. This is when u have to destroy 
 the enermy's titan which is a hovering warship and u have to also destroy the shield and stuff. 
 In this game u can unlock 40 weapons which includes i think 4 guns. the rest r bombs and mines 
 and stuff. U can crouch, kneel, use a parachute, jump, sprint and other useful things. U can be 
 a commander or a squad leader or a squad member. When ur commander or squad leader u can order 
 a EMP strike which r bobs that come from the sky and bomb the selected point. All of this stuff 
 that i'm explaining is on multiplayer online, but i have to say that single player doesn't have 
 all these features unfortunately. It's soo addicting because there are so many things to unlock 
 which makes u determined to get all of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  I have to say, I never really liked Battlefield series. Well, to be honest, I was never much of 
 a multiplayer person anyway. With lousy graphics and not-so-brilliant AI, the Battlefield series 
 was never really appealing to me, at least not it's singleplayer. Well, that all changed with Battlefield 
 2142...
  
  So, in this latest installment of Battlefield series, you play a role of a common soldier (didn't 
 expect that, eh? ;-) ) in a harsh futuristic battlefield shrouded in snow and ice. It is the year 
 2142 and the world has just entered a new ice age, which proved apocalyptic for the entire human 
 civilisation. With huge mountains of ice coming down from the north pole, Russians (along with 
 some other nations) form a coalition and begin their push south towards Africa in a desperate attempt 
 to survive. Of course, European Union doesn't like that one bit, and a third world war breaks out. 
 Well, that's about it for the story. Altou pretty simple, it sounds cool and keeps the atmosphere 
 up through an entire game.
  
  As you probably guessed, you will do most of your fighting in a frozen landscapes and urban centers, 
 altou there are maps set in the deserts of Africa as well. Ah, the maps... Now, that's the key 
 to this game's success. They are much smaller then in the previous Battlefield games, and crowded 
 with more cover spots, gun positions, even buildings you can enter and open fire on your enemies 
 from a balcony or a window. Big deal, you might think... Well, my dear friend, you might be right. 
 Why? Simply because smaller, more detailed maps mean you spend more time kicking butts with some 
 serious firepower, and less time running around and looking for someone whose butt you might kick.
 
  
  I also have to mention that this time the weapons pack a lot more punch, so it takes a lot less 
 to actually kill someone. Meaning? You have to be more fast and more accurate, and use cover wisely 
 if you want to prevail. Altou everyone wears futuristic heavy armor, it doesn't take 2 minutes 
 of constant fire to kill the enemy. Depending on your enemies' health and your weapon's firepower, 
 it takes no more than one or two well-placed bursts to send someone to kingdom come and beyond. 
 About damn time, if you ask me! One of the main reason why I hated Battlefield 2 was the fact that 
 it took me about 50 rounds from SAW machine gun to take down a stupidest infantryman that didn't 
 even wear body armor.
  
  Ah, yes, the weapons. Oh joy, oh joy! They all look cool, futuristic and powerful! And sound just 
 awesome! When you squeeze a trigger in this game, you feel like something important just happened. 
 Add to that a cool effects of ground and the nearby walls bursting into pieces when hit, and you 
 got yourself a real eye candy. You can even see the bullet holes all around you. AWE-SOME!!! This 
 time, there are even weapons and grenades you can unlock as your rank goes up in multiplayer game, 
 which gives you all the more reasons to fight. I was shamelessly robbed of multiplayer due to my 
 slow internet connection, so I had to use patches to unlock all those goodies in singleplayer game. 
 *sniff*
  
  Aaaaanyway, another cool thing about this game are walkers. Yes, the big futuristic robot walkers 
 that pack more firepower than God. They look powerful, feel powerful and can turn the tide of battle 
 if used properly. They're also fun to drive. I did mention that, did I? Well, they do have their 
 weaknesses. They need an infantry support in order to stay in one piece (unless you want to be 
 sent to hell by EMP grenades and rocket launchers) . Yes, the enemies are really smart and will 
 organize effectively in order to kill a walker. One might throw a few EMP grenades, while other 
 will hit you with rockets and bombs as you are temporarily crippled by the EMP. 
  
  So you have to gang up as well. It's always best to join a squad and attack in wolf packs, than 
 act as one-man-band. Well, except if you're a sniper, and you upgrade yourself to a commando. Then 
 you can run around in your stealth suit and blow stuff up to prepare ground for your buddies. Who 
 are just about as smart as the enemy, so don't expect much babysitting here. All this stuff makes 
 singleplayer really cool and enjoyable. Not to mention tanks, jeeps, APCs, artillery strikes, gunships, 
 etc., etc.
  
  What really stunned me about this game is it's visual design. Yes, it uses the same old Battlefield 
 2 engine. Yes, it takes a lot of horsepower to run it with maximum graphic settings turned on. 
 But the game ran pretty smoothly for me, and the atmosphere is so tense, so great I didn't care 
 about anti-aliasing, dynamic shadows and other crap. The war-torn, frozen Belgrade (my favorite 
 map, by the way) looks so gloomy it's simply breath-taking. For the first time, maps look like 
 an artist designed them. Huge, tall buildings enshrouded in mist, snow and rain falling from the 
 sky, gloomy and empty parks with barren trees - it all makes it look like every drop of blood has 
 been drained from this tortured, dark world. A true dark, war-like atmosphere. 
  
  Altou not all maps are as dark as Belgrade, or Berlin, they all have that desperate, tense atmosphere 
 like something tragic is about to happen. And that's what I love about them.
  
  So why not 10? Or at least 9.5? Well, for one thing, straight-from-the-box version of this game 
 has only 5 maps. That's simply embarrassing! Altou great, 5 maps are simply not enough! And you 
 also get only 4 classes to play with, compared to 7 in the Battlefield 2. Altou you can customize 
 them in multiplayer, I really don't understand why can't you customize them in singleplayer as 
 well. Creating a singleplayer character as well as multiplayer character should be allowed in this 
 type of game. Ah well...
  
  All in all, this is without a doubt the best Battlefield game so far. Buy it and enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel1130113
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is a great game, although the graphics are recycled. The gameplay is the same, 
 but multi player is very hard for people, since unlocks DO change the battle, if you were great 
 in BF2, and you get this game, you wil find that hardcore players will just spawn-kill you, because 
 the starter kits don't come with basics, just a pistol a knife and a rifle. Grenades, C4, shock 
 paddles and smoke grenades MUST be unlocked. And only On line gameplay will unlock them, just as 
 I said earlier. Another letdown is that single player is just what I call practice, because it 
 only has about five maps and one play mode. While on line play has several maps and about five 
 types of gameplay.
  BF2142's biggest asset is the multi player Titan mode, which basically is: Shut down the enemy 
 shields and destroy the enemy airship before they destroy yours and there is really various way 
 to achieve it.
  
  Post your ideas! "Peace, through power"-Kane 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  While there have been grumblings about how DICE and EA have handled the franchise, there are already 
 thousands and thousands of players competing across the frozen tundra of future earth in the newest 
 addition to the franchise, Battlefield 2142. That's probably because the game is actually a lot 
 of fun. It certainly feels a lot like a well produced mod of Battlefield 2 but that's not necessarily 
 a bad thing. Weapons and kits seem pretty balanced, maps are well designed and exciting in general, 
 and their persistence system isn't half bad when it actually works. It doesn't have the crazy frenzied 
 oomph that we've come to expect from Battlefield, but there's a lot of entertainment to be found. 
 Those looking for explosive changes to gameplay aren't going to find them, even with the new Titan 
 mode, but DICE has definitely spent some time refining some of the featuresThe core gamplay basically 
 remains the same. Conquest mode is back and unchanged, which much of the BF community will be happy 
 about. It provides the same fast-paced gameplay across maps that vary in success. Probably the 
 best thing about these maps is that the load times seem to have been significantly reduced from 
 those in Battlefield 2. Certainly nice not to have to wait five minutes per map. The city maps 
 like Belgrade, Cerbere Landing, and Fall of Berlin are very exciting as are the crowded Camp Gibraltar 
 and Tunis Harbor. While vehicle lovers will probably find some of the more open maps appetizing, 
 the designs are less interesting from an infantry perspective, which is where most players will 
 be spending their time. 
  
  Part of the issue with the vehicle heavy maps is that the vehicles aren't exceptionally interesting. 
 Over 130 years into the future it seems like technology might have spawned more than simple tanks 
 and jeeps. Flying vehicles act a bit like helicopters. They're much harder to crash, which makes 
 sense, though it does cut down on the challenge of flying. The most interesting vehicle is probably 
 the anti-grav tank that glides over the landscape. It's a slow moving beast with an set cannon 
 (no swivel, just tilt) but can strafe from side to side. Bland vehicles and color palettes are 
 forgivable if a bit sad. The cold and dark future Earth is something we've come very accustomed 
 to in video games. It wouldn't hurt to add at least a little bit of color. In some ways it's suitably 
 depressing but just isn't particularly interesting to look at. With a number of revisions and additions, 
 Titan mode is the largest. Titan is played across one of five 48 player maps. Instead of control 
 points, missile silos are scattered around the environment. Every so often, they'll fire a missile. 
 It's up to each team to uplink and capture the silos by standing near to them and hold them long 
 enough to fire a missile at the enemy Titan ship. Enough missile hits and the Titan shield will 
 drop. At this point, infantry takes the lead by assaulting the huge flying base. The issue is simply 
 getting there. Players can either fly transport and attack vehicles over to the enemy Titan or 
 launch from a mobile personnel carrier. These transport vehicles can shoot pods high up into the 
 air at which point the soldier inside can steer enough for the pod to land on the Titan deck and 
 assault the craft.
  
  Many of the games of Titan have been pretty disorganized, but when you get a good group of players 
 that are obviously working in teams, the mode becomes very exciting. Indoor battles can be intense 
 and games can be won and lost in the defense of a Titan. Once commanders learn to issue specific 
 defense and attack orders to squads (and once players learn to join a damn squad so they can be 
 issued orders) once both Titan shields are down, things will get even better. Either way, this 
 objective mode is definitely a welcome addition to players like us that appreciate having a substantial 
 goal to go after rather than arbitrary points that tick down over time. When an enemy Titan explodes 
 it's easy to feel more satisfaction with victory than when a game just ends in the middle of battle 
 in Conquest mode. The only issue isn't really with the mode but the explosive visuals when a Titan 
 finally is destroyed. DICE really should have put some resources into making the Titan actually 
 explode. Pieces should rain down on the landscape and fire should fall from the skies. What they 
 have now just isn't satisfying enough to our inner pyro.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _DeadlyFred_
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  I've been playing about with the Battlefield series since the initial bricks were laid with the 
 Wake Island demo for BF:1942. The game was fun back then and had some interesting new gameplay 
 on the table but the successive installments have done much to improve that fledgling formula. 
 Though the evolution has been a steady and incremental one, I believe BF:2142 represents a franchise 
 which has learned from its mistakes, accentuated its high points and grown to make a fine showing 
 of itself. 
  
  It leaves to say, most people would probably prefer to have a game set in a modern or historical 
 time period but if you can get over the thematic presentation (though I rather like it, personally) 
 you will appreciate what BF:2142 has going on under the hood.
  
  The classes have been slimmed down to just four, although these represent combination of all the 
 kits from past classes, and then some. Assault/Medic, Recon (Sniper) /Spec Ops and Engineer/Anti-Tank 
 have all been consolidated respectively while the Support class remains largely unchanged. While 
 you might first see this stream-lining as downsizing what it does, in fact, is make every one of 
 the fewer classes far more useful in its own right.
  
  Each class starts with very basic kit items though more can be unlocked through ranking up. Some 
 have accused this aspect of the game as unnecessarily tedious and it may be to an extent. It is, 
 however, possible to unlock the full array of weapons for one "sub-class" in a relatively short 
 period of time, and before the granted unlocks begin to become fewer and more far between. This 
 at least will allow players relatively easy access to the items associated with their favored kit.
 
  
  The squad/commander system smartly introduced in BF:2 has been continued here largely unchanged, 
 though the points system for teamwork-related scoring appears to have been at least marginally 
 expanded and improved upon. Squads also have access to a nifty Battle Net functionality which allows 
 members of the squad to spot and share the location of hostiles in realtime, not unlike the system 
 used in Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter. There are also new squad-leader-specific unlockables 
 as well as an EMP pulse for commanders to disable enemy vehicles.
  
  On that note: vehicles, at times the best and worst feature of the series, seem to be relatively 
 comfortable on the battlefields of 2142. An abundance of anti-vehicle countermeasures and the exclusion 
 of spawn point carpet-bombing are a welcome change from BF:2 and previous. Make no mistake, tanks 
 and the new walkers are still forces to be reckoned with but they seem marginally less overpowered 
 and singular than in previous installments.
  
  The maps in 2142 are possibly the game's greatest asset and while there are plenty of servers running 
 the top fan favorites, you aren't stuck with nearly the same sort of monotony the BF:2 server list 
 offers. All of the maps are wonderfully rendered, detailed with plenty of cover and still huge 
 without feeling like just a bunch of empty space between capture points. Far more interesting than 
 most in BF:2's arsenal and the fact that there are plenty of servers with a full rotation helps 
 to dissuade the monotony which begins to creep in after you wind up playing your 1000th consecutive 
 round on Road to Freakin' Jalalabad -- though for those so inclined: Camp Gibraltar and Suez Canal 
 have lots of 24/7's.
  
  Ah, and the one big new addition -- Titan mode! Though the setup for a Titan map requires little 
 more than swapping flags for missile silos and sicking a pair of huge, warship/transport vessels 
 in the sky, the result can be an interesting alternative to standard Conquest modes. While Titan 
 mode plays out mostly like Conquest you're afforded the opportunity to make a quick or come-from-behind 
 victory by directly assaulting the opposing team's Titan from the inside. This sort of closed-quarters 
 fighting is a bit new to the series and it tends to work questionably as well in practice as in 
 theory but it is something new and can certainly be interesting.
  
  Bottom line: if you're a fan of the series and appreciate the evolution of it, BF:2142 is a great 
 addition to the fold. The gameplay is solid as ever and fresh with a nice gloss of new tweaks and 
 polish while the near-future setting provides a vivid if somewhat esoteric backdrop for the carnage. 
 For $19 bucks bundled with the Northern Strike expansion you'll probably get much more out of this 
 than dropping $30 on BF:2, at least in terms of variety. About 90% of that $30 dollars worth of 
 content is utterly wasted because over half the populated servers only run 3 maps (or 2 of Special 
 Forces) and a bare fraction offer either of the expansions (Euro Forces is especially rare) , which 
 is a great disappointment since Armored Fury has some killer maps.
  
  I digress. Battlefield 2142 is a great installment in the series and made of win -- buy it.
  
 
  
  An aside -- All I can say to the complaints in the nature of "the engine is showing its age" is: 
 get over yourself. I for one have been soundly unimpressed with most of what "next gen" gaming 
 has come up with, I really do not care how pretty it looks if it sucks. The engine in BF:2142 is 
 far from ugly and does what it needs to do, that's really all that is necessary.
  
  Additionally, for the allegations of uninspired design and being too derivative of past iterations: 
 why would DICE go out and break a tried and tested formula? Why would you want to buy a Battlefield 
 title in the first place if it... wasn't? The game's design is its appeal, not just some random 
 game mechanic to be thrown about randomly. Even the new Battlefield: Bad Company is adding classic 
 Conquest modes to its bag of tricks because, why? That's why people play Battlefield.
  
  Fact is, the small tweaks made from BF:2 to BF:2142 end up having very meaningful effect on gameplay, 
 without vastly altering it or worse, breaking it entirely; as over-zealous innovation has a knack 
 of doing.
  
  And if you hate Titan mode, don't play it. Much like with Capture the Flag in the older games, 
 Titan mode is an alternative to the standard, not a replacement. The core gameplay of BF and its 
 Conquest mode is alive and in top form in 2142. If that's some kind of sin then I guess its no 
 wonder developers are so keen to err on the side of caution and just put out games that suck to 
 begin with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWFAttitudefan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is a great game by any means, has a few ups and downs here and there (but what 
 game does'nt?) lemme break it down for ya!
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  This game has beautiful graphics, amzing detail and awesome explosions! overall, if you have a 
 decent PC, you can get nice graphics and good framerate.
  
  Sound 10/10
  This game has an amazing sound quality, it sounds like a real war is going on at times. You just 
 get so immersend in the game you'll think you're fighting a war for real.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  The gameplay in this game is very smooth and fun, once you get the hang of 
 it. The game can be tricky to learn at first, but is quite easy once you've learned how the game 
 works.
  
  Online 9/10
  
  Online is great fun. The Ranks and unlockaables are a major factor in online play. However, this 
 game has tendencies to lag online. And that could be a problem at times, but otherwise, this game 
 is amazingly fun online.
  
  Features 10/10
  
  This game has enough features to keep you going for hours on end, with the ranks and unlockables, 
 you'll have hours of fun playing, Titan is a great addition to the Battlefield series, and conquest 
 is back in this game as well, you'll have hours of fun playing the game.
  
  Overall I give Battlefield 2142 a 9.5, This is an amazing game and is well worth the money you'll 
 spend on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4koN3m3sis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  Graphics - 8.5/10: Battlefield has been known for it's great graphics but compared to higher-end 
 games such as Guild Wras, no... Battlefield 2142 has both amazing graphics and some not so good. 
 Of course, this depends on your Video settings on the options of the game. The graphics can DEFINATELY 
 use a boost of it's own but still, it's great for such an old game!
  
  Lag - 7/10: Lag, the most annoying thing ever created. The lag isn't bad in this depending on how 
 many people are in the server, and the latency of the server. Some servers can annoyingly give 
 you 700 ping and get you kicked but then, it shoots down to 27 but you still get kicked. Therefore, 
 the lag can be good (17/27) or can be VERY bad (300/700) ...
  
  Audio  10/10: WHEEE! The Audio! Like always, the sounds of gun's firing are amazing on this type 
 of game! This is the major part of ANY shooter game! You wouldn't like a sound of an AK-47 to be 
 a chicken clucking would you? Well this isn't happily... The sounds of every gun and all the gadgets 
 are AMAZING but the people shouting random multi-language speach on your VOIP can annoy you...
 
  
  Gameplay  9.5/10: Battlefield 2142 is VERY addicting and leaves you gasping to play this game 
 for every minute of your lives! The amount of content shoved into this game and care with each 
 one is mind blowing! However, such as all games, there will still be the idiotic- HACKERS!!! Now, 
 Punkbuster has caught many of the hacks and so have the patches, however, many people use undetected 
 hacks which bypass Punkbuster can be VERY annoying but a friendly kick won't do any harm. =D
  
  Pricing and Future Development - 9/10: The price of this game isn't much to be transformed 
 into a game such as this. The graphics and the features of this very game for a measly 30 isn't 
 much at all! It's the bargain of the century! I can imaging DICE and EA sending out many more games 
 in the Battlefield series; each getting more, more and more better each time!
  
  OVERALL  9.5/10: This is a great game to waste time and simulate a futuristic war without going 
 TOO far ahead, and therefore, deserves 9.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlienXS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 4:28 am PT
Review:  Very immersive as the usual BATTLEFIELD standards.
  Maybe it's not really innovative except for the "forced" online features.
  The strategy and greatness 
 of levels make this a MUST BUY if you're into this kind of games. The Onlin e features are quite 
 worthy even if there should be more freedom in building up your character playing in the field
 
  
  NOTE: 
  one absurd exception: if you want to buy the expansions set for Battlefield Series don't do it 
 thru EA Store -Italy. The same expansion bought online costs you more than the DOUBLE!!!! (Yes 
 200% than the rest of the world) They asked me for almost 15 EUR when I took the same piece of 
 software through EA STORE - UK for basically 6 EUR. I am quite bored of the software selling laws 
 in Italy. I had the same problem with ROXIO software, In italy asked 100 when in Germany the same 
 stuff costed 50. Luckily Internet allows you to travel without moving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheReview
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is one of the best in the series! You should only get this for the multiplayer! 
 Single player isn't as fun at all compared to the multiplayer! I love the new titan mode also, 
 it's extremely fun!
  
  The Good:
  
  - Very fun multiplayer!
  - It's fun to customize your soldier the way you want.
  - Lots of people play this, at least 
 a couple thousand!
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Might bore you after a while but once you start playing it maybe five hours later you will love 
 it again.
  - Very bad single player, but the multiplayer makes up for it.
  
  All in all, Battlefield 2142 is very fun! Is it the best in series? No. It's the second best! The 
 best would probably have to be Bad Company but 2142 is still a very fun game! So if you love multiplayer 
 with a lot of action, go down to Wal-Mart or another store and buy it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soiheardyoulike
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  BF 2142 takes place in the far flung future of combat and in this new settings there are new vehicles, weapons, abilities 
 and objectives. I believe the goal was to have the lighting and popularity of BF 2 strike twice. 
 It did not do that but they succeeded in making a slightly different. 
  
  Story-Its battlefield so story is more of a way to explain why the combat is there. The European 
 forces are fighting the PAC forces for resources in many different areas. I am just posting the 
 story so you know why they are fighting in the first place.
  
  graphics- It does look nice and you can set varying levels of detail such as displays on computers 
 and such. It does look nice but is no way considered the graphics king.
  
  So what have they changed?- As a sequel somethings have changed and some of them were good and 
 others were not so (IMO) . 
  
  -There are less classes then last time. Instead of covert and special ops and anti tank and the 
 plethora of other niche classes , there are instead 4. This makes it much easier in my opinion 
 because for the most part they combine weapons and abilities that go together pretty well. The 
 medic and soldier is replaced with assault who now has more firepower then the medic but also can 
 heal people as well. The sniper now known as recon is pretty much the same but now has the future 
 equivalent of c4. 
  
  -There is a new gameplay mode called titan mode. Titan mode is basically this. There are 2 large 
 shielded vehicles that hold both forces on opposite sides of the map. The goal of each side it 
 to capture missile silos by standing next to them like the flags in conquest and this damages the 
 enemies shield. The added wrinkle (s) is once you get the titan shields down you can board the titan 
 and destroy its core ending the match much faster. The titans can also move so they can position 
 themselves next to a silo to defend it as well as move away from the other titan to postpone being 
 boarded. I like this style because once the shields are down you must play Offense and defense, 
 you have to defend your titan as well as capture silos.
  
  -There are transport pods now. This is a big change in gameplay and is a plus and a minus at the 
 same time. It is a plus because you can launch yourself from apcs and titans to travel to a target 
 getting rid of a long trek. At the same time the pods in the titan maps promote these large and 
 mostly dead areas where nothing exists and suicide is the only option to get to another base. On 
 the flip side pods a low you to land on enemy helicopters to blow them up and killing the crew. 
 But when the game lags and IT WILL your precise attack with the pod will be destroyed and you will 
 be flung into the dead landscape said earlier. 
  
  -The conquest maps are mainly cities now. I like this in the sense that there is less trekking 
 and more fighting in these city environments. But on the flip side I have not seen a conquest map 
 as good as Strike at Karkland in BF 2142. 
  
  -The weapons are no longer a linear. This is a big minus in my book. Both sides have the same weapons 
 and tech and thus some of the fun of the MEC having ak's with full auto while the marines had m16s. 
 Both sides speak in different languages but besides that everything is pretty much the same except 
 the PAC having a hover tank that can over water. I liked the weapons in BF 2 where the MEC had 
 a sniper with semi auto and americans had bolt actions. 
  
  - Way more unlocks and most of them should not be unlocks. You start out with out grenades are 
 medic paddles or mines or any of the things that made the classes fun in BF 2. This is a plus in 
 that beginners just dont nade spam but also you have to constantly have to level up to regain the 
 gear you once had such as the abbility to revive people or high explosives. You do get some cool 
 unlocks though such as a carbine that the recon class can wield as well as player abilities and 
 squad leader perks. I dislike not having all my gear but some of the new unlocks are pretty cool. 
 
  
  - No jets. If you whored the jet you will not like this change ; if you hated getting blown up 
 by that guy who just flew around doing nothing then you will like this. 
  
  -New vehicles. They added new vehicles such as Walkers ,hover tanks, apc's with pods, and some new 
 helicopters... but unlike BF 2 where you could kill the guy in the turret, you can't. Everyone 
 is shielded in the vehicles so the old ideas of shooting the guys in the back of the apc or tank 
 are gone. Also tanks and walkers have shields that can be turned on by pressing x. The ultra powerful 
 vehicles are countered by the fact that engies have the most over powered anti vehicle weapon ever. 
 It is a ball that when in range will follow the vehicle and destroy it. 
  
  - The points are botched. Kills are now worth one point, assists are .5 of a point and kills in 
 the titan are worth 2. This bothers me because now kill assists are useless unless you get a couple 
 to balance out the .5 of a point as well as titan kills being double so a lot of people rush the 
 titan in hopes of getting more points.
  
  -New interface. The interface is a little more streamlined in some aspects and in others its pretty 
 poor compared to bf 2. Equipping all the new unlocks is easier but the interface also lacks the 
 conveniences of all the of the buttons being on the top .
  
  -The levels are a little more similar than bf 2 with the world going into a new ice age and all. 
 Wake island is no longer a jungle but a snowy area as many other levels. Its not a problem there 
 is a lot of variety but it just lacks the desserts, jungles, and other cool levels of bf 2. Instead 
 you get some pretty cool cities to fight in as well as other interesting maps. They are not bad 
 just different. 
  
  -Minor changes. 
  - all weapons are full auto instead of burst but can be set to burst
  - Support class can deploy 
 sentries
  - Recon class can go invisible
  - One giant med pack and one giant amo pack, compared to the multiple amo and health packs. 
 
  -Crashes on vista sometimes.
  -Gunship helicopters where the gunners are vulnerable.
  
  
  All in all it is battlefield with some new cool maps and gameplay but still they took out some 
 of the things that made bf2 special such as the a linear vehicles and weapons, as well as having 
 all the gear you needed from the start asides from a weapon unlock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordasher2002
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Although I don't mind at all that its based in the Future. I actually think its really cool, But 
 I'm sure for some its not the hook they need.
  
  It seems EA and DICE have fixed 100% of the glitches in this new game of the series. It just seems 
 perfectly solid.
  
  The graphics are good but honestly nothing really amazing about them.
  but while playing a session 
 it certainly feals realistic enough. 
  
  When you got a Mechwarrior on your tail its really frightening and that counts for points right 
 there.
  
  So just think of the game like this.
  
  It takes all the best of best gameplay mechanics and fixes all the glitches, but the theme of the 
 game has been changed to take place in the future world of snowy terrain. Which I happened to be 
 very surprised that I actually didn't mind it at all.
  
  So In retrospect I liked BattleField 1942 I rate that one 7.5
  and BattleField Vietnam was a 
 bit better I give it a 7.8
  Battliefield 2 was quite the leap, I enjoyed it I give it an 8.2
  
  I really enjoyed this game 
 I will have to give BattleField 2142 an 8.5
  
  Because it is a solid game and isn't as annoying as the other games in terms of getting connected, 
 starting a game and not getting killed so often which requires a 20 second time out.
  
  They polished Battlefield they way it was meant to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom316
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  I bought this game from Curcuit City in the USA a while ago and thought it would be really good 
 judging from the back cover and i loved Battlefield 2.
  
  I popped it in and installed it, ran the update and started playing
  
  Found it realy exciting 
 and fun.
  
  Honestly, It has some improvements over BF2 but not enough to make it that much better.
  
  
 Immagine your in and Ice Age with tons of weapons and vehicles. Then, on a 64 ppl multiplayer map 
 you use tons of different guns to go on a killing spree you just have to love it! Your at base 
 with tons of other people, Six people file up in a plane your driving high and you shoot down other 
 planes, drop bombs on groups of people and destroy vehicles! Or just with a machine gun, spawning 
 in the heat of battle, sraying and killing! Another good thing about BF2142 is that theres tons 
 of fun accomplishments and ranks to achive to it never ends.
  
  If your a fan of FPSs, you should definately get it, its a great game and an improvement over battlefield 
 2. I still find myself playing battlefield 2 though, mostly because of friends but BF2142 is in 
 the ranks of great FPSs
  
  Bottom Line = Amazing Game but not much of an improvement of BF2!
  
  
  My rating scale depends 
 on the platform and genre its on. Since PC has much more awesome games on it, i mark much harder 
 on it so a 80% on PC would mean its great compared to the hundreds of other awesome PC games of 
 that genre, and might be better than a 98% of consoles. A great game is a great game, on the system. 
 I like to keepy my reviews short and sweet, so i wont bore you and get to the point. If theres 
 an official review out on Giant Bomb, you should definately read it because they are the best reviewers 
 in the worlds! =D
  
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  Graphics 8/10
  Fun 9/10
  Replay 9/10
  Single+Multiplayer 9/10
  
  
  Overall = 43/50 = 86% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loghawk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  BF2142, what we had all been waiting for, the awaited sequel to BF2. Almost a dissapointment. First 
 off we'll start with the graphics. Graphics in this game are almost awkward to look at, and the 
 glitches in it can become extremely noticeable after playing this game for hours straight. Also 
 has bad blur and shadowing effects, but great player model textures (?: o) You'll usually find yourself 
 doing the same thing over and over again in this game, mostly trying to haul ass to another side 
 of the map which never really works well. It has a new game type in which you must destroy the 
 other users "Titan" which can make the game long and almost boring if you dont have the right weapon 
 upgrades.
  The sounds i thought were awesome for the game, and saw no problem. Movements are pretty much the 
 same as any other fps, i didn't see any changes. Oh, and the knife system is hard as hell to get 
 used to haha :D.
  Over all this game was almost, not quite, i for one will stick to BF2
  Hope this helped if your looking to buy haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ST3-3YA
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Unlike the other Battlefield games, ea have concentrated on producing a war game set in the future, 
 with new things such as Battlewalkers, Hovertanks, EMP (electro magnetic pulse) grenades, Titan 
 ships and more. 
  Although you only have 4 classes you can unlock upgrades and 2 extra waepons for each class by 
 getting points to increase your ranking. You can also choose two paths to follow in each class 
 as there are 2 extra weapons at the end. 
  Even though there are less classes to choose from, a new mode has made up for that loss. Titan 
 mode. I find this mode to be the most exciting because when your enemy titan shield is down you 
 can board it via aircraft or launch pods. Once inside the titan you will find yourself in full 
 out combat aginst the titan, just to reach the reactor room. A fun part after destroying the reactor 
 is trying to get off the titan in time before it explodes, though it's hard to get off, I alsways 
 find myself so close to escaping and then it blowing up.
  I reccomend that even though you might be itching to get online that you try single player first 
 because if you go staight online you won't really last long because you will be killed by people 
 who are on the game 24 / 7.
  I think it's a big improvement from the other Battlefields and well worth giving it a go. 9.0 / 
 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wags94
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  BF2142 is a truly amazing game in my opinion. Although it does not offer too much more than BF2 
 in terms of graphics and difficulty, it provides a whole new book of tactics and such. Because 
 of the future setting and new weapons, you have to forget all tactics you picked up in previous 
 Battlefield Games and adapt to the new tactics of 2142. You need to get used to fact that the enemy 
 will always know where you are and what you are doing (thanks to UAV's and active sonar.) . BF2142 
 also offers new gameplay, mostly Titan mode. Titan mode is very unique experience which in my opinion 
 dominates over previous game modes. BF2142 also has many down-falls such as: No new graphics engine, 
 Everything has to be unlocked, sometimes I just want to jump into a game and fight but BF2142 forces 
 me to play hours on end just to unlock a new items. Also, there are many different exploits and 
 glitches many players use to their advantage which can be very annoying. Overall BF2142 is a great 
 game and is worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romanmoga15
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  The game was a lot better than Battlefield 2 because the new weapons in this game are better, they 
 are more accurate, do more damage, and reload faster because they do not have to be cocked. The 
 magazine comes out and a new one goes back in. Next, the vehicles are better. Mechanics are the 
 best because of their strength and speed, they can fight off just about anything that the enemy 
 throws at you. But the hover plane is class, don't get me started about that, it is made to be 
 a plane but it works like a helicopter. It has the speed of a plane but the brakes and landing 
 of a helicopter. It carries 10 missiles and you do not have to lose time locking on to your target, 
 you just fire like crazy and the missiles will hit the target. Titan mode is the best part to the 
 game you still have conquest mode but titan mode is better than conquest because you get to be 
 on a big battle ship that hovers over the battlefield. You first have to take out its shield getting 
 missile silos just like taking flags in conquest mode, once you take out the shield you have to 
 get on the enemy Titan by using a hover plane, a bit like a Black Hawk or launch pods from an APC 
 like tank. Once you are on the Titan you have to destroy four terminals and you and you're team 
 will be able to take out the main Generator and the Titan will blow but you will get a few seconds 
 to get off the Titan. You will not get an award for getting off the Titan but it is cool to see 
 it blow. 
  
  
  Thank you for reading my Review and have a good day or night? Bye.
  
  Sound __ 7
  Graphics __ 8 (depends on pc)
  Overall ___ Genius 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is the third (or fourth, if you count BF: Vietnam) installment in the BF series. 
 Although I have never played BF2, I thoroughly enjoyed BF1942, and was ecstatic when I learned 
 that they were going to make a futuristic version of the Battlefield franchise. How did it hold 
 up? Read my humble review...
  
  
  Graphics: The graphics are not quite next gen, not quite last gen. They hold up well today, but 
 BF 2142's graphics definitely aren't the best out there. The biggest problem you will have with 
 it is the fact that it makes for long loading times.
  8/10
  
  Sound: There is very little music in the game, about 4, maybe 5 tracks, none of them overly impressive. 
 However, what this game lacks in music it makes up with quality sound effects, and how they are 
 used. Take for example, the whiz of a frag grenade as it bounces near you, or the ominous noises 
 off in the distance of a speeding missile or a small skirmish, or even the subtle radio chatter 
 one heres when entering a vehicle.
  9.5/10
  
  Value: Considering that the game has over 40 unlocks and even more rewards and the fact that it 
 is almost entirely multiplayer, along with many clans and friendly clan communities, this game 
 will keep you occupied for at least a few months if not for years.
  8.5/10
  
  Tilt: Easy to pick up, tough to master. Playing one or two matches will make anyone understand 
 what they have to do to win, even though they might be killed easily at first (hey, its the nature 
 of an online game for your enemy to come after you as hard as they can without discrimination) . 
 However, after a certain point, one will realize that like all games, this one has a Zen-level 
 skill requirement to make the player a grand one.
  7/10
  
  Game-play: This is the first tactical shooter I have played where everyone almost everyone plays 
 it like it is meant to be played, thanks to the ingenious rewards system. Stick with your squad, 
 more points. Capture a control point or silo, more points, do it with a squad, more points. Heed 
 the call of an injured soldier or a snipers nest in need of ammo, more points. Though some things 
 aren't too well planned out, the game comes together in a spectacular fashion.
  
  Take for example, how my squad was once ordered to take a control point somewhere in the middle 
 of Tunis Harbor in a 64 player map. The enemy had their defense down well, they had a walker at 
 the very front lines wrecking havoc on my squad mates and fellow team members. Behind them, a group 
 of about 9 or 10 assault and support infantry set up their defenses and turrets behind cover and 
 picked off anyone who might have avoided the attention of the walker. And farther behind, a snipers 
 nest of three we hiding in a small courtyard filled with rubble and tanker containers as they picked 
 off my team's reinforcements far to the back. Needless to say, getting through all that would have 
 been a daunting task. Fortunately, one of my squad mates had an idea, and took me and another squad 
 mate into a Humvee-like vehicle and sped us right around to the sniper's flank, at which point 
 we came out of the vehicle and made short work of the poor fools. At the front, another squad on 
 my team had successfully destroyed the walker after applying pressure on it via rocket launchers, 
 and they and the rest of my squad began descending upon the the two enemy squads in the middle 
 as they desperately tried to reform their defenses as me and the other two squad mates with me 
 proceeded to flank them.
  
  It was, as one could say, glorious.
  10/10
  
  Final score:: 8.5/10
  
  Although this game has it's share of problems, mainly being the long 
 loading times and the slightly difficult learning curve, they can not only be over-looked considering 
 that the game engine is basically reused from BF2 and the nature of online games, but can be forgiven 
 for its visceral game experience that is enhanced greatly by the sound quality and how the graphics 
 engine is implemented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergeantscul
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Imagine the world is frozen over, and has taken two sides to fight for the last avaible world resources 
 and land. Now imagine yourself one of the soldiers, whooping candy ass with futuristic guns, grenades 
 and weapons. From floating tanks to futuristic looking revolver (that one gave me a laugh) . Unlike 
 the previous Battlefields, jeep type vechiles in this have speed boost, or a racers call it NOS!!! 
 It also incoperates many new aspects of the game, like the ever handy friends list and the hundreds 
 of achievements and unlockable items like grenades, guns and bullet shields. To sum it up this 
 game is like Battelfield 2 140 years in the future. Id recommend buying it because its only $30 
 and it was very anticipated and got a fairly good review. As the smart dude said, imagination is 
 more important than knowledge, this game is FULL of imagnation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFS102
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 10, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  2142 is set in the future where two future civilizations are fighting it out for command over the 
 world. Pick your side, battle it out, and get ready for a solid first person shooter in almost 
 everyway.
  
  2142 is a strictly multiplayer game. You can play with up to 64 people online, so you can expect 
 the battle to be really intense. Intense is a good word for 2142, because that's basically what 
 it it. 2142's battles might not be very original from other games like Halo or Unreal Tournament, 
 but it does do the things to a good level. If your into FPS's, this is one has good gameplay, but 
 it might not be as good as some others.
  
  There is only one thing about 2142's gamelay that I really like above other games. That, is the 
 classes and unlockable items. 2142 has 4 different types of character you can be. My favorite, 
 the Assault class, is able to run into battle and kill lots of things do to it's good weapons. 
 The classes ad lots of diversity in my opinion and really make the game more strategic. As for 
 the unlockable items, 2142 has plenty of guns and bombs to unlock. To unlock these weapons, you 
 simply play online a lot and do special things. This ads to the strategy in the game as well. In 
 fact, there's actually over 1000 ways to customize your soldier. 
  
  As far as the controls go, there's really nothing that sets it apart from anything else. They work 
 fine overall. You shoot and aim with the mouse, move with WSAD, and talk to your teammates with 
 Q. Those are the main buttons you'll be using in the game. 
  
  The visuals in 2142 look nice, but not great. Yes, it is one of the better looking games on PC, 
 but the graphics are still aging faster than EA would like. The graphics still look good enough 
 so that it doesn't effect the gameplay of the game much, but for everyone who likes really good 
 looking games, you might not be as satisfied by this game. 
  
  Overall, 2142 is a solid FPS in almost always. It looks nice, plays good, and controls well. Really, 
 the only reason I don't rate it higher is because it doesn't take anything to the next level like 
 some other games that are out. The game is still a good FPS, but it's not that different from other 
 games. The classes and unlockables are the only thing that really makes it stand out from other 
 games. If you like that stuff, 2142 is probably a good pick up for you, yet still not the best 
 available option. 
  
  Overall, Battlefield 2142 gets a solid 7.5 out of 10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPumbliQ
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 8, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is a part of the Battlefield series and lives up to it's predecessors in most 
 ways it can. This game features no campaign and suffers greatly from a lack of Single Player material, 
 but don't turn your back on it just yet. While Battlefield 2142 may be much weaker then it's forefathers 
 in Single Player, it has improved greatly in Multi Player, Titan mode is the greatest improvement 
 by far.
  
  You will know little about what is happening in the story of this game no matter what you try to 
 do, but the basic story is that, a new ice age has started and Europe and Asia have formed armies 
 to fight each other valiantly over the little snow free land that is still on earth. Fairly exciting 
 as it sounds, you choose to be either a European or an Asian before and in the battle and the basic 
 thing is to kill the enemy and get silos or reinforcements points.
  
  If you haven't played a Battlefield game before you are probably thinking about how terrible boring 
 that sounds, but if you have played the other 2 (or at least 1 of them) you will understand where 
 I am going with this. This is what Battlefield is about, running around shooting "bad guys" and 
 taking over stuff. If you don't like the idea (many FPS game do something similar to this I believe) 
 just forget I ever wrote anything and stop reading.
  
  If you played Battlefield 2 which I guess most of the people that own this one did, you will remember 
 that there could be slight fun in playing it alone, and the 1st Battlefield was even so brave to 
 feature a Campaign. There is no such thing in this game, the difficulty that you can choose doesn't 
 change much until it becomes really hard and enemies see through walls and have 100% accuracy.
 
  
  Moving on to the Multi Player, now that is a work of art, running in a Titan with a few buddies 
 to blow up a few computers so you can destroy the main power generator. No I'm lying, it's not 
 anything like that, because either you enemies make sure you never get into the Titan alive or 
 they make sure you are bone meal before you get to the computers, chances are you will never reach 
 the terminals and you'll have to wait for the silos to finish off the Titan.
  
  Conquest mode is also pretty fun, (most of) the maps are well made and well put out so no one really 
 doesn't get unfair advantage. The Upgrade system is also one of the things that will make you drool 
 and never stop playing this game until you have reached something you want.
  
  But this game has some large bugs I have encountered and most noticeably is the jump into wall 
 bug which seems to have happened to a few people. I'm not a big fan of people that use those things 
 to their advantage, since I'm just a fairly good player in this game. Lag and graphics glitches 
 are also frequent visitors and the game can just plainly freeze up, even if it's running at a low 
 settings.
  
  All in all it's a good game with a lot of wasted potential and opportunities for Noobism (new word) . 
 If you really want to play this one I think there are always 4 or 5 servers still open, but I'd 
 rather recommend you the booster pack, it most likely has more servers and it has extra unlockable 
 stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirko4444
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 will not dissapoint those of you who wish a worthy sequel to Battlefield 2. Not 
 only is the teamwork MUCH better, since they've merged the Medic class into the Assault class, 
 brought the classes to a total of four, and given you MANY more points as an incentive for working 
 together. More than anything else, you HAVE TO WORK WITH YOUR FRIENDS TO SURVIVE in this game, 
 and it's a good change. My word of advice to you is to join a squad. You won't get far without 
 one.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  9/10
  Ahhh, here's where it shines. The battlefield of nearly a century and a half in the future is fraught 
 with assymetrical warfare, imposing vehicles that spell doom for those caught in it's crosshairs, 
 advanced infantry weapons that chew through others with ease, and above all, fast-paced, across-the-map-and-back 
 fighting. There are no combat lines in this game. Things change fast, and if you don't change with 
 them, you're going to die. Enemies can pop out from any corner and you have to be prepared for 
 everything. Every single moment playing this game is filled with apprehension and adrenaline-pumping 
 excitement. The game does NOT fail to deliver here.
  
  Not only that, but teamwork shines true, at last. Back in the olden days of the previous two Battlefields, 
 there was a seperate Medic class, you got almost no points for healing, and the medic's weapons 
 were poor. Nobody was a medic, a support, or anything else - everyone, EVERYONE, was either assault 
 or special ops, and if they weren't, well, they were fools. I am not a big fan of Battlefield 2 
 because of that. Battlefield 1942 made up for it by the other areas of gameplay, but it still dissapointed 
 me.
  
  Now, the Assault class is the medic class, just as predicters have imagined. There will be no seperate 
 medics, they say, in the future - EVERY primary soldier who's not carrying other kit will have 
 medical equipment on him, small and accessible enough to use in the heat of battle. In the game, 
 healing your teammates brings points galore, reviving them is just plain satisfying with all the 
 fast-paced battles going on (just two soldiers respawning instead of being revived can turn the 
 course of a battle - it's that fast)
  
  What's better, they have a points system now. Every point you get earns you points towards your 
 next promotion, and awards. Get a promotion, you most likely get an "unlock" with it, something 
 that allows your soldier to carry something else, like a defibrillator, underbarrel shotgun for 
 his rifle, grenades, high explosives, et cetera. It's very fun just wondering and finally choosing 
 what will best serve you in the field of battle. Plus, with "field upgrades" if you're in a squad 
 and your squad gets enough points, you can take an unlock for a one-game basis to try it out, meaning 
 it's not likely for you to regret your choices later.
  
  The only problem, is, of course, that all of this functionality comes with a downside...
  
 
  PERFORMANCE
  6/10
  Lag, lag, lag. Choose the right server, or your gun alone will be jumping around like it's a flea. 
 On some it runs smooth as butter, on others you can barely play. The high system requirements should 
 be met and exceeded by 1.5 at LEAST if you want to have a decent chance at finding a non-laggy 
 server. Still, with all that functionality, you gotta expect some downsides. The game makes up 
 for it in other areas if you can get around the performance issues, says I.
  
  GRAPHICS
  10/10
  Graphics do not make the game, but EA has been known to make too many games that focus 
 on eye candy more than gameplay, which I'm not a fan of. Thankfully they've made the right decision 
 here and inserted BOTH beautiful graphics AND good gameplay. From crisp, falling snow to the trundling 
 mech about to crush you under it's feet, it looks very real indeed, even on the "low" graphics 
 setting.
  
  CONTROL
  9/10
  Very few issues here. There aren't many shortcuts to remember (for instance, instead of pressing 
 a separate button to change your firing mode, you just press the same number as you pressed to 
 select the gun) anymore, the aim is smooth and crisp, and even a five year old could jump in and 
 expect to get at least two kills (though older players are sure to get more, of course) .
  
  REPLAYABILITY
  10/10
  No two games are alike here, and the unlocks keep you coming back for 
 more. This game will give you MANY hours of enjoyment.
  
  In the end, Battlefield 2142 has few flaws, and is being fixed every day. If only they could make 
 the performance a bit better, the game would have earned a ten or at least nine here. As it stands, 
 just make sure you have a good computer before playing it, and you'll be rewarded a thousandfold. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pseudodog07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes playing BF 2142 is great fun. Other times, it's boring and frustrating. BF 2142 can best 
 be described as a futuristic, large map, RPG tactical shooter where you increase your abilities 
 if you play it for a long time. This is both a blessing and a curse. For me, it's a curse. Mainly 
 because you start out so weak with only rudimentary capabilities. Only later, after youv'e played 
 a long time, unlocked a certain amount of things, and figured out the maps, does the game pick 
 up. 
  
  Another problem is that it's an EA game, which means that the teams are very generic, without much 
 difference. Does anyone really care what team they are on or what's the reason they are even fighting? 
 I didn't. EA just says "Here's two generic fighting teams, now go at it."
  
  Also it's slow paced at times. You could die and then respawn and it takes a long time before you 
 could find some more action.
  
  Other minor annoyances are key binding issues, the escape button loading into a menu (which takes 
 a while if it's an accident) , overpowered vehicles, and an unfocused battlefield which makes some 
 players feel lost.
  
  In some ways, the Battlefield games have more to offer than other shooters. But, if you prefer 
 pick up and play games, you might prefer a faster paced shooter. Enemy Territory Quake Wars or 
 Frontlines Fuel of War may be the better choice then. In those games you gain your abilities and 
 unlocks during a match or campaign, not over the entire time you play it. Those games are also 
 more focused, so you don't feel like you are just wondering around doing nothing helpful for the 
 team. They also are more "groundbreaking" in terms of new gameplay.
  
  Basically, it's "What is your cup of tea?" Battlefield 2 and 2142 aren't my top choices for multiplayer. 
 It doesn't mean they aren't yours though. And, they might have been mine too if I got in on them 
 at the beginning of thier runs, instead of feeling like a noobie with no weapons and a long, grinding 
 way to go. 
  
  
  
  Pros
  Good Graphics
  Great selection of weapons and unlocks
  Action packed at moments
  Stats keeping system for the long term
  
  Cons
  Takes a long 
 while to "level up" your character
  Too slow or Too widescale at times
  Crosshair is three quarters, so a little awkward
  
  EDIT :: After playing long enough to get 
 into the groove of the game and getting some needed unlocks I've upped the score some. It does 
 take a good while to get use to it, but once you get there it's a really great and deep game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkster91
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  BF2142 is a game you can play for endless hours. And once you get bored of it after a while, you 
 can wait for a few weeks and pick it up again and play for more endless hours.
  
  That's because it's a brilliant game that almost anyone who loves first person shooters and multiplayer 
 can pick up and play.
  
  The class system in BF2142 is just perfect, unlike BF2 where there were a few too many classes 
 and you always felt that each class didn't have enough abilities, forcing you to constantly switch 
 between them. Well, in BF2142 there's only 4 classes and in my opinion, it's just right.
  
  The only downside to this game, i believe is the slightly higher than average PC specs you'll need 
 to play in populated servers with more than 48 players. Once you get into Titan mode with lots 
 of action going on, you'll experience huge amounts of lag unless you've got a brilliant dual-core 
 processor i guess.
  
  Other than that, there's hardly anything to dislike about BF2142. It's better than CoD4. CoD4 doesn't 
 have any vehicles, BF2142 does. If you want to play in more infantry - focused maps, the BF2142 
 can cater for your needs.
  
  Although based on the battlefield 2 engine, the graphics look decent enough on BF2142 and you can 
 get away with mostly medium settings to be satisfied with the visuals. Although there aren't as 
 many servers as there are for BF2, which as over 700 populated servers most of the time. BF2142 
 still has enough populated servers for you to enjoy any map you choose. (over 200 populated servers 
 i usually find with little low lag, i live in the UK) .
  
  The sounds are awesome. The sci-fi theme is beautiful. BF2142 is definitely worth its price now 
 (20 less than $35) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Plate
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is the perfect one for the many Battlefield fans out there, but for those that aren't, 
 don't get it. It has a horrible single player which is just online with stupid bots, [why do my 
 own teammates run over me, WHY???] . Those that don't have online, lay off this game. This game 
 is a real blast to play on a 64 player Titan match. If you are lucky enough to experience that, 
 get ready for bullets flying everywhere, the kill tracker going on hyperspeed, and your reputation 
 as the best ship flying-missile dodging guy ever to plummet into the ground, hit a concrete wall, 
 and fall over a cliff. Seriously, I tried to pilot a ship out of my Titan, and I got vaporized 
 by about 10 missiles!!!! Which warrants another critisicm: if you are a noob, you will stay a noob. 
 EVERY SINGLE SERVER IS FILLED WITH NERDS WHO PLAY FOR ABOUT 10 HRS A DAY AND ENJOY SNIPING YOU 
 FROM OUT OF YOUR SIGHT!!!!! USUALLY, IF YOU WALK OUT IN THE OPEN, AN INVISIBLE SNIPER WILL HEADSHOT 
 YOU!!!! But on the bright side, playing with your friends on the same team and squad is sweet. 
 Get if you have multiplayer and enjoy Battlefield, don't if you don't have multiplayer or hate 
 Battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubeyou
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  The first time i bought this game was second hand, it was good and i like to play with it after 
 school, the multiplayer make the game prefect. Always hide inside the walking robot to get away 
 from enemy vision plus the robot with more hit point can be cover. Overall i like to play with 
 a lot of people with medic and engineer, they can supporting you by healing you and repairing the 
 robot. The graphic own my computer as my graphic card just ATI 9600 pro, but my computer still 
 can running the game in full frame. However, i found that this game easily become boring after 
 you continue played for 3 hours. I still can't find the solution why it became boredmaybe 
 it was not better than another games that this game just keep routine and restart the round, nothing 
 special already. If you wan to play BF2142, try play multiplayer, you can kill your enemy with 
 chatting ability that won't give you a boring game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonoboboy41
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I was a fan of Battlefield 2, and this is a much superior game system. Elegant design of the unlocks 
 and recombination of the kits wind up making them all more interesting to play. Wonderful graphics, 
 sound effects. The only thing I don't like are the ads. They are irritating. Lots of toys to play 
 with, just like BF2. The rewards and encouragements for team play are well thought out and a pleasure 
 to work with. The walkers are fun to play with and against. Northern Strike is essential. If you 
 don't have it you don't have the whole game. A couple of the unlocks it has can bring your kits 
 to whole new levels. I just wish the ads weren't there. The maps are interesting, challenging, 
 and one or two of them are beautiful. The variety of maps is similar to BF2, small and large, city 
 and country. Titan mode is amazing and extremely challenging. More points are generated per minute 
 of play than in any other place. Titans are also amazing to move around, and even to staff the 
 guns is fun when you're right in the middle of everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airidis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  OK this game by all means can be very intense and extremely fun but rarely does this happen. main 
 issue punkbuster as usual to dam picky kicks you for no reason so it makes ranking so ***** hard. 
 oh and the servers are down alot and usually they have terrible latency i remeber when all of them 
 had good latency it was so AMAZING but that only lasted like 2 days.
  
  OK I RANTED ON THE BAD HERES THE GOOD!!!!!!!!! HOORAY
  
  Gameplay, VERY VERY GOOD takes all 
 of the things from BF that were good and kicks most of the bad out....... like only 4 classes. personally 
 in BF i hated that there were so many classes. also they combined engineer with tank person which 
 is nice and along with other classes etc.
  
  Sound. good little iffy at parts but overall bearable
  
  single player, non existent
  multiplayer, 
 main focus of the game
  
  replay value, high because its a good epic battle thing like BF2 and 1942
  
  OOPS ALMOST FORGOT
 
  
  Graphics. SAME as BF2 they need to UPDATE!!!!!! I'M SICK OF LOOKING AT BOXISH BLAND BUILDINGS
 
  
  OVERALL!!!!!!! ITS A GREAT GAME but some of the flaws can make it difficult but they are sometimes 
 bearable.
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfps9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  The game is only good online, and the campaign from 1942 should be brought back. The future weapons 
 and plot are good, but the graphics engine should be updated. Needs other factions and better equipment 
 upgrades. Solid, but lacking! The single player is a complete let down. It has nothing to offer, 
 so if you don't play online, don't even think about it. Only 5 of the total about 12 maps are available, 
 and you can't unlock equipment. The AI is so artificial and the intelligence just isn't there. 
 But the online is good if you can get past the multitude of connection problems. Punkbuster is 
 annoying and needs to be updated constantly. EA left this very patchy. The attention to detail 
 is minimal and this really drags the game down as a whole. If only the single player were there, 
 I would say it is a great game! But it is far short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunder350
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  In Battlefield 2142, players choose to fight for one of two military superpowers - the European 
 Union or the newly formed Pan Asian Coalition -in an epic battle for survival.
  
  Armed with a devastating arsenal of hi-tech weaponry, including assault rifles, cloaking devices 
 and sentry guns, players will also take control of the most lethal vehicles known to man. Massive 
 battle Walkers wage fierce combat on the ground, while futuristic aircraft rule the skies. When 
 taking on this futuristic armor players will need to use their wits and an arsenal of new hi-tech 
 countermeasures like EMP grenades and smart mines to level the playing field.
  
  Epic online gameplay for up to 64 players drops gamers on the front lines as part of a formal squad, 
 or behind the scenes in Commander Mode to direct the strategic assaults of their team-mates.
  
  For the first time in the history of the franchise, Battlefield 2142 will include a brand new 
 game type to complement the classic conquest game. The epic, new Titan mode challenges gamers to 
 destroy the opposing army's Titan - a massive, heavily armored, flying warship - while defending 
 their own. To defeat a Titan, gamers must first take down its shields, board the craft and fight 
 to its inner core before detonating it from the inside. This genre leading gameplay innovation 
 changes the way you play, encouraging both team play and strategy in explosive large-scale confrontations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Jumping ahead to the demo release of 2142, I generally enjoyed the game - Titan mode was a lot 
 of fun and a nice change, but like I read elsewhere, it "seemed like a B2 mod" - nothing more. 
 I wasn't so sure I would get it when it was released.
  
  But, of course I did (as I do with any game that seems like it might interested me for at least 
 an hour) . As I played the game, I really began liking it more and more. The persistence of your 
 soldiers was an excellent addition and it had me longing for my next epic... I mean, gear upgrade. 
 After a while, I noticed that I actually play B2142 much different than I played B2, which I didn't 
 think was going to be the case.
  
  To give you an example, I played a Support kit and obtained the automated turret machine gun (forgot 
 what they are called, - a Sentry of some kind) . While on the roof of a building, I positioned this 
 gun to cover an area behind me so that I could lay at the corner shooting down at others without 
 having to worry about someone sneaking up behind me and slicing me from ear to ear. This added 
 a great deal of enjoyment for me as I would hear the machine gun fire, and turn in time to see 
 it cut my would be assassin down. This was something I had not experienced in B2 - being able to 
 make myself prone to a certain direction knowing my pet... er, gun was watching my back.
  
  Anyway, with many many hours under my belt already now, I am finding this game very enjoyable. 
 In fact, I uninstalled B2! Not to say that B2 will never be played again - there is just something 
 I love about present-day-ish combat fields, gear, guns and vehicles. But I know for some time to 
 come, when I need to jump into a game and cut down other people online, it will be via this game.
 
  
  If you have $30 to spare, and like B2, you should probably give this a try.
  
  Enjoy! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurgel2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  No brainless COD4 chaos - as much teamplay as anyone ever accomplished to cramp in there. Best 
 damn FPS EVER.
  
  No brainless COD4 chaos - as much teamplay as anyone ever accomplished to cramp in there. Best 
 damn FPS EVER.
  
  No brainless COD4 chaos - as much teamplay as anyone ever accomplished to cramp in there. Best 
 damn FPS EVER.
  
  No brainless COD4 chaos - as much teamplay as anyone ever accomplished to cramp in there. Best 
 damn FPS EVER.
  
  No brainless COD4 chaos - as much teamplay as anyone ever accomplished to cramp in there. Best 
 damn FPS EVER.
  
  No brainless COD4 chaos - as much teamplay as anyone ever accomplished to cramp in there. Best 
 damn FPS EVER.
  
  No brainless COD4 chaos - as much teamplay as anyone ever accomplished to cramp in there. Best 
 damn FPS EVER.
  
  No brainless COD4 chaos - as much teamplay as anyone ever accomplished to cramp in there. Best 
 damn FPS EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trombonedude13
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  So, after playing BF2 for more than 300 hours, I was totally psyched about the sequel to it. Needless 
 to say, i got this game the day it came out. But guess what? I couldn't play it that day, because 
 EA had already released a patch that had to be downloaded to fix problems that SHOULD have been 
 fixed before the release. Major turn off. 
  
  Gameplay: This game had most of the same controls and feel that BF2 had. They did however change 
 up all of the vehicles to suit the "futuristic" tense of the game, and boy did they screw up. The 
 helicopters,,,, became these impossible to manuever little hovercraft things that were just a sad 
 excuse for an air vehicle. And the oh-so-loved J-10 and F-16 fighter jets that everyone craved 
 to fly in BF2, gone. And nothing to replace them. As for the tanks, the hovertank addition was 
 pretty nice and so was the 2 person mech. Have to give it to them there. Probably the best part 
 about this BF was the cloaking device. Totally cool for those who love to sneak and kill with knives 
 possibly. The length of this game was also dramatically decreased to about 100 hours. I pretty 
 much got all the ribbons and awards and ranks, and went back to playing BF2 :-D 
  
  Overall, pretty good game. Not quite Battlefield 2. So maybe EA will see what people loved from 
 BF2, and what they hated from BF2142, and make the perfect game next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadwolf13
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Simple and Quick...
  This game is great, it's an upgrade of all the BF series. Future war fair with same rules. The 
 Terminator like war fair is an excellent addition to BF franchise, and it capturing those that 
 who like a little Scifi in their game. 
  
  The Basics
  + BF in 2142
  + Walkers
  + Titans
  + Customizable kits
  
  Complexities
  - No Story
  - Cheaters
  - no jets
 
  
  Overview.
  Great BF change after playing long hours of BF2. Ranking system is scaled down a bit, and you raise 
 to the top quicker. If you any FPS shooter games, you should check the one out.
  
  Till next time people.. . DW got to get some pudding
  Since i have some space to fill here i 
 would like to mention that their is one expansion pack for this game, it's not bad and worth the 
 purchase if you like this game. it adds some new vehicles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tvov
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 18, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I just can't get "into" BF2142. It really seems to me to be just a mod of Battlefield 2. I really 
 don't know why it has such a high ranking from some players. I am a big fan of Battlefield 2, still 
 play it a lot. 
  I have been trying to play 2142 for over a year now, and still am unimpressed with it. Where to 
 start? Small maps. "64 player" size maps don't seem any bigger than BF2 32 player size maps (actually 
 seem smaller than that) . Vehicles? Limited. Only two aircraft per side... a transport aircraft, 
 and a weird hybrid plane / helo -- flies slower than a jet, less manuverable than a helo. Tanks 
 -- one side has a hover tank that takes a lot to get used to, the other side has a tracked tank 
 that can "zoom" for accurate long distance shots. APCs are slow and have odd weapons, but the infantry 
 launch pods are pretty good. The light vehicles are good. The walkers... just don't make sense. 
 Their weapons are not any more powerful than other vehicles, they are less maneuverable than the 
 tanks, and are so big every enemy on the map knows where you are. 
  Infantry... walking / running sound effects make it seem like you are wearing heavy winter boots. 
 Hand grenades are unlocks?? What military sends its soldiers into battle without hand grenades? 
 What is up with all the "EMP" weapons? They just temporarily disorientate the enemy, but don't 
 hurt anyone or anything. And why would they disorientate infantry?? I would think infantry would 
 just take off their visors if they became blurry!! 
  The "Titan mode" is a great idea, but unless you have a super computer, and the server you are 
 playing on is being run by a super computer, you are going to learn what lag is all about. Basically 
 everyone I've talked to has lag while playing Titan maps. Many servers now "lock" the Titans (prevent 
 them from moving) , to help cut down on the extreme lag that everyone experiences, but you will 
 still probably have lag. 
  I am glad that at least I got this game at half price, even though I think that still was a lot 
 for what I consider to be a mod that should have been made available for free over the internet. 
 Check out the mods that are available for Battlefield 2 for free -- better made and more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarPrime
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game! I loved the concept of future setting, the weapons, the vehicles, 
 the upgrade system that lets you feel like you are improving your character. I thought the massive 
 battle ship levels were so cool, a very unique vision of the capture the flag style of game play. 
 But right out of the gate, the game is stymied by design flaws and restrictive entrance hurdles.
 
  
  Most confusing Interface Ever!
  This game gets my "Most Confusing Interface" award. It took me forever to get logged into EA's 
 Online service, it loaded slow, and it was confusing. The Game interface was equally confusing, 
 allowing you to play offline, but receiving a cryptic message that says "Some features were not 
 available off-line", but not telling you which ones.
  
  The Short Lived Cool!
  once I finally got in and playing, I was loving the game. I am feeling good after getting my first 
 promotion, and making my upgrade selection. I was stoked, kept playing and got a second promotion. 
 Then I took a brake for lunch and turned off the game. Coming back later I discovered that my promotions 
 didn't get saved for some reason. So I built myself back up again, only to discover coming back 
 the next day that, again, it didn't get saved. Now I discover what features are not available when 
 playing off-line. 
  
  Advancement in Internet Games Only?
  OK, I know we have great internet connectivity these days, but there is no reason on earth why 
 this game has to limit your access to the cool upgrades and promotion items in the single player 
 game, to the upgrade items that you unlock in their On-Line PvP games. I was so angry that I almost 
 stopped playing right there.
  
  Having to rely on other people playing this game is not fun for me. I don't like playing with the 
 annoying trash talkers and people who have nothing better to do but learn all the secrets of a 
 game so they can smoke people who are still learning the game. (FYI: I will be mimicking these 
 statements in my review of the Xbox 360 games "Team Fortress 2" and "Shadowrun") .
  
  The Final Score
  As much as I wanted to give this game a better rating I can't, as cool as it 
 is, I cant recommend it unless you are a hard core PvP player.
  
  7.0
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: K4ss3r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  The first big differences you will notice in Battlefield 2142 are the new surroundings and the 
 fact that the game now takes place in the future. Now you get to fight battles two hundred years 
 after the first Battlefield game took place, Battlefield 1942, which was based on World War II. 
 
  This time the world has met a new ice age, and the various nations team up to get hold of the last 
 resources, so that they may survive this ice age. 
  
  Battlefield 2142 does not bring a whole lot of change to the series, but enough to make it worthy 
 of a brand new standalone game, rather than simply an expansion package. The fact that this game 
 takes place in the future changes some of the smaller details of the game, and the bigger  New 
 vehicles arrive, new weaponry and of course; a brand new game mode, which is called 'Titans'. If 
 you're still in love with the good old conquest game mode, you will of course be able to play that 
 as well, in Battlefield 2142. There is no doubt that one of the major selling points of this game, 
 is the brand new mode. While there has previously been no more than one single game mode, you're 
 now able to play a new one which actually does pretty well and offers some great battles, and epic 
 kills.
  Instead of racing around the map and conquering flags, you must now take over missile sites which 
 will fire at the enemy Titan to bring down its shields. Once the shields are gone, the missiles 
 will keep on damaging the core of the enemy Titan, as long as you hold the missile sites or you 
 can fight your way into their core by eliminating terminals inside, but there's bound to be some 
 enemies to avoid you getting all the way in.
  
  Generally, the new game mode is much of the same, but the addition of a huge Titan, a base in the 
 air, changes the game-play and your tactical approach quite a bit. The term known as 'Base rapes' 
 are also, somewhat, prevented with the Titan, as the enemies will not be able to access the same 
 places of your Titan, as you will, meaning that there will be a safe location to respawn at all 
 times. 
  Dice has done a terrific job of adding some new vehicles to make the game more interesting, and 
 the most noticeable changes has come to the flight vehicles. There are no longer any helicopters 
 or fighter jets to be found, but two flight vehicles that controls much the same  The air transport, 
 and the gunship. They do not really relate to any of the previous flight vehicles in earlier games, 
 but are quite unique. You can almost say that they're a mix of the jet and the helicopter, but 
 even that does not explain how these vehicles handle and move. You simply need to experience it 
 yourself. 
  Similar to the helicopter and the jet from Battlefield 2, this new flight vehicle will take some 
 time to learn how to use, and especially if you wish to master it, but it will be worth every second 
 of it once you know how to control a Gunship, as you will be feared in the skies, and on the ground. 
 
  
  There are four different classes in this game, which you can customize to your own satisfaction, 
 by using Unlocks. You gain these unlocks by playing the game, and with each point you score and 
 so on, you receive Career Points. Whenever you reach a certain number of points, you will be able 
 to unlocking a new weapon or item. The unlock and career system is much better this time around, 
 so if you didn't quite like it in Battlefield 2 then it shouldn't prevent you from buying this 
 game, because it has actually improved a lot in Battlefield 2142, which makes the game so much 
 more enjoyable and will encourage you to keep playing the game to unlock a new item or weapon. 
 
  
  The unlocks does not mean that new players cannot do well  Of course, they may have a minor disadvantage 
 when the others are running around with the most advanced weapons and equipment, and sometimes 
 the weapons and items will determine who wins the fire-fight and who dies, but with a clever mind, 
 some luck, and some first person shooter experience, you will be able to take on the top players 
 in Battlefield 2142. And your chances will be further improved if you hop into a vehicle, and if 
 you're able to control it well, in which case your equipment, or the lack thereof, will not have 
 any effect. The tank is a very powerful ground vehicle, although rather slow, but makes up for 
 it in pure strength and damage. APC's are quite nifty from bringing several people from point A 
 to B with minor attacking capabilities, but decent armor. A simple car can also be found like in 
 the previous games, but it's got a major advantage this time around, compared to the prior versions; 
 it's got Nitro so you can boost around the map quickly. 
  
  Not much has changed with the graphical part of this game, as it remains much the same as Battlefield 
 2, which was released a year and a half before Battlefield 2142, then it still remains a reasonable 
 looking game with a fair amount of detail, good view distance and steady frames per second. The 
 best part of all of this is that the game does not require a whole lot to run and you won't need 
 the very newest processors or graphic cards to play this game on the Medium or High preset setting. 
 If something bad is to be said about the graphics though, is that they feel somewhat out-dated 
 in some cases. Compared to what we have seen in newer games, especially such as Crysis, then Battlefield 
 2142 has a hard time comparing to newer games. Yet, it remains a good looking game with a good 
 performance, and that is what most people will prefer, rather than an amazing looking game with 
 a somewhat poor performance. 
  
  The overall sound quality is great  The weapons, explosions, missiles and vehicles all sound very 
 nice and realistic (as much as we can only imagine it would sound like in the future) .
  You can issue commands easily and quickly by pressing the Q-button, and instead of hearing the 
 same sentence with the same choice, you will hear multiple, although some more frequently than 
 others.
  The game offers for some great tactical game-play with squad-based teams, commanders and the ability 
 to issue commands to your own squad. You're able to speak to squad members, squad leaders or just 
 about anyone you would like if you have a microphone, which should further increase the tactics 
 intensity. 
  
  The game offers a great multiplayer and a nearly non-existent singleplayer that is more of a training 
 mode, but the multiplayer is where the game is at. What it does with the multiplayer, it does well, 
 and it's one of the most enjoyable and best balanced first-person shooters out there with huge 
 maps, a bunch of various vehicles to use, and plenty of different equipment and weapons to unlock. 
 The Career Points system adds for extended game-play, and will make you keep coming back for some 
 more, only to unlock that next weapon or equipment that you really want, which will allow you to 
 customize your class in whichever way you'd want. 
  If you're into online multiplayer games with plenty to do, a good amount of maps and interesting 
 weapons, vehicles and all that, Battlefield 2142 is the game for you, especially if you're into 
 futuristic Sci-fi games, with plenty of people to play against, and many overwhelming scenarios 
 and things that can happen. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IIBlackknightII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  I really like the game, its is better than battlefield 2. I like the new features like buddy list, etc. The 
 maps were better than battlefield 2. The titan Mode was most totally different , which i like the 
 most, which made a big difference in this game than battlefield 2. The ranking system made me quite 
 intersting in this game & better than battlefield 2. The custom character was good. It should have 
 more factions like battlefield 2, which make more interesting in this game. The music was good. Improvements 
 is still required in this game. The online features still requires lot more improvements in it. The 
 same kind of glitches, bugs, etc were seen same as of battlefield 2. They should have create different 
 maps too. I hope when create a next series game, they would focus more on glitches, more factions, etc. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gordanfree
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I think that the Battlefield series has evolved for the good, but there is a lot of things that 
 EA still has to fix, that they should have when battlefield was first out. These problems include 
 boring fire fights, horrible mobility on foot and map design. To fix boring fire fights they need 
 to improve the weapon design, by making them more powerful and versatile. It should also not be 
 so hard to die in the game, it takes forever to get back to a check point. This brings me to the 
 on foot getting around problem. Battlefield should utilize the UT3 hover board idea, where getting 
 around is a lot faster. Now the map design should change, there should be more variation in the 
 maps and more of them. There is not a lot of maps in BF2142 and there isn't a lot of difference 
 between them. There is the Icy parts, the Desert parts and the Urban parts. What happened to the 
 island, the water or the high mountain like places. Apparently they disappeared. Anyways to get 
 to the part, Battlefield is dead, unless EA can resurrect the series, it's gone. They have covered 
 all the time periods possible, so the only thing left and what I suggest is that EA should re-do 
 BF1942 with better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkingfire
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 1, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Apparently, EA has decided that this game is so amazing that it's keeping it for themselves. I 
 recently decided, after trying out the demo, why not? One EA store purchase later, I happily downloaded 
 the deluxe edition.
  
  Only, wait, no that was the preload. It wasn't released until the next day. And then the next day, 
 the downloader decided that it was really due out the next day. And then the day after that, it 
 decided that it was really coming out on the weekend.
  
  After finally getting the downloader to decrypt the game, I happily installed and attempted to 
 register it. Only EA was so clueless, that they didn't realize that when you bought the game it 
 tied the serial code to your email account, which you CAN'T use to sign into the game. Instead, 
 you need a "persona". But oh, you can't create one in the "create new account" screen, because 
 the serial code has already been used. Oh, but it still creates the account, btw, so that "killamanslaughtermaster" 
 character you created is now unuseable.
  
  And if you manage to get by all that, which it might as well be done by shoving a snowball into 
 your computer and watching the pretty lights flash across your smoking hulk of a motherboard, you 
 can't activate the expansion on your account either. Well, you can, but you can't play with it 
 because the game doesn't get the memo.
  
  So after two weeks of trying to get that sorted out, I moved on. So this review from here on out 
 is based on the demo:
  
  The graphics, while many complain, are fine. It's a bit annoying being able to see farther than 
 you can shoot with a sniper rifle, but I suppose that's realism for you. The game has a decided 
 case of the "me - too" syndrome and adds a bit of mmorpg grind to it. You have to unlock new weapons 
 and gear, but you're still playing on servers where 14 year olds have practiced every minute of 
 their past two lives and already have the unlocks. No sooner do you spawn than you get blown up 
 by a tank sitting directly across from your spawn point.
  
  Now, they included a way around this, with squad leader beacons, but as soon as you use one, you 
 come blasting out of the sky in a drop point, bearing a "hey, squad here" sign waving so furiously 
 that your own squad is tempted to shoot you, as their covert operation on capturing that silo is 
 now under the crotch of a gigantic walker that is now "corpse humping" your twitching body, all 
 while being piloted by said fourteen year old.
  
  You will now hear about this for the next four minutes.
  
  There is a decided lack of maps. 
 You have two game modes, but both take place on the same map, Sidi power plant (this being the 
 demo) . The new titan mode is refreshingly fun, and evokes some real teamwork. But it gets a bit 
 ruined by the fact that apparently modern military leaders don't teach anyone how to FLY.
  
  Now I understand that this is the community, but when you're reviewing a demo because the game 
 is unplayable, what do you expect? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buttface1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  Jeez... where do I start?
  The bugs?
  The Glitches?
  Horrible Map Design?
  And Dated/bland graphics for it's age?
  Or maybe how boring the FPS action is... with no real 
 feal to the weapons.
  I don't get where EA turned wrong, probably when they turned into money grubbing nooooobs.
  The 
 first BF was awesome, not alot of bugs, or crashes. But you can't play this game and not expect 
 to crash. The graphics and level design or boring and bland. Pretty basic gameplay, capture points. 
 
  The only real entertainment I got out of this was flying the gunship. Go waist your money on something 
 else, this definantly isn't even worth 10 bucks. 
  The expansion didn't help the game at all, the expansions for the BF series never did... because 
 only a handful of people play the extra content. So don't bother getting the expansion if you have 
 this. 
  For the last year every game EA has put out has had one good thing.. potential...
  Communication is great, mic or not.
  Squad idea is good.
  Commanding (If you have a good team) 
 can nearly turn the game into an RTS. 
  But this whole capping thing is getting boring... pffft, even Titan games involve capping missle 
 silo's. 
  Like I said... good idea... but once again EA fails... well me atleast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  Online class based play at 64 players, polished launch, balanced gameplay, interestingly tangible 
 futuristic combat, usually futuristic shooters feel like quake or UT or just feel bad, but they 
 created a original fiction and made all the weapons and vehicles look and feel well developed fun 
 and tangible, something few future shooters ever pull off, let alone on this scale.
  
  THE BAD
  Weak level design, scratch that, i thought the level design of this game out right sucked, 
 i played the demo extensively and thought that, waited a year and bought the deluxe disk and found 
 out that every level feels equally bad or worse.
  
  THE RANT (Stream of thought, unedited, and rambling. if that isn't your thing skip to the last section)
 
  Ok so i bought the game for 30 dollars in the deluxe package with the booster pack, first hoax, 
 i can't activate the booster pack. alright they ripped me off and made me successfully feel like 
 a idiot like it's my fault i follow the instructions and it tells me my account has already been 
 updated with the booster pack, yet i can't join any booster pack servers? any way this is another 
 genius ripoff from EA i feel like a tit for falling for it. so about the game, have you played 
 BF2, well that game despite the rocky launch and balance issues was patched into perfection, if 
 it was a mmo it would have been wow, this game launches even smoother, like a wow expansion and 
 that is what the game feels like a expansion, there are new art assets (really good ones) new levels 
 and a new game mode, but they are all super ficial at the end of the day this is BF2, the only 
 major difference is that the unlock system was over hauled, i didn't get to care much since i couldn't 
 invest much time into this game i got genuinely p! ssed and horrible level design, levels either 
 focus entirely on vehicles or entirely on infantry gone are the perfectly balanced maps of bf2, 
 were they perfectly marry the two gameplay types into a fluid combat experience. again they feature 
 the same good voip and agian no server uses it, every putz in the game uses team speak like a idiot, 
 have you used a team speak server with more than ten people on it (try 40 or more) , pure agony doesn't 
 describe the experience for my poor ear drums. ultimately the level design of this game undid everything 
 it had going for it, yes the guns are good and feel unique and the vehicles feel like the best 
 thing since sliced bread but the fact that the levels look like a bad 1942 mod effort doesn't do 
 anything for the experience actually it seems to have basically undid everything that the game 
 had going for it i felt like the level design broke the game. the game still suffers from a lack 
 of good servers like the original 1942-bf2 did, they all have great servers for the first six months 
 then it all breaks down into the same kind of server over and over, every server uses teamspeak 
 instead of the built in voip. you still have vehicle spawn campers, not server was running 64 players 
 when i logged in the highest count was 46 on a 48 player server, sad. even with the dynamic sizing 
 levels the game doesn't offer enough vehicles for full map capacity leaving lots of fools running 
 on foot in levels with not functioning cover or that aren't . i just can't go on this game had 
 some strong points but ultimately was such a failure i felt like i just bought GRAW on the 360 
 again. i guess you could find a way to make this game fun but honestly I'd just get bf2, or settle 
 for CS source, or DOD source, or the best of the bunch, TF2. I'm sorry but this game fails so horribly 
 at the one thing it tries to do (multiplayer) that i can't honestly recommend this to any one, oh 
 yeah and not wide screen support, what a load of BU//$H! T. i can't keep complaining since i couldn't 
 force myself to play longer to find more things wrong with it, rest assured i played only enough 
 i felt to review this poor purchase of mine, as far as battlefield games go this one is a atrocity. 
 it manages to not improve the formula or gameplay in any real meaning full manner, and successfully 
 regresses the experience, the saddest thing is the waste of some genuinely good ideas and art design 
 on a poor game.
  
  THE BREAKDOWN
  GRAPHICS
  This game in my opinion looks worse that the previous game (bf2) thanks to the most uninspired 
 level design no matter how cool the hud or weapons or vehicles are, the bland lifeless enviroments 
 suck it all out.
  7
  GAMEPLAY
  At it's core the mechanics are similar, to identical from bf2, the problem is that the mechanics 
 are essentially broken or a waste in the levels available.
  7
  SOUND
  This game has great sounds for the mechs vehicles, and weapons the voicework is also limited but 
 good, probably the strongest overall area of the game since the level design doesn't effect it 
 as much.
  8
  VALUE
  well, i did get the deluxe edition and yet the booster pack doesn't work and it's multiplayer only, 
 the phrase rip off comes to mind.
  6
  TILT
  After playing this game the face lift doesn't mask the fact that they pushed this one out the door 
 for a quick buck. i feel like they are really taking advantage of the consumer/gamer here. they 
 pack in spyware, and it still retails for a reasonably high price, the game is a budget title it 
 is essentially a mod and i have lost more respect for dice than i thought possible. i spent thirty 
 dollars and am faced with a game i will likely never play again darn you.
  6
  FINAL
  the only word that comes to mind when i think of this title is waste, waste of ideas of talent 
 and of my money. i have played worse games but i don't own them.
  6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eli1982
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  
  well after a year that this game has been released there are things that needed to be said. sure 
 the bugs and glitchs are countless but up untill the very recent 1.4 patch you could dont save 
 your weapon configuration. you had trouble to log into the main server and problem to enter games 
 beacuse you modified your content (after installing it directly from EA link) .
  Sure on the times that i struggled to connect and the game wouldn't crash i had one of the best 
 time ever, but the fact that after purchesing a new high-end computer (with Vista Ofcourse) i found 
 out that the game doesn't support windows Vista (???) . and so from a login success rate of 60%-80% 
 i droped down to a login rate of 5%-10%. why i don't call it success rate? becuse i'll probably 
 crash after the first game, if not - God forbbied if the punk buster will let me more than 10 minutes.
 
  Let alone after patch 1.25 i couldn't enter my Northen Strike Expansion Maps.
  
  But! not all is bad reffering to the game play alone, you'll have all the action you'll need to 
 play endless amount of time. communtications are easy even without a mic. team work is of the essance.
 
  
  this may look like a hate review - but it's not, you are more the welcomed to check out the Battlefield2142 
 theards and you'll find out i nearly scratched the surface.
  
  My- rank: WINDOWS XP- 7
  WINDOWS VISTA - 1
  
  if you can't play - why buy? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is everything the name says it is, another war taking place in, not the past this 
 time, but in the far future, over 130 years from now, it certainly is giving a new experience in 
 war games, since most games involving run and gun pretty much take place in nowadays and the past. 
 But what did you expect, if you were so excited to check this game out, and found it was a disappointment 
 due to lack of maps, decent weapons, and such, you should've just stuck with Battlefield 2, since, 
 2142, pretty much implies the future, so you're not going to be running around in a WW2 Buggy or 
 a F-16, now are you?
  
  The vehicles are a blast to ride in, there are Walkers, Hovering Tanks, Big jet-like aircraft, 
 APCs, and many more.
  
  The weapons, are also very fun to use, since they are a new model and design, also, just like Battlefield 
 2, there are upgrades to weapons in this game, knife, snipe, gun down as many enemies as you can 
 to get your points to get the best infantry kit you want.
  
  There's also a unique objective added to this game. It goes by the name of 'Titan' where there's 
 a big mothership-like-thing that houses basically almost everything you'd probably expect a battallion 
 to have, these mothership-like-things are on both opposing teams, and the objective is to take 
 control of these big missile like things, that damage the opposing enemies' mothership-thing's 
 shield, as the shield decreases, they try and do it back by recapturing missile stations. Once 
 the shield is down units must land on the opposing enemies Mothership-like-thing and get to the 
 core of the ship. Once there, people must detonate the shield to gain access to the energy field 
 that keeps their 'mothership' alive, a few explosives will take it out and as the chain reaction 
 is taking place, units must dash back to the hangars and parachute off to safety.
  
  These are pretty much the key things any person would want to know who is curious to buy BF2142. 
 Did I also mention the two opposing forces are EU (European Union) and PAC (Pan Asian Coalation) ?
 
  
  So on the whole. Battlefield 2142 is something you'd want to pick off the shelves, that's if you 
 can identify the theme of the year 2142.
  
  If not, then, you don't wanna pick it up, since it includes dozens and dozens of futuristic like 
 things, plus a nice snowy theme to the atmosphere.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deltaman3
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Its a good game! don't get me wrong! Its just that the game won't work very well if you are on 
 a woreless connection. Anouther thing is you should trust me on this, do not download the frigin 
 betas!! If you download a beta, you can't download any other updates, so it won't be much fun. 
 I also want to say that if you, say, are canidian, and you go on a european server, you will be 
 kicked out with a weird thing called punkbuster. Punkbuster kicks people who might be hacking, 
 and they think that when you are wasting the games connection, the think you are hacking, Otherwise, 
 its a pretty good  
 doing this so my review can go in, so just go to the next  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surferboyo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I wish I had more time to play it. That's pretty much summed up my review. The game is graphically 
 awesome, and there is nothing like the sound of bullets around you, and you frantically twisting 
 to find out where they are coming from. The sounds are great, and walking through the titans hearing 
 the gunshots and the calls for a medic is amazing. Sometimes it feels almost real. The varied vehicles 
 are fun to drive and at the start a little difficult to master, and the class system is different, 
 but definitely not worse. It combines two of each class into one, for example, Sniper and Special 
 Forces are now called Recon, and you can specialize in either of those two by choosing between 
 unlocks as you go up ranks. I have debated perhaps too much over what unlocks to get, as you cannot 
 just get the one you want.
  Overall, this is a great game, and I cannot think of anything wrong with it, apart from the fact 
 that you don't start off with any grenades.
  Not the best game out there now, but buy it, and you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoothe2nd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  By mixed reactions I by no means mean I don't like the game (telling by the amount of I've spent 
 on it) . 
  
  Lets first look at the graphics: Good, futur look makes it look like theres a little less detail 
 than BF2 but when artillery is falling on your head you won't have time to realise it. So the visuals 
 are good, but you won't stare in awe too often.
  
  Computing: A fair computer with single core should play it on medium settings. You might encounter 
 a bug for some people that makes the game always lag. (It came and went away with my other computer) . 
 Not a demanding game but it is core 2 duo compatible for the frame rate enthusiast.
  
  The FEEL: The game feels great, superb even! Until someone with 150+ ping comes along and lags 
 the server but theres nothing that can change that (I've once had 200 ping myself, feel guilty 
 for the others on the server..) . At times it feels boxy (or something) , I can't explain this because 
 of primitive vocabulary but sometimes it just doesn't feel right. When there's no lag and everything's 
 smooth, it feels perfect!
  
  Gameplay: Best multiplayer game IMO because you don't have to kill (therefor always get headshots) 
 to get points. You can get points from giving ammo and health whitch helps a lot since in many 
 other games you run out of bullets, knife! Not in 2142. I don't know to much what BF2's lik though. 
 Vehicle killing everyone? Become engineer. Infantry weapon doesn't do enough damage? Unlock your 
 way to the heavy rifle! Customization is great!
  
  Difficulty: Lets get it over with, I suck at first person shooters. Killing a mercenarie on hard 
 in Far Cry is one of the best things I could do. I can't turn a corner, see an enemy and get a 
 headshot wihin 5 seconds (I'm usually dead in counter strike within 2 seconds) . This game has the 
 perfect difficulty, sometimes I'm on a killing spree, sometimes I keep dying, sometimes I just 
 get points giving ammo because people on the other team are too good (must play C&S lol) .
  
  In short: A supurbe game. Laggy moments are not enough to make me stop playing, titan mode 
 is a nice mixe of urban and vehicle maps. Costumizing your weapons and team points (ammo, health, 
 capturing flag) make it fun for any kind of FPS fan. A good nine (*9.5*) , not quite ten but gameplay 
 makes up for whatever I feel is missing and ranks keep you playing for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArturiusMaxwell
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  This game wasn't somethign I had in mind when it was presented to me as a gift, at the time I was 
 avidly into counter strike and had no intentions of changing that. Out of coutesy more than interest 
 I installed the program and loaded the game up, for those of you who know the game I started with 
 Cerebre Landing. The key commands for giving orders or stating requests were initialy I thought 
 oddly organized but later it became to smooth that I have to say it is second nature to shout out 
 'Enemy Spotted' 'Need Ammo' 'Need Backup' in rapid succesion before the obligitory call for 'MEDIC' 
 lol.
  
  I played on my first night, being a friday, straight through and didn't stop until my computer 
 overheated on the sunday evening. It is aggressively addictive and highly frustrating. The things 
 that impressed me were so vast in number that I'll dog ear them with rough pointers here.
  
  To start I will say that the graphic rendering is superb, smooth and the only inconsistancies 
 I have noticed is when the tip of a foot pokes through a box that some one is prone behind, but 
 being a Counter Strike veteran I'm used to that and know how to avoid doing it. The story is well 
 layed out, a future world that didn't listen to science is overpowered by the encroaching ice (highly 
 believable) The Russian and European communities are pushing to get into Africa (The only thing 
 that left me to wonder is what happened to the African governement?) They battle in key locations 
 to gain access to the next foothold. Europe are one step ahead of them and are retreating towards 
 africa while trying to hold the Russians back and the game flows with the gradual map based retreat 
 into Africa where the defense begins and Russia or the Pacific Asian Coalition PAC for short being 
 to attack the EU forces. 
  
  The vehicles are fantastic, from the humble buggee, in a position of contovosy most of the time, 
 through the APC's and Tanks of each faction then up into the air with the Transports and Fighters. 
 Each side employs different technology right down to the infantry though some of the unlockable 
 weapons are uniform for both sides. The PAC use levitation equipment to make there Tanks more manueverable 
 but lack in direct power while the EU use the traditional treads and have a lethal cannon. The 
 real feather in EA's hat here is the use of two idealy new vehicles in this style of gaming, the 
 Walker which is a mech by any standard and the Aeronautical Titan which is a floating depo for 
 airborn vehicles and a garrison for soldiers, also a key point in one mode of play.
  
  There are two modes of play online, Conquest which is the standard capture and hold the strategic 
 point while killing your enemy and the other is far more tactical, the Titan more is a match of 
 attrition. The point is to capture cruise missile launching silos and hold them to destroy your 
 enemy titans shields and eventualy its hull, when its shields are down you may board it using 'Jump 
 Pods' that the APC holds. Once onboard you destroy 4 key consoles that lock down the reactor room 
 then destroy the reactor. All while stopping your enemy from doing this to you and often while 
 trying to over come some less than fair defensive play by the opposition.
  
  I would like to say that this game has revolutionized my game expectations and has even made me 
 expect things from games rather than accepting the normal style of shooter or strategy game. This 
 is my new favourite game though counter strike and far cry along with several other shooters hold 
 a fond place in my heart this is now my obsession and with expansions out on the market and on 
 the drawing board it isn't tiring to play, yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ministerpaul
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 remains the champion of online war games. Sure Cod4 is great , but fails to topple 
 BF2142 from its lofty multiplayer perch, Cod4 does succeed in replacing the very outdated Condition 
 zero and will probably become just as popular in the competitive Professional PC gaming arena.
 
  
  Bf2142 will hold its own due to the enormous variety it has in the multiplayer section. From driving 
 tanks to flying gunships/transport BF2142 seems to have an massive arsenal not seen in its competitors 
 games. Other games appear to have a simple run and gun rule, but BF2142 requires strategy and a 
 good commander to win on the Battlefield. Although Battlefield doesn't have eye popping graphics, 
 it more than compensates with the depth of content in the game.
  
  In my opinion BF2142 was under rated by Game reviewers and should receive a better score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shakenbake312
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  I got this game in March of this year and i had a laptop to play it on. I couldn't get it to run 
 until I bought a desktop computer. This game is simply amazing. However it does have a problem: 
 PunkBuster. Because of PunkBuster, I can't play for more than 5 minutes or so in a round. I've 
 tried solutions online but none seem to work. I'm now playing Call of Duty 4, another great game, 
 since I can't play this anymore.
  
  In-game you can use 4 different kits: Recon, Assault, Engineer, Support. Each kit has their own 
 tree of unlocks. Every time you get a new rank, you achieve an unlock. In the expansion of this 
 game, Northern Strike, there are certain awards you can get to achieve these unlocks. Unlocks were 
 in Battlefield 2 also, but what is new with Battlefield 2142 is a customization screen. During 
 a round, you get to customize your soldier with the unlocks that you have achieved, like different 
 weapons, abilities, and frag grenades, smoke grenades, APM Mines, DemoPaks, etc. These will improve 
 the way your soldier engages in combat and will get you more frags per round.
  
  The new "Titan Mode" is kind of like Conquest, except there are two large aircraft, one for each 
 side, that the opposing team tries to destroy. They blow up the Titan by destroying the shields, 
 and the hull. To do this, missile silos are captured (just like bases) and they shoot rockets at 
 the enemy Titan. Once the enemy's Titan shield is down, your team has the choice to continue to 
 capture missile silos and shoot at the exposed hull, or you can fly in a dropship and land on their 
 Titan. You would then assault the interior by blowing up control panels. Once all four are blown 
 up, the room to the Reactor Core is blown open and you have to destroy that. Once it is destroyed, 
 the Titan is destroyed.
  
  I actually expected a lot less from this game, but I was extremely impressed with it. This one 
 is probably the best of all Battlefield games, considering PunkBuster doesn't mess it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettuceman44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 takes battlefield into the future. There are now hover vehicles, mech units like 
 walkers and some other new things. 2142 has some improvements over bf2. There are more unlocks 
 and different types on unlocks. The graphics while looking similar to bf2, have been sharpened 
 up. The game modes are the same except for one new one. Titan mode. It is awesome. You have 2 ship 
 in the air that is your main starting base. Your objective is to destroy the other side's base. 
 You can use the hover like air vehicles to try to board the place, missles that you can use to 
 shoot the ship. It becomes a intense battle. That is about all the new things other than 2 new 
 factions. While 2142 brings almost nothing new to the table, it is still a fun mutliplayer experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Symphony
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 30, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  I bought this game the day it came out last year and I loved it. For 2 months, it was the only 
 game I played but then I started getting problems. Servers would crash on a regular basis, people 
 were getting one-hit kills with the Light Machine Guns, the "pod surfing" technique was discovered. 
 The game was an unplayable mess for those that did not cheat. 
  
  The one thing that brings this game to its knees, has nothing to do with the actual game itself. 
 Graphics, music, control and setting are all good. Support from EA for the multi player component 
 though, is non-existent. The last patch EA released was 8 months in the making and even then, they 
 forgot to post a working link to it making forum goers responsible for finding a link that works. 
 
  
  The final straw? To install the patch, you had to uninstall the game. Never have I heard of a patch 
 being this hard to install and even find in the first place. 
  
  As great as the game once was, don't bother and wait for Battlefield: Bad Company or grab a copy 
 of Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daydestroyer
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is very diffirent from the battlefield series. Not just that it takes place in the future 
 it feels diffirent. In a good or a bad way.
  
  Graphics. When maxed out, its actually a nice looking game. The soliders are well made but I think 
 I perfer the full face masks like the sniper. Guns arn't ridicolously futuristic which is actually 
 a good thing. Though jsut a tad bit weird were still using bullets. Or the Uk and so no were. Because 
 America isn't involved with this.
  One of the problems with this game is maybe some of the comabt. Mostly the sniper. I mean, you 
 can't take 2 hits from a sniper rife! It goes like, "I'm a sniper, I if I see you... your dead.) 
 Not getting robbed with a 2 hit kill. Headshots do the one hits but sometimes... never mind.
  There are few classes and no medic. The medic is the assault. And you can only drop the medic pack 
 to heal. Can't hold and heal.
  There are A LOT of upgrades. But you can easily get 1 whole slide. Too bad you start off with a 
 crappy gun. While everyone else is owning with the top of the line. So you really gotta work your 
 way.
  Vehicles are a little boring. The most future liek is the walker, which isn't that powerful but 
 good enough. The expansion has more to offer.
  A bad thing is there's no lean. Lean is a great way for cover and of course as always, they leave 
 it out. Very helpful feature if it was in it. If ever. (none of the battlefield have a lean feature)
 
  Also, there isn't too much maps. Fro mthe top of my head maybe 7. Excluding the large scale versions. 
 At least 64 people can play in a server. Now thats a large battle. The commander system works well 
 too. Except the annoying Orbital strikes (annoying artillery)
  
  to avoid a huge wall of text I'l leave it at that. This game is actually worth picking up. So try 
 the demo first, see if you like it. I did. But, just not as much as I should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ginga-Lightnin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Doubtless it wouldnt be a fool's presumption to say that pretty much every gaming enthusiast or 
 FPS fan has read a review for Battlefield 2142 at some point. Many use professional reviews to 
 decide whether a game is worth buying or not, but in this case, public opinion is much better than 
 professional. Many magazine and website review tend to lean towards the negatives, and is this 
 case, this leads to a VERY dismal review.
  Anyone who's read a review of 2142 will be familiar with one word in particular. Lag. Pretty much 
 every BF2142 review under the sun has used this at some point or another. Some say its an annoyance, 
 others a game-ruining disaster. But one things for certain, none of them mention just how little 
 it matters...
  
  Of course, any fan of the battlefield series will have one itching question when they want to buy 
 2142. Hows conquest? Well here's the answer you definitely want to hear. Its as brilliant as before, 
 plus a whole lot more. This is down mainly to the maps. In BF2, whilst full of action, some of 
 the larger maps could sometimes leave you feeling that you had to travel miles just to get into 
 a battle. 2142 eliminates this problem, but throwing down some mch more uneven terrain, as well 
 as more infantry-focused maps for the easily bored. Even the largest map, Shuhia Taiba, features 
 a mass of hot spots, most of which not even tied to a control point! The slightly smaller maps, 
 Suez Canal to name an obvious one, have a number of closely linked CPs to keep people busy. Theres 
 also a number of small maps that, despite the vehicular oppertunities, really rely on infantry 
 masses. One map in particular, Fall of Berlin, is pretty much an enlarged version of Karkand under 
 10 feet of snow. In short, conquest has been livened up dramatically.
  And i know what your thinking, and no, lag isnt an issue, at all. Think BF2, and your pretty much 
 there.
  
  Now many of you will be thinking 'brilliant, you've covered conquest, so that must be the modes 
 review over.' Wrong. One of the greatest new features that comes with 2142 is the Titan mode. This 
 is pretty much conquerst involving missile bases, enormous battleships and enough spawn points 
 to ship the whole of asia into the battle! 
  Titan mode is certainly a lot more objective based than conquest, which consists simply of 'capture 
 that, kill that'. In titan mode, CPs are replaced by missile bases. The main objective is to destroy 
 the enemy titan, which is basically an enourmous battle cruiser packed full of AtoS turrets and 
 jets. Your first job is to destroy the titans shields, and to do this you need to capture missile 
 bases, which will then fire missiles at the enemy titan periodically. Of course, since your against 
 another team, its in your best interests to keep the majority of missile bases to keep your shield 
 higher than theirs. 
  Once the shields are down, thats when things get intersting. You'e got two options. You COULD just 
 keep capping missile bases until you eventually blow up the titan, but thats boring. Your other 
 option is an internal assault. Much more like it. The long and short of these assaults is a number 
 of close firefights in closed corridors as you battle to reach the four reactor consoles. Destroying 
 these will open up the door to the main reactor. And the rest pretty much tells itself. Once the 
 Titan is destroyed, its a mad rush to get off the doomed warship before it lights up the sky. If 
 your still on it after the 10 second build up, potential points are lost.
  Unfortunately, titan modes greatest feature is also its greatest flaw. The concept of massive firefights 
 in such small spaces would excite ny fan of the battlefield series, if it wasnt for that dreaded 
 word i mentioned earlier. Lag. This is perhaps the only point of the game where the ammount of 
 lag actually spoils the experience. The point of closed space firefights is you have to be ridiculously 
 quick on the trigger, and you cant do that at 15fps. However, all is not lost. Despite some slight 
 frustration, Titan mode is still a fun edition to the battlefield series.
  
  Now that the gameplay itself is out of the way, lets focus on the perhaps more obvious aspect of 
 the game. graphics. Whlst BF2s graphichs were impressve, they culd be somewhat dull in places. 2142 
 takes this concept an throws it out the window. This game is a testament to ust how much the subtle 
 tones matter. Sunrise over a ice age desert looks impressive no matter what graphical settings 
 your on, and the look of the vehicles is just as impressive on the higher settings. Oerall, the 
 game looks a lot more lush, which is surprising since its set during the next ice age.
  
  Perhaps one of the more under-appreciated aspects of 2142 however isnt in the gameplay, but in 
 the behind-the-scenes reward system. Remember the medals and ribbons of BF2? Well, not only has 
 the selection been increased tenfold, but its now much easier to figure out how to actually EARN 
 them, thaks to the progress meters which come with each award. Theres also a MASSIVE range of job 
 and skills which you can get rewarded for, fom 5 straight kills to 8 headshots in a round to destroying 
 all 4 reactor consoles on a titan.
  
  Overall, Battlefield 2142 is a solid, lush improvement on its modern predecessor, and fans of the 
 series will no dout welcome the slight skip from reality to mix things up a little. and harly a 
 dipped frameate in sight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBird228
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  BF 2142 takes place perhaps a hundred years in the future. There is another Ice Age due to Global 
 Warming, and there is war due to all the people rushing torwards the equator. There is much more 
 customization for the weapons, although there are only four classes. In fact there are fourty different 
 weapons and add-ons that the player can choose from. The weapons however are not much different 
 than the other Battlefields, with the expception of the walker. Although there are hover-tanks, 
 the vehicles still keep their basic function to how they act. The walker however is a mechanized, 
 two-legged, tank, which is, to say the least, overpowered. It can defeat every other vehcicle, 
 and can only be defeated by mines and rockets. 
  
  The most exciting thing however is the new titan mode. Titan are gigantic floating ships. You caputre 
 missile silos, much like bases, in order to get the shields down. Once this is down, one can either 
 continue bombarding with missiles and/or board the titan to destroy the nuclear reactor, in effect 
 destroying the ship. The boaring of the titan is the most innovative feature of BF 2142; it is 
 a tight area, packed with fighting and hidden noocks and cranies. 
  
  Although BF 2142 does not differ too much from other FPS's, there are some innovative and exciting 
 features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ComradeWolf
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 was a very fun game, there were alot of good facts and some bad ones. Some good 
 things like, the A. I. wasn't absolutely stupid made this game fun to play against bots. The game's 
 multiplayer was intense and very exciting. As for the bad things, while I played this game some 
 weapons were extremely over powered (Voss LAR, I think it's called) was deadly with accuracy and 
 was still an assault rifle, and it had a very high rate of fire and damage. This game was also 
 very veichle stacked, on foot you really couldn't do anything to stop a veichle. It still remains 
 to be a very fun game, as I said before though it does have problems, like all games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retwakm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I recently played battlefield 2 and I thought it was the best online shooter to date. This one 
 builds on the already establisheed formula form the first three games and builds upon it. It had 
 me playing nonstop for about 70 hours before I finally decided to stop and write this review. First 
 I will get all the bad stuff out of the way first. One thing is that the game doesnt really look 
 as good as battlefield 2 meaning that it has maybe double aa graphics rather than triple aaa. Then 
 theres the fact that it does have new content but there really arent any new mechanics. All the 
 new content is pretty much just new weapons. Thats about all I can do to critisize this game for. 
 Ive played it on a nvidia geforce 7950 and it ran well on medium. A nvidia geforce 6150 le an it 
 ran well on low and a nvidia geforce 8800 gts and it had outstanding performance. THen theres just 
 the sheer load of content. Youve got 12 weapons. That may not seem like much but each one really 
 has a different feel. Unlike some games were it might have 30 weapons but each one pretty much 
 does the same thing. Then there is about a dozen maps half of them being about as large as the 
 battlefield 2 maps half of them smaller. I think they did this because they wanted to focuse on 
 tighter action unlike in the game battlefield 2 were it is difficult to find anyone to kill. Then 
 there are about 30 add onns like grenades and recon droids. All of this is good but the real highlight 
 of the game that makes it seam like its not just battlefield 2 with a couple new weapons and a 
 new title is the fact that there is a bran new mode called titan mode. It is very comlex and seams 
 like an upgraded version of home base. Overall this is a soldi shooter that builds upon very good 
 mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badkarma77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  It's been over a year since its release and I'm still not tired of this game. Patches over time 
 have fixed many problems. Some have added to the enjoyment of the game and some have removed things 
 that I thought were good ideas but it's still a lot of fun to play. That's obvious by the thousands 
 of people you can find playing every day. I think the only complaint I have and this isn't EA's 
 of Dice's fault is that it's too easy for undetectable hacks. Punkbuster doesn't work and they 
 haven't found a way yet to detect and kick/ban them off of the servers. Still best game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  just to clear things up. there is no spy ware. and the only add ware involved is in game posters 
 on walls and such. so if you've heard its full of this. than the reviewer is full of it.
  The game is based on one possible future of war and destruction (not to far fetched) . The european 
 forces, or the EU, is at war with the PAN Asian Coalition (Russians and Asians) . The planet has 
 been thrown into a world-wide second ice age and the EU and PAC are fighting for the only habitable 
 land left on earth. The entire game, from weapons to vehicles to player kits is excellent. You 
 really believe your on a futuristic battlefield and the sound system only adds to the realism. 
 In Total the game is a great step forward in multi-player gaming and its only down-side is the 
 limited number of maps, although the expansion pack more than ratifies this problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Okay reasons not to like this game:
  
  Spawn killers
  Spammers
  Hackers
  Loooooooong load times
  Punk buster can kick for no apparent reason
  
  Reasons to like this 
 game
  
  ...
  
  Unfortunately this games enjoyability is very dependent on the people you play with, and generally 
 a significant proportion use lame tactics, eg. spawn killing. I have spent several time where i 
 join a server and have been killed 6 or 7 times before i even get to move because of players camping 
 various spawn points. The are much better online FPS games out there that have resolved these glaring 
 flaws that are still very apparent in the Battlefield games. While they have a healthy following 
 fan boys, anyone new to this series will be wholly disappointed considering what else is out on 
 the market today. 
  
  btw Quake wars much better game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmreaper
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great for a multi player but if you want to play the campiagn its EXACTLY the 
 same as mulitplayer but you dont play against REAL people .......... the AI sucks and the graphics 
 havent changed much from any other BF games the lighting sucks and so does the fluid movement and 
 the ragdoll effect but other than that if you like multiplayer FPS games you would love this one 
 . OH AND THE LOADING TIMES ARE SOOOOOOO LOOOONNGG... i can go make my self a sandwich while i wait 
 for them their so long. Get this game if you like FPS multiplayer its a great recomendation ... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sacred_Pie
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  2142 is a great game, lots of unlocks makes ranking up have a purpose, unlike battlefield 2 where 
 all you got to unlock was guns, in this one you unlock extras (eg assult shotgun attachment) as 
 well as guns. Each kit has 2 different ways to go, each with there own unlocks (eg damage asult 
 gets shotgun atachment when medic assult gets ressurecter (not the real name but i cant spell it) ) .
 
  
  The only true downsides include the people you verse online are dam good (personally MentalPlayers 
 is the best AU ranked server, ranked servers are servesyou can play on that allow you to get promotion 
 points) so this makes starting off hard. An other problem is how the medic assults unlockable gun 
 (the Voss-LAR) does more damage than the damage assults one (the Braur) which is realy stupid, 
 the damage assult should have the better gun when you think about it.
  
  The games vehicles are so much different from the ones in 1942 and bf2 the game seems completly 
 fresh. Yet thee isnt much veriety in vehicles because there are only 2 sides to play as so there 
 is only there different versions the vehicles (eg the PAC walker and the EU walker)
  
  Although it has its down side all-in-all it is a great game and lots of fun against the right people. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angre_Leperkan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  One day, I was sitting in my basement practically bored to tears, and decided to check out this 
 game. I looked at some screens, and downloaded the demo. The demo came with one map: Sidi Power 
 Plant. However, it came with the two game modes: Conquest and Titan. I played it a little and I 
 got so addicted, I bought the game. This game is a wide-ranged game for any type of action-loving 
 player.
  In the game, there are two factions: The EU (European Union) and the PAC (Pan Asian Coalition) . 
 These two factions are fighting over the last bits of livable land after a present-day ice age 
 covers the northern hemisphere with snow and ice. In the game, there are two game modes, as I said 
 before: Conquest, And Titan. Conquest is a game mode where you hold different Control points, where 
 your allies can spawn into the battle. The objective is to lower the enemy's reinforcement points 
 to 0, and if you have played any of the other Battlefield games, this is familiar. However, the 
 other game mode is not as familiar.
  Titan game mode is massively different. A titan is a massive airship that has transports, pods, 
 gunships, and massive guns that can cover any angle of approach. Each team has a titan at the start 
 of the game. The objective of the game mode is to take over anti-titan silos located on the map. 
 There are five total in the map that can be taken, and are taken just by standing nearby the silo. 
 The anti-titan silos fire missiles at the titan and take down its shields, and when those are gone, 
 damage the hull. If you take all the silos and hold them, you win. If you are impatient, or have 
 someplace to be, you can board the enemy titan. There are several ways to do this:
  1. Take an APC and drive it nearby the Titan, and launch pods from it.
  2. Put a squad beacon 
 on the titan, and allow allies in your squad to pod down from the sky (Squads are explained later)
 
  3. Take a pod from your own titan (Explained later)
  4. Fly a transport over and hope not to get shot down.
  Once the enemy titan is destroyed, you 
 win the battle.
  Now to explain commanders and squads. Squads can be formed by anybody, and once somebody forms 
 a squad, he can have a maximum of 6 members in his squad (Counting himself) The people can join 
 themselves, or he can invite them. Also, a squad can be locked if you don't want anybody to join 
 it. Squad leaders can give orders to their squad members, and they take orders from the Commander.
 
  The Commander is the overall battle commander of the field. It's more complex to become the Commander.
 
  You need to apply for the position.
  If somebody of a higher rank applies, you automatically lose. A commander can call down special 
 powers like supplies, UAV (A spy drone) , Sat Track ( Motion detection along the whole battlefield) , 
 and a EMP strike (A massive bolt of circuit-frying power) . If you are playing Conquest, the commander 
 can also call down Orbital strikes ( Massive amounts of shrapnel that hit anybody in a massive radius) . 
 Commanders can also order squads to do certain objectives.
  In this game, objectives are very easy to assign. You can assign a squad to defend a silo, or the 
 titan, or attack a silo, or just move to a certain area. The game is very well programmed in that 
 you can give orders to any spot in the map.
  The on-line for this game is amazingly easy to use, and offers rewards.
  In on-line, you can 
 be promoted in rank. Every time you get a promotion, you are awarded an unlock point: A point that 
 can be used to unlock items from faster sprinting to a shotgun on your assault rifle, to grenades, 
 to cloaking systems. The promotion system works very well, and in all the time I've played, I've 
 never had a problem. The online servers are all run well, and the setup is easy to use, and it's 
 easy to find games.
  Overall, Battlefield 2142 is the game for those who like the old battlefield games. If you enjoyed 
 shooting games, this game is also for you, and if you just feel like shouting orders, well, this 
 game is STILL the one for you. Just make sure you manage to become Commander and do a good job, 
 and you'll have limitless fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plantek
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  I've found the edition of Battlefield just as good as any other, with plenty of room for solo or 
 squad based game playing.
  It would be nice to see this game keep expanding beyond the Northern Strike expansion pack.
  
 The ability to move through the ranks and collect new weapons and items via unlocks, makes this 
 game on the same level as an RPG.
  The graphics are good quality and very smooth (at least on my machine) , the music score is great, 
 and the sound effects are terrific.
  The multi player is very re playable. The futuristic vehicles and weapons make for an interesting 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyros3588
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Though many people think that this is game is more like an expansion of Battlefield 2, I can help 
 but disagree with them. It definitely could have made its way onto the battlefield as an expansion 
 or even a booster... but it didn't. Thats what makes it so great. There are new features within 
 the game that were not included in Battlefield 2. New maps (that I think rival those of BF2 in 
 intensity) , new ranking system (that rewards you a little bit faster for gaining points than BF2 
 did) , new weapons that are NOT too futuristic and 'unrealistic,' and new vehicles that make the 
 game-play a whole new experience. Not only that, but the kits have been reduced from seven to four, 
 and they pack more of a punch now. If you want to be a Sniper, with the capability of a Special 
 Forces solider (like me) , then the Recon kit is right up your alley. The combination of kits makes 
 BF2142 a much more diverse experience. There is a new game-play mode as well that really separates 
 this game from BF2; Titan Mode. Who doesn't like working towards the ultimate goal of destroying 
 your opponents massive flying fortress, and playing a bit of the old conquest mode at the same 
 time? My soliders name is Pegasos. Find me, I'll be waiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bf2_fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let us thank EA Games and DiCE for a Beautiful Battlefield Experience.
  
  THE PRO'S:
  -it gives you more than 40 ranks and a special rank for those who applied for the 
 Battlefield 2 Veteran Program.
  -it has cool Mechs and all but hey!, its 2142 right?
  -its pretty affordable for the US but in the philippines, it costs 1200 php
  -a very fun and 
 exciting new mode called Titan Mode
  
  THE CON'S
  -it uses the same Battlefield 2 engine so it still has some bugs left out in Battlefield 2.
  
 -The Latency issues and Punkbuster issues strike again!
  -and since punkbuster was always bypassed by some hacks, the players in the server will have a 
 very BAD and UNLUCKY time.
  -its pretty a cheap price for rich people in the philippines, but a very expensive price for people 
 who are half-poor in the philippines.
  
  So that's my Review for this FUN game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt_dangelo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  BF 2142 does bring some new features to the world of battlefield, it has an ew game mode Titan 
 mode 
  
  this is a mode where you and your team must capture missle silos that launch anti air missles at 
 the titan combat ships (like flying aircraft carriers) whe nthe shields go down the missles will 
 tear up the hull, but if you want to take it down you must invade it and blow up console to gian 
 acced to the reacotr core and then blowit up and win the game. Now this mode gets very competive, 
 however some glitches with weak coding of the titna ship has presented problems.. through patchesit 
 is minimized.. the next patch..1.41 will update titan mode completley eliminting that problem....
 
  BF 2142 also adds 30 or more upgrades for you kits.... and u can customize your weapond and equipmentthat 
 is used in your kit from everything to rokcet launchers to the Defibulators for hte trusty medics... the 
 robot gun drones are my favourite.. they float above your head... could be a big floating shoot me 
 sign though......
  all and all the gmae is good.... not great but good fun and if you are a battlefieldfan... you wont 
 be to dissapointed.. i like it better then bf2 so.....
  now it does sufferfrom the same glitchesand problems of bf2 dude to the fact that it runs on a 
 modified version ofthe bf2 engine (DICE developed a new engine but EA rushed htem so they realesed 
 it on the bf2 one...)
  it is still ufn and still the battlefield we have come to enjoy... despite its pathcing issues.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jsnx200
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This was my first Battlefield game, before this the only squad based or heavily team dependant 
 game I played was Counter Strike and Team Fortress.
  
  What can I say, it's a rather good and refreashing shooter thanks to its ranked multiplayer with 
 lots of unlocks.
  
  There are 4 classes to chose from at the beginning of each round or after you die. It's important 
 to decide on one unlock tier since it's easy to level up at the start, but it gets harder later 
 on, as each class has 2 of them, some are better suited for Conquest, others for the Titan mode.
 
  
  Before the game was released people were all hyped that players who played since the start will 
 be much superior to the newbies because of all the unlocks, but after playing just a few rounds 
 you realise this is not true, you can still easily kill an enemy with a 'better' gun that yours, 
 since it's not realy better, it's just different, also it's fairly easy to level up at the beginning.
 
  
  In about 4 days of playing the game, and 4-6 hours per day I already advanced 8 ranks, which means 
 I gained 8 unlocks.
  
  Leveling won't be a problem, as a tip I suggest concentrating on getting Bronze Badges and as many 
 Pins as you can. After that aim for Silver Badges.
  
  Badges are awarded for kills and time spent with a certain class, vehicle or weapon. They go from 
 Bronze to Silver and finnaly Gold.
  They can only be obtained once and award 50 exp for Bronze, 500 for Silver and 1000 for Gold.
 
  
  Pins are awarded for a continous killing spree with a certain weapon, and can be obtained multiple 
 times.
  The exp awarded ranges from 20 to 50.
  
  All in all I loved the games level up, or to be more correct, Rank Up system that rewards you with 
 new weapons and gadgets, which give you a slight edge in battle, but don't make you unstoppable.
 
  
  Let's move on to the bad parts of the game.
  There aren't any... well almost...
  
  Only bug I encountered is when the server dosen't register your leveling up, this is easily fixed 
 by joining a new game and finishing the round.
  
  The only problems that appear are caused by players.
  As you will often be playing either with 
 newbies... or the worser case n00bs.
  Newbies are ok, they learn, n00bs don't...
  
  Squad Members that don't follow orders, Squad Leaders that don't do their job... And the worst 
 case, a n00b Commander.
  
  Luckily there is the wonderful Kick Vote vs any player, and also Mutiny against the Commander.
 
  
  
  If you are looking for a new FPS team based game that will keep you occupied for a long while, 
 than Battlefield 2142 is your choice.
  
  P. S. I know I suck at reviews &gt;.&gt; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HotRod2142
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  This BattleField takes place in the year 2142. There is some new stuff in it that was not in BF2 
 like friendlist, a better ranking system, and the thing i like when u knife someone u get there 
 dogtags at this moment I have 5000 dogtags if u r not good at knifing go to a knife sever and before 
 u know it u will be knifing in the heat of battle! Northern Strike is a good expansion pack
  come with 2 new vechiles and 3 new maps! Also the new highwaytampa beta update is also good! See 
 you on the battlefield ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Target_
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  well as this is a online game so it will never end until u sell it
  
  this game is worth play i no it hasnt got many playing mode but the 1 r there they r fun once u 
 get the hang of it
  
  as its a quick review i just wht to say 2 things tht if u wht to lvl up quickly try to master 1 
 mode and 2-3 maps i'll say 1 thts the way im doing it
  this is bocoze getting used to 1 mode will beucase easy to get to no the mode 2-3 maps becoze you 
 will no place inside out and u can move quick
  
  in my words the quicker you move the quicker you will earn point 
  
  well thats it
  
  it 
 is a game worth playing fun and exsting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon286
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  As with all the battlefield games, BF2142 is made for multiplayer and i honestly feel it approaches 
 this much better then the old battlefield games.
  
  Gameplay: Normal shooter controls, run around and shoot people!
  Simple approach you can't go 
 wrong with this.
  What really shines for the game is the unlocks for the different kits. I felt that BF2 was a bit 
 packed with the much larger number of kits, that really forced you to specialize as one role in 
 the game. The BF2142 kit and unlock system allows you to specialize for one role, but i feel that 
 it allows you to balance that role better then you previously could. You want to be a field medic 
 that can pack a wallop up close. Play assault, grab a defribrillator and a shotgun and your set.
 
  
  Immersion: The graphics and sounds in this game are quite good. But like most newer games it may 
 require an upgrade if your using an older machine. One of the things i really like, having recently 
 gotten a good soundcard, is all the ambient sounds in the game. Sure your supposed to hear the 
 gunfire, but now i can hear the footsteps, i can hear the buzz of the cloaking unlock. Using onboard 
 graphics i'd previously missed all that, but you really feel like your in the middle of a battle 
 when you can hear and see everything clearly.
  
  Fun Factor: Multiplayer.... what else can i say! online 64 player battles, the only way it could 
 get better is if we could do more people simultaneously. When i first bought BF2142 i was limited 
 by my old computer to 16 player maps. But i still played and started getting unlocks and just enjoyed 
 the game. With my new comp the 64 player maps rock. Gameplay is quick and fast, yeah you occasionally 
 get a bad commander/team or an opponent who baserapes, but that's just server choice. the game 
 is great.
  
  I give BF2142 a 8.5 It's fun, it looks good, and against human opponents the replay value is always 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clayman1982
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Appears to be no more than a nice mod for BF2. I prefer the original because I like old weapons 
 as apposed to lasers. I don't much like the tanks in BF2 - the mechs are an improvement. Artillery 
 is more accurate. Too many weapons for my liking in this style of game. As it means theres quite 
 a learning curb. It only cost me like 20 dollars so I'm not too peeved. Graphics appear to be a 
 little criper than BF2 but maybe its just the building designs. Double zoom on sniper rifle is 
 nice. Loce driving the mechs. Flying sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  When I first dived into Battlefield 2142's multi-player I was, shocked on how awesome it was. You 
 play through a bunch of cool looking maps and get a bunch of cool looking weapons.
  
  In this game you play two different sides. The European army and the Russians. You across a bunch 
 of maps in an ice age future were there are only a few places were people can live. Some of the 
 environments are in snowy places and some are in places like Africa were it is still warm.
  
  There are some cool weapons in this game and now there are like 40 unlocks that you can get 
 including new weapons and new items for certain classes.
  
  The graphics look really good, but they do not look eye melting beautiful. The character models 
 look good and the environments look good but there are some flaws.
  
  The sound sounds good like in all Battlefield games. the guns sound good and the voices of you 
 fellow soldiers sound good whether they are giving an order of if they are yelling out medic.
 
  
  One of the things that I did not like about this game is that there are not a lot of maps to play 
 on. But the maps are fun enough that they will keep you entertained for a while.
  
  If you are looking foe an awesome multi-player experience then you need to pick up Battlefield 
 2142. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onimushu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  2142 didn't get as much promotion as did Enemy Territory: Quake Wars, and of course, Gamespot gives 
 higher ratings to highly promoted games 90% of the time. Halo 3 was apparently the greatest game 
 of the year weeks before it hit the shelves. Back to the point, 2142 came out a year ago, used 
 an aging engine, was riddled with bugs... BUT in spite of all this, it still offers some of the 
 most intense massive online battles ever. No, it's not a BF2 skin (which 3D model was used for 
 the titan, the walker, the aircraft?) , and in fact, it plays much differently if you ask a BF2 
 vet (like myself) . Many people simply gave up after realizing the 2142 rifles couldn't pick off 
 a person (consistently) from 200m like the AK-101 in BF2. But give me a Shuko LMG (BEFORE the LMG 
 nerf-ing patch came out) and watch what happens at 30m! It's this distinction between the gameplay 
 of BF2 and 2142, even though they feel so similar, that reflects the underlying effort DICE put 
 into 2142. The bugs and bland color palette? Well, this game isn't perfect. But it's something 
 new, unlike Halo 3's predictable ending and lack of gigantic battles that could have been capable 
 with the 360's power. Of course, you can play with up to 16 people on Xbox Live or connected Xboxs! 
 Wow, try 64-player Cerbere Landing in 2142. Or, hop around in Quake Wars, Unreal Tournament-style, 
 and have fun fighting aliens whose guns have infinite ammo and crap out neon-orange globs. I would 
 give 2142 an 8.9, but considering Quake Wars comes out a year later and gets a higher score for 
 worse gameplay, I'm giving it a 9.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaredrichards3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  BF2142 is quite simply a fantastic game online, unlike BF2 there are only 4 classes this time, 
 Recon which is a sniper, Engineer, Assault which is the medic and the Support class. Each class 
 has 3 weapons you can unlock and several other weapons and abilities you can also unlock and add 
 to your kit each time you spawn. This is a great feature because you can now actually customize 
 your character to the type of battle your in.
  
  Unlike BF2 the weapons in this game have been improved, now you can actually hit targets that you 
 aim for, the mysterious bullets that just seem to disapear in BF2 are no longer a proplem in this 
 game. EA have also improved the view distance scale of your character. Unlike BF2 you are no longer 
 struggling to see enemies that in reality are not that far away. This is a lot better because now 
 you can usually see who is shooting at you unlike it's predecessor.
  
  The general balance of classes has been improved as well, medics now only receive 1 point for a 
 heal and revive which is good because it stops medics being the only high scorers in the game. 
 Points are now also awarded for squads that stick together and heal their team mates specifically 
 and squad leaders who make orders that are followed, this makes 2142 a more team focused game than 
 BF2 and gives players motivation to stick together as a team. The vehicles have been improved in 
 this game as well, tanks and aircraft are still available but their effectiveness has been reduced, 
 no longer can experienced players sit in tanks and aircraft and totally own infantry like BF2. 
 Now infantry are more equip against them and the maps have more mounted devices to attack with. 
 also the splash damage of vehicle has been reduced as well which is a nice change. The new titan 
 mode is interesting but personally I would not both playing it at the moment. All titan maps are 
 very glitchy lag is a common problem when one boards the titan. For this reason I don't really 
 enjoy playing titan mode. You will also find that titan mode is generally a vehicle fight between 
 teams, infantry play only really comes into the game when you are on the titan in attack of defense. 
 I personally only play conquest, it is lag free and is more infantry involved. The only thing about 
 this game that really will annoy you is that server crashes are very common at this stage. During 
 a whole night of playing online you can expect the server to crash between 2-4 times a night. this 
 is an issue that EA has not bothered to fix. I can handle it but I know of many people that can't 
 so consider this before you purchase this game. Other than that I believe BF2142 is one of the 
 most fun and evenly balanced shooters going around. Enjoy!
  
  JR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pcslave
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is almost just like BF2 and like a lot of people say, it will feel like playing a modded 
 BF2 instead of a standalone 50$ game. The graphics are great, and the sci-fi setting with the coming 
 ice age makes for a fun, although a little bland atmosphere (snow, glaciers, and rocks) . The sound 
 effects go well with everything and are not disappointing, for instance orbital EMP strikes will 
 sound like Electric mayhem and even when the initial pulse is gone you still hear the crackle of 
 residual EMP. Soldiers kits are packing more firepower in BF2142 than anything before (with unlocks) , 
 allowing most soldier classes to disable a vehicle/mech instead of having to be an engineer, which 
 has the effect of making vehicles redundant at times.
  
  Vehicles themselves are fun to fight in, but have greater weakness to soldier fire than before. 
 For instance an engineer can destroy a tank with one shot to the rear. The vehicles look different 
 for each team but do the exact same things. one exception are the tanks. Each side gets a tank, 
 EU gets a hovering tank that floats above the ground and travels quickly. PAC gets a normal, modern 
 looking tank that rolls on treads, YES TREADS. For some reason the game developers thought there 
 would still be tank treads in the year 2142. If you didn't know, treads are garbage against hover 
 tech.
  
  Titans are new floating fortresses that can deploy forces via aircraft or drop pods which launch 
 you out of the titan and you control until you crash land. They are also equipped with 4 massive 
 turrets on its underside and two AA turrets on the top.
  good stuff
  
  Here are some of the bugs you will encounter.
  -----------
  For some reason after playing titan 
 maps for a while you will be unable to spawn on your own titan. You will only be able to spawn 
 on the ground or in vehicles. This is particularly frustrating when you must be on your titan to 
 defend it from enemy infiltrators in your reactor room.
  -----------
  Soldier shoulder mounted AA weapon's projectiles will sometimes fail to follow a target after you 
 get the lock on signal and fire. Before a patch the weapon would fail to lock on completely in 
 some cases even if the enemy aircraft was right in front of you.
  -----------
  You can get stuck on or in small obstacles and geometry.
  -----------
  Some weapons fail to 
 register a hit when they clearly land on a target. Tanks are notorious for this, as you will see 
 your tank shot explode on your foe and no damage is inflicted. Knife attacks are the same, as you 
 can slice an enemy and get the sound effect of a landed attack but no kill.
  -----------
  After playing on one server for a long while you may get stuck in a squad and never be able to 
 leave it unless you log off, making you lose your field upgrades.
  -----------
  Those are the most obvious and frustrating of the bugs I have experienced as well as my comrades 
 on buddy list have mentioned.
  
  All the old problems with battlefield are here as well. Vehicles and soldiers cant move up a small 
 hill. Soldiers still get tired from running of what seems like 30 ft of distance. Suicide tactics 
 are still more effective than playing right.
  You can be killed the instant you spawn (some folks like this? 1/2 second would be nice) . People 
 are still getting on the roof of tall buildings where they become invincible (Strike at Karkand 
 anyone?) . Theres more but if you want to deal with them go buy Battlefield 2142.
  In the end, after playing for hours it just feels like a beta game with good graphics. The old 
 bugs and glitches were never fixed, but more material was produced :-\ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tybaudru
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 1, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  battlefield 2142 is a good game and i love the game mode titan and i like the ranking system online 
 even thuogh it takes awhile to get a rank and then the controls for driving the vehicles are not 
 bad they just take sometime to get use to and then the one thing i dont like is when some people 
 do not know how to drive and then i like the 4 different classes and that u can make the classes 
 better when you rank up and get to choose an unlock the only thing to wait for now is the next 
 battle field. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowboy339
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  I prefer the maps and looks of battlefield 2 BUT
  
  For long term game play with all of the unlocks available in BF2142 - makes it far more enjoyable 
 because the unlocks are such a big incentive to continue playing.
  
  The titan mode is a great addition to the game. If you could combine the unlocks of BF2142 and 
 the game play of Battlefield 2 = that would be the ultimate battlefield game.
  
  Since I've bought BF2142 - I haven't played battlefield 2 because I want to get those unlocks of 
 BF2142.
  
  The rest of what I'm going to say is just me babbling because I need to hit 100 words for gamespot 
 to accept this review submission.
  
  What's unique about BF2142 is that depending on which map you play and the number of unlocks you've 
 unlocked ....... if you're an engineer - you'll be much better in an open map area while in close 
 quarter scene - the assault is the better soldier to use. I recommend that either game would be 
 enjoyable as long you have a computer that can support this game. I suggest downloading the 2 demos 
 and you make your own decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 21, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game my initial thought was that it would make a decent LAN shooter. 
 But after playing for a few hours I found it was lacking... originality. It felt just like every 
 other FPS I've ever played. The guns felt realistic but they just weren't fun. The machines/vehicles 
 were probably the best part. I had a good time cruising around in the flying vehicles, but even 
 that got boring. The graphics are good, but the landscape isn't much to look at. What it comes 
 down to is if you liked Battlefield 2, this will offer some fun, but I wouldn't get my hopes up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lowmankind
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I've resisted online multiplayer games basically forever, but my workmates got me into Battlefield 
 2142, and let me just say that I'm glad they did.
  
  The major thing about 2142 more so than almost any other multiplayer game out there is that you 
 have a series of objectives, often issued to you by squad leaders or your side's overall Commander. 
 And the strategy inherent to the gameplay becomes wonderfully obvious after a particularly tight 
 Titan round. Sure, the enemy is all over your Titan, but you could be on the ground, capturing 
 all the missile silos and peppering theirs with missiles to win the round.
  
  The weapons are fun, the vehicles better, and there's nothing quite like sneaking up behind an 
 enemy and knifing them to collect their dogtags ... or laying down a mine and noticing several 
 minutes later that someone has been killed by it. The point is, although the basic gameplay model 
 is somewhat repetetive, there are just so many deft touches that give you wonderful and kind of 
 unique experiences as to warrant constant replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabbster465
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  being the first battlefield game ive played for computer, this is in my opinion the best one to 
 start off on, Well My opinion is that they did good for the grahpics But they could have worked 
 some bugs out of the Game And punkbuster Before they released it, the best thing they added Was 
 propably the titan mode ,The titans are very slow to get around but there big size make them have 
 a Big Explosion when they Blow Up and most people Like big explosions they could have taken out 
 the over heatng things cause this is the future and in the future most things dont overheat
  and the customing your character (s) was amazing inprovement.
  
  they propably could have made 
 it so more players could be on a server instead of the old 64 people but i give this game a 9.5 
 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  The plot of 2142 can be best described at the events Al Gore believed would eventually happen. 
 The world is predominately encased in an ice age. With billions of people flooding to the South 
 for inhabitable lands, tensions rise and wars erupt. This translates into the European Union battling 
 the Russian centered Pan Asian Coalitian. These battles take place in the barren fields of Europe, 
 to the sands of Africa.
  If you've played Battlefield 2, you will be rigth at home with 2142. This future is familiar, as 
 it is not too exotic or unbelievable. There are no laser beams, but instead futuristic versions 
 of today's weapons. Assault rifles, snipers, and rocket launchers, all that things you would expect 
 to arm the games four classes. This is a small number of classes yes, but there is easily over 
 40 customizations you can receive in multiplayer gaming. Infantry combatants aside, the vehicles 
 help shape the game into what it is. There are walkers, hovering tanks, and tricked-out armored 
 personnal carriers. Sounds are great as well, you can hear every bullet whizzing over you shoulder, 
 or even a distant fire fight. Graphics are perhaps dated, due to the lack of an upgrade over Battlefield 
 2. Those who are fans of the Battlefield universe and even those yet to experience will enjoy this 
 fantastic FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkytown90210
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are a little bit better than BF2. The enviorments vary from desert to tundra. That's 
 about it.: (e vehicles and guns all look futuristic but not ridiculously so. One weird thing especially 
 with the PAC that some guns look and sound and look like lasers. The sounds are more varied than 
 BF2, and more crisp. You can really tell if a walker is coming after you from over 100M away. The 
 russian the PAC speaks is really convincing. My only real problem with the community is alot of 
 people won't revive you. Also the Voss is more overpowered than the G36E in Battlefield 2. Most 
 people only use the Voss. Thirdly if you like Conquest, Camp Gibraltar is about the only map any 
 server plays. It's really annoying since most people only attack or defend the harbor. The gameplay 
 is great especially in titan mode, except than titan mode has really bad lag. The way you unlock 
 things is alot different than BF2, you have to unlock things like C4, APM's (clamores, grenades, 
 and guns. Each class has 2 unlock trees with 3 unlocks, then a weapon. There also are player and 
 Squad leader unlock trees. The player tree has stuff like longer sprint, more pistol ammo, more 
 grenades, etc. The SL tree has the SL beacon, a deployable beacon that takes the place of the spawnpoint 
 on the SL. Even the SL can spawn at it. It is destroyable though. The 2 other useful SL unlocks 
 are a flying drone that is like a really small uav and a drone that's exactly the same but has 
 2 guns that are weaker than the smg. No-one use the drones at all. The vehicles are great, no jet 
 whores :) . There is a big difference between the PAC and EU tanks. The PAC has a hovertank that 
 strafes with WASD. The turret only goes up and down, to aim to the left or right you have to move 
 that way with the mouse. No machine gun for the tank main seat instead you can zoom. The EU walker 
 has only one real gameplay difference from the PAC walker, it uses a gatling gun instead of an 
 automatic cannon. The jeeps have 3 seats and a new boost button (just press shift) . There are 2 
 aircraft, a transport heli and an attack heli that can hover. The gun seats in the transport heli 
 can pwn in the right hands. The attack heli has missiles in the main seat, and a cannon plus an 
 even harder to maneuver guided missile. There are more ranks than BF2, which are easier to get 
 thanks to 500-2000 point medals. There are also some Northern Strike ones which give you anunlock 
 instead of points :) . You can get Northern Strike from EA link for $9 or $10 US. The replay value 
 is huge. I recommend this game to anyone who likes BF2 and isn't a nade whore and to anyone whoe 
 likes good multiplayer FPS's.
  
  See you on the Battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_ivader
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Where to start... Well, the graphics are pretty good, they could have been improved slightly from 
 the old battlefiled 2 graphics, but i wont complain. Gameplay is pretty good, its a fun game to 
 play, and i love how the titan matches work. The unlocks feature they added adds alot to the game 
 also, instead of just playing you can now play to try to unlock weapons and items. Still, it could 
 have been so much more... Its more of a side game than a sequil, you can basicly say that battlefield 
 2 and 2142 are on the same level, its just one is based in modern times and one is in the future. 
 Overall its a great game, but it could have been more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: accident50
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is an awesome game especially if the first few Battlefields tickled your fancy. 
 The intense online multi-player gameplay keeps your adrenaline pumping and your trigger finger 
 clicking. In multi-player mode you can join in servers that have a range of maps and up to a 64-player 
 capacity. Battlefield 2142 is introducing the new Titan Assault maps which allow you to board and 
 bring down the enemys supply ship called the Titan while attempting to defend your very own Titan. 
 This game also sports some new artillery such as EMP Grenades, new more powerful assault rifles, 
 sniper rifles, machine guns, and gear. Also on the game are some new vehicles such as the Battle 
 Walker, new APCs, tanks and even futuristic aircraft. All kits are customizable with many different 
 combinations of weapons and items to make gameplay more fun and challenging. Medals and items are 
 rewarded in real time, which makes this game full of surprises even after getting shot in the leg. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shingler10
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  As i said, the game is a good game, including great game play and graphics. The maps are varied, 
 as are the weapons and vehicles, it does grip you by the mouse and dont let ya go (srry awful joke!) 
 The only problem with the game is getting it to work, the first time i installed it, it would crash 
 while proceeding through the advertisements at the beginning. The second time i tried, it played 
 up untill about 10 mins of game play, the third, it would crash on the main menu. The fourth time 
 i tried, it seemed i was successful, an the game played properly. I tired installing it on my brothers 
 desktops, and my laptop. The same occurred, crashing during the same point points on each install. 
 untill it finally decided to work. As no-one else has had this problem, i assume it was just my 
 copy of the game, or the disk? im not sure, but just beware! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_pWnzz_YoU
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  BF2142 is a fun experience but some things about it aren't as fun as BF2. I like how the created 
 smaller gaps between the rank ups than BF2 but having to unlock all those little accessories sometimes 
 pisses me off. Titan mode can get boring, the maps are waaayyy to small. There should be some type 
 of futuristic jet backing up the heli's. They should kept the standard kit selection from BF2 rather 
 then combine them which would equal more kits, the invisibility camo is pretty cool, it didn't 
 have enough replay value (after one game i went to play BF2) so overall it's a fun game, but just 
 doesn't pack a punch, if you haven't played i recommend to try it out, hardcore fans of FPS multiplayer 
 games may be a bit disappointed, so that concludes it, great game but not excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaming_man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  This is an entertaining game yet it lacks the boost that battlefield 2 delivers. It's worth to 
 give it a whirl. If you want a challenging and ambitious game this is right for you. This game 
 has a lot more vehicles but sadly not as many weapons. It has good and large maps with different 
 squads like battlefield 2 again. In many ways this game is much like battlefield 2 but a lot harder 
 to aim and kill enemies. I would recommend this game to any fans of the battlefield series.
  
  My overall opinion is that this game is a great online shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  This is my first battlefield experience, so I can't compare to the other battlefield games. This 
 is one of the best multiplayer games I have ever played. The maps are excellent, the use of vehicles 
 has never felt so good in a multiplayer, the 4 classes are equally good and have their respected 
 value to your team. You can also take on the role of commander or squad leader. The experience 
 points is what really gets people hooked. Points you receive in matches from kills, capturing hold 
 points, healing or reviving teammates, supplying ammo, defending hold points, etc all contribute 
 to your career point total which goes toward higher rank and unlocking weapons and gadgets. You 
 make the choice of which gadget or weapon you want to unlock to better serve your needs. If you 
 have never played a battlefield game, remember this is strictly online multiplayer. They do offer 
 single player so you can practice with computer opponents, but they don't offer all the maps and 
 you can't unlock weapons or gadgets playing single player. Overall, the graphics are some what 
 dated, but still pretty good. The sound is good if you have X-Fi sound card and surround sound. 
 However, I couldn't really give to high of a score because of all the problems associated with 
 this game especially if you have vista. The game crashes all the time or stops responding. Sometimes 
 it doesn't load. These are all problems on the forums. If you have vista be prepared to restart 
 your computer and be interrupted during play. For a game that has been out almost a year these 
 problems should be fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ralfyboy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  From Battlefield 1942 to Battlefield 2, the improvement was dramatic. However, after a few expansion 
 packs were released for BF2, we have 2142. It might as well have been just another one of those 
 expansion packs.
  
  There's nothing particularly wrong with BF2142, but there's just a feeling of been there, done 
 that with this game. New gun models and new maps were not enough to warrant a standalone product. 
 This is the weakest PC Battlefield game to date by far.
  
  I really don't want to elaborate much. The game was boring, and I don't recommend it to anyone. 
 If I had paid for this game, the score would be a lot lower. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sticko45
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This is a really great game. You can keep on playing for ages and don't really get bored of it. 
 I still play it now sometimes and i got it when it came out. When you first start it shouldn't 
 take long to learn the controls. You don't need to have played any of the other battlefields to 
 play this. I started on this one. It is good fun trying to get the medals, new weapons and other 
 awards. When playing with a head set it can be handy. You could tell other players in your squad 
 where other team players are. It is also fun when playing with your friends. You can see who gets 
 the better score then if you do, rub it in their faces. Ha Ha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Ish
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  Okay, so this is my first ever review for a game. Please go easy on me. : (
  
  Battlefield 2142 is the third (or fourth, if you count BF: Vietnam) installment in the BF series. 
 Although I have never played BF2, I thoroughly enjoyed BF1942, and was ecstatic when I learned 
 that they were going to make a futuristic version of the Battlefield franchise. How did it hold 
 up? Read my humble review...
  
  Graphics: The graphics are not quite next gen, not quite last gen. They hold up well today, but 
 BF 2142's graphics definitely aren't the best out there. The biggest problem you will have with 
 it is the fact that it makes for long loading times. 8/10
  
  Sound: There is very little music in the game, about 4, maybe 5 tracks, none of them overly impressive. 
 However, what this game lacks in music it makes up with quality sound effects, and how they are 
 used. Take for example, the whiz of a frag grenade as it bounces near you, or the ominous noises 
 off in the distance of a speeding missile or a small skirmish, or even the subtle radio chatter 
 one heres when entering a vehicle.
  
  9.5/10
  
  Value: Considering that the game has over 40 unlocks and even more rewards and the fact that it 
 is almost entirely multiplayer, along with many clans and friendly clan communities, this game 
 will keep you occupied for at least a few months if not for years.
  
  8.5/10
  
  Tilt: Easy to pick up, tough to master. Playing one or two matches will make anyone understand 
 what they have to do to win, even though they might be killed easily at first (hey, its the nature 
 of an online game for your enemy to come after you as hard as they can without discrimination) . 
 However, after a certain point, one will realize that like all games, this one has a Zen-level 
 skill requirement to make the player a grand one.
  
  7/10
  
  Game-play: This is the first tactical shooter I have played where everyone almost everyone plays 
 it like it is meant to be played, thanks to the ingenious rewards system. Stick with your squad, 
 more points. Capture a control point or silo, more points, do it with a squad, more points. Heed 
 the call of an injured soldier or a snipers nest in need of ammo, more points. Though some things 
 aren't too well planned out, the game comes together in a spectacular fashion.
  
  Take for example, how my squad was once ordered to take a control point somewhere in the middle 
 of Tunis Harbor in a 64 player map. The enemy had their defense down well, they had a walker at 
 the very front lines wrecking havoc on my squad mates and fellow team members. Behind them, a group 
 of about 9 or 10 assault and support infantry set up their defenses and turrets behind cover and 
 picked off anyone who might have avoided the attention of the walker. And farther behind, a snipers 
 nest of three we hiding in a small courtyard filled with rubble and tanker containers as they picked 
 off my team's reinforcements far to the back. Needless to say, getting through all that would have 
 been a daunting task. Fortunately, one of my squad mates had an idea, and took me and another squad 
 mate into a Humvee-like vehicle and sped us right around to the sniper's flank, at which point 
 we came out of the vehicle and made short work of the poor fools. At the front, another squad on 
 my team had successfully destroyed the walker after applying pressure on it via rocket launchers, 
 and they and the rest of my squad began descending upon the the two enemy squads in the middle 
 as they desperately tried to reform their defenses as me and the other two squad mates with me 
 proceeded to flank them.
  
  It was, as one could say, glorious.
  
  10/10
  
  Final score (I make final scores based on what I feel this game should get, not on a calculated 
 average) : 9.5/10
  
  Although this game has it's share of problems, mainly being the long loading times and the slightly 
 difficult learning curve, they can not only be over-looked considering that the game engine is 
 basically reused from BF2 and the nature of online games, but can be forgiven for its visceral 
 game experience that is enhanced greatly by the sound quality and how the graphics engine is implemented. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_nocide
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  some minor problem with punkbuster. I was looking for a good shooter on pc. I found a good one. 
 Some minor issue with unkillable player on top of buildings but it doesn't happen often. Good feature 
 with the experience you get by killing and helping other players. Can be frustrating when you start 
 because you don't have a lot of weapons and useful stuff. Good feature to give points for cooperation 
 when you are in a squad. Can be very frustrating the first hour or two but after that it turns 
 to be a very enjoyable game for lovers of First person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riech804
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 14, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing since day one. Granted my score isnt that high up but Im a casual gamer. I have 
 all but 5 unlocks and think thats all I care to have. Some unlocks are pretty much useless unless 
 you are doing something very specific. I reccomend paying for a reserved slot on a good server 
 such as tactical gamer so that you dont have to worry about getting booted in the middle of a round. 
 Make sure to use VOIP and get in a squad that works together. If you join a squad and dont see 
 orders issued within about a minute, try another or start your own. Besides the point bonuses, 
 it makes the game a whole lot more fun since it was designed to be played in teams.
  
  The add on Northern Strike is decent and worth the extra money. Im sure I will purchase any other 
 add ons. Graphics are good enough for me, I play on the highest setting and dont need anything 
 more realistic in a tactical game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korlis612
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  The problem with 2142 is basically the same as its predecessor: half the game is broken. The menu 
 system is awful, you'll drop out of games without warning or explanation, every patch fixes one 
 bug and introduces a new one - it's extraordinary how the Battlefield games get past quality assurance, 
 but I guess when people buy them in such high numbers anyway EA and DICE both know they can get 
 away with it. And I'm no different: I knew what the problems would be, and bought it anyway.
  
  The thing is, get past those flaws, and 2142 is even more fun than BF2. The Titan gameplay 
 mode is a big improvement over regular conquest, although it is especially prone to lag (something 
 later patches have reduced, but not entirely eliminated) , but is only playable in multiplayer - 
 this isn't too much of a shock, though, as even with the single player modes and bot-friendly co-op 
 modes the Battlefield series has never really catered to the offline crowd, much to my dismay. 
 Unfortunately, the biggest problem with 2142, like BF2, is that it's only any fun if you're in 
 the right game. Stuck with a team of idiots or facing off against someone breaking the rules, and 
 the experience is ruined; find a team with a commander who knows what he's doing, group up in a 
 squad with some good people, and the game can be brilliant.
  
  Having said that, the gameplay - outside the more obvious, 'broken' flaws - does have a few kinks. 
 It's now necessary to play enough to unlock a few items before the base classes really become useful; 
 the six classes of BF2 have become just four, which means soldiers do double duty as medics, snipers 
 work as special ops, engineers are on anti-tank detail, and the only class left unchanged is support, 
 still doling out ammunition along with carrying a machine gun. Unfortunately, this slimming down 
 of choices means there are a lot more unlocks to be had before options like the medic being able 
 to bring back injured players become available, or the recon clas gets C4 to take down fixed emplacements. 
 It can be a tough slog, and unless you play the game obsessively, it means you have to make some 
 hard choices about what class you want to be able to play.
  
  So, do I regret falling for the lure of BF2142? A little bit. The gameplay is frustratingly addictive, 
 and I find myself returning to it despite the infuriating difficulty of finding a decent server 
 to play it on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 8, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  I was excited to get Battlefield 2142 in Nov 2006 because I played the previous Battlefield games 
 and loved them, so how could I go wrong.
  
  Battlefield 2142 is like Half-Life 2 in you need to register and have an account to play the game 
 for single player. Unfortunately if you are just playing a skrimish with bots and the internet 
 goes down, you get disconnected and can't play.
  
  Battlefield 2142 feels more like a mod. The sound gets very reptitve. The future setting and the 
 weapons and vehicles don't give it any substance. This is the 2nd worst videogame purchased for 
 $24.99, the worst one being True Crime Streets of L. A. Battlefield 2142 disappointed me. I had 
 too high of hopes.
  
  Maybe DICE will release Battlefield 480 B. C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GriffinLord602
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 8, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  With Battlefield 2142 its hard to describe, yes they have made a lot of improvements mainly down 
 to the new mode (titan) which allows each team to have a floating base that you must defend, while 
 attacking the opposing invaders. Which does bring new and exciting content, but this is only a 
 new mode. Also another one of the major improvements is probably the levelling up of your soldier, 
 and which each level up you get to pick an improvement, whether it be a weapon, or a stamina upgrade 
 etc. But while this is all lovely there are no more major improvements that you can note.
  The gameplay meanwhile is simple as before, which does give it a bonus because you dont want to 
 pick up a great game and come across all these things that you have to check that your doing right, 
 so this does give the game greater credit. But basically its the same game with lasers on tanks 
 instead of shells, and a walker, which kind of takes the ideas from star wars into its own account. 
 Yet these things look pretty cool it doesnt add anything more exciting, Im not saying this game 
 is rubbish or mediocre, I think this game is good but not as good as bf2. I think the reason for 
 BF2 being such a big hit, is because everything was more new and the surroundings were fantastic 
 and in terms of graphics back when it was first released the engine was pretty much at the same 
 level with some other games, and so it wasnt penalized for its look. Because this time round I 
 expected there to be improvements in the engine, for one because the game was set in the future, 
 and the other because next generation consoles were coming. But in terms of maps, there are a number 
 of them, which is a good thing for an online FPS, and the landscapes are large, but this brings 
 loading up as a problem. Even with a good well-built pc, loading can take a bit of time, NOT LOADS, 
 but sometimes it can make you board and weary. Obviously there isnt such a thing as a storyline 
 when it comes to the BF franchise, but it does, as always make a good strong Online FPS, which 
 I believe, will do well in selling.
  I will first review gameplay:
  The gameplay as I have said has always been good, and its very easy to get the hang of, but when 
 your in close quarters with enemies then, even though it would make it more complicated I would 
 learn the hotkeys of the weapons and equipment.
  Graphics:
  Well the graphics are basically the same as bf2 and back then that was ok, but now, seems that 
 there are so many good looking games coming I dont believe this will be enough to hack the graphics 
 area of things.
  Sound:
  The sound effects for the explosions and gunfire were incredible, and really brought you into the 
 battle, which made your adrenalin pump.
  Value:
  Well value wise I would say, if youre a BF fan then obviously spend the &pound;28-&pound;35 on 
 this action packed game, but if youre a fussy gamer who only likes to get the sequels if they 
 get everything new in them, then dont bother. But from my opinion I bought the game and thought 
 it brought me many hours of fun.
  Reviewers tilt:
  Well overall this game is very entertaining, and just about makes the standard for a bf game, so 
 if you like your guns and fancy strutting your stuff then get to the stores, buy the game, and 
 get shooting people out of aircraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coyote32
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  In 2142 you either are in a future war. The game is just so fun. You can do what you want to do. 
 Either Defending or Attacking. In Defense you can defend a Silo, Titan, another Player, or your 
 teams radar. With attacking you can go attack the enemy how you want, straight on, around there 
 flank, or from across the map with your sniper. Attacking and taking over Silos and invading the 
 enemy titan. There are Four Classes, Recon, Support, Assault, and Engineer. With Recon you can 
 get a sniper and a carbine. Support has the Shotgun and a rifle. Assault class has the Assault 
 Rifle with the shotgun add on and the rocket add on. Engineers get the rockets to blow up the enemys 
 titan and other important things. Maybe a tank or a mech. :-D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DodgeDuty
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 has made a few changes from the second one. The best is Titan Mode even though 
 its only on multiplayer. But really there is no point in single player because you need internet 
 to play this game. For demanding the DVD drive to run the game, and a new memory card, the graphics 
 aren't very good, and seem the same, or sometimes worst then Battlefield 2. That is the only bad 
 thing about the game, as the rest is so much fun. The character customization and weapon is taken 
 from Rainbow 6 Vegas, bu who cares, for the sweet guns of the future. Noobs though may have a hard 
 time, with the basic weaponry. Overall everything is fun with game and is a must buy at $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorkaBonum
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 7, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  The good: The upgrades in general, better balance, more unlocks, less but yet more classes, exceptional 
 visuals and fantastic audio as radio spammers don't just scream right through your head as in Battlefield 
 2. The Bad: Took too long for EA to patch, as ever. Don't judge this game after the screenshots 
 if you're a dedicated Battlefield 2 fanatic, both these games are good and is based on the same 
 technology on the paper and works the same. But the Battlefield: 2142 simply has too many improvements 
 in the terms of balance, gameplay elements and most importantly; you get feedback basicly all the 
 time from pins, medals, ranks, unlocks which really makes this game shine longer than Battlefield 
 2. The story in the game itself is a bit more unconventional as the one found in Battlefield 2 
 which is about what we're actually seeing today only on most part. In Battlefield 2142 the earth 
 is struck by a new icetime and most of the world is covered in ice/snow and can't support human 
 life for long due to the fact there's simply nothing to live on. So the two major factions based, 
 the European Union and the PAC (Primarily Russians) are fighting against eachother for the land 
 still able to live on. Story isn't important, but it gives some deph to the game so it won't feel 
 that much you're just shooting the other guys becuase you don't like them for whatever reason.
 
  
  I will primarily just compare this game to Battlefield 2 since most of you guys reading this review 
 most likely have Battlefield 2 or Battlefield 2142 already if not both. What we're seeing in terms 
 of balance between the factions is that no faction has any overpowered weapon like the MEC had 
 in BF2 with their main assault rifle (AK-101?) , even if the factions have their strong points when 
 it comes to weapons there's simply too many vital unlocks for people to rely on just the weapon 
 they're using. And for the classes themselves we're not seeing the identical classes as in BF2 
 that were all about the magazine capacity of each weapon. Here we see less classes, more unlocks 
 which equals more personality to each loadout you pick later on after a few unlocks since all classes 
 proove to be as effective in battle depending on the situation, ofcourse. The Assault class is 
 now both Medic and Assault depending on your loadout but your Assault character always have the 
 MedKit with a upgradeable MedKit avaible along with a Defigirator (?) to heal up fallen comrades 
 or just make those enemies cry by killing them with the revive weapon. The Sniper is now a combination 
 between Sniper and Spec-Ops, you can choose to have either a highly accurate, high-damage, low-magazine 
 sniper rifle with stabilization and IT-33 Personal Cloaking device (you cant shoot with the device 
 active) or you can choose a close-range assault rifle and demolations. The Claymore (APM Mine) 
 is not undefeatable anymore, you can prone/crouch to go past them and just as well disable them 
 as a Engineer with proper tools equiped. The Engineer is now a combination of Anti-Tank and Engineer, 
 build it or blow it. Engineers can select either Anti-Tank weapons or Anti-Air Weapons to bring 
 down all vehicles, they can also unlock the very effective active vehicle mine that will follow 
 active targets until they make contact and blow up, if a vehicle is static however, the mine will 
 not blow if not absolute proximite. And ofcourse, the Support class now has ability to deploy weapons 
 to potentially slow down or guard vital positions on the map with their light but rather accurate 
 machineguns as they can also deploy sentryguns that will automaticly aquire and engage hostile 
 targets. The Support can also unlock a personal shield to be deployed that will restain most hand-gun 
 fires in a small area as well as a upgrade to identify IT-33 activity around the soldier as well 
 as a heart-beat tagging device that once activated will reveal all hostile infantry in a medium 
 area. The new, lesser yet larger roles play off to be a huge deal of the game - but the new vehicle 
 upgrades are also very interesting. There's no real super vehicle anymore as we had with the APC 
 in BF2 where they just sat around raped spawns or the aircraft that played a game of their own. 
 All vehicles is quite easy to destroy since they all have weak spots like vents underneath the 
 Walker or behind the Tanks to deal massive damage to the vehicle once hitted with a AT-weapon. 
 But that doesn't mean the vehicles are just deathtraps waiting to be killed - all assault vehicles 
 can deploy active countermeasures for a short time that will restain all missile damage - for a 
 4-5 secondes the vehicle is indestructable. But it takes a long time to recharge the countermeasures 
 again. But that doesn't mean the vehicles can just rush in and destroy everything as long as the 
 countermeasure is active since there's no vehicle effective against anything except for the Walker 
 that requires a crew of two soldiers to be effective properly as they can all be disabled by EMP-grenades, 
 EMP mines or EMP strikes from the Commander as well as smighted from the Commanders Orbital Bombardment 
 that barely damages infantry but will effectivly destroy or do massive damage to enemy vehicles 
 in a rather large area. More than the balance there's also important graphical improvements such 
 as way sharper textures, awfully much better looking dynamic lightning and lightnings just as everything 
 looks more polished and the new effects from explosions on the ground looks much better than in 
 the previous installation (s) . The sounds also sound alot better, new fresh sounds, better environmental 
 sounds and more convincing weapon sounds - you really make it feel that X-fi audio card was worth 
 the time and money. I'd recommend Battlefield 2142 to about any PC-shooter fan, especially if you 
 enjoyed Battlefield 2. To me it's the best Multiplayer shooter for the PC at the moment, and I've 
 tested many before that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nills
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 3, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game from EA that needs to be explored. 2142 is a great futuristic online FPS. 
 There are two modes of the game- Titan and Conquest. Titan is a great new mode that requires you 
 to capture enemy missile silo's to lower the shield of the other teams titan so you can destroy 
 it. There are not many things to say about the graphics and sound except that they're great. With 
 frequent patches the game just keeps looking and sounding better. Gameplay is awesome-with 10+ 
 multiplayer maps and over 20 unlockable weapons and equipment. You can play this game for hours 
 and hours and never be bored. GET THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppelin1977
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  2142 has a wide range of single player maps which are decent but the real thrill in this game is 
 online battleing against other players all over the world.
  There are 2 types of maps in multiplayer, Conquest (wipe out the other army) or Titan Assault (Take 
 over missile silos to to take down the sheilds of the enemies ship, then board and blow em to hell) . 
 Both of these are hilghly fun and addictive. Although it can sometimes get a bit repetitive.
  There are many different types of weapons and MECS in this game, all the kits are custimisable 
 as you unlock new weapons.
  MECS include Hover Tanks, Walkers (like Star Wars) , jeeps and various kinds of aircraft.
  
 
  Graphics in this game are outstanding, by far the best in the battlefield collection and maybe 
 even all FPS.
  
  The sounds in this game are incredible, it really does do a very good job or recreating weapons 
 fire, and the sound of a bullet flying by your head really brings the game to life.
  
  The value of this game is outstanding you get hours of enjoyment for about 30 euro (17 pound sterling) . 
 There are no extra charges like monthly fees except for the Broadbrand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  This is more than an improvement over BF2 this is the 98% perfect game in the BF series. The 2% 
 comes from the community cause some ppl just nade spam and it is impossible to get anywhere with 
 getting blowing into the sky.
  
  Gameplay::: Okay Conquest is like a classic and the best mode that has never dulled. The classes 
 may LOOK plain at the selection screen but just wait till you see the unlocks. There are actually 
 alot of classes for BF2142. Recon can be developed into SNiper or Special Forces, Assault into 
 Medic or Shock trooper thing, Engineer (kinda useless on infantry maps) and SUpport can be developed 
 into like an Offensive Support and Defensive Support. Vechiles don't own in BF2142 cause there 
 are these rail cannon turret things that can easily kill crappy pilots in walkers and tanks. Everything 
 is pretty balanced and the air units are SO MUCH EASIER TO USE!!!!!. There was a review saying 
 that the helicopters are impossible to use and they can't hover. That is un true cause half the 
 time I end up hovering by accident. The maps are extemly well designed for chokepoints and thus 
 produces intense firefights that sometimes rage on for half a round. Your team mates are pretty 
 good at doing teamwork and it feels like Saving Private Ryan but in the future when you get into 
 a firefight. Once, in Cerbere Landing, we were storming the last bit and there was a tiny path 
 in the walls which was overlooked by a tower. I watched my teamates run in a it looked like D-DAy 
 as Support Class opened fire (Support Class are very good, I dont understand how ppl say they are 
 hard to use, can outgun assault class) . Then more teamates came the the enemy force came as well 
 and everyone ended up jumping madly while shooting, it was close combat but everyone had guns and 
 some had knives, very cool. Guns are extremly cool and I love EA for not making them shoot lasers. 
 Lasers would ruin the gameplay and turn the Saving Private Ryan feel into Starwars which in my 
 opinion is just lame. Both sides look different and it is quite hard to shoot your own teamates 
 cause you mistakened them for the opposing side. Fun, stylish and cool, BF2 is nowhere as good 
 in this area.
  
  Graphics::: They really aren't bad. The graphics is is nice and atmoshpereic as each bit you fight 
 are mostly depressing and war torn. Well we wouldn; t wanna fight in a nice happy atmosphere where 
 all the building are painted in bright colours and rainbows are seen everywhere would we??? Plus 
 96% of the time you won't care cause your too busy running behind cover or shooting at people. 
 The 4% time when you wish you had something pretty to look at is when you are looking at the sky, 
 dead, and waiting to respawn.
  
  Sound::: Nice music during the long loading times. The sounds on the guns all sound loud and brutal 
 and when your in a fire fight all you can hear are explosions and bullet whizzes (if your lucky 
 to not get hit) and your teamates shouting for supplies or calling for medics. What more could 
 you want in a battlefield???
  
  Value::: Great Conquest mode that can keep you addicted for at least one year. The single player 
 can be expanded greatly with a mod which allows you to have good single player games as well. This 
 will keep you addicted.
  
  Tilt::: The best game I have bought and everyone should try it. I dunno why everyone else thinks 
 it is bad just because it only makes small improvements on BF2. They are HUGE improvements and 
 lots of the servers aren't as laggy either. I thought this game would be crap if it was like BF2 
 but it wasn't, it was miles better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peppers30
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 27, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is a decent game based on the same aspect as Battlefield 2 but with a new storyline. 
 This game while it is good is not as popular as Battlefield 2. My basic issues with 2142 is that 
 after awhile it gets boring. Other than that it seems like an alright game for those who are into 
 a fictional post modern combat theme. I still fire it up everyonce in awhile but it will never 
 compare to Battlefield 2.
  
  Even though its not the best of the best now that it is down in price it should be worth the purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkLonerOne
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 24, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  As I did not have any experience with previous Battle s whatsoever, the game environment seem ackward 
 to me at first. Not one coherent, officail guide to the game, key guide difficult to find at first, 
 meaning of HUD map indicators even harder to find. The game asked me to create some three I think 
 different accounts before I could start playing. In-game environment takes a while to get used 
 to for a Battle rook, unlocks idea seems strange at first, battle vehicles seem difficult to operate 
 not to mention stationary heavy guns.
  
  When the game really strats for you though, when you get engaged in the field, when you get healed 
 or revived by your squad buddy, when you headshot the guy who was just short of tearing your squad 
 leader apart with his machine gun and finally when you start seeing apocaliptic scenes of a blend 
 of multiple explosion, furious battlewalkers' fights and lines of infantrymen vomiting with tons 
 of led at each other intensely - you start to feel it. Then when you start getting those points 
 and to make a good team-mate you find yourself addicted to it without noticing it. This is a good 
 game. Get it and become a part of the team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oni_black
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 21, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  Highs: Great Graphics, excellent new game mode, much improved ranking/traking system, more focus 
 on teamwork, great new weapons, gadgets and equipment, lightning fast load times, stunningly audio 
 quality.
  
  Lows: a few minor bugs.
  
  Now people have been trying hard to find bad things about this game. And so far the only reasonable 
 one I could find is I just don't like the future setting . This game is all the things we loved 
 about BF2 but improved, increased and suped up. Between the mega fasted paced chaos of the Battlefield 
 to the rewarding feeling of earning a new weapon you are going to love this game. The gameplay 
 now has a higher focus on how well you work in a squad than how many people you can revieve. While 
 kills only get you one point now you get extra points for helping your squadmates, spotting enemies 
 for them, killing enemies they are attacking, resupplying them and killing enemies near where your 
 leader ordered you to attack. Another great feature is the NetBat unlock; this thing puts markers 
 on enemies that you simiply need to see, not even press enemy [wheelbarow] spotted , but only if 
 you are in a squad. The new game mode; Titan is an extraordinary play mode, it prmotes teamwork 
 farther than conquest could ever hope of. In it you must destroy a giant floating gunship, and 
 to do so you need to capture missiles to bring down its shields and then blast yourself via an 
 assualt pod into its hull where you can blow it up from the inside. While inside you must face 
 defenders, and these guys always play dirty. They fill up in choke points so you will need to throw 
 in more than a few grenades if you want to get past. One of my favorite new things is the suped 
 up ranking system. Ranks are more frequent and larger in number but you need all of the ranks in 
 order to get all of the unlocks, 40 unlocks in total many of which would be stanard stuff in other 
 games but DICE was smart and made a system where frequent play gets you all the nce toys. That 
 way mega joined 5 months later and only play 45 minutes a day n00bs will have an infinitly tougher 
 time than those who play often. The unlocks inculde an assualt rifle rocket-launcher, a cloaking 
 device, sentry drones, rolling mines, EMP grenades, improved scope, anti-tank rilfe, heavy machine 
 gun and many more. The number of unlocks may intimidate at first but its not a problem as you will 
 wuickly figure out what you want. I choose frag grenades and a sprint boost first then I unlocked 
 EMP grenades, a sentry drone and finally a heavy machine gun. I plan to unlock a demo pack, cloak 
 and carbine in the future. DICE also made awards more important, as now awards count to ranking 
 up. And not only did they expand the number of awards greatly but also they made a new class: pins, 
 which can be gotten many, many times even in a single round. The Vehicles in the game are fun and 
 unique. One side gets a standard thank while the other one's tank hovers, its harder to control 
 but the strafe makes fighting mechs very easy. The APCs now have escape pods and thats cool. I 
 like this game a lot and I have no life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinleo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  This is a fantastic game and well worth your investment. The different kits allow you to tailor 
 your game style to your mood, whether you choose Assault to be right in the fire fight, or Recon 
 to snipe from a safe, dark corner. Many maps can be very vehicle heavy and Id personally prefer 
 more infantry maps, specifically ones inside, but there are always enough spots at various locations 
 in each map to give you the game play that youre most comfortable with.
  
  The playability is incredible in BF2142 and you will find yourself entertained for dozens if not 
 hundreds of hours. There are so many moments in each game where something incredible happens, whether 
 you survived an attack of three enemies or blew up a walker during an intense firefight that will 
 leave you craving just one more game.
  
  The expansion pack with its new unlocks is a welcome addition even if there were only a few more 
 maps and is well worth the price. I would whole heartedly recommend this game to anyone who enjoys 
 the combat experience of working by yourself or with Squads and Teams to compound your successes 
 in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nozgrd74
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  battlefield 2142 really is a tiny step backwards. Lets start with the gameplay:
  there's a new gameplay mode called titan mode, that's where you have two ships in the air and you 
 have to capture silos to launch missles at the enemy ships. Then once the shield goes down you 
 assult the enemy titan by launching from an apc or just flying up to a landing zone and assaulting. 
 Once inside there are 5 tunnels one of which is blocked off for now, the others (conveniently labled 
 one through five) are open. What you do is go down each tunnel and destroy the computer console 
 in each one. Then the main door in the center will open and you have to destroy the core to destroy 
 the titan. If you aren't into assaulting you can just continue to keep the silos captured until 
 they launch enough missles to destroy the titan. The problem that the really fun titan mode has 
 is that you can't play it offline, this presents a problem for all new players who aren't used 
 to it. Sure there is a video you can watch but really some hands on training would be better (and 
 more fun) .
  The other mode, conquest (?) , is the same as battlefield 2.... that's it nothing much to say. The 
 level designs are, in my opinion, terrible; well for sniping they are all terrible. There just 
 isn't enough high places for sniping. Other than that the levels are ok. In this game there's only 
 4 kits recon (sniper who has claymores and c-4 for unlock) , assault (who strangly has the medi 
 kit and resesitator [for unlock] ) , engineer (who can repair, lay mines, disable mines, has a submachine 
 gun, and of course the rocket launcher) , and support ( which is still worthless to be mainly because 
 you have to lay down and shoot in full auto to actually be able to hit anything) . Guns on this 
 game are not futuristic in any way, this game doesn't make you feel like you're in the future. 
 I mean sure the guns have flashing lights on them but they still shoot exactly the same. I find 
 also that the sniper rifles are a little less accurate than on battlefield 2. Another weak point 
 in the game is emp, it's basically worthless, all it does is stop vehicles for about 5 seconds 
 and then they are perfectly fine.... no damage nothing. Graphics:
  Graphics are mainly the same, they do look a lot more polished in some areas of the game like the 
 vehicles/aircrafts. explosions look a little better, guns look great but that's it. Sound: The 
 sounds in this game are great, this is a big strong point in the game. Explosions still sound great, 
 except i feel that the artillery explosions are recycled from the last game. Guns sound excellent, 
 emp sounds amazing.
  
  Single Player:
  This game has no single player story mode, which isn't a problem because this game is just for 
 multiplayer. If you want to practice offline however, then you will be able to team up with some 
 crappy ai bots agaist 8 other enemy bots. The problem is that the levels are all size 16 and online 
 you play on levels (for the most part) that are bigger than that, 32 or 64. You cannot increase 
 the number of bots nor can you increase the size of the maps. So practising offline is relatively 
 pointless. In addition, the bot ai is terrible, never let a bot pilot a helicopter with you in 
 it.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Overall the multiplayer aspect of this game is pretty good, the only problems i have are with the 
 sniper rifles STILL taking two shots to kill and also the helicopters are still very difficult 
 to control. Helicopters usually can hover.... these helicopters do not, if you decelerate you will 
 crash. Just play titan mode, it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OwNaGe_CRZY
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Like I said, Battlefield 2142 can be one of the best and most entertaining games from the FPS genre 
 that you will play. But only if you know how to play. The far majority of games you join will have 
 a team that doesn't know what the **** it's doing. In my experience of playing Battlefield 2142, 
 squads with squad members that happen to have a Mic can, and most of the time, will literally carry 
 the team.
  
  I recommend buying this game, but it can be quite demanding on the hardware when you turn the graphics 
 up. When the graphics are on low, it looks like a game of Halo back on the Original Xbox. But when 
 you have the graphics on high, and all the rendering options turned on, it looks close to Counter 
 Strike: source. The gameplay will get old eventually, but a few weeks off of it will bring all 
 the fun back to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hibikino
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  When Battlefield 2142 was released, I was really intrigued into this game enough to buy the game 
 on its first day of release. How long has that been? Nearly a year now. But my excitement and interest 
 for this game dies really fast as well.
  
  To start it off, the ranking system in this game is made such that it's very easy to rank up to 
 the highest rank. Thus, when you've got all your unlock, you simply lose interest to continue playing 
 the game anymore unless you wanna be the Top ten in the World or something like that.
  The game feels and play just like BF2 almost as if it is a mod to it. Even though the Titan mode 
 is fun but it's only for temporary before I find it very tedious, long and eventually boring. The 
 graphics could really use a new engine as well. As for the sound, well, I don't know if it's just 
 me but I can hear enemies coming from behind better than BF2. So, that maybe one of the very small 
 improvement.
  
  Overall, if you've played BF2, then there isn't much to see here. Well, maybe just for a little 
 while before you go back and pick up that dusty old BF2 just to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1stRifle
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 15, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  -Overview:
  ------------------------
  Creating the BattleField series was a great success for EA! The latest game in the series Battleield 
 2142 is much similar to Battlefield 2. After last years decidedly killer Battlefield 2, desktop 
 generals expect quite a bit from the pairing of big-budget publisher Electronic Arts and detail-oriented 
 Digital Illusions C. E. Theres nothing wrong with wanting big things from big talent  any entertainment 
 medium works the same way. Yet its hard not to feel a pang of minor disappointment after spending 
 a few hours with Battlefield 2142. Not that EAs latest is a bad game by any means, but because 
 it is essentially a glorified add-on supported by a few stand-out features, its only a shadow 
 of what it could have been. The game moves, feels, and plays like Battlefield 2, from the weightiness 
 of the player controls to the general roles of the four combat classes. Even the familiar glitches 
 and sever issues that plagued Battlefield 2 are back in full form, unfortunately with some new 
 ones popping up at undue times. That's not to say, though, that improvements dont exist. So we 
 can say that this game is a 2nd edition of Battlefield 2!
  
  -The Single-Player Experience :
  ------------------------
  Well.. Don't get Battlefield 2142 
 expecting a complete single-player experience. Like any game in the Battlefield franchise, the 
 focus is on multiplayer combat. If you plan on staying offline, don't expect a lot to do. Bot supported 
 maps are limited to a handful, and only the 16-player versions at that. While single-player provides 
 an opportunity to learn the game, you do not get any points that get you closer to your next rank. 
 This game has been built to be played online, and that's where it shines.
  
  -The Multi-Player Experience :
  ------------------------
  Only three words to say The best 
 ever ! .
  This game is all multiplayer, so I'm disappointed that EA and DICE still haven't written their 
 own server browsing software and anti-cheat algorithms. They're still relying on GameSpy and PunkBuster, 
 which is fine for games that add multiplayer only to have another bullet point on the back of the 
 game box, but inadequate for a game that lives or dies on the strength of it's multiplayer. PunkBuster 
 continues to randomly kick people for no reason at all (thankfully it's less prevalent than it 
 used to be) , and GameSpy continues to provide excruciatingly slow server browsing. Thankfully, 
 it's not as bad as Modern Combat's server browser, but it's still pretty frustrating. Then again, 
 given the legendary bugginess of DICE's games, perhaps it's best that they left the server browsing 
 to a third party. That said, multiplayer on a good server not populated by idiots is so fun that 
 it oftentimes completely erases any gripes you may have with the stale gameplay, sloppy vehicle 
 physics, slow server browser, or general bugginess of the game. Shooting up the landscape in a 
 transport aircraft with your buddies hanging precariously off the side and firing their weapons 
 full-tilt is still tons of fun, and few things compare to podding onto an enemy Titan, blowing 
 it up, and jumping off it at the last second, parachute billowing behind you like in some sort 
 of futuristic James Bond film :P. 1st. Music :
  ------------------------
  The intro music starts off with a remix of the popular Battlefield 1942 theme. It works well, and 
 the intro sets a good pace. The cool thing about it is the intro is all created in the engine. 
 Once you get to the menu, you're welcomed with a well orchestrated background music. It continues 
 into the loading screen as well, but once the battle starts it gets quiet. Like most multiplayer 
 focused games, there is no in-game music.
  
  2nd. Sound, Sound Effects &amp; Voice Acting :
  ------------------------
  It's hard to gauge 
 how realistic some of the sounds in 2142 are, since I've never heard a real walking tank stomp 
 across the landscape, and I'm unfamiliar with the sound a plasma gun makes, but the sounds in 2142 
 are about what I'd imagine them to be if the technology actually existed. The battlefield reverberates 
 with the sound of a barrage of artillery slamming into the ground, and the transport aircraft make 
 a distinctive whine as they pass overhead. Sniper bullets sound appropriately lethal, and a burst 
 from a machine gun, even in the far future of 2142, is still impressive.
  
  Sound:9 --- could be better.
  
  3rd. Gameplay &amp; Battle Experience :
  ------------------------
 
  The newest feature of Battlefield 2142 is the all-new Titan Mode. Each Titan Mode game starts 
 off with two massive Titan warships on either side. You are one of the two armies deployed to defend 
 your own Titan and other. The ground gameplay is very similar to Conquest mode, where you capture 
 various Silos scattered throughout the map. Once you capture a Silo, it will periodically fire 
 a missile at the enemy Titan. Each missile hit takes damage off of the enemy Titan's shields, and 
 eventually will expose the Titan's hull. Once the shields are down, if you don't feel like waiting 
 for the missiles to finish off the Titan you can move in with infantry. There are 4 consoles on 
 the Titan, and once you destroy them you gain access to the reactor. Destroy the reactor, and the 
 Titan will be blown to pieces. Once you've destroyed the enemy Titan (or failed to defend your 
 own) , the round is over. The drawback to all this is that Titan Mode offers a lot of extra points 
 for defending the Titan, so people are inclined to set up a solid defense. Taking down a solid 
 Titan defense is nearly impossible, and generally once the shields go down people don't adapt well. 
 Hopefully this confusion will subside, and with luck we'll see better attacking options on the 
 Titan become available.
  
  Conquest gameplay is the traditional Battlefield game type. However, whereas Titan Mode focuses 
 on vehicle ground combat to fight over Silos, Conquest mode has a much larger focus on infantry 
 combat. Nearly all Conquest maps, without a Titan version of the map, have an underlying infantry 
 focus. Whether it's limited vehicles, tons of small maneuverable corridors, or a tightly knit urban 
 landscape, the focus is definitely encouraging for infantry players. This infantry focus is a step 
 in the right direction, and the map design compliments it perfectly. In fact, all of the maps have 
 some incredible design, and seem a lot more fluid.
  
  Battlefield 2142 has a big focus on making your own rank. The more points you gain while playing, 
 the closer you get to your next rank. Once you hit your new rank, you get a nice shiny new badge, 
 as well as an unlock. Unlocks in this game are vital, as there are over 40 to unlock over the course 
 of the game. This really makes customization an important factor, as you've got to decide what 
 you want to focus in right off the bat. You're helped with Field Upgrades, which are just temporary 
 unlocks, that you gain by being a part of a good squad. In fact, being a part of a good squad is 
 useful in more ways that just Field Upgrades. There are many unlocks specifically for Squad Leaders, 
 such as a Squad Leader Beacon, which allows you to spawn in wherever the Squad Leader has set it. 
 You also gain points for helping squad members, and you gain points by following your squad leader's 
 orders. You also get additional information relayed to you over the Networked Battlefield system 
 (NetBat) that displays enemy positions on your HUD.
  
  The game is not perfect. There are a few bugs that still need to be ironed out, and even with the 
 long list of fixes in recent patches there are still plenty left. Nothing is game stopping, though 
 the minor bugs do add up and become annoying. Balance is also a minor issue, as many players do 
 not want to go Engineer on infantry-heavy maps, and this causes the few vehicles that do spawn 
 to be overly powerful in most situations. Also some map balance is off, causing certain sides to 
 have a much harder time obtaining victory than the other side. Hit detection, while improved, isn't 
 on par with other top multiplayer games either. This is partly due to the fact that it's optimized 
 for so many players, yet it still could be better.
  
  Gameplay: 8 ---- Titan mode can be a bit too gridlocked, and very similar to BF2!
  
  4th. Value 
 &amp; Replay Value
  ------------------------
  Battlefield 2142 is a very adaptive game. Like most multiplayer shooters, each situation you play 
 in is different and unique. But Battlefield 2142 goes far beyond just having different situations 
 due to playing against other human players. There is a huge amount of variety and customization 
 due to the extensive unlock system. This is complimented by a robust ranking system, with many 
 ways to earn points and badges to increase your rank. As you work up the ranks, not only do you 
 gain more unlocks, but you also get higher ranks. This helps if you want to become a commander, 
 or just to earn the respect of your peers. The combination of rank, unlocks, and the entire stat 
 tracking system is simply great. It definitely increased the longevity of the title, as you're 
 constantly gaining new rewards.
  
  A strong multiplayer title with solid gameplay. A universal ranking and unlock system. Rewards 
 such as pins, medals, and badges. Heck, you can even track the success of people you've knifed 
 and collected their dog tags from. If you enjoy the game, you won't have any problems sticking 
 with this one for awhile. It has a variety of maps, different game types (even co-op) , and some 
 great multiplayer experiences. If you enjoy multiplayer FPS games, and love a big wide open battlefield, 
 you could be playing this game for a long time.
  
  Value: 8 ---- No point!
  
  5th. Controls
  ------------------------
  Controls are as solid as you'd expect. Standard WASD 
 controls are, well, standard. You can't really fix what isn't broken. All the buttons and shortcuts 
 for squads, commander, and mini-map are pretty much identical to BF2. Even if you haven't played 
 BF2, the control scheme is easy to pick up and use.
  
  Infantry combat is a bit slower compared to Battlefield 2, which is something you'll notice right 
 off the bat. But that isn't a bad thing, as hitting move targets has become easier. This makes 
 infantry assaults slower and more challenging tactically, as well as giving a slight advantage 
 to the defenders. Still, the slower movement works well, and the infantry combat feels more precise 
 than it did with BF2. There're a few new abilities with vehicles. Jeeps get a boost button by using 
 Shift. Most armor gets a temporary shield by pressing X. Another neat feature is you can command 
 the massive Titans as commander. To do this as a commander, just giving the Titan a destination 
 and will cause it to slowly fly to the waypoint. Since the Titan has so many powerful turrets, 
 it can make the battle on the ground a much easier fight if used correctly.
  
  conrols: 9 ---- The game is a second edition of BF2! too similar!
  
  6th. Graphics
  ------------------------
 
  The graphics engine will be very familiar to you if you have played Battlefield 2. They look and 
 act similar, but there are enough differences to set them apart. If you are paying close enough 
 attention, some of the details do resemble BF2. Once you play Battlefield 2142 in action, though, 
 you don't hit any moments if you have previously played BF2. It does feel like you are in the future, 
 and the visuals are different and improved. There are also minor improvements in terms of lighting, 
 shading, and the battle effects. Not a huge step forward, but a solid looking title with some improvements.
 
  
  Like all of the Battlefield series, the focus of the graphics is scale. We're just getting to a 
 point, though, where you can have massive battles and incredibly detailed units duke it out without 
 huge performance issues. This is really becoming apparent in Battlefield 2142, as some of the battles 
 you will fight are truly epic in scale. The explosions, tracers, debris, and other effects combine 
 perfectly into a gritty, futuristic battlefield. You don't spend nearly as much time watching a 
 battle as you do actually participating in the battle, but when you do sit back and watch it is 
 an impressive sight.
  
  Graphics: 9 ---- Full of bugs!
  
  -Final thoughts:
  ------------------------
  Whether its the single player fighting to hone your skills or the 
 all out fun of the online multiplayer the game is still the same but a lot more intense and fun. 
 Battlefield 2142 is more of a mod of the very well made Battlefield 2, but still a must for online 
 gamers. The action is better and the fun is just what any would be hero can ask for online or in 
 the single player mode. Battlefield 2142 is a great game with excellent graphics; really intense 
 multiplayer combat action and some well designed and balanced gameplay.
  
  -Jack Bradley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: companyofheroes
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun, unfortunately it gets very old after many times of playing the same map 
 over and over again. But thankfully EA came out with a good expansion pack for the game. The only 
 problem I've had with the game is punkbuster. Lately I have not been able to play due to punkbuster 
 kicking me out of the game. I have not done anything ever that would be considered Punk . My friends 
 also have had this problem. Overall this game is good but definetly has some room for improvments. 
 Also the new rank and gear customization is great and is a definate plus for the game! So if you 
 like EA's BAttlefield series, this would be a great addition to the collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  2142 is really fun but could be better if EA release it a bit later on. I'l say tat it is qute as 
 BF2 but BF2 is much better cuz is based on true war.2142 has good sounds, multiplayer can add frens 
 too and the graphics... i cant say it is so good but worth it though. Playing online is the best 
 thing ever. Play titan mode and u will never get bored. The bad thing i dont think most of us r rdy 
 for future war but I'm. The weapons are good too but the shooting is quite hard cuz its hard to 
 shoot some1 even from closeby. This game is worth a pick for ur new PC game or for those who own 
 tis game should continue playing this game cuz is real good but really... not as good as BF2. Buy 
 or rent this game and u will get satisfied with it especially when going online with the entire 
 world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtarmanrob
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 4, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Having been a fan of the Battlefield franchise since 1942, I take each new installment to 
 the series as a new opportunity to sit down at my PC, and play games for hours, having loads of 
 fun the whole time. BF 2142 is definitely no exception.
  
  Having not delved too deep into the Online community for BF2, everybody's favourite, BF 2142 was 
 my first step into the world of Online Battlefield warfare. And I havn't stopped smiling :)
  
  This game is awesome. The graphics and visuals in the game are not cutting edge technology, 
 and are very similiar if not almost identical to BF2, with the exception of better lighting and 
 in my opinion, the textures seem a bit more redefined. That does not hinder the experience in any 
 way, BF 2142 is still a beautiful looking game.
  
  The gameplay has some what improved from my past experiences with the series, the new achievements/awards 
 or unlocks system is the best part of this game and really gets players involved. On more than 
 one occasion you will find yourself busting your arse to get something done so that you can get 
 the award you're after, gain some points and move closer to promotion and a chance to unlock one 
 of the games many weapons and class mods.
  
  I think the thing that most people love about Battlefield is the aspect of team work. While there 
 are plenty of chances to go 'Lone Wolf' and try do things for yourself on your own, players will 
 find they are quickly killed or left behind and lose precious time, and patience. Joining or creating 
 squads is the best idea for any player, especially noobies, as it gives everyone and opportunity 
 to work together and get something done fast, and move on the grab the next objective. It also 
 provides great opportunities to get too know the game and other players.
  
  The new mode introduced, Titan Mode, is so fun and addictive you'll look down at the clock after 
 you're exhausted from playing (the game is intense, you will be exhausted) and realise that 2.5 
 hours have passed and you're head is throbbing. Teamwork is a HUGE factor in Titan Mode, where 
 the tide of battle can turn at any moment if players are distracted from their objectives or get 
 too greedy for points. This game is all about offense AND defense, some of the smartest players 
 are the ones that sick back after capturing a point and guard it, so as to restrict the enemies 
 spawn opportunities. Once your Titan's shield is down, get ready for some serious fighting, because 
 the battle tends to leave the ground below and lands right on the deck of your own mothership!
 
  
  The sounds in the game are typical to the Battlefield franchise. Constant shooting, the yelling 
 of orders, massive explosions and thundering footsteps as you crouch behind a rock while a Mech 
 stomps passed. The game adds support for the Creative X-Fi soundcards, in particular the Fatality 
 series which have the new X-Ram. I personally have this sound card and can assure you that while 
 the X-Ram feature is in no way necessary, the extra sounds in the game are amazing. Coupled with 
 a decent set of of 5.1 Surround Speakers or good headphones, players can get so into the game you'll 
 forget you're sitting at home on your PC. I've actually found myself tensed up and sweating in 
 the final moments of a Titan map where both Titans are at destructing point and both teams are 
 in each enemie's Titan Reactor Core room. Intense!
  
  All up I'd say BF 2142 is a definitie buy for anyone interested in the series, it does not stretch 
 too far from BF2 we can admit, however it still provides a unique and thrilling experience for 
 anybody wanting to join a game that gets you involved, gets you thinking and through all the blood, 
 sweat and tears, keeps you smiling and wanting more of it.
  
  Rob
  (The-Reaper) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sub-Zero_SUCKS
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  If you even thought the previous games were OK, you will love Battlefield 2142 because of its inovative 
 unlock system. With over 1000 different unlock combinations, and a new unlock per rank, this will 
 be a game you will be playing for a looooooooooong time. The levels are fun and titan mode pulls 
 a new twist to the conquest mode we've come to love. The game engine is a little old, but you hardly 
 notice that with the intense multiplayer and the action you will see going on around you. You will 
 enjoy Battlefield 2142 easily for a year. Then you can download user created (and free) modifications. 
 Battlefield 2142: not the game of the year, but a must have for multiplayer lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Littleman29
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is a very familiar game. If you've played Battlefield 2, then you can easily pickup 
 the easy controls and gameplay that made its predecessor famous. The gameplay is fantastic, as 
 are the rest of the Battlefield games. For those who aren't familiar of this outstanding series, 
 the objective of the Conquest mode is to capture spawn points scattered around a map. The points 
 are strategically located, each one being a landmark or an entry point (ex. parachute entry point) 
 . To take these points, you simply stand next to them and wait until a bar at the top of the screen 
 turns from red or white to blue. This can get complicated and there's a lot more to it then that. 
 Battlefield 2142 adds a new mode, the Titan Mode, where these giant ships float over the map. In 
 order to take these big baddies down, you have to weaken its shields by taking missile silos scattered 
 around the maps. They automatically fire the missiles at your enemy's titan at timed intervals. 
 Eventually, the titan's shield will be demolished and you can board the titan. The easiest way 
 to do this is to get into the new APC launch pods and fire yourself in a pod onto the titan. Next, 
 you have to place det. mines, explosives, or whatever you have to blow up these four consoles to 
 unlock the main reactor in the room. After blowing up the reactor itself, you have to bail out 
 of the ship by running out the bay doors and jumping off the titan if you want to survive. Once 
 you blow up the titan, your team wins. This mode is an amazing addition to the Battlefield series 
 and lots of people (including myself) are still enjoying it today.
  
  The addition of new vehicles really spice up the gameplay. The new walker tanks look really cool 
 and strike fear in you while playing. The one thing that really is different is the new customization 
 feature. This can be fun, but also can be very discouraging. The customization feature allows you 
 to get better weapons, powerups, and other features as you gain rank, or as your squad does something 
 significant. This sounds cool, but as you go online with a new character, you are terribly weak 
 compared to others, especially now, since some others have had more than 100+ hours with the game. 
 Fortunately, you can get their powerups and weapons if you just kill them and take their kit, which 
 is very good for newbies.
  
  The music and sound effects are wonderful as well, I've had great fun listening to the intro and 
 menu music. The classical feel and the returning melody from the original Battlefield 1942 make 
 the music a hit. The sound is great. The way the guns sound, the way they ricochet off walls and 
 the other sound effects complete this game.
  
  The graphics are not a problem; I know I can handle seeing the same graphics engine from Battlefield 
 2 again. The graphics aren't really the best I've seen to date, but they, like I stated earlier, 
 are not a problem.
  
  Overall, Battlefield 2142 is a truly enriching experience. It's fun and very rewarding and is definitely 
 worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  i had high hopes for this game and it has come through big time! i have been a fan of battlefield 
 2 for a long time. and this new battlefield game has blown me away! the graphics are top notch. 
 there are even new vehicles to drive in the game! the game engine is the same as bf2 but there 
 is so much more to this game than it's predecessor. mech combat. need i say more? yeah you can 
 ride around in a giant mechanical killing machine! i know, sounds like lots of fun. but there's 
 more. this game has more of an arcade shooter type feel to it. in bf2, you run around searching 
 for the war zone right? it can get boring. but in this game, you are put right in the middle of 
 the action! i like how they have narrowed down the options a little bit to make the game easier 
 and more fun. the main emphasis is infantry combat. that's what i liked best about bf2 and it is 
 still the major way of playing. i usually get a few kills after running around a little. but it's 
 not like bf2 where you had to spend 10 minuts playing before you found any enemies. this game is 
 action oriented. and if you like to jump in and get right to it. this game offers that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mntnbkr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  I started playing Battlefield 1942 back in the day a long while after it had come out. All of the 
 expansions were already out so there was a lot of catching up to do. I got Battlefield Vietnam 
 and instantly loved it. Battlefield 2 came out and again, an instant classic in my opinion. Lastly, 
 Battlefield 2142 comes and totally knocks my socks off. I love this game. For all the people who 
 talk about 2142 being Battlefield 2.5, don't listen to them. From the ground battles to the battles 
 in the sky the game has been tuned to please the die-hards and the rookies. In 1942, Vietnam and 
 2 the flight controls have been hard to master. Anyone without a lot of hours to devote to the 
 game or a flight stick didn't have a chance at flying worth anything but in 2142 they have fixed 
 it. A player still has to put in some time to master the flying but even without a flight stick 
 flying the vehicles is easily do-able. With the addition of Northern Strike this game will be keeping 
 gamers happy for years to come. the bonus is that 2142 is different enough from BF2 to keep both 
 on your system (if space allows) and play one or the other and still have the feeling that you 
 are playing two different games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Being a huge BF2 fan, this game is dissapointing. Its too vehicle based, the guns are 
 weak as hell, NO WIDESCREEN, McDonalds ads, ETC ETC. The titan mode is cool but still doesnt make 
 it any better than BF2. If you like BF2 stay with it this game is nothing like it. The upgrade 
 system is good but thats it. 5
  
  Graphics: Pretty nice really considering you can have 60players on screen with no lag thats pretty 
 good. Prety much the only thing that gets a 9.
  
  Sound: Buggy sound... lots of problems with the sound. 3'
  
  Value: If you like BF2 stay with 
 it more people play it and its just better and perfect after all the patches. 1
  
  Tilt: I just hate this game. I hate EA for ruining the BattleField franchise. 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smarts1563
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is an amazing multiplayer that should be recognized and played by all. Some revolutionary 
 features are the combat unlocks. The more hours you play, win, and the better you do the more you 
 rank up. And when you rank up you get unlocks. The greatest thing is you choose your unlocks. So 
 if your an amazing engineer you can quickly upgrade the engineer class. Personally i first upgraded 
 the assault class because with it you can heal yourself, and with a defribilatior you can revive 
 your teamates. I then upgraded the recon class, because you never know when a sniper may come in 
 handy. The old, not as likable parts in 2142 is the load times. It takes at least a minute or so 
 to load each map. Also there is punkbuster. Though it is great and it takes out any punks, but 
 if you may be running any programs in the backround, like Xfire, it thinks your doing something 
 illegal and bumps you from the game. Overall i like the game. A must buy for your pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorCain501
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  At first I pre-ordered the game from best buy thinking it would be a good game since BF 2 was such 
 a good game so then I got the game the day it came out. I started playing it then I figured it 
 was kind of worth the money. I then played it for a couple more days before I started to get the 
 hang of it. I started going into combat knife servers only then I started to get medals left and 
 right so then I went to the titan servers and I liked the way the titan was set up so I then I 
 said I am going to play Battlefield 2 for a couple days. Then when I got back to BF 2142 I saw 
 I was amazingly better. I then thought I needed to play BF2 for a little bit before I played 2142. 
 I started getting better. I soon found my self addicted!! I was told that I was because when my 
 friends came over I would only be playing BF 2142 and BF 2. They said well maybe we should see 
 what the game is like and they soon were in to video games. But just stopped playing both games 
 for about a month and a half. I then played BF2 after about a month and a half and I sucked. But 
 to this day have not played BF 2142 for a while but I soon will start again. Its actually a good 
 game. And I hope EA comes out with another game similar to it.
  
  -MajorCain501 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sargefan19
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  this game is really fun to play. I feel that the controls for flying vehicles are way easier than 
 the ones in past battle fields the unlock system is more detailed making every rank up opening 
 new opportunities to make whatever class u choose to upgrade better. The graphics are pretty good 
 in my opinion. The only complaint i can say is that EA will ban u from a server for cussing which 
 i find kinda stupid because they don't pay for the server or anythign and if u get banned for cussing 
 the admins can't unban you. Soem weapons do seem to have an advantage to the others for example 
 one might be heavy hitting but have realy high recoil but another will make u take 1 more hit before 
 it kills but it has lower reaouil more ammo for clip and a higher rate a speed. Also another thing 
 is if you have a bad team the game will seem like torture as the other side seems to just run through 
 everything and start spawn camping your team or try to fid the stranglers who are hiding but thatis 
 playign online for u.
  All together this game is a great game and u should get it if u want a good team based fps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jagg3d
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  BF2142 is the next in the Battlefield series. Coming on the heels of BF2, one of the most acclaimed 
 games of the past few years, BF2142 had a lot to live up to. There is indeed a lot better leveling 
 system in BF2142 and some interesting guns to use. What is just really bad about this game is that 
 artillery is almost constantly raining down upon you, the vehicles have become so easy to kill 
 that almost no one takes them seriously, and overall there is little if any teamplay going on. 
 There are just massive amounts of spawn camping or instant killings going on.
  
  You can't understand what the PAC is saying and that's just annoying.
  Overall this game had 
 a lot of potential but I was let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Well to start off the Game is really great and fun to play if you dont compare it to Battlefield 
 2 if you compare it to Battlefield 2 you will be mad about all the control changes and weapon changes.
 
  
  But if you look at it like its just a new game in its own class the game is very good.
  
  I dont believe its no game of the year because of the controls and graphics are kind of wacky 
 but the game its self is a very impressive game.
  
  Graphics:10 Almost looks like HD
  Sounds: Completely Amazing.
  Gameplay: a Little Wacky sometimes with the handling
  Pros: The 
 Game is Very fun and Highly addictive at times.
  Cons: Multiplayer servers are terriblely laggy and often kick you out for no reason.
  
  Final 
 Thoughts:
  You need a great PC to run this if you dont have alot of pc power I reccomend going for Battlefield 
 2 but if you got alot of extra power behind the case go for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  The biggest problem with Battlefield 2 was the more you played it, the more the bugs in the game 
 became annoying and sadly the same can be said for 2142 but on a worser degree.
  
  The game basically is a Battlefield 2 mod with some slight imrpovements but I can overlook that 
 greedy side of EA as it starts as a fun online shooter, especially for clan players. The new titan 
 mode starts off pretty well as a interesting new game mode and of course Conquest is a fun mode 
 just like in previous Battlefield games.
  
  However the over-powered Walkers, exploits due to being rushed out and some poor balancing issues 
 ruin what could of been a great game. In EA's fairness they try to fix problems with the games 
 with bugs but they end up opening a new can of worms showing that the game was released too early 
 in my view but with the same graphics engine basically as Battlefield 2, I can understand why they 
 released it so soon after Battlefield 2.
  
  The titan mode has now become a joke with claymores being used unrealistically, lag issues poping 
 up all over the place within titans being reported from thousands of players and the basic cheaters 
 that were around in Battlefield 2 who use bugs and expliots for there own greedy use.
  
  Overall 2142 takes the franchise "One step forward but then two steps backwards" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: el-wezo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is a great new addition to the battlefield series, just as addictive as the previous 
 instalments and the new mode gives it extra life. The fact of it being set in the future let the 
 creators experiment with the weapons more instead of using classic guns already used they give 
 them a more futuristic look. But for those who like the classic guns, they have tried not to dive 
 into the use of 'laser guns' and kept with the old bullets for those who want to and only touched 
 on futuristic weapons on a few of them so everybody's happy! The game is divided into two teams 
 the PAC (Pan Asian Coalition) and the EU (European) . Both are fighting over survival due to global 
 warming so you can expect some icy levels in the game but dont think for a second that this is 
 playtime in the snow! The biggest change for the game has to be the whole new 'Titan mode' which 
 has you going to control points and firing missiles at the titans, then going onboard the titans 
 either by landing on the titan with an aircraft or launching yourself on from an APC .Then it has 
 you destroying the titan consoles and then finally taking out the core (or keep at it with the 
 missiles) which destroys the enemies titan and ends the game. With this new mode it adds more tactics 
 to the game and requires more skill then going all out on a battlefield and gives the game whole 
 new dimensions.
  
  Now you get the choice of starting off with four different types of kits: Recon which is for you 
 snipers, Assault for those healers out there, Engineer for those with bulked up weapons and wrench 
 and finally Support for those who go straight into the middle of the battlefield with ammo trailing 
 behind. Or you can be a Commander like in the previous games and command the battlefield with squad 
 members to fulfil your requests.
  
  You can earn medals, pins, badges and ribbons and thats much more to collect than the previous 
 games. So its going to take you extra time to try and get them, which adds to the lifespan. To 
 gain them you must do certain tasks, which may mean you doing something in a set time, over a long 
 period of time or in the round. Of course because of these reasons it makes you want to continuously 
 play it until you gained all the rewards or when you gain a high status which takes time and patience, 
 if you got it, but thats what makes makes this game so addictive. So if you've played the previous 
 games or like your FPSs this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krim71
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  this game is good but it can't get in the challenge of battlefield 2 and 1942,
  i went to my neighbor's house when he bought it, i played in the seuz canal but i saw that it hasn't 
 alot of new staff it looks like BF 2, but BF 2 is very very very exciting more than BF 2142, it 
 is the best and still the best.
  BF 2142 has an excelent graphics that makes the game laggy at my neighbor's pc, but good graphiccs 
 very well graphics.
  the game isn't bad, it is good but i advice that the ppl who has BF 2, never to get BF 2142 cuz 
 they wont feel new gameplaying, same thing u choose a squad or be the commander lunch UAV Scan 
 supply and something looks like the artillery
  the ppl who dont have BF 2 they may buy it, but i suggest they buy Bf 2 first :)
  
  offcourse 
 there is no new kits, but less kits, they remove the spec ops, assult and anti tank and made only 
 4 which are (sniper, medic, engineer and support)
  
  - ( ( ( (guess what?! EA and dice will make a battlefield fighting on the Moon next time ?! u think 
 so? cuz where will they go next after the titans and plasma weapons??????? !!!!! ) ) ) ) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sargez117
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Well let me put it this way. It's a used game. A waste. If you bought Battlefield 2, don't buy, 
 you'll have the same game with new concepts. A few good ideas worth about 20 dollars. Not the 50 
 I had to pay for it. EA could have made this a great booster with new maps. But instead made you 
 pay an extra amount of money for a copy.
  
  Let me break it down. You play against a group of people for territory, and when someone runs out 
 of points, that person loses. Sound familiar?
  
  Gameplay: Rather engaging, but PC games have never felt right to me when you're dealing with the 
 FPS category. It's a great reason to buy the XBOX 360 wired controller. Unless you're good with 
 the controls.
  
  Sound: I don't enjoy it. Cheesy voices. Cheesy guns. Laser or otherwise, they're all pretty cheesy.
 
  
  Graphics: Great! Of course considering release dates. Early 2006 good, we'll put it that way. But 
 quite a bit of realism held in it. You can look around inside the tanks, walkers, cars. It's pretty 
 sweet.
  
  Value: I still play it. Worth 50 bucks if you don't have BF2.
  
  Overall a solid game, a cop out, but the other one was brilliant. New maps and some new features 
 make it a very fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKL06
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Well, they tried and failed in a good way... It is overall a game worth its price because of its 
 incredible online play and game modes, but it comes at a price. I'm just going to put it plain 
 and simple
  Cons:
  Need more unlocks/ vehicles.
  In order to play this game u need top of the line computer and acessories.
  This game was designed 
 for noobs, they downgraded the way you play so nooblets would stop complaining to them.
  Master server connection=crap.
  gunship=disaster [reinstate the jet!]
  
  Pros:
  Excellant 
 online multiplayer [if your computer will make it that far] .
  Good futuristic twist for the Battlefield series.
  Interesting unlocks and vehicles.
  TITAN 
 MODE!!!!
  It will last you more than a lot of other games [but will cost much much more]
  Overall: If ur willing to spend some money for it to work, buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamietje
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 8, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Good game, alright graphix but EA have screwed it up with there stupid patches like always. Hope 
 dice takes over........
  
  .... because then we wouldnt have problems.
  Its a fun game not to hard sometimes the walkers really over powers, but then again theres always 
 easy tricks to kill.
  
  Its worth getting doh, because the next part Northen Strike is reall good with less lag etc, probally 
 because theres only been 1 patch.
  
  Its has new cool stuff etc and one hell of a strong apc.
  So yes buy bf2142 and fetch your expansion 
 strait away.
  
  Have a look for id3. nl servers those servers are good and intend to have less lag and more players 
 ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  The battlefield series has always owned the online shooter game market, and their newest addition 
 just backs that up. Battlefield 2142 is set in the year 2142, and an ice age has swept through 
 the earth, and now many countries have banded together to form two different sides fighting for 
 the remaining land that isnt frozen over. Fun times. The new mode called Titan mode is great, its 
 just great. Especially the anti-titan missle silos :) ! There are new soldier classes and you can 
 even create hybrid classes. There was a problem though, with the unlocks when I got the game. Whenever 
 I played it, no matter what kit was selected, I didnt have any grenades, equipment, or anything! 
 Not even a sidearm! Just a main weapon and a knife. I downloaded a patch and it is working fine 
 now though. Back to the review: Graphics:
  Wow what can I say? The graphics are everything that I expected from this game and they are pretty 
 decent. 9/10
  
  Sound: All people playing on the European side have a British accent. Kinda wish they would throw 
 in some other accents as well as just regular english. But, the sound was great. 8/10
  
  Gameplay:
  Awesome. I love the gameplay. Dont care if its the same as any other battlefield game 
 it is always good. The developers of the Battlefield series always spend more time in this category 
 than graphics, and thats good. 10/10 The single player is a little more difficult than in Battlefield 
 2, but I can live with that, so I recommend just playing on multiplayer since it's more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 5, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  BF2142 is the nest game in the Battlefield games, it takes a trip to about 150+- years in the future 
 and to be honest, it all doens't look hightech at all.
  
  Tho BF2142 is a excellent FPS, it even is as near groundbreaking as BF2, and still does contain 
 alot of the same themed maps (ice acolypse somebody?)
  
  Gameplay:
  BF2142 is a rock-paper-scissor with RPG element FPS, as player you can take out any soldier you 
 like (Medic, scout etc) and upgrade them thru the game, the main selling-point of the BF games 
 is that you need to work together with teammates to win the game, it works great in modes like 
 Titan which is basicly made for steady-teamplay gamers.
  
  BF2142 introduces some remarkable vehicles, like mechs, jeeps and vehicles and Titans, which are 
 floathing HQ's in the sky.
  
  Titan-mode is a fantastic mode, you get a map fit for 48 players, and the main objective is to 
 destroy the enemies titan, by doing so, you have to go thru their shields at first, you do this 
 by sending missles towards the Titan, missles are spreaded thru a huge map where both teams are 
 going to aim for in the beginning of the game.
  
  After the shields are de-activated from one titan, one team will storm into the huge platform into 
 the sky to destroy a core-reactor whilst they are in deep enemy-lines, which were people die alot, 
 so this means Titan modes last long? Yes.
  
  You also have archievements like in BF2, like if you are good as machine-gunner you get points, 
 if you kill people in closecombat you'll get dog-tags, which add up somekind of fame, and it neat 
 to show it off, which points you can upgrade you're soldier to make it stronger etc.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics still look great, tho I'd like to see something else then frost maps.
  
 
  Vehicles explode in huge chunks of burning metal and look detailed overal, weapons don't look like 
 high-tech tho and look more like those Actionman guns you get with a Actionman doll.
  
  The maps are yet again HUGE, you'll find yourself in a huge empty space while there are 47 other 
 people fighting it out on the other side of the map, the auto-action button comes in handy again 
 since it'll let you teleport to a certain area where lots of combat happens.
  
  The style of the game isn't good, maybe thats me, but you don't get to see great maps from BF2 
 anymore, like the one where you have to grab a aircraft and fly thru a enemy base thats floating 
 on a platform on the sea, you won't encounter these maps, the game also makes use of alot of grey 
 and white, basicly because 150 years from now probably looks incredibly pale, I loved the desert-maps 
 from BF2.
  
  Is it a good FPS:
  Certainly not better then BF2 because of the lack of variation in maps, but still is a great FPS 
 that fans of the FPS genre might want to give it a try at the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsicloneOblivio
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 3, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  It may appear to be a rip-off of Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield 2, but it has nearly become a 
 game of its own. With an innovative class customization format, your role on the battlefield can 
 change significantly. The maps are pretty well balanced and the vehicles to each team specifically 
 don't seem to have too many advantages over the other. The weapons are great with the exception 
 of the unlockable engineers AA missile launcher and the squad leaders gun drone doesn't tend to 
 fire at enemies too often. Otherwise it's a great game that will keep you playing because of the 
 sheer number of unlockable pieces of equipment and attainable ranks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vain_Apocalypse
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  The Battlefield series has come a long way since its first game. Even though its first release 
 was marvlous in itself, today's Battlefield 2142 continue in the tradition of pushing the envelope 
 foward, and of maintaining this series status as one of the PC's best shooters.
  
  The gameplay of this entry has taken a large step foward from Battlefield 2. It still keeps the 
 same focus on intense multiplayer battles (it pays no attention to single player) in which you 
 fight for control over strategic points across a substantially large battlefield, but it refines 
 that gameplay and adds to it. It refines it by ingeniously making it more team oriented, providing 
 tactical benefits for acting as a cooperative squad member. It adds to the old style of gameplay 
 by adding new roles for vehicles, new roles for infantry, and by adding an entirely new mode of 
 gameplay, i. e. the Titan Mode, which is wonderful since the Battlefield series has been needing 
 a new type of gameplay.
  
  Vehicles have changed in that APCs can be a bit more awkward and not so much of a heavy hitter 
 as before, instead, they focus more so on fighting and transporting infantry, though if need be, 
 they might be able to hurt a tank. Tanks and light vehicles haven't changed their roles much, but 
 aircrafts in this game are an entirely new creature. You tank junkies will be happy to know that 
 bombers are gone, but chopper pilots and aviators might be alittle less pleased, because their 
 respective vehicles have been merged. The new attack chopper/plane things have weapons identicle 
 to attack choppers, but move more like a harrier. These things are so restrictive in their movement, 
 that you can't even flip them upside down mid-air if you try, so crashing won't be so easy anymore, 
 but it still feels pretty restrictive. The only other changes in the vehicle department are that 
 of the addition Walkers and if you have the booster pack, the Goliath, both of which add an entirely 
 new and balanced element to vehicle warfare.
  
  Infantry combat is just as fast and action packed as before, but with benefits. You've probably 
 heard that the different classes that you've seen in previous Battlefield games (i. e. assault, 
 medic, anti-tank, engineer, etc.) have been merged to create more flexible infantry combinations. 
 The neat thing about this, is you don't have to spread your playing style or weaponry acrossed 
 two classes if you don't want to. If you want you could just be a sniper, rather than a sniper/special-ops 
 because as you gain rank, you build a pool of equipment from which you can pick and choose, this 
 gives the player more freedom is deciding how they're going to play, what their function is going 
 to be, and how they're going to deal with a specific problem that the team is facing, say a base 
 raping tank. . .You're also going to see a whole lot more of unlockable equipment than you saw 
 in Battlefield2. Each class is going to have a good deal of futuristic equipment to pick from come 
 each promotion than they did in Battlefield 2 where you only had two or three basically identical 
 guns to pick each time you were promoted. And all of the new unlockable equipment is going to add 
 alot of new factors to infantry combat.
  
  Some people have voiced concerns about Battlefield 2142 losing the Battlefield quality because 
 it's set in the future with currently none existent weapons and vehicles, and yeah, it does feel 
 kind of different. But it's not the bad kind of different, it's not fanciful, it's not any less 
 brutal; it still maintains the same feel and vibe, just with new factors of gameplay. So I'd say 
 you should put aside any fears that going to the future is going to ruin the series, because it's 
 a fun place to visit.
  
  The game is very balanced, just as stable and sound as Battlefield 2, maybe more so since it's 
 not in need of so many patches. It's basically everything that was good about the previous games 
 in the series, but with new content, and an entirely new factors in gameplay. Graphics haven't 
 changed much, the sound is just as good as Battlefield 2. If I had to say three bad things about 
 this game, it would be that they nerfed choppers and planes, and that they still don't pay any 
 attention to singleplayer. Yes, I know that was only two things, but I can't think of a third. 
 Other than that, it's a damn good game that deserves the money of any fan of the Battlefield series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoUDarthBob
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  EA improved upon the infantry combat, but it has become almost too balanced. The squad perks are 
 very well done, as are the mechanics for giving squad orders. Targeting the flag to give an order 
 is a good tweak. The downsizing to four classes makes switching out unlocks strategic when a situation 
 changes. One problem is that the guns are more reliant on just constant spraying than much aiming, 
 especially in tight areas.
  
  The vehicles are actually more of a burden in BF2142 as opposed to BF2. The tanks are nowhere as 
 dominant, that role now belongs to the walker. However, there is usually only one walker per team 
 on a larger map. The aircraft have been horribly underpowered. What they have gained in speed, 
 they've lost control. The transport hovercopters are a great improvement over the clunking black 
 hawks, but the attack gunship is harder to aim than the apaches of BF2. Its best purpose is to 
 destroy Titan cannons, but that isn't much of a strategic goal.
  
  The titan itself can be devastating when positioned properly, the air turrets never overheat and 
 the air to ground turrets are slow to fire, but cover a lot of terrain. Without some coordination, 
 using the Titan as a weapon can be a difficult one man effort, but it is a great position for a 
 team commander to control. The commander menu hasn't been changed much. The EMP cannon is ineffective 
 without painstaking accuracy. The UAV operates in a slightly different way than in BF2, but has 
 the same function. The artillery is the biggest change; it fires much quicker upon selection than 
 before, but it also does considerably less damage. It trades off the devestating effects as seen 
 in BF2 for much more accuracy; it is better used as a deterrent than a destroyer. The commander 
 bonus is a good reward for someone who actually makes his or her team listen!
  
  The larger maps are not very well designed for anything but Titan mode. Conquest on those maps 
 just seems awkward. The smaller maps are very hectic, almost too much, because of the focus on 
 infantry rather than vehicles.
  
  The graphics and sound are very similar to BF2 which is nothing bad but it's not much of an improvement 
 either.
  
  The statistics system has been brought back, and it is still as addicting as ever. The plethora 
 of new ranks and unlocks adds to the addictive nature of tracking every detail of one's play. The 
 real problem with BF 2142 is its almost useless vehicles. There are fewer on most maps than there 
 are in BF2, so getting stranded is even more frustrating. Don't expect to find hellacious dogfights 
 as you would in Wake Island 2007 or sprawling armor combat between the corridors of Karkand. The 
 futuristic city maps are fun, but they don't have the same satisfaction as the shores of Sharqi 
 or the streets of Mashtuur.
  
  The squad and commander tweaks make for a better base game than BF2, but it's just hard to describe 
 what was lost in the transition. EA should greatly consider patching some of the more practical 
 squad functions, such as targeting a flag to send an order, into BF2. EA's decision to downsize 
 to primarily infantry fighting was done properly, but it most likely shouldn't have been done. 
 Vehicles in BF2 provide most of the what the hell just happened moments. It is those moments that 
 provide such great replay value and strategic twists that just don't exist in the futuristic 2142. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ty2991
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 31, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  If you have never played a Battlefield game, or have never played Battlefield 2 you will never 
 want to stop playing it. I got into the game and got to a pretty high rank, the only problem for 
 me is that it is similar to Battlefield 2 graphics wise and, just the way the game is played. Over 
 all this game is great. The graphics look improved, the guns are easier to get used to and the 
 upgrades through rank rocks! Sadly I just can't get into it much because I kinda got out of it 
 after Battlefield 2; but if you have never played a Battlefield game and you are into shooters 
 you will love this game, it feels like an actual war and bases on squad based tactics, and if you 
 play by your self the AI is excellent and some of the best I've seen next to the AI for Ghost Recon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: it009x9281
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is responsible for my many late gaming sessions everything about it is great the graphics 
 are amazing but i set it to low for better speeds.
  I consider myself only a average player with a current rank of captain silver class and logged 
 131 hrs.
  the is amazingly intelligent it tracks everything you do your  
 fired just toooooo many to list the game does have its bugs such as returning to windows unexpectedly 
 but cos the game is so addictive you just brush it off and restart the game.
  In game you  etc and build up career points which you need to 
 get a new rank and with your rank you get an unlock credit which can be spend on a new weapon, equipment 
 upgrade, squad ability or a new player ability the thing is u must select them in a certain order 
 but it gives you something to aim for.
  Also career points dont count as your leaderboard score that is a separate thing you always check 
 to see how far you are in there and its not like a top 20 its everyone whos currently active.
 
  Awards in the game when you win them they go towards your career points at the end of the round 
 and range anywhere from 5-2000 there are 4 types of awards pins, badges, ribbons and medals, medals 
 dont give any points they are just for show and the awards can be won again even if you have them, all 
 award have reqs that have to be met in order to win them.
  All awards except pins will have a hour req to be able to win them and ranges anywhere from mins 
 to hundred+ hours, there are many bonus career points you can win but i will let you find them for 
 yourself.
  There 4 classes that you are able to choose they are Recon, Assault, Engineer and Support they all 
 have there uses in more or less all aspects of the game but the basic kits are pretty poor in terms 
 of fire power with a basic pistol, assault rifle and a knife if playing assault you have a basic 
 med kit and support a basic resupply hub but an upgraded kit u can be come really lethal killing 
 machine if you want to of course in edition to this you can be either a lone wolf, a squad member, a 
 squad leader or the commander, i think being the commander is the most fun cos the entire battle 
 is directed by YOU!! and your job is to command the squads, give supply drops to where req, give 
 UAVs to ur troops gives them a temp location of enemies and give orbital/EMP strikes.
  Also in the game the most skilled weapon in the game is the humble knife and if you kill someone 
 with a knife you get there dog tags as a trophy and the commanders are classed as specials.
  There is just so much to do in this game its truly unbelievable and by my review you can guess 
 i love it very much and i hope this review helps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobg8857
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 29, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I think this Game is fun for people who like 1st person shooter. But this game is not for all PCs 
 you got to make sure you have the right stuff to play this game. It take a high performance pc. 
 So on the other hand it got good game play. I like it when they keep the in game voice from BF2. 
 Then ranks are cool you get to unlock alot of stuff to help you win the war and to help out other 
 team mates. One cool thing about this game is the vehicles. Some of the stuff in this game i cant 
 talk about, you got to get out and buy it. You will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienbomb77
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 28, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  If you have a good computer buy this game for sure, if not don't even bother. Most people may say 
 that it has no substance but it actually is a good game, tons of people play it, and its a good 
 community. the features this game has compared to the bf2 are much more solid and the design of 
 the game is well rounded and balance. It is a definetly fun game but it lacks stability and patches 
 don't do much to fix it. If your game surpases and 256mb graphics and is above 2gb of ram, this 
 is a underestimated game that more people should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvin950
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 27, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  OMFG THE BEST SHOOTER EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I am fricking addicted to it. And i hate to boast 
 but i have to say that i am very very skilled in this game. Lets start with the graphics. the outdoor 
 stuff is amazing, the man made stuff is amazing, the guns are amazing, s****, everything is amazing. 
 I played the game on a EVGA 8800 GTX and it looks so good. I recomend this game to everyone and 
 anyone. It is just the best shooter and it is just simple, fun, and keeps u playing. there r some 
 flaws and I admit they suck. There are few maps and the expansion pack is over priced for only 
 3-4 maps and 2 new vehicles. But this game is just pure hardcore fun. My SN is calvin950 and feel 
 free to add me to friends list on 2142 to callenge me or to team up with me :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespotvic
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 28, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  As a player of Battlefield 2, at first I was a little sceptic of this one being better. Battlefield 
 2 is an awesome game. I played the demo, then after getting a memory upgrade (I had 512 MB, now 
 1 GB) I decided to buy it. I played the full version and loved it. It's awesome to help out teammates 
 in need (Medic is my favorite) . The weapons were... okay, as far as weapons go.
  
  However, I played the demo of 2142, and, well, it looked a lot better. I donno why. Was it the 
 weapons? The cool maps? The unlocks? The vehicles?
  
  Answer: All of the above.
  
  The weapons are top-notch. They look AWESOME. And they deliver great performance. Including the 
 knife (which takes the victim's Dog Tags, and are always fun to collect) .
  
  The maps are also fantastic. All of them look real and natural. From Desert sands from Africa, 
 to snowy towns of Europe.
  
  The Unlocks are a step up from the last game. Instead of just weapons, you have to start from the 
 bottom of a collum, and work your way up through all kinds of nifty tools, to that shiny new gun. 
 Plus there are over 40 unlocks, from Recruit, to Brigadier General.
  
  The vehicles are a little bit more balanced than Battlefield 2. The tank was the worst. Not only 
 did it fire from the canon, IT COULD FIRE BULLETS AS WELL! That just isn't fair! What's worse, 
 is that had a mounted gun on top! Thank you DICE for fixing that.
  
  Overall, this game is just awesome. If you're a fan of Battlefield, or FPSs, pick this one up. 
 You'll be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 21, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  The Battlefield games have been know for being the best online shooters out today with many people 
 still playing 1942 and even more playing BF2. The 4 game to come out is 2142 which compared to 
 other games is a real hit but compared to the last games it feels if it missing something that 
 the last ones had. Its still enjoyable but don't expect it to be the best shooter ever. The Gameplay 
 is fun. U Get 3 modes now inside of the normal 2. The new one is called titan which is Multiplayer 
 only. What u have to do is capture silos which pretty much the same as flags which are place around 
 the map. The difference is the silos fire missiles in to the air which hit the others titan (big 
 ship) . The titans have a forcefield around them which has to go down before anything can really 
 happen. Once it is down the team can either try defend the silos or attack the titan. If u got 
 for the titan this leaves the silos open and the other team can capture them and bring down your 
 forcefield as well. The point of attacking the titan head on is to go inside it and blow up. To 
 do this u must first blow up 4 control panels around the titan. Once they gone u can go for the 
 core and blow up. Of course its harder then its sounds due to the fact the be people defending 
 it and once u have a large number of people in a small space, well it leads to some amazing battles.
 
  
  The normal modes conquest and co-op also return which nothing changed. Of course this being the 
 year 2142. It gives u some new gear. The best by far being the walkers, Giant robot killing machines. 
 This can be great fun moving around the battlefield. Al thought with items like EMP grenades and 
 det packs u have to be careful when moving or u end up on the floor. The weapons are ok, There 
 some really good ones like the advance sniper but apart from that nothing really sticks out to 
 much. No Jets this time which is real let down. U get an airship which some people says feels like 
 a plane but to doesn't do the job. The graphics are pretty much the same as BF2 although it does 
 take a good machine to run it all on high. The skins for players, walkers and such are also really 
 good to. The Maps are nice and big but none of them really stand out to be honest. Sound again not 
 much different. although there now an English accent when u talk which sounds really cool. walkers 
 and other things also sound good.
  
  There is good amount of value in 2142 and a large number of ranks and unlocks. The titan mode also 
 adds something new to which hasn't really been seen before in any other games. There still a few 
 bugs in the game and of course with most online games u do get the hackers but that a problem with 
 all online games and not just BF2142. The main problem i do have thought is i do find my self going 
 back and playing bf2 because to me this is missing something its older brother had. I can't explain 
 it but if u played it then u know what i mean. None the less BF2142 is still a great game and theres 
 just enough to keep you entertained for a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khellendros3770
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 17, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 takes place in a future were a new ice age is beginning and 2 major factions are 
 fighting to secure the small amount of territory that is still inhabitable for itself.
  
  When you first get started you have nothing, but you can pickup a pack from any other player that 
 has been killed, so you can still get your hands on the upgrades earlier in the game. The more 
 you play, the more you can unlock, which adds to your arsenal and makes your soldier more versatile.
 
  
  Conquest mode is fun, similar to capture the flag, just with multiple flags. Each team has a number 
 of points that are used to re-spawn fallen soldiers. When a teams counter hits zero, that team 
 loses. The more flags that are controlled by a team, the faster their opponents team loses points. 
 Also the only places a team can re-spawn are at the flags that they control, if all the flags are 
 controlled my one team, the other team will be unable to re-spawn, and when they run out of soldiers 
 on the field, game over.
  
  Titan mode is the real meat and potatoes of this game. In this mode there are 5 missile silo's 
 scattered across the map, each silo launches an anti titan missile at regular intervals at which 
 ever titan it is locked onto. The more silo's you control the faster the enemy teams titan shield 
 will come down. Once the shield is down there are two ways to take out the other teams Titan. First 
 is to continue holding the most or all of the silos and letting the anti titan missiles destroy 
 the massive ship. The second way is to board the enemies titan using APC's, Air transport ships, 
 or blasting over in a titan launch pod if the two titans are close to each other. Once on-board 
 you have to destroy the four titan control panels starting with the lower 2 then the upper two. 
 Finally after this you have to destroy the titans core. When this blows you then have a very limited 
 time to get off of the titan and watch as the massive ship detonates.
  
  Within the game you will find 4 ground vehicles (Buggy, APC, Tank, and Walker) 2 Air vehicles (Fighter, 
 and an Air Transport ship) and two different types of turret defenses (anti aircraft, and anti 
 vehicle) These are all tools that every soldier should learn to use to their utmost if you plan 
 on winning.
  
  To go with this you will have 4 classes of solder to choose from. Recon (Sniper with upgrades for 
 stealth and demolitions) Assault (infantryman with upgrades for medic and heavier weapons) Engineer 
 (Field repairman with upgrades for anti tank and anti aircraft weapons) and Support (Defensive 
 soldier with upgrades for ammo resupply and perimeter defenses) When you account for all of the 
 upgrades the seeming limit of 4 classes is actually not that bad, because unlocking all of the 
 upgrades leads to quiet a vast array of optional load outs.
  
  Well, now that the basic info has been covered let me say that game-play with this game is great, 
 the learning curve is next to nothing and when you get into a fire fight you now it. Explosions 
 and bullets flying, walkers and tanks blown to bits by demolition explosives or anti tank mines, 
 aircraft being taken down by emp weapons or air to air missiles. All of this while you are crouched 
 beside a missile silo trying to link up and aim it at the enemy titan and simultaneously trying 
 no to be killed by charging infantry. And that only covers about 20 seconds of a game that usually 
 takes about 15 to 20 minutes to complete from launch to destruction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanesade
Rating: 7
Date: May 12, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Reel nice for what it is ... but ... theres nothing new here. It's a lot like the last Unreal Tournament 
 in fact. And in some ways I liked that better.
  The objectives are all the same old thing again. Capture the flag or outpost ... big woop. And 
 the maps feel small and restrictive just like in battlefield 2. Not a lot of room for players to 
 come up with innovative strategies. I'm already sick of getting yelled at for leaving the battlefield 
 while flying that jet copter thing.
  
  The most disappointing thing for me is the lack of vehicles. A tank, a walker, a Jeep, and one 
 maybe 2 flying vehicles and NOWHERE TO GO IN THEM, kuz the maps are so small. This is not a bad 
 game ... but if you ask me ... BF 1942 and Desert Combat still kicks its butt in so many ways I 
 can begin to count them. It was just fun to be in that environment, sometimes just to see what 
 you could make things do. Like jump a jeep or fly under a bridge. This game is so limited in its 
 scope that I get bored.
  
  Looks great, sounds great, plays great. But still the same old thing we've seen and played dozens 
 of times before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blasterboy56
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 12, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  this may be the first bf ive ever played but im hooked on it WOW is the only word 2 describe it
 
  
  graphics=great
  sound=good
  gameplay=ace
  everything else WOWOWWOWOWOW
  u have 2 buy this game ure life depends on it but a word to the wise dont get it unless uv got 
 a (good) internet or u wont be able to play atall the only fault i can find with this game is the 
 fact that it has a shallow single player mode with only a few maps to play and only 16 players...
 
  
  thanks for reading U WILL BUY THIS GAME NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkblade256
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 12, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 I thought was going to be the new standard for tactical shooters, but it fell 
 a little short. The game has beatiful character models, the vehicles look great , the explosions 
 and rendering very well done and the outdoors look very real. Even though this is only a baby step 
 visually up from Battlefield 2 it still brings alot , visually, to the table. Where this game really 
 starts lacking is in the smoothness of gameplay. There are hundreds of spots you can get stuck 
 in wall or when you die the camera starts shacking. The most annoying glitch is when the respawn 
 timer doesn't start and then you are waiting for three times as long to respawn. It is hard to 
 play against experts or even people who are terrible but put many hours into because the unlockable 
 guns they get are too much better than the base ones. Battlefield 2 did not have this problem since 
 you chould still kill alot of people using the base gun. Overall is was another ok game that EA 
 threw out there. All these simple glitchs could probaly be fixed if EA released another patch but 
 they havn't almost a year later and im still waiting for a new patch. It also lacks in single player. 
 Single player is supposed to be where you build your stills high enough to compete online but the 
 AI is so easy to kill and there is no story mode which is kind of a let down in I wanted to see 
 how this whole the earth not big enough for us all story to play out. In the end I give it a 7.6 
 its a good game but not even close to being a great timeless classic like counter-strike source 
 or warcraft 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superchinerman
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 10, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Single player mode of most BF games are too easy - even on the hard difficulty setting - but is 
 nonetheless a solid online multiplayer game. While the BF series single player mode is all but 
 lacking, its meant to be played online. The crazy yet exhilarating multiplayer mode will satisfy 
 those who enjoy picking off enemies with various guns and explosives. The futuristic weaponry and 
 vehicles are interesting to use and fight. The game would've been better, if EA games had created 
 more futuristic equipment. Although a bit easy, this shooter captures the essence of realistic. 
 BF 2142 is a game perfect for BF fans and fans of online shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobman_420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Well forget the single player. not worth any time. unless you new to the the game and you need 
 some practice in the vehicles for improved online play.
  
  Well if your looking to get out there and kill your fellow man in your free time and get away with 
 it this is your game. because its online its hard to speak of weaknesses of the game. I do like 
 battlefield 2 a little bit better cause your using weapons and vehicles that your familiar with. 
 but this ones set in the future so you can add tecno to the equation. i like how the support has 
 a little sentry gun you can place to cover an area or direction. usefull when you got no one to 
 watch your back or when you just need to send a hail of bullets in one direction. i like how the 
 recon guy can go invisible. anyway all this talk about this games making me want to go back an 
 play it. i might be back to edit this review as i go.
  
  EDIT:
  Well i have been playing this for about 6 months now and still loven it. its my defult game. the 
 depth in team play is huge. i like how when you first start playing the game your a noob. you are 
 just someones target practice till you get the rops. the then your finding yourself playing in 
 groups. good groups do the team speak and you kinda go with the flow. after awhile you start to 
 get good and know whats the best thing for the moment to push the enemy back so you start becomeing 
 a team leader. now your in some control. if you got a good commander he will be able to talk to 
 all the leaders and tell them verably what to look out for on the battlefield. and after when you 
 really got a map figured out and you got a high enough rank you can challenge for being commander. 
 wow do you start to feel like a good. you can see everything, issue supplys, bring fire from the 
 heavens and mess with the minds of the enemy. its great. and if you got a couple of squads that 
 work with you you can really get things done. ive played game were we were getting own till i applyed 
 for the commander. start playing with startagie and before you know it your winning!
  
  anyway its my defalt game and im loven it. i should get the expansion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Mage
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 6, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  The game alone would take your breath away with the ability to create large scale wars using the 
 titans and other vehicles, but I must say the best and most addictive part of battlefield 2142 
 is the personal progression system that allows you access to unlockables. By achieving certain 
 goals one can be awarded medals, ribbons, and pins that will add to your soldiers xp. These themselves 
 become more difficult to attain than simply playing the game itself. The greatest part of the progression 
 system is that you will receive experience for somply going about your normal FPS routines. Things 
 such as killing enemies, helping allies, and capturing points also add to your xp leading up to 
 promotions and unlockables. The unlockables themselves allow you to personalize your soldier granting 
 you access to better weapons and devices as well as upgrades to your soldiers physical being. The 
 hardest part is decided where you want to head with the upgrades since they have a system of their 
 own which allows you to become a better soldier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cs88
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 5, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I promised this review a long time ago, so I apologize for it being overdue.
  
  Anyways, Battlefield 2142 is actually the first Battlefield game I've played, so it took me a long 
 while to get a feel for the game, which is why the learning curve can vary for anyone. The storyline 
 to 2142 is that the Earth mysteriously went into a New Ice Age in 2106, supposedly a time Earth 
 should've been in a Golden Age. Two factions (yes, there are only two) , the European Union or EU, 
 and the Pan Asian Coalition (a Soviet based coalition) or PAC, begin a war in 2142 to fight for 
 the remianing habitable lands, which are somewhat represented in the game's maps. Gameplay wise, 
 2142 is very similar to its predecessor, Battlefield 2, with similar conquest modes. Also, there 
 is a new game mode, Titan mode, where you must destroy the enemy's Titan, a colossal and futuristic 
 airship, while defending your own, using anti-titan silos (the equivalent of flags) . Overall, this 
 new game mode is quite fun and interesting with additional air and land vehicles and expanded maps. 
 Another new and unique feature is kit customization, where you can get unlocks for every rank up 
 and get to choose to add them or not, which makes up for only getting to choose from four classes 
 (recon, assault, engineer, and support) .
  The graphics in 2142 are excellent as maps, soldiers, weapons, and vehicles are intricately detailed. 
 However, there are certain stability and lag issues, but they are resolved for the most part by 
 patching. Sound wise, 2142 is perfect. From the bullet snaps of the Zeller Sniper Rifle to the 
 cries of RACHAAA!!! by the PAC, the sound is very crisp and clean. Also, VOIP is about the same 
 as it was in Battlefield 2, so it's just as great. The value for 2142 is overwhelmingly good, because 
 the game is wired for you to play at least 10-1000 hours (!!!) to get certain awards which can 
 help boost you to a higher rank, so you're definitely going to get good mileage out of it for its 
 value.
  In conclusion, Battlefield 2142 is a great FPS that you should consider buying. The only real downside 
 is that you're going to need to devote a lot of time to get to the rank you want to be at (Brigadier 
 General at 57,700 points) , but it is still an extremely fun game, especially to play with/against 
 friends on. BTW, if you get/have this game, my tag is (TGC) cs88, so feel free to add me or challenge 
 me. Lastly, thanks for taking the time to read this review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkslaye336
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 1, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Fun game, really fun, except, Ya can pretty much only play Multiplayer. There is a Singleplayer 
 mode that ya can play, but ya can only play 5 levels and 1 game mode. Also, you must have internet 
 to log into your profile and play your soilder, Not such a good idea to me. I have a horrendous 
 internet (200-300 ping) so I am constantly kicked out of servers for my high ping. I really like 
 the upgrades ya can get for kills, revives, heals etc etc, although it does put you at a disadvantage 
 when you are just starting. They have amazing battles in close and medium ranged missions, amazing 
 IF you survive. Anyways, BF2142 is better then BF2 in some ways, but not in all ways. It is worth 
 looking at if ya got a bad internet, but ya may go through alot of broken keyboards due to be kicked 
 all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobby555
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 30, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is a culmination of all that was wanted in the battlefield series to date. It 
 incorporates what MOST people wanted to see in the next game in the franchise. With many onlocks 
 and new game mode, 2142 sets it'self apart from the other battlefield games. The learning curve 
 for someone new to the battlefield games would be roughly 1 to 2 hours. But if your familliar with 
 the series then 30 minutes is all that is needed for 2142. If your looking for a game that will 
 last you until something else of interest will come out, this is the one. But dont blame me if 
 this game is still being played long after your game gets released! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalesinger
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 29, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Pros: BF 2142 is better than the old bf games becaus the unlock systenm has WAY more unlocks and 
 is interesting. Tthe high-tech equipment makes the game much more fun. The graphics are better 
 and the new titan mode is pretty wild. The vehicles are really fun to play with and being commander 
 couldnt be more fun! Even the demo was fun! The great and improved urban warfare is probably one 
 of the best thing about the game.
  
  Cons: The .1 that diddnt make it was because the graphics arent nessesarily Next Generation .The 
 weapons are pretty inacurate exept for snipers. (Play urban maps if inaccuracy annoys you) . *Difficulty 
 Varies* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 25, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Yes, it is true. In my opinion, this is the best battelfield of them all, to date. Although the 
 class type have been knocked down to 4 choices, the abillity to pick your unlocks, really allows 
 you to specialize in a particular role. Multiple unlocks, with trees, allows you to sit back and 
 plan the best route to unlock to what you want. This means, no first rank players with powerful 
 guns, which is nice. The Titan gameplay is a personal favourite of mine. You can do battle by dominating 
 an area, and controlling the silos to attack your enemies titan, or you can board that baby, and 
 blow it up yourself. This allows for open field battles on the ground, and close quarter fights 
 inside the titan. It has a half decent friends list, so you can join up right into a friends battle, 
 and see when they are online/offline. if you loved the previous BFs, then this one is for you. 
 This one is a personal favourite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fifolon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  This is a great game if you're into the multi player FPS style games.
  
  I found the more i played the game the more it grew on me. The maps aren't as huge as its predecessor 
 Battle Field 2, but designed well giving great game play.
  
  Medals and bonuses are great keeping you hooked on the game to rank up in position. The future 
 theme to the game is good too, even if the graphics do indeed look a bit dated.
  
  I believe anyone who has played the Battle Field series would love this game, and anyone who's 
 just curious will get into the game easily!
  
  Battle on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derrico_8448
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  This is one of the most immersive battlefields I've played to date. Nothing really beats attacking 
 these monstrous titans hovering above a huge battlefield, then boarding them, destroying them from 
 the inside, and jumping off in a leap of glory watching it explode above your head. Its pretty 
 the same as BF2, but in a future setting, with more badass weapons.
  
  Graphics:
  I'm not in the best situation to judge the graphics, because i have a nice setup, but i only have 
 1 gig of RAM, forcing me to put both texture settings to medium. It still looks great, and you 
 dont really notice when your in the heat of battle, so its no big deal. I rated the graphics based 
 on what i've seen on max settings.
  
  Sound:
  OMFG. This game sounds amazing. If you have a sound card, that supports EAX HD, which most do nowadays, 
 then you'll have an experience like no other. Hearing missiles zip just above your head is truly 
 amazing. It really pushes my Audigy SE : ) to the limit.
  
  Value:
  You get a LOT of gameplay for a respectable amount of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitronic12
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 21, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142, like its predecessor, is a largemap based shooter that comprises of teams, guns, 
 vehicles and other gameplay mechanics.
  
  If you're a player of the previous Battlefield series games, then 2142 shouldn't be too hard, but 
 alot of things have been changed since the previous game. For a new player, online would seem alot 
 harder to grasp, due to the experienced players and other features that you may not know about.
 
  
  If you can manage to accustom yourself to playing in differenct conditions then you can probably 
 spend the rest of your life playing this game. Unless of course your have short span of attention 
 and get bored. Learning in this game isn't too hard even though it's hard to play the game, after 
 a few short tooltips the game seems a whole lot easier.
  
  Compared to the last game (Battlefield 2) the gameplay has seemed to move away from the originality 
 of the game. The running movement headbob is quite disturbing as it's not necessarily what a really 
 person would do. Many of the beginner weapons are very hard get used to, and many of them are simply 
 outclassed by the submachinegun. The addition of the TITAN game mode is abit different, and is 
 quite enjoyable. It is probably one of best things about the game.
  
  Ah the graphics, you'd expect on one of these games, that millions of people would play, the developers 
 would tone down the graphics so that many people can play it. If your running anything under a 
 6600 you'd need to tone down your graphics to low, for everything. And this of all thigns can really 
 depress a gamer, not being able to see games in their prime.
  
  The sound, undoutably is the best thing in the game. The many scores and intro songs are something 
 that can really lift your spirit in battle. The weapons and voice for the teams are really suited 
 so that everythign flows evenly from a sound point of view.
  
  If your looking for a game where no matter how badly you get owned because you can't play a game, 
 or if you have a high-end PC that can run anything on max settings, as well as it being a future 
 FPS with the EA brandname on it, then Battlefield 2142 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qazqazdabest
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 16, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  A great game that I recommend to any gamer. As a newcomer to the Battlefield franchise I was instantly 
 hooked to the cool gameplay and the awesome multiplayer. It does have some small annoying bugs 
 and hackers but EA are doing an OK job controlling this. In particular I love the sound. I downloaded 
 the soundtrack to listen to over and over again and the music really fits the atmosphere. On the 
 whole, I have played days and days of Battlefield 2142 and loved every minute. The gameplay rarely 
 gets stale and since there is a new expansion pack, there is always something new to learn and 
 own with!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonziter1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Well, when this came out I was playing it all the time. This is the game that got me into Team 
 Speak. The great thing about this game is that it combines elements of the FPS and the role playing 
 type. Upgrades in weapons, armor, and various other equipment keeps you on your seat asking, What 
 can I unlock next? or, What badge can I work on now? . All in all this is a really fun game. Perfect? 
 No! Great fun and well worth the purchase? Yes! I recommend this to anyone who loves the FPS genre 
 who wants to step up their game play to the next level in interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelsDemon2k1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 9, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  I got Battlefield 2142 and right after installation I was amazed how similar this was to Battlefield 
 2 - thats because bf2142 uses the same bf2 engine so BF2 fans won't take much time to adjust to 
 2142. The game loads much quicker than bf2 but the graphics are great. The Titan mode is very creative, 
 your team has to get silos which are rocket launchers. you get them simply by standing next to 
 them. its just like getting flags in bf2. After you get a silo you will see a rocket fly out and 
 hit the enemy titan. After the shield is down your team can go inside and destroy the titan by 
 blowing up Consoles, there are 4 in total. after the consoles are down you can move in to the main 
 chamber and destroy the reactor. When the reactor explodes you will have a short amount of time 
 to leave the titan before it explodes. A nice addition to bf2142 is a spawn beacon it allows a 
 squad leader to drop a beacon which allows players to spawn on the beacon instead the squad leader. 
 The only bad thing about BF2142 is the amount of hackers/glitchers I find there every day. They 
 vary from spawning in the reactor core to using commander hacks which allow them to drop unlimited 
 supplies. The sound isnt the best. vehicle sounds and players voice overs could be done better
 
  The good thing is that the players can still communicate over VOIP using a headset or a microphone 
 Recently released booster pack Northern Strike gives players even more vehicles and maps. the single 
 player mode is just as bad as bf2. the enemy isnt very smart and neither are your teammates. you 
 will find yourself getting run over by your team many times. Bf2142 simply wasn't designed as a 
 single player shooter. its main point is to play it online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: De4d_W0lf
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  excellent multiplayer game with a wide range of maps, weapons, vechiels and equipment. It also 
 has a sad excuse for a singleplayer game with only about 5 maps! Titan mode is a different and 
 exciting way of playing but after a few rounds gets boring. In contrast the classic conquest mode 
 is highly addictive and much more fun with the futureistic vechiles and weapons. The graphics is 
 a little outdated compared to most games out there but still good. The reward and ranking system 
 is a nice touch and gives you something to aim for. Overall it is an excellent game definately 
 worth a play for any FPS or multiplay fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandox
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Superb Multi play, sad # of single play maps
  
  Should include modding tools, mod file in game no tools???
  
  also requires internet connection 
 to utilize unlocks in single player- retarded, not everybody has internet.
  
  Titan mode should have been in singleplayer mode aswell. I like to know the game before making 
 a fool of self in MP.
  
  Runs very well on my ath3700 single core 1.5gig ddr2 , pnyGeforce7600gs256vid ram little to no 
 lag. (nice to not have to purchase a 1000$ system to make game run good) note- 530$ pc a year old 
 with 150$vid card....
  
  modding community will create mods to fill the caveat that the developers left. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I don't get the chance to play multiplayer games much -- online or in the network in my office; 
 but I played all the battlefield games; mostly in singleplayer mode. I know I won't get the full 
 flavour of Battlefield2142 until I play it intensely in multiplayer mode. But what I experienced 
 already is really cool; true to the spirit of the first battlefield game.
  The maps of this game are as awesome and big as expected and while playing it, I sometimes even 
 can't cover all parts of the maps. Since the game play remains unchanged, picking up the game's 
 challenges is instantaneous. Each map takes minimum half an hour to complete a single round. That 
 way the game is quite long. The game's AI is better then before, as enemies tend to be sharper 
 and fast. In BF2 or in BF Vietnam, one of my favourite weapons was a tank. In this game most weapons 
 are futuristic modification of existing weapons. I guess this is because the developers wanted 
 to give it an extra credibility. But we are talking about 2142 -- that's more than 130 years from 
 now on. Come on, I expected some wild yet realistic imagination. These weapons seem like only 10 
 years ahead of our times, at best. The game's load time is unnecessarily long and it bores me. 
 This is another area which has been overlooked.
  Overall to me -- if made properly, battle games are always more addictive than most other types 
 of action games. This is a very well-made game and I think I am going to play it throughout this 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 beats them all. Battlefield 1942 was awsome, Battlefield Vietnam was alright, 
 Battlefield 2 was mind blowing, and now Battlefield 2142 has got to be the best damn FPS Online 
 game out there. Unlocking weapons using commander skills, vehicles, it's just a great game and 
 the graphics make the game 1000000000000 times better . I gotta say that this game never fails 
 me. I am never bored playing this. I am pretty sure that most games doesnt compare to this one. 
 And many people are friendly online. Unless your the jerk that gets angry every time. I gotta say 
 the battlefield series has come a long ways because they are doing really well in the game industry. 
 I give Battlefield 2142 a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTRIGGER092x
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 has a boring single-player, but the cream of the crop is multiplayer. You can 
 have up to 64 players (48 in titan mode, but it can be modded to allow up to 64) in a match, and 
 it is very intense. The best part of the multiplayer in my opinion is Titan Mode. In Titan mode, 
 you must lower the defenses of the enemy titan (a huge carrier ship in the sky) , by activating missle 
 silos. After the shield is gone, you must continue firing the missles at the ship, or you can go 
 into the enemies' titan, destroy the 4 security panels, blow the ship up from the core, and then 
 get the heck out of the ship before it explodes. Very fun gametype. What is also very nice is the 
 rewards system. When you rank up, you have the choice to get an unlock. You can choose what upgrade 
 you want for your character. Ths system is very good, and the upgrades help your character alot. 
 The graphics are great, sound is good, and the overall gameplay is great. The only problems I have 
 with it is that the load times are long (I once waited 5 or 6 minutes to load up a game) , and that 
 it isn't too much of a departure from BF2. However, I recommend you pick this game up ASAP, you 
 WILL NOT regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulletsword
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Remember back in 2005 when you stared in awe at how good Battlefield 2 was? Then a year later, 
 we pretty much get the same thing except way in the future as well as a few new things as well. 
 Despite the bugs that plague the game as well as a few other issues, Battlefield 2142 isn't a very 
 disappointing multiplayer shooter. It may take a while for the size of the community to top Battlefield 
 2, but right now, it's good.
  
  In case you're new to the Battlefield formula, it's simply choose what soldier kit you want to 
 play as, select what junk you want to bring with you to battle, go kill some people, take control 
 points, die, respawn, repeat. Due to the large scale of the game, the game requires a lot of teamwork. 
 Going lone wolf actually works, but some of the game's best moments are alongside squads which 
 you can form up. It is still entirely possible for a lone wolf to get to the top of the scoreboard, 
 though people encourage squadding up.
  
  Other than that, this is simply a massive online tactical shooter. The maps a very big, requiring 
 lots of running and driving. On 64 player servers, the battle can get extremely chaotic with lots 
 of people shooting at each other and blowing things up. It feels cool to be part of a war that 
 is controlled by all players on a server.
  
  The weapons in the game are pretty neat, but you'll only start with a few. Despite the game's future 
 setting, they're pretty much the same as any old gun you'd find today. They just appear differently 
 with a few future tweaks and all. You'll have some assault rifles, light machine guns, sniper rifles, 
 all that stuff. Though the default weapons for each team may be different, they pretty much perform 
 the same way. Pistols are pretty much the only weapons that are unique to each team.
  
  As you progress in the game's online ranking system, you'll be able to unlock new things. In Battlefield 
 2, you could only unlock weapons. Here, you can unlock new things like cloaking devices, shields, 
 and a few other things as well as weapons. You can only bring a few things with you onto the battlefield, 
 so you can't be walking around with absolutely everything you've unlocked. This can open up for 
 lots of character customization. There are tons of unlocks, but in the beginning, you won't have 
 very much to start with. You have to go as far as unlocking grenades, which can feel a bit unreasonable. 
 And compared to Battlefield 2, the weapon selection seems to be a bit smaller. I also don't like 
 how the pistols were handled this time around, too.
  
  Otherwise, once you got yourself some neat unlocks, the battles start to get easier now that you 
 have stuff the more elite players have. Even with these unlocks, the game still felt a bit empty. 
 Probably from the lack of vehicles. There seems to be more emphasis on infantry combat, which is 
 still lots of fun.
  
  Alongside the cla. ssic Conquest mode, there is a new mode called Titan Mode. In this mode, you 
 capture missle silos to take down the other team's Titan, a huge warship, while trying to protect 
 your own. You can walk around your own Titan to take control of the guns and turrets on there, 
 as well as trying to prevent the other team from destroying it from the inside. And yep, you can 
 rush into the enemy Titan, destroy some consoles, and eventually destroy the core of the Titan 
 and escape it, parachuting down to land. It's a really great addition to the series, but it doesn't 
 mean that Conquest mode is dead. You'll still have fun on both modes.
  
  The graphics aren't really much of a step up from Battlefield 2 other than lighting, which isn't 
 much. While the game still looks very beautiful, maybe it's time that they actually upgraded the 
 engine a bit more. It feels more of the same, though the new effects to accomidate the future setting 
 is much better than the effects of Battlefield 2. Sound effects remain as simple as guns firing 
 with a touch of a futuristic feeling.
  
  Now, about the bugs, yes, there may be some here and there. I dont' know why people make such a 
 big deal about them, but none of the bugs seem to completely destroy the game. When the game isn't 
 messing up, then you'll have a great experience, providing that your computer can withstand the 
 awesomeness of 64 player combat. Battlefield 2142 is really worth playing, though if you decide 
 to buy it for anything more than $40, then it's more of a ripoff since it feels like just a huge 
 upgrade from Battlefield 2. Otherwise you'll be playing for quite a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoda-yeah
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  The action in Battlefield 2142 takes place in the future ( there aren't any laser weapons) . A 
 new ice age has covered big parts of the earth and the nations are gathering their strength. The 
 players are forced to choose between two different military superpowers: The European Union (EU) 
 and the Pan Asian Coalition (PAC) in the final battle for survival. Up to 64 players can fight 
 each other in two teams. When the players progresses, they get rewards in the form of new weapons, 
 medals and much more.
  
  Battlefield 2142 is an amazing game , even better than the amazing battlefield 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostLeader96
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  In a world where global warming is making hippies go mad, EA comes out with a game where the world 
 ices over. That has to go against SOME science we've been hearing. OK, to the game. This is a Battlefield 
 game, and if you aren't from Mars you've probobly heard of the hit game, Battlefield 2. If you 
 haven't, it got a 9.3 or something on Gamespot. Yeah. It's that good. It's sequel, Battlefield 
 2142, has many first's for the Battlefield seris, including the Titan game mode, Were the two sides 
 battle for control of missle silos to destoy the enemy Titan, a huge floating warship. Another 
 first is the absence of the USA as a faction. EA freezed it over. I didn't know they were that 
 harsh. Gameplay is good, and the multiplayer excels. I have had several quite irritating crashes, 
 leading to the Big Blue Screen of Death . Whatever that means. There are boatloads of new unlocks, 
 but most of them are things you really need at first, like grenades, and stuff of that sort. But, 
 you don't have to wait 3 ranks to unlock something, like in Battlefield 2, you get it right away. 
 but until then, you are VERY weak compared to other players. Salvage their kit, then you'll do 
 better. The multiplayer, as in most Battlefield games, is the thing you'll be doing most often. 
 The singleplayer just doesn't work for most of us. To wrap up, The multiplayer is awesome, the 
 game doesn't get old fast, and EA will undoubtedly make great Expainsion Packs. I play it as Swordsman1996, 
 so if you see me, HI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ofensatul
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Sys reqs. kinda high ok I will give you that.. but the gameplay pftt.. compensates for everything 
 and I mean that. The weapons unlocks and awards are very cool , the gadgets aswell. The graphics 
 is way nice , the movement and controls rock but there is a lagg problem .. not all the time but.. 
 it is. There is a matter of noobs unfortunately that ruin the game from now and then but oh well 
 that`s life and you cannot hide from them ( ha ha ) . Overall this is an addictive game , worth 
 the money well there is a great comunity out there alot of clans recruiting you won`t get bored 
 trust me. So go get it and forget about call of duty 2 and come in for some SCI FI action. cheers 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellosnolvr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Though many say the key element of the game, which is to deliver a feel of the future, is not too 
 plain as people say, the whole picture is indeed not dull. You may see that there is a lack of 
 spark for it to feel like it's the future, but the future is unpredictable and yet unexplainable 
 and to see how people say it's not realistic is very ignorant and unappreciative of them.
  To discuss the elements of gameplay, you will find that throughout the game there's going to be 
 many glitches and exploits. Which is a disgrace, even for a multiplayer; and to fill in the bricks, 
 the lack of bug fixes for the game is disappointing. Many bugs, like the private glitch, affect 
 how you see the game, and i have no problem with that. Furthermore, the game overall may not be 
 a disappointment to you or others, but it really saddens me that a high-traffic multiplayer has 
 as many bugs as this.
  To go on with the gameplay elements, there really isnt another option for multiplayer games after 
 you've become addicted to any of the battlefield games. The populated servers and vast gameplay 
 is unprecedented. The new titan mode is a great addition, it builds on the futuristic set, and 
 sets a trademark for many things to come for the series. The goal of titan mode is to capture silos 
 around the map and program them to shoot the other titan until it blows up. When the shield is 
 down, the silos will still effect gameplay, but you can attack the silos with your infantry. The 
 close quarters combat on the titans is pretty new the battlefield series, the abnormal hitboxes 
 will effect you greatly so you better learn them or your toast. Your best bet is to aim high with 
 a combat medic's primary weapon such as the Baur or Voss.
  There's also another gameplay mode, conquest. Its fun at first, then it gets boring. The base camping 
 is too easy, unless you are outnumbered. You just need numbers to win conquest, and you can tell 
 if someone is capturing your spot because the flags lower, so you can easily throw a grenade and 
 get a message on the bottom of the screen confirming your 'nade ownage. The vehicles of the game 
 dont really press the issue of futuristic combat. Other than the hovering tank, there really isnt 
 anything that couldnt be achieved today. In the Northern Strike Booster pack, there is more vehicles 
 with a better feel of the future, but you cant put your finger on what doesnt feel right. You will 
 also see that the on-foot gameplay in 2142 is really different than other games, it suits the environments 
 and atmosphere almost like a glove. The bad part is, the vehicle noobs will get annoying, very 
 annoying. There's some parts when you go WTF because these people act like noobs... The close quarter 
 combat on 2142 is pretty cool, but it feels a bit loose if you ask me. The close quarters confrontations 
 are the complete opposite of a game like Halo, the gunning feels like you are shooting someone 
 from Half-life or something. The lack of at least a little bit of blood effects make the game look 
 a bit childish at points when you see this is actually a FPS. But overall, the gameplay is very 
 addicting.
  Whats an FPS without good weapons anyways? Well, nothing really... and if you can do the math, 2142 
 is something. If you don't get it, 2142 has some spectacularly cool weapons you can unlock. The 
 Baur and Voss are always fun to kill recon and engineer players with. The snipers are fun also, 
 i rarely snipe, but when i do, i usually kill a guy or so. The engineer kit is pretty cool, you 
 have to rely on the engineer players to win the battle; the walkers can lose a control point or 
 so for you, and ultimately the round. Engineers will blow up the walkers so your team can destroy 
 the infantry and eventually you can win. It's really cool how EA made some cool guns. They aren't 
 really cool, but i like them. They suit the game pretty good as well.
  The vehicles are basically the coolest part of the game. The titans, walkers, goliaths, speeders, 
 bandits or ocelots, tanks, air transports, gunships, and anti-aircraft guns will never get boring, 
 and if they do, it will be slowly slowly. It can be fun having walker battles, because it relies 
 on who is th better shooter, and who gets the first shot. But overuse of these vehicles will make 
 people like me vote to kick you =P&lt; br/&gt;
  To discuss the graphical achievements in 2142, the game really has some nice textures. The bad 
 news is that it doesnt look like a modern game. The aging BF2 engine isnt optimized to the specs 
 that high-end PC owners would like. The vast environments with a bunch of trees looks nice, but 
 im thinking they couldve made some more detailed textures in some areas of maps. Maybe more war-torn 
 environments, with more of a graphical benchmark to achieve, since the game did come out late 2006. 
 You can easily achieve 100+ FPS on a rig with 2 7900s, E6400 Core 2 processor, and 2 gigs of RAM. 
 I dont get any frame drops with these on max settings. Oh yeah, im playing on 1600x1050 resolution... there's 
 definitely something else DICe shouldve done with the features in the environments.
  With a SB X-Fi card, any game couldnt achieve more of an intense audio feeling than 2142. The game 
 is optimized for the EAX feature that X-Fi carries. You definitely need surround sound for this 
 game, there could be so many things going on at the same time that you wont be able to desipher 
 where its coming from and youll lack the response you need to keep you alive as long as you can. 
 A battle for a control point can get intense at times, with up to 30 people in the area for about 
 a minute where the amount is decimated. Don't let yourself become a statistic.
  Overall, battlefield 2142 is an outstanding multiplayer shooter with the letdowns in graphics department; 
 is very disappointing with the rediculous amount of bugs; and the sound is great with the high-intensity 
 battles you will participate in. You definitely might have to wait for once again another patch 
 before playing this avidly like we all have been, meaning, every hour of the day is spent on this 
 game. But, nonetheless, 2142 should be a game you own. Its value is amazing, with the ability to 
 be played for over 300 hours easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_guy44
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 18, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  Sooooo, if you have ever played BF2, no need to worry you'll fit right in. But thats the problem. 
 You could think BF2142 as a commerical mod. Its just not that revoultionary. BUT that doesn't mean 
 its a bad game.
  
  First off: STORY
  ok, Whats-his-face Gore was right. The new ice age kick in. People die. yeah, its sad. So survivours 
 have to flee south. But if you put to many people together, they fight. Any parent who has driven 
 five hours with a bunch of whiny brats (ME!!!!!!!!!) in a cramped car will know that. Thats the 
 story, really complex, huh.
  
  NEXT!!!!!: GAMEPLAY
  Like how i just said, its not that different to BF2. The Veacles in this game are one of the main 
 selling points. Walking tanks, hover crafts, Helicopter Jets, with all this crazy crap you can 
 use, its just fun.
  
  Third: Graphics
  Recyled engine. If youre computor could run BF2, your fine. Nuff said
  
  Last: TITAN
  YES, 
 finally what we've all been waiting for. BF2142 has a new MODE. basically, you have to destroy 
 a titan. They are these massive, flying aircraft carrier (I just realised how pointless it is) , 
 and you have to destroy it. Play it. you will find out it is easier said than done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  GOOD massive online game for the active hardcore gamer, i loved it since i first got it, this game 
 is a must buy..... :)
  
  Great graphics, great action, the battle system is totally awesome. THere is always a battle that 
 happens on the maps where u dont know who might win it and push the other side back.
  
  This game will get u addicted to it untill the make another battlefield game. There is no other 
 future fps game out there that can be compared to this game because this game will own the competition. 
 THIS GAME IS RECOMMENDED IF U HAVE A TASTE IN GOOD GAMES.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barcaacrab
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  Somewhat desperate to release a new game
  and without thinking of what to put in it, there is practically no difference in 135 years except 
 for a walker which is something that has already been thought of.
  i will murder anyone who says this is good game, if you wnat a respectable game get battlefield 
 2 its better and more people go on it.
  Titans is good but the word LAG comes into mind and makes you want to strike a blade through your 
 own skull.
  BUY NOW IF YOU WANT TO DIE OF WAITING another annoying thing is that you have to wait and practice 
 for a very long time to actually be able to get grenades or something decent as you start with 
 a mere rifle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  I liked all the Battlefield games, the best in series is Battlefield 1942. I thought Battlefield 
 2142 will be very nice, but it isn't. The graphics are similar to the ones from Battlefiels 2, but 
 the effects are poorer than in 2. The sound is again superb, with great sound effects, voice acting 
 &amp; nice music. The gameplay is poor, to similar to the one in B2, too few vehicles, maps, bad designed 
 location, stupid &amp; annoying locations. The only interesting game mode is the Titan mode, but the 
 ranking mode is stupid designed. So, it's dissappointing,&amp; almost a bad Battlefield game, although 
 the sound is really  know I need 100 words, but 
 they would be useless. I don't like this game, neither it's add-ons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starcrooze
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty darn fun and is everything everyone is saying (people who gave it a 8.0 and 
 up) however there is one thing that happened to me, which made me feel compelled to bring this 
 to everyone's attention. I got this game a few weeks ago and i can no longer play it. EA made the 
 worst and idiotic system of account management and log in i have ever seen on this god forsaken 
 planet. Basically, when you install, you have one change (and one chance only) to create ONE account 
 for that ONE cd key. Meaning, once you creat an account that is associated with your games cd key, 
 you cannot log in to ANYONE elses at all because EA only lets you log in to the account associated 
 with the corresponding cd key. Alright, now that we got that established, heres what happened. 
 I installed the game and booted it up and created an account and everything was nice and dandy 
 for both offline/online play for about a week. Then my operating System Crashed and I had to reinstall 
 Windows. When i finally got around to reinstalling the game, i was prompted to login as usual. 
 I typed the CORRECT username and password given that I had the same exact game i had before my 
 OS crashed. Guess what? An error says that I can't log in to my account because the specific cd 
 key was already assigned to a specific account. WTF? The account i was trying to log in to WAS 
 the account that the cd key was paired up to. So i did everything on their forums and learned that 
 you can't even play single player mod in the game without first logging into the account. All this 
 basically means is that I spent 50 valuable dollars on a game that i can't, literally, even play. 
 Offline or Online. EA stole my money and offered me the most minimum support. Way to go EA, way 
 to go. Make sure that your computer is stable before you purchase the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumbgrim
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2007 12:38 am PT
Review:  this game is highly addictive. it gives people the feeling of modern war fair. in this game their 
 are future powerful wepons and soldiers . i recomend ths game to anyone who loves war games. in 
 this game everything is years after now .which means powerful wepons and better tanks jets and 
 so on .
  this game is not exactly like star wars it is modern but not like those ski fi games . so get this 
 game now. in this game u are a one man shooter but u can controll other people . tell your army 
 what to do and win the oposition 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhen_Var
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 9, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The Gameplay is still awesome but not as good
  maps are kinda small, not as many factions.
  What are really great is the unlock system. it makes 
 you want to play for so long so u can get everything! sadly after that you'll start to feel like 
 goofing of... and the new titan mode is good but HORRIBLY LAGGY! despite the lag its a great way 
 to earn points. Community is a big problem but not part of the game so its not counted
  
  Graphics:
  Just like battlefield 2
  it looks Next Gen! and thats it
  
  Sound: A few glitches 
 to it but its nice to listen to.
  the gunfire, walker's footsteps and the sound of an orbital strike really Strikes the fear in you.
 
  
  Value: value? im new so wat is value? nearly unlimited replay value but its just not as good and 
 as long as battlefield 2
  
  Overall : You may want to stick to BF2. but if want new stuff like unlocks, maps and the new mode. 
 this game can be recommendable for MOST user or fans of battlefield 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noodlehead710
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  This game gives a great fighting experience. It is unfortunately decidedly focused only on the 
 multiplayer aspect. A great single-player would have prevented much frustration from trying to 
 learn on servers filled with amazing BF2 vets. The learning curve for the controls is very short; 
 BF2142 uses a pretty standard setup. But the learning curve for knowing how to be effective/integral 
 to a team is significantly higher. Lack of smoothness of gameplay also lead to a more lackluster 
 gaming experience. Even on a very good system, I was experiencing a very bad lag. This is mostly 
 because of connection issues, but it still stopped me from enjoying the game fully. This game was 
 definitely one of my favorites for almost a month, but it did not hold my interest much longer 
 than that. This is a fun game, but not for someone looking for the most gameplay/ fun for their 
 buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dummiesday
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  It's cold. Very cold. You've finally eliminated the sniper that has been killing your men from 
 the the top of the nearest hill. The active camo didn't save him from your rockets. When you run 
 to reanimate your fallen comrades, a gunship descends your way guns-a-blazing, producing a rain 
 of debris. The earth shakes, your vision gets blurry. Suddenly, a couple of team mates fall from 
 the sky in flying pods and start to shoot missiles at the gunship. As it collapses into the ground, 
 you manage to reanimate the members of the squad and give them another order, which they accept 
 promptly. It must be your lucky day, as there's an armored carrier nearby. However, a recon suddenly 
 detects a huge walker advancing towards your position. The battle goes on.
  
  Battlefield 2142 is a great online FPS has three very distinct problems, which are actually not 
 problems at all. First, it's not Battlefield 2. One of the most important points of criticism when 
 dealing with this game has been that it looks like a simple mod for BF2. I, for one, disagree. 
 It may use the same engine and gameplay, but the innovations are quite deep. Now, for instance, 
 teamplay is greatly encouraged, so you will receive points for doing benefitial things for your 
 team such as repairing or healing. Even more, you get extra points if you obey the orders of your 
 squad leader. This little feature, that may seem unimportant, is actually a pivot of the entire 
 gameplay. No more loose men running through the battlefield like headless chicken. If played with 
 a good squad, the game ceases to be a game and becomes an experience, pure and uncut war. Seriously, 
 don't compare it to BF2 and just judge it for what it is in itself. You will realize that BF2 was 
 very good, but BF2142 is actually better, so it just makes no sense to give it a lower score.
 
  
  The second problem, shared by every online game on various degrees, is the number of bugs. If you 
 haven't jumped yet in the BF2142 bandwagon for fear of a buggy gameplay, you will be happy to know 
 that a recent patch has made the Titan mode much, much more stable and has also fixed a lot of 
 problems. Seriously, I haven't found any of the infamous Titan lag since patch 1.20 in any server.
 
  
  The last problem would be the lack of a proper single player mode. Well, I wouldn't dream of putting 
 a campaign mode in, say, a chess-related videogame. If you buy BF2142, you'd better expect the 
 Multiplayer mode that made the franchise what it is today. You will find, however, a kind of skirmish 
 single player mode with 15 bots, which is perfect for perfecting your piloting skills, testing 
 your aim and trying the cool new toys you will eventually unlock.
  
  There has been much talk about the ads in-game. They seem pretty innocous to me. After all, I prefer 
 to be shown an ad for a new computer processor to, say, a random ad for some clothing company from 
 another country.
  
  Battlefield 2142 is, in its own right, a great and immersive online FPS that has something for 
 every type of action player (pilots, driver, medics, snipers) and that will magically transport 
 you for a brief time to the heat of sheer battle. Stop making excuses and play it for a good week 
 or so. Its atmosphere is bound to suck you in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silentkiller27
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  all right first off this is not the same as battlefield 2, they are different, there is a lot more 
 customization then there was in 2, the maps and vehicles are different. First off vehicles every 
 vehicle has there weakness (i'll let you try and find them) some are easy to find, some you can 
 find but are almost impossible to hit. each class has its own strengths and weaknesses, for example 
 engineer might be good for taking down vehicles and repairing them as well however it pretty much 
 sucks against infantry. There are a lot of badges, pins, and medals to win (which can give you 
 aot of points) , some easier than others. The maps are fun and each has its own good point and bad 
 points however playing on the same maps over and over can get boring, but with northern strike 
 coming soon more maps and vehicles will be available. The new addition of titan mode is pretty 
 epic but lag is a problem especially when the commanders decide to move the titans, conquest mode 
 is here as well, but not all maps will play titan mode although all maps can be played in conquest. 
 overall this game is pretty good and with Northern strike coming soon it should get a bit more 
 fun, be sure to look for my review of northern strike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deus_Ex_Fan
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is a mixed bag of emotions. One hand the game has some interesting twists on multiplayer, 
 with the Titan maps being a new concept to control point gaming. On the other hand, it's plagued 
 with...
  
  1. EA timeouts (almost 1 in every game now) .
  2. Punkbuster automatic kicks for high pings (bye-bye EU players on west coast US servers!) .
 
  3. Lag (especially within the Titan ship - serious fps drops) .
  4. Abusing TK punishments (these are a real ban from server kicks - if you're never been banned 
 before, be ready for a boot for dumb gamers who walk into a nade fest who want payback for their 
 stupidity) .
  5. Team play is anything but: folks willy nilly running around not bothering to pick up team mates; 
 worse, they're but 25 points from dying not wanting to pause 5 seconds when it's clear to heal/repair 
 their vehicle. Guess what happens next????
  6. Jihad gunship players - and I mean crash, after crash, after crash.
  7. Giving Assault troops 
 the medkits (should've went with Support, because it's called SUPPORT) . What happens too often 
 there's many Recon and Assault players and there might be 4 playing Support on a 48 player full 
 server. With commanders playing grunt they often don't heed the calls for supplies, which leaves 
 plenty of medkits but no ammo (especially in the defend Titan mode) . Few people want to play Support 
 because their weapons are crappy, they're but target practice to Walkers, Recon and Assault snipers. 
 You'll get plenty of team assist points, but your K/D ratio is dismal.
  
  The best part of this game, IMO, is the Titan maps. It adds a new wrinkle to CTF multiplayer, with 
 this time players have to capture all the silos, hold them, and then board and destroy the enemy's 
 Titan mother ship. Isn't just rush to grab flags and score, this time gamers have to rush, h-o-l-d, 
 then storm in the face of legit base campers!
  
  Game design and play: The maps are nicely done, with the characters having nice textures. Interesting 
 animations (not as good as some, but good) . Game play takes more learning time, especially since 
 there's so many items to carry and use properly.
  
  Music: Very repetitive. No jingles to remember and no intense fighting music. Nothing here to play 
 in your music player outside the game.
  
  Sound: Has issues with those using anything but the absolutely latest Creative sound cards - bunch 
 of static otherwise.
  
  Replay value: If you like the Titan maps you may become addicted to them!
  
  In summary: if 
 you're looking for a different way to play MP, and love to camp and fight in a hail of bullets 
 and nades *get this game*. If you're a BF 2 player you'll may wish to grow into this game as it 
 is different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  I got this game when it came out. But I can honestly say I havn't played it now for two months. 
 It hit me strong, being the funnest game ever... then it just died!! It wasn't fun anymore. This 
 is because its only fun when you're playing with good people who know what they're doing. But these 
 good people started to dissapear and idiots took their place. Everytime I went into a server, there 
 was always some guy just randomly shooting at his team-mates. And people would get in the huge 
 walkers and start shooting other team-mates vehicles. Even the all-mighty commanders would target 
 his own team's base! So it wasn't the game that got old... it was the people!!! Since then I've 
 abandoned playing this game and gone on to bigger and better things. Good riddance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alec22
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I read a lot about this game and asked the guys at my local EB whether it was worth buying. Their 
 biggest complaints were the system requirements and that you had to agree to accept ads during 
 game play. It runs fine on my 2ghz turion64 laptop and looks terrific too. I've been a big fan 
 for the BF series for years and I like this one better than BF1942 and BF2. It's also a nice change 
 of pace since there aren't that many futuristic shooters that are good. I'm glad I didn't give 
 in the to the criticism since I'd be missing out on one of the best shooters to date. I'll be playing 
 this one for months. Multiplayer is a hoot too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CorporalKane
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  Anyone who gives this game less than 9 is INSANE.
  This is the best online shooter, nay, game I have ever played and I think that anyone who likes 
 games like Quake 4 or Half-Life would find it hard not to love this game. At first I was not quite 
 convinced, but, after about half an hour I had adjusted and was not dying nearly so often and so 
 found that this is a brilliant game with excellent gameplay and excellent unlocks and is complete 
 with the best ranking and reward system I have ever seen in a game. Summarised it is as I said 
 earlier, one of the best games I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13lackfriday
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Yes, even better than CSS maybe...
  The very basis of 2142 itself encourages teamwork, from points for assisting squadmates to squad 
 leader success points for orders well carried out.
  And even you wanna go solo, the unlock system and rank promotions make you an effective killing 
 machine that only gets tougher. Every time, you up a rank, unlocks (from mines to new rifles) are 
 available. You can concentrate on one class and, for example, be the most deadly and well-equipped 
 sniper in the shadows or spread out across all classes to be a jack-of-all-trades and more versatile 
 (how I went, kinda regretting it) . The rank and unlock upgrade system is probably the most addictive 
 feature of all.
  Oh, and not to mention the dogtagging...
  In CSS, knifing a guy gets you a Humiliation, great for the moment, but something you're probably 
 not gonna remember the next day.
  But dogtags are forever. In 2142, if you knife a guy, you get a pretty little tag flash up on your 
 screen with said victim's name inscribed on it... now if that's not kickass, tell me what is! It 
 totally redefines humiliating deaths, and makes teabagging pretty obsolete... :)
  Titan mode's great too, in which you're to capture silos (like regular CTF) until the enemy Titan's 
 shield is destroyed by the missiles and you're allowed to board it and destroy it from the inside. 
 Having a team defending the Titan at all times after boarding becomes essential, as an effecient 
 enemy can quickly wipe out your Titan when it's left undefended before you even know what's going 
 on (happened to me a few rounds, kinda pissed me off) . My only complaint about 2142 is the constant 
 patching. EA doesn't really seem to know how to implement automatic updating into 2142, and users 
 are required to download a program called EA Link (EA's take of Steam) and constantly watch out 
 for those buggery patches EA keeps **** out. This gets annoying after a while, especially after 
 you try joining a server to see This server uses a new version of the game and you're either gonna 
 have to look up the patch, download and install it, or look around for other servers who also missed 
 the memo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorGamer531
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  This game keeps the same effective gameplay style that Battlefield 2 had and gives it a futuristic 
 makeover. They added Titan mode... oh goody... but that does not change the general idea of all 
 Battlefield installments: Spawn take a flag and shoot everything not on your team. The mech walker 
 seems somewhat over powered, as it can take out aerial foes and tanks. Truely I was disappointed. 
 I expected something with more flash.
  The graphics are pretty much the same as Battlefield 2s. Sound is repetitive but effective. If 
 you are a Battlefield fan, this game is for you, though if you are looking for a new fun shooter 
 to play and you asked me about Battlefield games, I would still direct you to Battlefield 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciFiShooterGUY
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  I find the learning curve of the game to be large, but also limited by your own ability. It can 
 also be affected by how fast your pc can run the game, or how good your ping is. But, if you know 
 what to do, there is a counter attack for even the smallest unit against the largest. This game 
 is basically I large multiplayer CHESS GAME. But with more action. Players who like to goof off 
 during multiplayer will most likely get fragged the soonest. That's what I like about the game. 
 Less chance for thoughtless shooting. More chance to show what you shooting and thinkign skills 
 are really worth.
  
  Graphics are a 10 of course. A game of this scale would probably have a hard time looking any better 
 and still running. But it pulls it off well. The important thing, is it makes you feel like you 
 are, in fact, in the middle of a huge war. i like to play the bigger version of maps, because of 
 this. More tiem to think, and plan, and tactically observe the battlefield, to win the battle. 
 So, the graphics for textures, detailed models, and spectacular particle and lighting effetcs all 
 do a great job.
  
  Sound: If I was in a future war, with Titans over head, I would believe that constant loud vacume 
 sound you here, would be a really there. Otherwise, I would just think of it as a annoying pointless 
 sound. There is also the annoying and disorienting blasting sound of a large ground strike. But 
 war isnt supposed to be peaceful, so all things like this, I dont have problems with. I just lower 
 it one point because by human nature, some of the sound effects are annoying.
  
  If you are fanatic about science fiction and like playing multiplayer, you should already have 
 this game. Otherwise, you are just going against what you really like in a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I had put off purchasing Battlefield 2142, due to the reports of Spy-ware enclosed in the software, 
 but mostly because I felt it would be an expensive mod of Battlefield 2.
  
  2142 does look and play very similar to BF2 in many respects, the graphics are all but identical, 
 but the weapon physics are completely different, for better or for worse. I have personally found 
 2142 fairly difficult in comparison to BF2.
  
  An example of the physics changes is the Light machine guns, in BF2 they where generally inaccurate, 
 especially when fired at full auto. In 2142 however the Light machineguns are fairly inaccurate 
 when first fired, and become relatively more accurate the longer you hold the trigger. This changes 
 the strategy used to operation weapons significantly, but over all the Weapon types, although 150 
 years in the future, are fairly similar to the guns in BF2.
  
  The big difference in 2142 is the new Game mode of Titan mode (think Star Destroyer over Battlefield) . 
 In this mode players play a short version of the traditional Conquest mode, trying to capture missile 
 silos on the map, which deplete your opponents Titan's shields rather than tickets. When your opponents 
 shields are down, the new mode comes into its own. When the shields are down you and your team 
 can chose to end the round quickly and assault the opponents titan directly. Players can either 
 be launched to the titan from the ground from an APC escape pod, or by using a VTOL aircraft to 
 board the titan. Once on board players can get ready for intense but some what laggy close quarters 
 combat.
  
  Another feature improved in 2142 in the unlock system, in BF2 unlocks where achieved every few 
 ranks, and allowed a player to unlock one new weapon. In 2142 every rank gets an unlock point, 
 but everything in 2142 is an unlock, med packs, ammo packs, guns, grenades, helmets... ect. This 
 makes the game far more appealing to play, as you receive a new reward every time you level up. 
 It does however leave noobs fairly vulnerable in the game when they have no special abilities and 
 only a basic ammo load out.
  
  Another Feature I found helpfull was that 2142 improves the multiplayer menu systems, and allows 
 for an easy buddy list in the game allowing you to quickly join servers your friends are on, with 
 out having to use programs such as Xfire.
  
  Now that 2142 has had a price drop I would recommend anyone who is a fan of the battlefield series 
 check this game out, it should get you hooked on BF for a while longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c0de_red999
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  this game kicks all other games @$$ i mean it is freken awsome it is just the best game i have 
 ever played it is just soooooooooooo cool BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! you wont be dissapointed 
 at all!!!! There are no games that comes colse to how good this game is. Battlefeild 2 is a great 
 game also but battlefield 2142 is like 200 times better than battlefield 2 and every other game 
 is worse than battlefeild 2 and battlefield 2142 is better than that so just get it it is AMAZING!!!!! 
 Buy It Buy It Buy It!!!! No for real buy it you will be taking off work and school to play this 
 game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopeymaster
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  ok yes this is a good game, but its is  dissepointing 
 its not even funny.
  this game is horrible compared to BF:2, i only wish i still had it.
  Idk what it is, maybe its the envirement or maybe its the weapons but this game is not as enjoyble 
 at BF:2
  One thing is that there is no airplanes... WTF
  Well idk most people agree wiht me, i would buy it but jsut know BF:2 is MUCH MUCH MUCH better 
 This game well dissepoint old BF fans and if you are new then try BF:2.
  
  if your bored form BF:2 then just try this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bones262626
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I read all about this game before someone gave it to me for Christmas. I was expecting a Battlefield 
 Vietnam type experience with this, but I could not have been any more wrong. Not sure I like the 
 combined kits, but weapons are pretty cool and does not suffer from the same problems of early 
 BF2. For example no more dominating helicopters that couldn't be shot down (biggest problem in BF 
 Vietnam) . Good balance with armor being very weak from behind enabling one shot kills at times. 
 If you want an updated feel to BF2 then buy this game. Familiar enough without being boring too 
 quickly. Besides who doesn't get bored after a while on ANY FPS. BUY it today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhanna60
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 19, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  Im very impressed with this game having played Battlefield Vietnam and Battlefield 2 before, 
 this the game had a lot to live up to. I feel a stronger emphasis on Team play in this game with 
 the added bonus of nicer graphics and an overall better interface.
  However there are still some bugs which remain ever present that some players like to exploit for 
 their own advantage (Titan wall for example) . Titan mode is the best part of this game it takes 
 the conquest to a whole new level and allows for two different battles to be fought on the one 
 battlefield, one on the ground to secure the missile silos and one on the Titan itself trying to 
 destroy console panels or trying to protect them.
  Overall I would definitely recommend this game to fans and non fans of the battlefield series and/or 
 fans of FPSs.
  John 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cashuea
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best Battlefield game i have played. First of all the graphics are top-notch 
 without frying your video card. You could almost feel the cold air blow on your face as you move 
 around, considering you are not already feeling the heat of war. The excellent game play also makes 
 this game a winner. Teamwork is vita to winning, especially in Titain battles, where you have to 
 take down giant flying ships. My only complaint is you have to unlock all of your equipment past 
 your basics. The ranking system also is somewhat confusing but easily learned. Anyone who enjoys 
 playing FPS games will enjoy this game very much and would learn it quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callmepsycho
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  After the original title, the improvements in BFV and BF2, I had high hopes for B2142. Unfortunately, 
 those hopes were ill founded. I have now spent many hours trying to get into this new title, to 
 be as immersed, addicted as I had with the likes of BFV / BF2 to no avail. I understand this is 
 a futuristically set game but some of the stats of units / vehicles are strange. The quality of 
 infantry combat appears to have been sacrificed for more gadgets and flashy vehicles. There are 
 noticeable ommisions in HUD displays that are necessary for effect use of certain vehicles. Numerous 
 graphical glitches and gameplay bugs, etc etc.
  The game is good is you havent played the previous titles.. but will prove somewhat of a disappointment 
 if you have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironthor
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  It's a great game because my computer isn't in top condition to play to most advance games today. 
 But, with hard work from EA, they made it so everyone can play the game! Props to them and thanks 
 for a wonderful and exciting game. The learning curve might take a long time, but is definitely 
 worth it. I played last night and found out all of the unlocks were available and made the game 
 much more enjoyable. Also, if you are looking for a lot of competition, then this game is for you! 
 This game may be frustrating in the beginning, but stick with it because the more you play the 
 better you will become and find out secrets on how to attack and defend positions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgmoore7811
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 17, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Hey for all those people who have bf2 and wont get this cause its to similar your making a huge 
 mistake this game is well worth it. Sure it uses the same engine and sh** but who cares. I have 
 had all the bf games as well as desert combat for the orginal. Bf 2 was a fun game but god old 
 after a while. This game completly revists all the bf2 glory and is realy fun. Hard to say why 
 it just is. Titan mode is really fun like attack and defend. I knoe this is like a 50 mod but it 
 is worth it i have spent plenty of time and i now have every unlock. Im telling u if u like bf2 
 or like a great online action game get this you wont be disapointed. This game does have better 
 grapics and is well worthe my 50 bucks. Go buy this its friggin fun as hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedy4life
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  To Start: Battlefield 2142 is alot of fun, and addictive. There are always many people online, 
 and you can always find a server to join. 2142 is down right one of the best PC GAMES ive played. 
 Looking Visual are very well done, makes you feel like you actually on the Battlefield. and the 
 Sound are really well done. The Game is set up like the other battlefields, with your Conquest 
 MODE and they have also thrown in Titan Mode. This Game has many unlocks that you can choice from 
 by RANKING UP in the game as your skill points are earned. 2142 has been alot of fun for me. The 
 best part is running around with your Machine Gun just laying people out left and right. If your 
 into military shooters, this one is set in the future. this one is a must own. so go out and get 
 your COPY today. Battlefield Remains one of the most highly played online action shooter to date. 
 Well Happy Gaming!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hony_Hawk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 15, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  it isthe best game i played this year. it is fun and challenging. the singleplayer mode really 
 helps master all teh weapons and stuff. all so the dog tags really helped. becuse of them im now 
 playing only with knifes pistols and expolesivs. and another thing that really helped were all 
 the awards ,bages, and pins. they are really fun to colletct. and the really cool looking future 
 guns with the cool unlock and add-on's. really one of the best games ever. you should get it. the 
 only bad thing is that it coast $50. i eough got my dad to play it and he said its good. EA you 
 are amasing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RADOGMIJ
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 15, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  This is a great storyline, great thought and detail put into modifications of your soldier, but 
 it is limited to the on-line multi-player. The single player, instant action does not satisfy. 
 The missing part to make this outstanding, would be a single player campaign, or even a multi-player 
 campaign. A story to follow, track the enemy, guard the bridge, infantry assaults, air borne H. A. L. O. 
 missions, something more than just the TITAN mode for your team to use their tactics together. 
 That would make this game beyond anything there today, and possible ever!
  
  Also, the weapons on the vehicles seem a bit weak. The tanks for example, why do they not destroy 
 other vehicles with one shot? One would think that a SABOT round would destroy anyother vehicle, 
 especially the walkers. I know there is a new expansion coming out soon with some new vehicles, 
 that is needed. There sould be more, I think something like a M270 Multiple Launch Rocket System, 
 and a better anti air defense- perhaps a SAM (surface air missle) pod for the APC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Skar
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  I`ve always said the battlefield games are superb, but when this wonderful game got released i 
 hurried to the gamer shop and bought is the first day.
  I tried it and it was better than superb and i loved it , i think this is the best battlefield 
 game so far.
  The graphics are great and the gameplay is better i think the most people who tries this will like 
 it very much. Actually this is one of the best games ever , well thats my opinion thought.
  Now i am just waiting for the Northern Strike to come ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon6786
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield.. Just because you set it into the future doesnt mean thats all u have to make different.. 
 ALL OF YOUR GAMES ARE THE SAME!! damn anyway, the game is alright just repetetive or however you 
 spell it. The guns are cool and the vehicles are fun (except for that damn plane) and the levels 
 are fun.. but its the same thing over and over again. OH YEA and you can design the levels to where 
 i STOP getting CORNERED in my OWN BASE by two walkers and two tanks everytime i go online... PLEASE
 
  
  Anyway i suggest you dont buy the game unless you're one of those weird battlefield fans who dont 
 care if its the same thing over and over and you like being cornered... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 was an amazing FPS game that changed the modern day FPS scene greatly and many hoped 
 that 2142 could do the same but in a futuristic setting. While BF2142 may look better and more 
 advanced it is pretty much still BF2 just tweak (as you can see from the engine/graphics models) . 
 2142 Evolves BF2's rank system with over 40 unlocks for all the different classes and squad positions 
 such as squad leader. This is a huge plus and adds even more persistence to this shooter series. 
 Another great thing about 2142 is its new modes like Titan mode where two teams have flying base 
 HQs and the objective is to infiltrate the other team's titan and destory it. While the ranks and 
 new maps help 2142 greatly it is still held back by (if your a hardcore BF2 Vet especially) the 
 feeling like you've played and done the things your doing before just in a different fashion. This 
 factor and the problems that need to be fixed in future patches hold 2142 back from being a really 
 succesful futuristic Battlefield game. Finally there are only two playable armies which to me makes 
 me think the DICE was rushed in making this game. Hopefully with the new engine and feel, the next 
 Battlefield game, Battlefield: Bad Company can nail the new era of Battlefield on the mark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hampton2003
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  The Good: same great FPS multiplayer expierience, unlock sys is deep and affects your strategic 
 options, new vehicles are fun and air powerhouse is gone, level design is the best so far in any 
 BF game, titan mode is the perfect alternative to conquest, slightly improved single player, better 
 reward sys and point sys focus on sqd team play. in game AD's aren't noticeable and they never 
 change.
  
  The Bad: for VOIP to work you need a sound card (no integrated cards) , unlock sys can make life 
 for new players a little difficult.
  
  first off i was originally against getting this game for 2 reasons, 1; i didnt have high spd internet 
 to play this game. 2. the in game ad's/adware gave me doubts.
  but i got the cable internet and decided to see if the ad's were as bad/harmful as some people 
 say they were. AD'S: im a veteran of BF2 (battlefield 2) , so i knew what to expect gameplay wise, 
 my only concern was the ad's. I discovered the ad's are not harmful and in fact they are somewhat 
 non-functional, i see the same ad's with 3 to 4 variations on almost all severs. the ad's are logos 
 or symbols of sites i dont know of or haven't been too. so i think EA really isn't looking at you 
 all the time, i think there ad sys is broken or they decided to cancel it and just post the same 
 ads so no one questioned if it still functions.
  
  the unlock sys: is very interesting, and its kind of like a tech tree/ladder for each of the 4 
 classes of soldiers. there are 2 trees of unlocks per class, each tree has 4 unlocks. and at the 
 top of each tree is a actual weapon (the other unlocks are equipment) . EA decided you have to start 
 from the bottom of each tree, so you cant just pick the weapons at the top you have to first unlock 
 the stuff below it, so you have to go from bottom to top with no shortcuts. There's also player 
 ability unlocks like grenades, better endurance, more pistol ammo, etc. As well as sqd leader unlocks 
 like spawn beacons, to sensor/gun drones that float over your head. in your first few promotions 
 you'll (as a new guy) be given 2 unlock points per promotion, with each unlock require just 1 pt. 
 so it doesn't completely leave new players at a disadvantage, i climbed through the mud pretty 
 quick and got to the assault rifle weapon unlock in just a few hours of play. of the 2 unlock trees 
 in assault kit i choose to climb up the 1 w/ the more powerful rifle at the top, it only carries 
 20 rounds per clip but fires larger round for more damage, my motto is if you cant kill a man in 
 10 to 12 then your screwed anyway. this weapon is the future equivalent to the G3 in BF2, and this 
 baur weapon has helped me climb higher through the ranks to get more unlocks. after your first 
 3 to 4 promotions you'll have to get the top unlocks the hard way 1 pt per promotion and 3 equipment 
 unlocks before the sweet weapon at the top. so choose wisely on your first unlocks, because changing 
 your mind later means you'll have to play and wait a long time before you can unlock top weapons 
 in a different class than the ones you've been focusing on. my advice is to go for an infantry 
 killing unlock tree, assualt or recon with the special forces weapon, get the good sniper rifle 
 later, anti vehicle unlocks are a good second choice one you got your killing rifle, because tanks 
 and walkers will be a pain in your side when your on foot with the wrong kit to deal w/ them. you'll 
 find out through your first few hours what weapon unlocks to strive for, because you'll find yourself 
 getting killed by these weapons alot. advanced sniper rifle were looking at you! lol
  once you get to around the sargeant rank the amount of pts needed to get promoted to the next level 
 increases, right now i'm near the end of master sargeant gold and its about 900 to 1000 pts between 
 promotions, and i know the higher you get the worse the pt gap gets.
  
  Kits: assault and medic have been combined into just assault, your basic infantry support/killing 
 kit, gun unlocks include the baur (heavy combat rifle) and the scar-L and light rifle. support 
 is still all by itself with a shotgun unlock as well as a heavier mg. while recon class includes 
 both sniper and special forces weapon unlocks, engineer class is the combination of engineer and 
 anti-tank and is more expanded upon to include anti air rocket unlock, as well as a anti vehicle 
 rifle. equipment as you would guess depends on the class you play, engineer equip will be vehicle 
 mines and scanners, first-aid to assault, ammo supply to support and well as sentry mg drone, etc. 
 recon gets scope and rifle stabilizers, and cloak field generator, and all classes include battlenet 
 helmet equipment unlocks, basically once you have unlocked it any time you look at an enemy that 
 info will appear to any allied player in the area so you dont have to waste time manually identifying 
 the enemy.
  
  Vehicles: walkers and tanks are strong, w/ walkers beating tanks from close to mid range while 
 tanks and defeat them easily at long range, air power is not so substantial anymore thank god. 
 apc's are ver important in titan mode because you can launch yourself onto the enemy titan once 
 its shields are down. plus the apc's launch pods are like escape pods too, in case you need to 
 evac cause your going to blow up. alot of the fun in BF 2142 is in the versatility of the equipment 
 and vehicles you use. some vehicles have personal shields. air power is really now just air transports 
 and hovercraft helicopter type flying machine, they are not worth less, they just can't dominate 
 like planes could in BF2. Levels: look great and are littered with wreckage to all kinds of stuff, 
 makes you feel like your fighting in a real world, unlike in BF2 where there are no burning destroyed 
 tanks placed in a level for cover, etc. this is where i disagree with those who say this game is 
 a mod of BF2, the weapons, the levels and vehicles are all top notch, this is a full game. even 
 though it uses nearly the same graphic engine as BF2, this game is still better.
  
  i cant really tell you how fun this game is online, for those who haven't played any BF games before 
 your in for a real treat, theres nothing like it when you've killed five guys without dieing and 
 your low on ammo and surrounded, the adrenaline pumping through you, and all you got left is a 
 pistol or knife, the desperation of the moment to survive, it almost feels real.
  
  I love that and i haven't found anything better in gaming.
  
  i have almost no lag on most 
 severs, and i have the game running on medium-high settings. my only problem with the game is my 
 sound card isn't good enough for VOIP (online communication in-game with other players)
  other than that the game sounds great.
  
  i recommend anyone who plays online to buy this game, 
 and for only $40, its even more worth it. trust me the price wont drop for a while and the longer 
 you wait the longer it will take to get up the unlock sys and be on even footing.
  
  hers my sys specs:
  
  Pentium 4, 3.0 ghz processing spd
  PCI express nvidia 6800 256mb video 
 card (which is 2 generations behind the newest stuff today)
  1 gig of ram
  integrated sound (the only negative in my specs)
  
  BF 2142 soldier profile: SPARTAN-BF2316
 
  -i look foward to seeing you on the battlefield- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archebius
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I have to agree with other reviewers who think that this is a very similar game to 
 BF2. It is very close. However, I have not had nearly the technical trouble with this one as I 
 had with BF2 (I had to write tech support 4 times, and after one patch my game stopped working 
 completely) , I love the new rank system, and I think the minor tweaks here and there have really 
 made a difference.
  
  Technical issues? I have had very few, other then the notorious EA patch that causes servers to 
 randomly crash, and some issues with the game crashing to desktop. Overall, it seems pretty stable 
 once patched. If you do have issues, I have always loved EA's technical support. It's quick and 
 pretty painless. The minor tweaks they've made to the gameplay are by and large good. It might 
 just be me, but I feel like they've changed the basic feel of the game a bit, just how your soldier 
 moves and such. They now have a rank unlock system, where you have to gain ranks to unlock new 
 weapons. This is one of my favorite new features, as it actually rewards your increasing proficiency 
 with new weapons and gear. While at first it can be a bit frustrating (I found enemy snipers with 
 Zellers especially annoying, as their weapons caused more damage and could thus consistently outsnipe 
 me) , ultimately it gives you a real sense of accomplishment to get new stuff. And expect to take 
 some time at every rank, trying to figure out what weapons you want to unlock.
  
  While the news that they only had 4 classes may have been a turn-off to some, it combination with 
 the unlock system, it actually gives you more choices then ever before. Say that you enjoyed the 
 SF class from BF2. It had a fairly accurate, deadly weapon and C4, making it an ideal anti-infantry 
 and anti-vehicle class. Or maybe you enjoyed the sniper class, that awesome tingle you get when 
 you track someone across the open ground, waiting, waiting for just the right moment to pop them 
 off. You take your time, because with your claymores, no one can come up behind you.
  
  Now you just have Recon, and when you first start playing it, you only have the basic sniper rifle. 
 But as you get unlocks, you can pursue one of two paths: either you can get claymores, improved 
 scope, stabilizer scope, and Zeller Advanced Sniper Rifle and live out the motto of Reach out and 
 touch somebody. , or you can get the Demopack, Netbat, Active Camo, and the accompanying assault 
 weapon and become an excellent sneak-and-destroy or just flat out infantry killer. And then you 
 can mix and match different weapons to get a unique set. One of my favorites is the Zeller sniper 
 rifle, the C4, and the cloaking device. Once, a guy was running towards the building I was sniping 
 from, running and gunning towards me. I backed away from the ledge, activated my Camo, dropped 
 down, ran around behind him, and while he was staring up at the ledge I had been on, I knifed him 
 in the back. So really, despite the fact that there are only 4 kits (Assault, Engineer, Recon, 
 and Support) , once you get the unlocks, you have 8 very different kits (Medic, Anti-infantry; Anti-armor, 
 anti-air; sniper, SF; Support Support, Assault and Support) and a few imaginative combinations 
 that you invent names for yourself. All in all, the game is an improvement (albeit not a epic one) 
 over BF2, and if you don't have either, I highly recommend it. If you have BF2, I still think it's 
 a good idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micknator
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 7, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  very good game but what i miss is the realism of the vehicles, i don't like the vehicles to much: 
 not good balanced actually, the titans are to hard to control and the weapons of the vehicles are 
 not good balanced. but besides of that, the creators have done a great job with the rankings and 
 weapons. also the loading times are decreased and THAT is a good job that I admire. I bought the 
 game with Christmas and I cant stop playing. it's actually pretty easy to score points. in 1 sentence: 
 good game, but it could be a little better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drago34
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Probably the worst battlefield game I have ever played. This game killed the series and the little 
 bit of faith I still had in EA. I have had the game since launch, I gave it 3 weeks of game play 
 to give it a chance and it fell way short of my expectation... The sad part about that is my expectations 
 were low to begin with. The game is just crap in my opinion and if your looking for a good FPS 
 just stick with the rest of the series; BF1942, BF Vietnam and BF2. Way to go EA... You know how 
 to let down your fans and release a game that is just plain old crappy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davefleet
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I'm a BF2 fan, so when I got my new system recently I was excited to try out the new incarnation. 
 IMO it's an improvement over BF2, but it's more of an incremental improvement than a leap forwards.
 
  
  The big improvement in my books is the improved squad play. The game now strongly encourages and 
 rewards teamwork, whereas in BF2 people had a habit of just using the squad leader as a spawn point 
 and then heading off elsewhere. I've noticed a decreased tendency to do this in BF2142. The expanded 
 unlocking system is interesting, although frustrating if you don't use your first few unlocks effectively.
 
  
  Graphics-wise, I don't really notice a difference between this and BF2.
  
  Overall, another very good offering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ibitmyeyeoff
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 5, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Now, I'll start off with the whole future concept. Most people see 50 years time as being what 
 might actually be 300 years. This game has an absolutely perfect sense of what the near future 
 may be like. Although it could be slightly behind, they chose a good time frame.
  
  Gameplay, the most important factor. This game is great as far as real-life goes. Sometimes that's 
 a letdown, but BF2142 takes it into perfect perspective and gives you extra abilities of the future 
 soldier rather than none like the modern soldier. You certainly have to add in the factor of weapons 
 in gameplay, and this game shows off great. With the combination of three types of guns per soldier 
 style, it works quite nicely. It also gives more fulfillment than the old 'play the game for fun 
 with almost no rewards'. You can now get online into almost any match and gain points for unlockables.
 
  
  Graphics, certainly up there with gameplay... but more or less make the gameplay what it is. The 
 graphics in this game are over satisfactory, but I would have liked to of seen a bit more realistic 
 explosions as far as missles, mines, and rocket launchers go. It shows off the power of any computer 
 even on minimum requirements with its realism (towards the future) and its sense of being there. 
 Visuals certainly show off when you are being 'chased' by an enemy vehicle of aircraft. It has 
 the whole head bob action and a slight blur as you run for your life.
  
  Sound, it makes the world go round and adds greatness to the first two. The breathing, explosions, 
 gunshots, vehicle enters/exits, sound effects of being shot, and the heart-thumping make you really 
 feel as if you're right next to the person, but able to see what he's seeing.
  
  Multiplayer, although it belongs in gameplay, I believed that it needed its own seperate category. 
 Without multiplayer in this game, you could get no upgrades, have fun, or play alongside or against 
 your friends. The titan mode adds for a great sense of playing style variety, because it's almost 
 like base capturing with an added effect. Titan mode pits two titans against each other. These 
 are, at first, unstoppable war machines with six different turrets. As you take over missle silos 
 located around the map, missles slowly take down the titan's sheilds allowing you to take out the 
 turrets. Once one titan's sheild is down, it's at its weakest point because people can go inside, 
 destroy all four control panels and blow up the reactor core on the inside. Titan usually allows 
 for the largest amount of vehicles seeing as how you must travel semi-long distances from each 
 silo to the next. Other game styles don't offer as much of a strategic, two way fighting system 
 with more on the line. Titan is more or less the seperating factor between online and singleplayer.
 
  
  If you haven't bought this game yet, it's definitely a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god2emperor
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  i dont kno why most ppl and Game Spot think the game is just ok. granted, there is not a HUGE improvment 
 from the old battle field 2, but even if the game play is the same, but the sheer fun and excite 
 ment from the game could not be underestimated. this game take the player to the future, with great 
 vehiles and weapon. the graphics is among some of the best i have ver seen. some ppl complain that 
 there are no plasma weapons but that mean most of the weapon are instant hit, which is a good thing. 
 there are only 2 factions compared to battle fields 2 three faction, that where 2180 lost 1 mark 
 in gameplay, the other mark is lost in no great improvement. but overall, get the game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan1043
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  I have been playing 2142 since it was first released, and let me say that it has made much more 
 progress in updates and EA gets the patches right. I retired from BF2 for the most part because 
 the devs did not pay that much attention in my opinion, and every new patch gave BF2 more bugs. 
 But with 2142 that is way different, EA actually gets the bugs fixed right.
  
  And the game itself is very fun, cheats and mods are very rare in the game. The titan mode is insane 
 (as in fun) and very addicting. Also the way the classes are made up of Tier-1 and Tier-2 unlock/ 
 upgrades is a very good system. When in game the classes to choose from is more limited but it 
 makes the selection process that much easier for you. Overall titan mode has made this game very 
 inovative to the BF franchise and others, and the classic conquest is still fun and exciting. And 
 if you are upset with the responses from the devs in BF2, just slide over to 2142, and you will 
 see were all of EA and Dice's time and work went to since BF2 was released. And you will relize 
 how good of a game this is.
  
  Well i guess thats my 2 cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pogswarts
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best battlefield game ever made. Every little detail you would expect from a 
 fps is here from the guy next to you taking out is clip to the enemy yelling FRAG OUT! After you 
 have played for about 3 or 4hrs your gonna need to unlock some new stuff, and suff being able to 
 use grenades and new weapons or a better scope to just about anything you would expect a medic, 
 sniper, engineer to have. With all the new stuff you can get it's almost like a role-playing game 
 since everyone (just about) has a different weapon/item layout. Now to the game play the part that 
 makes this game gold! The new Titan mode is just so amazing because you might be sneaking in with 
 a knife when you turn a corner and there are three guys with a defense sheild like thing, ammo 
 boxes, automatic firing turret, health boxes, and heavy duty guns aiming right at your head. One 
 of the great things about this game is the new squad HUD, which will be very familiar if you have 
 played GRAW because they are almost identical, and squads make it funnier and easier to gain up 
 through the ranks to get to the very very tippy top Supreme Commander. Now for the bad part of 
 the game..... which is only one BIG problem. The problem is (which is different for different PC's) 
 that in titan mode if you play with graphics some of the graphics higher than low it will freeze 
 the game and you will have to turn off then turn back on your PC, but for some strange reason conquest 
 runs just fine. Even though titan mode might not look to good on your PC it will still be one of 
 the best experiences that you will have with squad based online FPS that will apeal to people new 
 and old to the BF series so See you on the battlefield soldier, and good luck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManofHoliness
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 3, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  BattleField 2142, the next game in the BattleField genre takes place 135 years from now on a ice 
 covered earth. Yeah all of us that have played the popular BattleField games know the story. But 
 this game has got to be the best yet. With many more unlocks and new ways to use them, just playing 
 to unlock everything is worth the time. New vehicles including the the Bogatyr &amp; L5 Rieseg 
 BattleWalkers as well as a step up to the PAC Type 32 Nekomata Hover Tank. There are four classes 
 (Recon) combination of Sniper and Special Ops from BF2, (Assault) combination of Assault and Medic, 
 (Support) luckily just same old support, and finally (engineer) Combination of Engineer and Anti-Tank 
 kits. The thing that I liked the most was the addition of being able to obtain your enemie's dogtag 
 by killing them with the knife. After obtaining 50 unique dogtags you earn the new DogTagger Dagger 
 which is a reskin for your old knife. Being someone that likes the knife I am trying to obtain 
 dogtags from everyone in my clan. The new mode also featured in 2142, Titan has both teams capturing 
 silos to destroy a gian t hovering carrier known as a Titan. You can either let the silos alone 
 destroy the Titan or you can board the enemy Titan when it's sheild are depleted and destroy it 
 yourself. There are bugs and glitches like any other game, but overall BattleField 2142 is definitley 
 worth the money and time it takes to get to your local Best Buy or game store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antisma08
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  this has to be the best fps i've played in a long time everyone has to atleast try this game you'll 
 be in for a suprise the environment will leave you speachless dynamic lighting and the new walkers 
 are a blast to pilot makes it seem like your actually walking with the view bob definatly the ultimate 
 fighting experience i only have the demo right now and i like it so much i'm gonna go get in tomorrow 
 one more factor i do injoy is the fear, your always on your toes because the enemy could be anywhere 
 and if you come round a corner and see a walker face to face your deffinatly gonna want to run 
 and you always have to look up for incoming airial vehicles, all in a nut shell it's an awsome 
 game and everyone who hasn't played it before has to download the demo today 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kornyfool
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Nothing shockingly new in this new BF series... feels like you're still playing BF2...6 single player 
 maps? you got to be kidding me... Weapons aren't great too! Still shoots like a normal modern day 
 rifle... so much for the futuristic technology! If you don't plan to play this game in MP mode, 
 do not even bother buying this game. Well EA has done a fair job with BF 1942 and BF2 so I would 
 have to say that my expectation was pretty high with such great games produced. Oh well, they must 
 always have one bad one... One of the worst games I've played in awhile. Don't want to flame this 
 game any much longer, cause it's not worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Techspert
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 2, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has been getting a lot of hard rap lately, and I for one think that the haters of this 
 game are just not skilled enough to get a high rank. The gameplay is awesome, and incredibly fun. 
 Titan mode is much more enjoyable than the boring and repetitive conquest, and also add a close-quarters 
 combat aspect to the game that was absent in others of the series. But make sure you are buying 
 the game to play online, because the singleplay is terrible. There is no plot, and it only lets 
 you play 5 or 6 conquest maps against incredibly easy computers. Graphics are good, but the sound 
 is nothing special by any means. The value is where this game gets hurt; it is a full priced $50 
 game, even with the in game advertisements (which I have yet to see) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhz
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 1, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is, put simply, a buggy flawed product.
  
  I purchased this game on the strength that I like 1942, and BF2. Oh how I was mistaken! This game 
 is possibly the worst game I have played since FarCry instincts for the 360. The online lag issue 
 is simply unnaceptable, EA and Dice have been making online games for years now, there is no excuse 
 for such lag! The game brought my system to its knees, and my system is by no means weak. (Athlon 
 64X2 3800+, Geforce 7800GTX, 2GBDDR400.) My pc could play BF2 on MAX settings, 1280x960, and 4xAA 
 16xAF, so why cant it manage this game... which is based on the SAME ENGINE! I could understand 
 if the performance of this game was bad in both single and multiplayer, then at least It could 
 be put it down to game engine enhancements, but as soon as I load up single player, I have 60+fps! 
 Where as in Multiplayer I got as low as 8fps!?
  
  This game has a FEW good points however.
  
  Titan mode can be fun.
  The Character models 
 look good.
  The menu/unlock system is nicely implemented.
  
  SCORE SUMMARY:
  
  Gameplay - 3 [To buggy to enjoy]
  Graphics - 8 [Based on the BF2 engine, decent graphics.]
 
  Sound - 5 [Average sounds, nothing special]
  Value - 1 [One of the highest priced PC games around, but doesnt offer any improvement over BF2]
 
  Reviewers tilt - 1 [I am not a fan of this game. Other people may be, and I respect their opinion.]
 
  
  OVERALL 3.1 - If you are a Battlefield fanatic, or a SciFi fanatic then this game may be for you, 
 or if you can ignore the glitches, bugs and lag, then this game can be quite fun at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebtko
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 1, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  I Bought battlefield for the first time in 2006 which was battlefield 2142. It is one of the best 
 online games i have ever played. I love the Titan and the conquest modes which are unique in different 
 ways. You can also check ur stats up on the battlefield website which i found to be fun and different 
 so u can see where your ranked and stuff.
  
  Also this is the only game i ever played then you get kill assists i find that really great because 
 usually in any other game u shoot someone they kill u but u dont kill them and someone else does 
 you dont get a kill assist in battlefield you do.
  
  I rank this game 9/10 for online play If your more of a single player then dont buy this game because 
 u need to play online alot of fun its been a month still playing it everyday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neckr
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 31, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  :) Ionisoija pwns u all! =) Battlefield 2142 is a great game... no matter who you are.... and more 
 if you liked Battlefield 2.... because its add more to the original formula of Battlefield by adding 
 too the titan mode... but i even still liking more the conquest mode.... so... lets settle this up... to 
 explain why this game is so good...
  Battlefield 2142... its definitively a great game... no matter who you are.... and more if you liked 
 Battlefield 2.... because its add more to the original formula of Battlefield by adding too the 
 titan mode... but i even still liking more the conquest mode.... so... lets settle this up... to explain 
 why this game is so good... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneHusky
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  After Halo and UT04 I felt I needed a new 1st person shooter to blow some steam after work, and 
 since I love sci-fi games BF2142 was the obvious choice.
  Installation was a breeze and since i keep my system clean there were no bugs during my first loads 
 and tries at gameplay, patching was also quick and painless, allowing zonealarm to let the game 
 pass through was a bit tricky but once done the game loads and gameplay begins.
  At first needed a few minutes to get my bearings on the map and understand what I need to do with 
 my team once i found out that part too. game play is easy, point and shoot, sound effects and graphics 
 were great, load times between mapsstill are its weak point due the continuous unpacking the game 
 does of compressed files.
  At some point BF2142 causes the system to crash after 4 or 5 games bringing a BSOD showing an infinite 
 loop on the video driver, which has no reaosn to show up as i have a reputable video card using 
 latest nvidia drivers.
  All in all the game is good and quite addicting, with a few bugs that needed to be worked out by 
 EA/Dice before the game was released, seems like both companies wanted to rush the game and by 
 doing so allowed bugs to slip past that should have no reason to be at all.
  Lets hope on the next installment they devote more time to purge any gamebugs and cosmetic bugs.
 
  
  Update: Recently purchased BF2 and I have to say I love BF2 more than BF2142 gameplay wise, in 
 the future you run around with your soldier which is also a cheaply paid soldier, always needing 
 to upgrade to better equipment, many of the guns are overpowered, and recent updates now made some 
 guns worse and others too powerful, but in BF2 its constant, BF2142 still has bugs that should 
 have already been fixed.
  
  Hope EA fixes this soon to help improve the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  Great Work EA. Battlefield 2142 overall rocks. The game is set in futuristic world. It has good online 
 gameplay value. New people can get to practise the game before playing online in its single player 
 campaigns. It's a well team based game. The games graphics if tuned high can offer rich and beautiful 
 environment's with proper shadows. The game has good soundquality too. You get to ride Mechs for 
 the first time in this new battlefield game. Plus you get newer and more cooler vechiles to ride 
 in the game. The 'Titan' multiplayer concept mode of the game is simply fantastic. As you progress 
 in the game you unlock newer weapons and ranks and the weapons in the game are simply amazing. I 
 recommend this game highly to every online FPS lovers and to them also who have missed this game. Make 
 sure you apply the latest patches for the game before playing it online , if you don't want any 
 problems while playing the game. And its new booster packs are also recommended like 'Northern Strike'. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave_gene_pico
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is the successor to the hit EA and DICE game, Battlefield 2, which was highly 
 acclaimed. Does 2142 live up to it's predecessor? It solely depends on how you look at it. The 
 game offers an assortment of gameplay additions for the better, a deep upgrade system, and just 
 a few little things that are guilty fun, like collecting a player's dogtags after knifing them. 
 However, it is foreshadowed by it's beginning bugs, glitches, and performance problems.
  
  The game is pretty much like Battlefield 2, and veterans will find it easy to jump into the battlefield. 
 It also has a helpful in-game tutorial to give newbies a chance to learn the controls and effects. 
 As stated in the paragraph above, there is a deep upgrade system, and upgrades are awarded once 
 you are promoted. Promotions come a lot easier in 2142 then it did in Battlefield 2, and there 
 are guns and equipment to be gained. You can get a helmet upgrade that allows you to see already-spotted 
 enemies and their health, or an EMP grenade, or explosives.
  
  There is a larger emphasis on teamwork, and new goodies like getting points if you order your squad 
 to take a position, and it's taken. Or, if you order your squad to defend a position, and they 
 get kills inside the radius, you get points. On top of all that, the battle sounds awesome, and 
 the graphics are just plain beautiful.
  
  But, there are the matters of the showstopping bugs. If you get this game, I recommend you do the 
 following:
  
  1. Download and install the latest patch.
  2. Go into Options once you've started the game up.
  3. Go to Audio .
  4. Find VoIP and turn 
 it OFF.
  5. Find EAX and turn it OFF.
  
  The in-game VoIP and EAX crashes the game during combat, so turning them off will assure a lengthy 
 and enjoyable time playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 29, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  bf 1942= 1.0, BFV= 1.5, bf2=2.0 and bf2142= 2.5 so yes it is another vietnam, but it takes BF2 
 and turns it into a really fun, more infantry based, better ranking and upgrade system, better 
 awards and leaderboards, and less bugs and glitches. So BF2142 will be really fun if you generally 
 just love the BF series, and it will appeal highly to people who like the infantry stuff. BF2142 
 does add the Titan mode which is very fun and intristing.
  
  Last words, basicly BF2142 is worth the 30-40 dollars, its fun and it will have atleast 50 gameplay 
 hours on you which isnt. I have played for 70 hours and love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrapp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 its definitively a great game, no matter who you are, and more if you liked Battlefield 
 2, because it adds more to the original formula of Battlefield by adding too the "titan" mode, 
 but i even still like more the conquest mode, so, lets settle this up to explain why this game 
 is so good...
  
  Gameplay - Great, all its balanced, the health system, the recoil of weapons, the teamwork (sometimes) 
 and the intense battles. Also, all the maps are well done, and fun to play with. 
  
  Graphics - Simply Great, i like the presentation of 2142 more than the older battlefield ones like 
 1942, 2, why?. I dont know, .but Battlefield 2142 represent the best future concept to me, feels 
 more realistic to other future based or sci-fi games, and the graphics still the same as Battlefield 
 2 but with great lighting improves
  
  Sound - It combines greatly with the graphics
  
  Overall - If you are a hardcore fan of Battlefield games, you wont be dissapointed, you shouldn't, 
 and even if you like sci-fi future based action games, this game is for you
  
  P. S: the engine its still escalable, but i recommend you totally play this game with a video card 
 with shader model 3.0, like the geforce 6, 7 or 8 series or ati x800, x1300, x1800... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theboxmike
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 28, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  Ok so Lets get Started Battlefield 2142 is really quite a exciting game, well most of it comes 
 from the titan run or being in a dog fight with the enemy piloit....... but it does have some majoy 
 flaws that can be very frustating. Such as When You die in the titan, you body just falls away 
 so knowone can revive you, or when the titans get to close together it laggs alot!! ( Not Even with 
 the new patch fixes it!!) Though a good fuller until a new real battlefield game comes out!!
  
  So if you are a fan of the Battlefield series get this!! you will enjoy it!! Though If you 
 are new to the series proably need to check out some videos before Purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firelawrence477
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 16, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is a simply amazing game. I like it much better because it offers more teamwork 
 than BF2. You get alot of points mainly for teamwork instead of kills (kills are only worth one 
 point now) . There are alot of unlocks, some which you already had in BF2 by default (nades, claymores, etc.) , 
 but then there are alot of new intersting unlocks like the sentry turret for Support and air burst 
 rockets for Assault. So if your a BF2 player i highly reccomend going out and getting yourself 
 a copy if Battlefield 2142, and anyways if you don't like it you can always go back to BF2 (Battlefield 
 2142 is only about $60) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lal480
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - First person shooters are almost all the same, there's some snipers, and some guys with 
 machine guns, and some other guys with pistols. Battlefield 2142 is no different. The fun part 
 about it is how you get the guns. When you first start the game, you get slow and inaccurate guns 
 that barely do any damage. But as you move on in the ranks, you get better guns, and new unlocks, 
 and the game seems to get batter. The only problem is that its hard for the new people who are 
 trying to up against veterans who have guns that can shoot 2x as fast as you and can hit there 
 target from 1/2 the map away.
  
  Graphics - My computer is playing it on the minimum settings and it still looks great. Everything 
 from the shadows of the jets flying overhead, to the characters themselves, look perfectly rendered.
 
  
  Sound - When you need something, you just hold down the Q key and a on screen menu pops up with 
 some basic options, and when you click one of them your soldier screams at the commander for it. 
 When you have 32 people screaming at your commander, it makes it sound more like the real deal. 
 If you hook up a microphone to your computer you can use Voice Over IP to communicate with your 
 team.
  
  Value - I just got this game, and I've put so much time into it, I wouldn't have rather bought 
 any other game. I got it on sale for $25, but $50 is well worth the price.
  
  Summery - If you can make it past the no0b stages, and get some good weapons, its actually a really 
 fun, good looking, and great sounding game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garf1274
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  Great game with continued game play for a long time to come. Looking forward to the booster pack. 
 The rank and awards system in 2142 makes this game an obsession once you start playing. The game 
 play has the type of online game play that changes the game up every time you play. Titan mode 
 is a great concept that has not been in anything else and makes this game all the more fun. 2142 
 is a game that you get more for the money and you don't have to pay any type of monthy fee to keep 
 playing. The online community is robust and you never have a problem finding a game that fits your 
 needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SturmGeschuetZ
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is a waste of money , there are 2 aircraft , both practically the same on both 
 sides. 1 Tank per side , 1 Type of jeep per side and similar guns with different sights on each 
 side.
  
  LACK OF CREATIVITY. Remember in bf1942 when there was boatloads of different planes from the junkers 
 stuka , the bomber , the b-17 , spitfire , corsair , p51 ,sbd dauntless, bf109, aichval , yak , 
 zero , etc. TONS OF UNITS! Now its been limited down to two planes. One carries people , the on 
 is like an attack heli. Lame , I THINK SO. Tanks &amp; Troop Trucks- In 2142 one hovers , the other 
 is like an advanced abrams. Also a pod launching APC is in 2142 with a gun and little attachment 
 guns on the sides like in bf2 on the MEC APC's. In 1942 you had the sherman , tiger , panzer IV 
 , m10 wolverine , t34 , rocket truck , m3 half track , the M3 grant in road to rome , the stug 
 in RTR , hanomag halftrack , the wespe , the priest , Jeeps - 2 Jeeps 2 with nitro in them. 1942 
 -&gt; Willy's Jeep , Kubelwagon , Canadian jeep'mobob, and the Japanese black metal car.
  
  Sea- Well thats the problem , THERE IS NO SEA IN 2142. Remember when you could actually use a higgins 
 boat , submarine and drive that carrier !?!?!?!?
  
  
  
  Vietnam had some nice units as well as the moped and some other fun units. My point is that DICE 
 , the makers of the game NOT EA , ( the publishers ) have really fallen off with their last couple 
 of games , its as if they are spitting them out just to keep people buying games from them. They 
 rely on their street cred to get them by but you know that your street cred isnt carrying you far 
 when battlefield 2 is played more than battlefield 2142. In the end this game is DEFFINETLY 100% 
 NOT WORTH THE MONEY. Dice better come out with a rediculously good game to counter 2142 or they 
 are in deep deep sh** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cblx1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 24, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142, a good game, yet surprisingly similar to Battlefield 2; Perhaps this is because 
 it is designed on Battlefield 2s aging engine. Some say it could have been a good expansion pack 
 to Battlefield 2, but I doubt it. The game takes place in  who would have guessed  the year 2142. 
 There is an impending ice age, and two factions, the EU and new PAC (Pan-Asian Coalition) , are 
 warring for the remaining usable land. The game features a completely new set of weapons and vehicles, 
 and even a new mode of game play.
  
  For years, Battlefielders playing 1942, Vietnam, and BF2  I am a veteran of all  have been used 
 to one classic mode of combat, Conquest. The goal is simple, hold the most control points and kill 
 enemy combatants. But now there is a spin, players fight for silos instead of control points, and 
 there are in fact, no points. The game ends when one team destroys anothers titan. The titan is 
 a giant flying warship, which is either destroyed by missiles, or by a direct assault. First, you 
 must capture silos, then; defend them, until the missiles destroy the enemy teams titan shield. 
 Then, either wait for the missiles to destroy the hull, or board the titan. Youll understand how 
 to destroy it after playing a few rounds.
  
  Graphics are damn fine if you have a nuclear powered super computer. If youre playing on a standard 
 rig, good luck even trying to start it. I recommend at least a 2Ghz Dual Core processor, 1-2 gigs 
 of RAM, 256-512MB video card, and, of course, Windows XP. If youve got Windows Vista (to be released 
 in a few days, I had the pleasure of Beta tests) , then a 2.5Ghz dual core, 2-3gigs of RAM, and 
 a 512MB video card. Sound is, well, just OK, I really dont have anything to say, its quality 
 can be defined as whatever. Not bad, nor good. Battlefield 2142 also features some goodies. When 
 you knife kill someone, you collect their dog tags. Pretty nice, huh, not really, you only get 
 a tiny list of tags, the only time you see the full sized thing is the 5 seconds after you kill 
 someone. There is also a hover tank on the PAC team. Most newbs find it incredibly difficult to 
 drive.
  
  Buy it, play it, or not. I like it, you might not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firedragonmaste
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing with all the sweet futuristic vehicles and weapons. my favourite vehicle is 
 probably the walker because it looks so cool when you are driving it and also it is a good support 
 vehicle that strikes fear into most of the players when you see a squad of troops combined with 
 a huge walker. this game when playing on line is just one of the most mental and fastest moving 
 PC game i've ever played and i thought alien vs predator 2 was cool this games just blows it out 
 the water along with all of the fish. i also like the titans battles because its every one working 
 all together trying to get missile silos and also trying to invade the opposing teams titan its 
 just unbelievable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sturym
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  *Disclaimer: This review is from someone who has never played Battlefield 2.*
  
  The second you lock-and-load your weapon, you take off running towards the edge of your faction's 
 titan. As you approach, you take a few running steps, and a huge jump... before you know it, air 
 is rushing past you as you plummet towards the earth. Count to four, pull the cord... your mind 
 repeats over and over as you slowly count to four. Four! You pull the chute and you gently glide 
 to the frozen earth below. Upon landing, one of your comrades pulls up behind you in a buggy, and 
 you jump in as gunner and drive off like a bat out of hell towards your first objective... the 
 missile silo ahead.
  
  Now I've been a HUGE fan of first person shooters, ever since I played Day of Defeat back in the 
 day during CAL, OGL, and CGL matches, winning 2nd place in the CGL for our clan, CSF. This has 
 been one of my first FPS games that is based in a futuristic setting... and I'm certainly loving 
 it! I don't like many games that put you into the future, because it seems to unrealistic, but 
 for the most part, a lot of this game's setup is very realistic. Everything from the kits you can 
 unlock new weapons and devices for, being able to pick up other people's kits, the vehicles you 
 can drive, or your titans (which you can shoot from, board, as well as move across the map to help 
 your friendlies out) make this game an all inclusive battle simulator. The only issue I had while 
 playing was, having no past experience in playing any of the Battlefield games, the learning curve 
 was HUGE! I still don't believe I have officially gotten the hang of flying any of the helo's in 
 the game. Many of the vehicles are also a bit harder to drive. Many of the turret wielding vehicles 
 can have the turret turn, but the vehicle is controlled by the keyboard buttons. It's not an easy 
 task to follow your target, remain shooting, and maneuver your vehicle while not being able to 
 look straight ahead. As far as the weapons go, you have a HUGE selection of weapons to choose from. 
 You can be the stealthy Recon man, who chooses to use either a high powered sniper rifle, or the 
 Lambert Carbine, which is equivalent to the assault gunner's main weapon. As a recon specialist, 
 you can choose to use mines, demo-pak, or stealth camouflauge to infiltrate and sneak past your 
 enemies. I'm not going to go into huge detail about all the other classes, but if you want to learn 
 more, I STRONGLY suggest checking out the EA website for Battlefield 2142. Download the demo, even! 
 Trust me... if you're a FPS player, you'll be hooked. And hell... look me up. I'll always join 
 a squad of friends on here! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord_2002
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is based on the old Battlefield 2 engine. Though slightly dated, it is a proven 
 engine that performs nicely. This game is set far in the future, sadly, the graphics are still 
 stuck in the current generation. Though the game is visually appealing, it is far from next-gen. 
 On a brighter note, the sound is incredible. When you hear a soldier screaming, Medic!!! and grenades 
 going off beside you causing your ears to ring, you'd swear you were living in 2142, fighting for 
 your nation on the battlefield. The game features many different maps which each require different 
 strategies to come out victorious. There are many cool futuristic, yet still very realistic weapons. 
 With 8 different unlock trees to follow, and four different classes to play, you'll find yourself 
 unable to run out of things to do. In conclusion, the game features non-stop action-packed gameplay 
 with tons of diverse weapons and maps. It is a great addition to any FPS player's collection and 
 will give hours of enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordRandom
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Played on 1024x768, ATI X700pro, 1GB ram.
  
  Pros:
  1. Great Graphics
  2. Immersive Gameplay
  3. Smooth Online Gameplay (after several patches)
  4. Very High Replayable 
 Value
  5. Plenty of Mods
  6. Huge Battlefields (maps)
  7. Titan Mode - Great Innovation
  8. Sound is awesome
  
  Cons:
  1. Single Player is still 
 Lacking (why?)
  
  Impartial comments:
  . Not much Hype received compared to BF2
  . There may be a chance it feels like a Mod Graphics is slightly better than BF2 but not top notched. 
 Obviously with my graphic card's limitation, it's not much of an eye candy. But I got satisfiable 
 results. Gameplay is even better; there's plenty of unlockable futuristic yet realistic weapons, 
 new vehicles, new innovations like Titan mode and huge maps that contributes to its high replayability 
 value. Sound is as sweet as sugar. The diving hum of the aircrafts just about to crash to the ground 
 sounds so real that I always panic when I hear it.
  
  However, single player is still lacking. It feels like counter strike and there's no way of keeping 
 track of how well you play offline. As a result, you won't learn much on SP if you're new. Then 
 again, single player is not the selling point of this game. The game does not receive as much hype 
 as before. Maybe it's bad, maybe it's good. Maybe it depletes less mature audiences, which is good 
 for experienced gamers. Does it feel like a Mod? Maybe, but a very different one...
  Nevertheless, this game is great when I bought it and is still as good as before. It even works 
 well with less optimized video cards, like mine, and it gives you a lot of bang for your buck. 
 No complaints. BF2142 is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andresruiz91
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game only that theres a lot of hatters out there that dont like it for X reason. 
 this game is a very good game although i do agree its like a mod for bf2, but its a really good 
 one, worth paying money, but not that much money. one thing that sucks is not every one can have 
 ther own account because you have to buy the game to make one. o well, anyway this is a great game 
 that involves fps skills and if you cant handle it go back to the old stuff. 2142 is a great game 
 and i think its better than bf2. the graphics are great but theres not much diffrence in how i 
 would score these two games. i hate EA but i gotta hand it to them with the battlefield series, 
 its one of the best out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Civ-
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:44 am PT
Review:  Bf 2142 has a great multi player what offers you over 50 hours joy. It has great atmosphere and 
 its good continuation to series. There fights European union and Asian. It has many new weapons 
 of future for an example hovering tank , titans and battle walker. Also has many weapons what u 
 can unlock while playing the game. Conquest mode has stayed in the game which is good. Titan mode 
 is great mode, but it lags sometimes when you are in titan. The game has some adware, but i can 
 forgive it. I think there is too many unlocks so it doesn't fit for less playing guys. Great game 
 it is!!!!11 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142, isn't filled with whiny 12 year olds running around and mic spamming. I know 
 because I've been playing quite a lot myself, maybe it's just that the servers I go to aren't filled 
 with them. BF2142 is really amazingly fun! I had doubts about getting this game, so when Rainbow 
 Six: Vegas came out I got that. Then finally I just bought it, thinking how bad could it be? Well 
 to my surprise it wasn't filled with 12 year olds screaming and TKing. So far I've been playing 
 everyday for quite some time, It's so addictive when you want to get an unlock like the Lambert 
 Carbine or something along that lines! 2142 overall is really under-rated. The graphics is showing 
 it's age, it lags on Titan. But hopefully it will all get fixed. Also, the recent Booster Pack 
 is going to be such **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolognat13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  It's easy to get discouraged by this game in the beginning because the learning curve is so much 
 higher than most games. However, stick to it and soon you'll find your kills rising and your deaths 
 dropping. You accuracy increases, you're not afraid to jump inside a jet and fly around, you begin 
 using advanced strategies to anticipate enemy actions, and, best of all, you consider being squad 
 leader a privilege instead of a curse.
  
  Graphics and sound are amazing, no questions about that. The game-play can be somewhat redundant 
 but it's usually different enough that you find yourself coming back for more. The lengthy way 
 of unlocking abilities is also is a huge plus for replay value.
  
  The games lacks a single player story line. The single player mode that is available is extremely 
 limited. I personally would love to see a patch that increases the options in single player or 
 creates a story to follow. Unfortunately you aren't able to gain Career Points for your character 
 while in single play mode so I suppose it would be somewhat of a waste of time.
  
  The game is incredible and extremely fun to play. It lacks a bit here or there but all in all it 
 is a must have for any FPS player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_soda_guy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 19, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is a game every mmofps fan should have, though the single player game mode is 
 lacking, its always been about multi player anyways. It offer new features such as complete character 
 customization and titan mode that alone justify the price tag. If that wasn't enough it has a new 
 vehicle class, slightly enhanced graphics, new models/skins, etc to justify the price tag. Though 
 core game play is still very similar to BF2, so you may want to just stick to BF2 if you're a die-hard 
 BF2 fan.
  
  Another downside however, is bugs. When first released all of the servers were unstable and no 
 matter your connection it would lag to holly hell, Dice may help make improvements on it though 
 but EA may take awhile.
  
  Overall, for BF2 fans its a nice mods, for every one else its a worthwhile game deserved to be 
 in any gamers collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix_Maxwell
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Poor single player, poor aircraft (though far easier to control) , and the unlocks forcing you to 
 spend most of your day playing the game over and over to actually prove yourself a true threat 
 to the better players.
  More or less it's just a BF2 mod or another expansion put out by EA to get your money, then don't 
 forget the in game ads and you have the perfect money grabbing game. If anything this game should 
 be priced like any other expansion pack.
  However aside from the flaws listed above the game is fairly decent and keeps the classic BF style 
 to it, although the unlocks make it a pain, and gives you a new mode that is well worth playing, 
 even if it is just the demo you want to play and not shell out the cash to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eb0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is by far the best game I have played since the original counterstrike! With little 
 down time, you are completely immersed in this game from begining to end!
  
  Leveling up unlocks new weapons, gadgest, and player abilities. So becoming that General is actually 
 something to strive for!
  
  The best part of this game, is even the first time you play it, you can pick up your dead squad 
 members kit and have every unlocked item possible (as long as you're brother in arms had unlocked 
 everything already)
  
  So from the very start, to the very end this game is impossible not to enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shocker-x-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Well the hype was right, this is a fun game and will be known for... yadayadayada. ok well im both 
 dissapointed and Happy, Battlefield 2142 is no BF2, yet it seems so much like an elaborate mod 
 rather then a All new But wooping adventure, but i feel that this Mod is worth all 50 bucks i willingly 
 payed for it. Graphicly it is what BF2 was, and thats a good thing, it looks Phenomenal, and the 
 shading and textures is top notch, but the low point goes to the over feel that this is simply 
 a free based deathmatch rather then that fight for supremecy war that BF2 was, consiering the fact 
 that BF2142 is fun fun fun, it really cant be seen as Great great great, the unlocks are cool, 
 and im always getting giddy when im just a few points of ranking up, being now a Lasher sergeant, 
 i can tell you this, it gets hard, if you start late, Before you get the chance to score kills 
 you keep getting PWNED by thoes damn supreme commanders with their fancy stealthsuites and high 
 powerd Carbines.... after getting past the begining problems of fitting in, you start getting used 
 to it.
  
  REMEMBER! ALWAYS LOOK FOR A CLAN this is the best way for fun and excitement, join a worthy clan 
 and prepare for the battle of your life, THATS how good BF2142 gets with friends.
  
  Overall this game is OK with yourself but an amazing funfest with buddies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mismajor99
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Despite a lot of negative press about EA, this game is still a top notch Multiplayer shooter. Yes, 
 it is very much like BF2, but with a modern twist. What makes this game stand apart from the rest 
 of the BF series is the new titan mode, which I find highly addictive and very entertaining. There 
 really isn't much of a difference in graphics from BF2, and the same goes with sound and Gameplay. 
 Another positive is that they changed the upgrade system a bit and added secondary unlocks such 
 as the sentry gun, shield, nades, etc..... to the mix. The interface is much much better than all 
 of the BF series, as it runs much smoother and easier to navigate. I also found the loading times 
 to be much shorter than that of BF2. If you're are a fan of the BF series, I see know reason why 
 you shouldn't be playing 2142. Dice did a excellent job overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SU182
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This is my review of Battlefield 2142. The dissapointing game to fill the gap between Battlefield 
 2 and Battlefield 3.
  
  First of all, I bought this game as a preorder from E/B Games, Got the preorder special, I found 
 myself comming back to Battlefield 2 after a few days cause of the Special Forces Expansion.
  
  First of all, The graphics are the same as they are in Battlefield 2, Just slightly improved, 
 There are new effects that match the setting of the game, I won't tell you all of them just cause 
 they are so many, The gameplay is the same in Battlefield 2, It's just a little easier now cause 
 apparently the sights in your gun has changed to a crosshair to make it a little easier to aim 
 and you apparently have new weapons but they are just the old weapons with new skins, Also for 
 a change a pace, The sniper's sights now sway.
  
  The most obvious change is the new unlocks, You have to play through the game (if you didn't pre-order 
 it from EB Games) , To unlock stuff for your class, And apparently, Most of the unlocks dedicate 
 to making the game just like the original Battlefield 2, and there are some new stuff like the 
 cloaking device sutible for stealth and the turret that can automaticly fire at enemies, Another 
 new thing that is introduced to you is drones which can be used to scout and fire at enemies, Also 
 there's the spawn beacon which allows you to spawn at that beacon when your leader is dead, These 
 things are only available for squads.
  
  The other new thing about this battlefield is that the vehicles are totally innovative and futuristic, 
 The new thing is that there are pods that are available on APC's and Titans, You can use it to 
 get to areas you wouldn't normally be able to get to or just escape and sneak behind the enemy, 
 There's also the revamped transports , These vehicles sport 3 members and also now have a speed 
 boost to use in those hasty situations, The tanks has also been revamped, Now instead of the tanks 
 firing a secondary machine gun, They zoom in allowing you to hit your target easier, And here's 
 the dissapointing thing about the PAC tank, It's a hover tank, Which means that it would be hard 
 to target your enemies cause you have to turn the entire tank and get the shot, You'd also have 
 to worrie about recon and enginners destorying your tank from the back cause you have to turn your 
 entire tank.
  
  Also new is (you'll love this) , The new attack chopper. This is a combination of the Jet and Hellicopter, 
 So there are no jets in 2142, However, The new attack chopper is going to blow minds, You can go 
 to speeds up to 600 and the chopper can also hover allowing to spot your targets easier, and the 
 transport has been revamped, It can go up to higher speeds and it's a little easier to control, 
 You can also hover above the target but you are also declining in hight, You can also reach speeds 
 up to 600 by diving and you can eject VIA pods, But watchout for EMP's.
  
  That's a new gameplay element, EMP's (Electronic Magnetic Pulse) , Can allow you to disable any 
 vehicle for a limited amount of time, It can also wash out a Player's HUD for a while, You can 
 use this strageticly to avoid vehicles or destory them, You'll find EMP's on Enginner (EMP Mines) , 
 Support (EMP Grenades) and APC's.
  
  Commander Mode has been revamped to make it easier for newbs, You can select a swad and issue orders 
 with a simple right click, The options of support are now on the bottom and your squad is still 
 on the left, There are additional options for Titan Mode, But there are also some drawbacks, You 
 can't use an orbital strike in Titan Mode but you can move titan for a stragetic advantage and 
 order squads for more defense or offense on the titan.
  
  I forgot to mention, There's a new mode called Titan, The point is to capture silos to launch titan 
 missles to destroy silos, During that time you can move the Silo but after the shields are down, 
 You can't move the titan (after Patch 1.05) , During that time, You can attack the titan and destory 
 it's consoles to get access to the core, During that time, You can attack the core for an easy 
 win, (who likes to wait) , Also noted is that the pods can go higher than in conquest to get to 
 the titan, Transport Choppers and APC's can act as spawn points, There also seems to be an unlimited 
 hight for chopppers.
  
  The sound is increadable at best, It has some new sound effects for some futuristic weapons, But 
 the sound is redone for this game as the future does not want the same old sounds from Battlefield 
 2, Also new is the voice scirptures for both armies, EU uses conventional english and PAC uses 
 russian, and the phrases are the same, Just PAC uses it in a diffrent language, As usual, Since 
 it has X-Fi Support, It can support 128 sounds and decrease the lag, and as usual, It has VOIP 
 support, But who uses it.
  
  Lastly, Let's talk about the bugs, There are a lot of bugs here, Titan mode causes a lot of lag 
 causing it to mostly be unplayable, and even though this has improved networking code, The lag 
 is still there, This causes your character to walk wierd, the game to move slower and your crosshair 
 move 5 more, There is also CTD that overtime make the game unplayable, This game is a memory hog 
 and when loading a level it seems to have errors allowicating memory and crashes, There are also 
 many exploits inside the game as shown by videos by the YouTube community, Causing the fun to be 
 ruined, There is also a bug in creating orders via the Secondary Radio, Wether you are near a flag, 
 It will all default to move as this new system to automaticly give moves only works well in the 
 squad menu or if you are a commander.
  
  This game makes Battlefield easier all around and it also strips most of the features, This game 
 has an improved interface and an improved BFHQ section that shows advanced statistics. There is 
 also a news counter, The bad thing about the server browser is that it's stripped down and has 
 search and filters seperated and on a seperate tab, It also has fixed problems with Favorites and 
 also has a built in Buddy List curtosy of GameSpy, BF2142 is only good if you need your fix, But 
 don't expect an exciting experience in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  If you liked battlefield 2 you will like this. The graphics a basically the same as BF2. But now 
 its in the future so thats about the only difference. There are some new things thou. You can 
 aim down the barrel and it does give you an advantage to someone that isnt. Also full auto isnt 
 the best way to aim at a distance you are more successful with short controlled bursts of fire, 
 Plus a variety of unlikable. There is a gunship that hovers but its control is a little different 
 then a chopper. APCs now have launch pods to board titans and small buildings. All vehicles and 
 soldiers have weak points. Meaning they can be taken out in one hit. All in all this game is addictive 
 and the BF headquarters will tell you how you fair to the rest of the community. And how may hours 
 you have played. I have 9 full days so I have no life. But I still dont compare to sum. In the 
 end If you like the others you have to buy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naku_vamp
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Honestly the graphics on this game are amazing and the physics is also wonderful The Walkers in 
 some cases are too powerful the basically murder tanks if they have a gunner they can take out 
 air craft and they have EMP launchers that basically cripple anything tho amour wise they are kinda 
 weak but still there armed to the teeth with guns Tanks aren't much different at all sept for looks 
 they still work and operate the same
  
  The Apcs have gotten a make over they still have there guns but they have a whole new thing now 
 they have emp granade launchers kinda and normal guns and also teh ablity to launch the peopel 
 inside of the APC via pods the bad thing is bf2 is just WAAAAY funner to play i mean idk what it 
 is is they made flying to easy i liked the fact you had to learn to fly in 2 some may see it as 
 a bad thing but i liked it because in real life everyone isn't fit to be a pilot also i HATE the 
 new ranking system this game offers many new features... but u need to be a higher rank to use any 
 of them and u have to waste your hard earned points so u can be a medic where in previous games 
 medics came with a difliorartor but they raped this game like the battle fields two for consoles 
 which i also hate because they like combined to many jobs and thats what i hate bout this one the 
 jobs are all messed up The game is still very fun and still worth buying but if your trying to 
 decide between battle field 2 or 2142 I'd go with bf2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  While the graphics are fantastic, vehiclular movement is realistic and it feels like you are in 
 combat due to the near future setting, this game is terrible as a single player game.
  
  There are 6 levels you can play and that's it. No scripted story to follow as in Battlefield 1942 
 to even try and string them together; just a bunch of insta plays .
  
  And of course there is EA's desire to know who you are, where you are and what you are doing so 
 they can target the ads in the game to you and your physical location. Even to play single player 
 you need to register on their main servers (or it really really wants you to) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  I've had this game now for quite a while. And after a long hiatus I finally returned to the battlefield 
 so to speak.
  
  It's a great game, no doubt about it. In fact, I installed BF2 and BF1942 because of how much enjoyment 
 I got out of running around in BF2142 again. And I gotta say, this is the best in the series.
 
  
  The unlocks, while annoying that games are going this route, is still a lot of fun. It promotes 
 teamwork by giving you more points to you when you work as a team that helps you level up quicker, 
 unlocking better gear.
  
  There's two unlock trees per armor though, so you really gotta plan ahead. I thought I'd be the 
 killer sniper in this game, but lately I've been in the support role... and when I stopped playing 
 a year ago I used all my unlocks on the freakin sniper!
  
  Each class is well balanced, and there is no 'super class'. But you should be able to wreck havoc 
 on the enemy no matter what you play as.
  
  The VOIP feature is nice, but very laggy, and it seems few people use it. Which is unfortunate. 
 I don't use it either tho, no headset for my computer. :)
  
  Graphics are still pretty decent, and i'm glad my system is twice as fast as when I bought this 
 game so I can really experiance it! I just gotta update my old Audigy soundcard to get the full 
 experiance.
  
  The maps are fun, and well throught out. Their smaller than the earlier games, but that keeps the 
 action close, hot, and heavy. Servers closing in on the player caps are just blood baths, and you 
 really gotta have your wits about you so you don't end up a pile of goo within seconds!
  
  A lot of good players out there now... not a lot of newbies... so it's getting harder and harder 
 everyday. But your skill should be going up too every day so keep at it! Watch, and learn from 
 the others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardykrugen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  The Titan mode is great except that moving the titans causes considerable lag. All the unlocks 
 make it more exciting to make rank. The games still a bit bugy in 1.10 but of course that should 
 get fixed over time. The action is much faster paced than in BF2 and not nearly as organized. This 
 makes the game a little confusing but action packed. Walkers are one of the coolest additions to 
 this game. Lots of fun to use and very deadly. Overall they did a great job with this game. Lots 
 of hiding places make for more time in the game and chances to get a great spot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastercleft
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing in everyway but let me break it down...
  
  graphics: the graphics in this agme are amazing especcially if you can run it on high settings. 
 Some of the high end features and lighting effects are just fantastic and really add to the games 
 realistic look. On the downside some of the textures do look a little recycled and considering 
 it is running ona modified BF2 engine it does look slightly dated by not by too much. Overall thy 
 are excellant.
  
  Sound: really good, I mean its nothing you have never heard before. Some of the sounds from BF2 
 have returned and sort of sound out of place in this futuristic setting but the weapon sounds are 
 really unique and sound utterly amazing.
  
  gameplay: WOW, the game is amazing. I know you may have heard that its too similar to battlefield 
 2 but the multiplayer and game ahve certainly improved. Firstly theyadded a new mode titan which 
 is like a coop objective based game which is very nice and is a good change from classic conquest 
 which is still fun. Second, the character classes have improved the unlock system is improved greatly 
 and so has teh ranking system. They also added a friends list so u can keep track of the people 
 you enjoyed playing with.
  
  Overall: This game is definatly a step up for the series and is a nice change of setting and is 
 a must buy for anyone who is a fan or just looking for an excellant multiplayer shooter. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gonuts2410
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 9, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game i couldn't wait to start playing it, I loved Battlefield 1942, vietnam and 
 2 and this new one looked briiliant. I got it home and installled it. First reaction: This is amazing. 
 After 1 week i had played for a total of 48hours. Right now the review. The new titan mode makes 
 it a better game because people were a bit bored of conquest mode. Titan mode is for people who 
 like objective based multiplayers as you have to take silos and destroy the titan. But there is 
 still the classic conquest mode for people who don't want to do objectives. I play the conquest 
 mode than titan mode but still from time to time fight on the titans. As EA have said there is 
 many more ranks for you to progress through this means more unlocks. The unlocks are very interesting 
 gadgets that go beyond the imagination. The new feature i really like is the dogtags as you get 
 a reward for knifing someone.
  
  This game is great but i wouldn't recommend it to anyone with no internet connection as singleplayer 
 is not as rewarding and has less maps.
  
  I do hope you have enjoyed my review Thank you for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PopSuperFly
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 8, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  The year is 2142, and the dawn of a new ice age has thrown the world into a panic. The math is 
 simple and brutal: The soil not covered by ice can only feed a fraction of the Earth's population. 
 Some will live, most will die. Players will choose to fight for one of two military superpowers 
 in an epic battle for survival, the European Union or the newly formed Pan Asian Coalition. Armed 
 with a devastating arsenal of hi-tech assault rifles, cloaking devices and sentry guns, players 
 will also do battle using some of the most imposing vehicles known to man. Massive battle Mechs 
 wage fierce combat on the ground, while futuristic aircraft rule the skies. When facing one of 
 these new behemoths, players will need to use their wits and an arsenal of new countermeasures 
 like EMP grenades to level the playing field. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsleger
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 8, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  The game is a serious let down, I was a huge fan of Battlefied and Battlefield 2. However, the 
 series needs to expand its use of aircraft and allow more units to be airborne. 2 types of helicopters 
 don't cut the mustard... ya'll can do better. The Titan mode is a great touch, however there should 
 be several Titan models... or perhaps even ones that re-arrange their layout after each game. There 
 were many improvements noted, especially the promotion system. A player doesn't have to put in 
 10,000 hours just to be promoted once. This is a welcome addition to those of us who actually work 
 for a living and only play occasionally as a respite. Finally, the walkers need to do more damage 
 to enemy troops, there are many instances where I hit a guy 2 or 3 times and he continues to live... let's 
 talk balistics and a little of realism. Also, they should have greater anti-armor capability. You 
 get hit with one of those rounds and you'll be flying. Good attempt, however, limited map types 
 and cold/gray scenary makes for a fairly ugly playing environment. Use more colors, prettier maps, 
 water effects... etc. Battlefield 2 had some nice maps...2142 should as well. No one cares about 
 story lines... they just want smooth, beautiful gameplay.... take a note from Crysis. -MjrPane 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlessky
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 8, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  2142 is really fun but could be better if EA release it a bit later on. I'l say tat it is qute as 
 BF2 but BF2 is much better cuz is based on true war.2142 has good sounds, multiplayer can add frens 
 too and the graphics... i cant say it is so good but worth it though. Playing online is the best 
 thing ever. Play titan mode and u will never get bored. The bad thing i dont think most of us r rdy 
 for future war but I'm. The weapons are good too but the shooting is quite hard cuz its hard to 
 shoot some1 even from closeby. This game is worth a pick for ur new PC game or for those who own 
 tis game should continue playing this game cuz is real good but really... not as good as BF2. Buy 
 or rent this game and u will get satisfied with it especially when going online with the entire 
 world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khoo1992
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 9, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is a great addtion to the Battlefield franchise, but Electronic Arts released 
 this game too early (I didn't say its bad) , for some players, is totally too early. Like some players, 
 bought previous Battlefield 2 not long ago, after playing for few times, it released 2142, they 
 just wasted Battlefield 2.
  
  But Battlefield 2142 still has a lot of thing to offer though... The addition of Titan mode to 
 the game has made people to pay attention to the game. The mode is so fun and better than the good 
 old fashion conquest mode. It have 40 ranks and 40 awards to unlock. You can make your soldiers 
 more powerful overtime when you played it for a long time, similar to MMO.
  
  The graphics juz a little bit better than Battlefield 2, the graphics is looking very great and 
 very nice enviroment. The sound add a lot of sound effects of future war, like the walker walking 
 around, the sound pretty cool though...
  
  I should say that if you have a good internet connection, good 3D card and you are a online games 
 fans, you should get this game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beeker12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  The game was a lot better than Battlefield 2 because the new weapons in this game are better, they 
 are more accurate, do more damage, and reload faster because they do not have to be cocked. The 
 magazine comes out and a new one goes back in. Next, the vehicles are better. Mechs are the best 
 because of their strength and speed, they can fight off just about anything that the enemy throws 
 at you. But the hover plane is class, don't get me started about that, it is made to be a plane 
 but it works like a helicopter. It has the speed of a plane but the brakes and landing of a helicopter. 
 It carrys 10 missiles and you do not have to lose time locking on to your target, you just fire 
 like crazy and the missiles will hit the target. Titan mode is the best part to the game you still 
 have conquest mode but titan mode is better than conquest because you get to be on a big battle 
 ship that hovers over the battlefield. You first have to take out its shield getting missile silos 
 just like taking flags in conquest mode, once you take out the shield you have to get on the enemy 
 Titan by using a hover plane, a bit like a Black Hawk or launch pods from an APC like tank. Once 
 you are on the Titan you have to destroy four terminals and you and you're team will be able to 
 take out the main Generator and the Titan will blow but you will get a few seconds to get off the 
 Titan. You will not get an award for getting off the Titan but it is cool to see it blow. Thank 
 you for reading my Review and have a good day or night? Bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miracle_Air
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Let's get one thing out here first people:
  
  THIS IS MY FIRST PC FPS. THEREFORE, I plan to rate this as a stand alone title, treating it as 
 if I've never played a BF game before.
  
  Therefore, having not played BF2 on the PC and only on the consoles, I'd have to say I am VERY 
 suprised in the difference. Controls are tight naturally and everything flows well. We all know 
 controls for most PC games are not a problem.
  
  But gameplay is what matters the most these days, isn't it? Fast, furious, adrenaline creating 
 action. Guns blazing, bombs exploding, EMP's... Yeah, I've run out of action-y phrases, so sue 
 me. Simply put it's what you want from an FPS.
  
  The number one thing I was worried about when I first played this game was communication problems. 
 No real headset communication, something I was really used to in the console version of BF2. But 
 in fact, I found it much easier to concentrate and play well with the simplified forms of communication 
 through the keyboard shortcuts. Granted there's not an exact phrase for every situation, it still 
 does a good job of subsituting for the lack of voice over IP or whatever it's called.
  
  But what's a game without weapons? Honestly, the difference between modern weapons and futuristic 
 ones I believe is made very different here. I personally think the way the guns are reloaded, the 
 types of sights in each gun shows its advancement in technology! The Defibrillator is like nothing 
 I've seen, proving the sort of advancement made in how things work. What about the new proximity 
 mines which keep people from passing the field they cover by exploding when their infra-red field 
 is penetrated? How about the EMP Mine that a soldier can carry around and set with ease?
  
  The time passed between the two games has been shown at least through my perception.
  
  But 
 really, we know that the heart of this game lies in the Titan mode of gameplay. Two large ships 
 fly over a battlefield as soldiers are down below, capturing anti-Titan missile silos in an attempt 
 to take the enemy down. The capturing, stealing and re-capturing of the silos can seem somewhat 
 tedious at times but the thrill of storming and destroying the Titan is what's best. Sometimes 
 you'll be stuck landing on the titan and being killed instantly and you'll feel very down about 
 it. The real thrill comes from a heated battle between the two forces when teammates truely work 
 together either to protect or destroy the titan. But an even more amazing thrill comes from the 
 actual destruction of the aircraft as you rush to flee from the fallen aircraft as it explodes 
 from the core. The sprinting to get to the cargo bay and back outside and the amazing feeling jumping 
 from the dock and flying through the air, opening your parachute and feeling that amazing sense 
 of acomplishment. THAT is the thrill of the game.
  
  Overall for a newcomer, this is an AMAZING experience. Good gameplay, good graphics, AMAZING sound 
 if you have surround sound and a smooth running game with the right computer, BF2142 holds solid 
 in what an FPS should play like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gravrdr
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Nice graphics and that about sums up the good points. The controles seem similar to other shooters 
 but are hard to reconfigure. lack of a single player campaign has completely crippled this game. 
 Personaly I'm not into the multiplayer arena and that is what this game is. ONLY multiplayer. The 
 single player 'maps' are just for practice. I doubt I'll ever be willing to play another EA title 
 again after this flop. If on the other hand you are into the multiplayer games then you may actually 
 like this game. Good premis, BAD Execution. Bottom line is don't waste your money on this game. 
 In a year there will be no replay value at all.
  EA, You SUCK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoberWarock
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142, I just tried the game today, and wasn't happy with it at all. The graphics arnt 
 as good as battlefield 2, there arnt more classes, the main menu is not as good as battlefield 
 2's and the sound in this game ain't as good as battlefield 2's. So basically I prefer Battlefield 
 2 way more than this game. Though there are more stuff to do in this game, but it is too much for 
 me. Now let me talk about that installation, when you first install this game, you will have problems 
 for damn sure. If you are not familiar with computers and folders, and you have a game like this, 
 basically your screwed, because you dont know how to get the missing files. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mannsdan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  That was the coolest thing I have ever seen in a video game! That is exactly what came out of my 
 mouth when I saw 2 walkers going at it in close quarters on the Camp of Gibraltar map. One of them 
 finally flipped over, blew up, and a huge chunk of it flew right near the location where I was 
 standing. This game is seriously fun, currently my favorite game and monopolizing all of my gaming 
 hours. Conceptually very similar to BF2 but with some very, very cool upgrades. I love the new 
 vehicles and the new weapons. Nothing can invoke fear in my heart more than hearing the neaby footsteps 
 of an enemy walker when i am ill-equipped with an assault pack to take one down!! The new maps 
 are gorgeous. Gibraltar, Berlin, Belgrade, et al - it's so hard choosing a server nowadays! Then 
 new Titan Game mode is amazing as well. One of the most exciting moments in my gaming career came 
 when i set the final charge on the Titan reactor causing its destruction; our team was behind and 
 lil ole me saved the day! (Me and my squad that it!)
  I give this one a 9.5 and posted my copy of Oblivion on E-bay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCaReCr0W
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Active-camouflage is keeping you alive as a squad of European Union troops passes. You radio a 
 request for backup. The rest of your squad was just decimated by an enemy battle-walker, but was 
 lucky enough to take it down with them. Youre alone, behind enemy lines, and backup is minutes 
 away. If you can muster enough bravery, capturing the enemy base will give your team a huge advantage. 
 One six-man squad stands in your way. Your active-camouflage unit runs out of power
  
  There was no preparation for what humanity would face in the year 2142. An ice age has made most 
 of the planet uninhabitable, and Africa is the new Promised Land. We fight to survive. Its what 
 makes us human. The Battlefield is a dish best served cold.
  
  2142 shows that the aging Conquest mode still has plenty of life left in it, and introduces the 
 new Titan mode. The ranking and awards system comes into its own with more than forty unlocks, 
 and the new battle-walkers make for some excellent future mayhem. Stylistic additions keep the 
 old graphical engine up to snuff, and the battlefield has never sounded as good. 2142 is worth 
 your time if the new Titan mode interests you, or if youve grown tired of fighting in the present.
 
  
  In Titan mode two teams will fight for control of the missile silo spawn-points. Each teams titan 
 shield is periodically weakened by the missiles fired from these silos. The more silos controlled 
 by your team, the faster the enemy titans shield will deteriorate. The two factors that make Titan 
 mode so distinct, however, come later in a match. When a titans shields are destroyed the opposing 
 team will board it. Defending or infiltrating a titan is made up of intense close-quarters combat. 
 Around every corner lies an enemy waiting to gut you with his knife, blast you with an assault 
 rifle, or detonate you with a frag grenade.
  
  Once youve jettisoned yourself onto the enemy titan using a boarding-pod, shot out of a well positioned 
 APC, you have two objectives. Destroy the defense mechanisms to gain access to the core, where 
 youll then fight desperately to destroy the glowing pillar of power. Youre unlikely to find as 
 intense battles in any other multiplayer game, with more bullets flying, bodies falling, and missiles 
 exploding than youve ever seen. And the battle continues to rage on the ground below, as well.
 
  
  Although Titan mode offers a change of pace to Conquest mode, its not nearly as polished. The 
 framerate and latency generally doesnt hold up well. Additionally, theres a glaring glitch in 
 Titan mode. Most of the time, if fatally wounded while aboard a titan youll clip through the walls 
 or floor making it impossible for a medic to revive you. Titan mode is a worthy addition to the 
 formula, and creates some truly epic battles. It is also quite unstable, however, and makes for 
 a gameplay mode that is difficult to play for extended periods of time.
  
  The amazingly comprehensive ranking system is back from Battlefield 2, but gets a lot more attention 
 in 2142. You can still compare stats with your friends, and brag about how you have more knife 
 kills, but the awards system gets its share of the spotlight more than before. Players get rewarded 
 not only for playing skillfully and working together with a squad, but playing around with all 
 of the classes, vehicles, and weapons. This further encourages players to explore all that the 
 game has to offer. The most important aspect of ranking up is the wealth of unlocks then made available 
 to you. 2142 may only have four player classes, but these become particularly customizable thanks 
 to the forty-plus unlocks. The feeling of ranking up in Battlefield 2 made your playing sessions 
 especially rewarding, and 2142 expands on this by giving players more unlocks to choose and genuinely 
 handing them at a much faster pace.
  
  The Battlefield 2 graphics engine gets recycles here, but has quite a few bells and whistles pinned 
 on to give the game an updated look. More than anything, the style of the game is what makes it 
 stand out. Everything has a future-esque refinish to it. Even if it doesnt feel that different 
 from previous games in the series, it genuinely looks distinct. The architecture of the battlegrounds 
 is simpler in design than our current world, but still has a human touch to it. The world looks 
 like something we could see 100 or so years down the line. The guns all look more advanced, even 
 if, again, they dont necessarily perform any different than current weapons. The vehicles, as 
 well, all perform their expected tasks, not often throwing in anything too exotic.
  
  There are, however, a number of things that stand out, youll be able to set up temporary force 
 shields to protect you, automatic turrets to mow down enemy soldiers, or motion-mines that seek 
 out and destroy only your opposition. Throwing EMP grenades can buy you enough to time to plant 
 C4 on an enemy tank, and roaming through the tight corridors of an enemy titan is made easier with 
 a floating battle droid covering your back. The two-legged battle-walkers stomping through the 
 streets of Berlin, however, is about as futuristic as 2142 gets. Rounding a corner into the long 
 shadow of an enemy walker looking down on you is an amazingly helpless feeling, unless youre equipped 
 with some C4, and the guts to rush the behemoth.
  
  The sound in 2142 is even better than that of Battlefield 2. The voice commands are of a higher 
 quality than before, sounding a bit less cheesy, and the sound effects pound with an exceptionally 
 intense velocity. Youll feel as if the ground is shaking when you hear the thunderous footsteps 
 of an approaching Battle Walker. The titan turret-fire hammers the earth with a deafening impact. 
 And if you listen very closely you may hear an invisible assassin flanking you with his knife in 
 hand. Even loading the next map is accompanied by an epic original score capable of getting you 
 pumped-up for the impending conflict. 2142s audio immerses you in a futuristic battle for survival 
 like never before seen in a multiplayer game.
  
  There is a certain degree of disproportionate gameplay, for new players, considering most people 
 will have at least several unlocked weapons and player upgrades. This doesnt make a major impact, 
 though. The majority of unlockable weapons offer differing power and accuracy, but arent any better 
 than the original weapons available. In this way, then, the only thing new players need worry about 
 is their own lack of skill and experience. Balanced gameplay is always the more important aspect, 
 but it is nonetheless disappointing to see the time spent unlocking more weapons barely influence 
 the outcome of any future firefight.
  
  Battlefield 2142 is a worthy entry into the series, and theres more than enough incentive for 
 any fan to enter the futuristic fray. BF2 set the groundwork of what a big-battle multiplayer shooter 
 should be, and 2142 doesnt do much to change that formula. It has some flaws, and Titan mode is 
 maybe a little too ambitious for its own good, but Conquest mode still offers up plenty of thrills. 
 2142 is, in most ways, a refined version of BF2 with plenty of evolutionary advancements, and is 
 a lot of fun for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MysticSleeT
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:06 am PT
Review:  An excellent game once you get the hang of it, it is really enjoyable. With orbital strikes dropping 
 right next to you, you feel as if you are really fighting in a war. Non stop blowing up and men to 
 shoot. The guns and vehicles are all so cool, it just makes you wanna be living in those times right 
 now. At some points the action is really tense and there are many awards you can pick up while moving 
 along through on line experience. One aspect that is quite challanging about the game when you start 
 off some people have already unlcoked quite a few things so it is going to be quite challenging.
 
  I love this game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Electronic Arts does this thing I hate so much, and that is Release a new game in an existing franchise 
 yearly. It doesn't just apply to their sports games like Madden or FIFA, where it's a given that 
 those get yearly updates, but even their non-sports franchises like Need for Speed or The Sims 
 receive a new game or expansion every year. The main problem with this is that it feels as if they 
 just make the games and don't care much about continued support with said game, instead suckering 
 in those fans that love the series to buy every new edition, which makes those executives happy 
 in their wallets.
  
  But that's a rant for another day. Battlefield 2142, the newest game in the Battlefield series 
 of games, is a prime example of this tactic. It doesn't feel like something new, in fact, as a 
 games journalist once said, it feels more like a mod for Battlefield 2 than a new game. And he 
 couldn't be more right.
  
  Battlefield 2142's premise is simple: In the early 22nd century, the world had suddenly plunged 
 into a new ice age. The surviving armies, the Pan-Asian Coalition and the European Union now fight 
 for the remaining inhabitable land in the world. And that's about it. Its story is as shallow as 
 it can get.
  
  2142 decides to stick to the old Battlefield games premise: Capture outposts, drop the enemy's 
 ticket count down, and the first to reach zero or whoever has the lowest within the time limit 
 wins. This has been Battlefield's draw, what hooks players in. The main problem with this is that 
 it's getting old. A twist in game variety would help the series. And thankfully DICE and EA had 
 the right idea with the new Titan game mode.
  
  In Titan mode, instead of capturing outposts, you capture silos to launch missiles at an enemy 
 Titan ship to destroy it. Once the shields are down, you can continue capturing silos and destroy 
 it that way, or get onto the Titan, destroy the four reactor consoles inside, then destroy the 
 core. While this is a refreshing change, there are a few problems with it. One big problem is that 
 for some reason, moving titans close to each other causes the game to uncontrollably get laggy, 
 which makes gameplay inside the thing neigh impossible. Titan mode is a cool concept, but Battlefield 
 really, really needs more than two game modes. Hell, they could steal game modes from other games, 
 like that Capture the Flag variant that I once played in Delta Force: Xtreme.
  
  At first I thought the graphics were the worst ever, wondering if I had jumped back into 2002 or 
 something. But then I realized everything was set to Low . Setting things to Medium made things 
 look significantly better. Like Battlefield 2, the game asks for pretty high system specs to get 
 the game to run well with all the bells and whistles. While I did not attempt to see how it would 
 run on high, I would assume it would look great. 2142 also uses that streaming ad support thing 
 that's become prevalent in many modern games, but it's negligible at best, where you will at most 
 see 2-3 banners throughout the whole game. However, it appears to only have 2-3 ads, because I 
 kept seeing the same ones for Intel processors and a Discovery Channel documentary.
  
  In terms of the levels, most of them take place in snowy areas or dusty areas. The problem with 
 this is that it gets old real fast, especially since there's no other variety in terms of these 
 maps. It would've been nice to see some other locations, because variety is a good thing, developers.
 
  
  The game relies heavily on voice commands, and it works, but the problem is there's little variety 
 in the speech that players give, so expect to hear the same phrases a million times. In addition, 
 the PAC voice acting sounds flat and lifeless, where they shout off commands and calls for a medic 
 very calmly, not even in a panic. This is a stark contrast to EU's voice acting, which has some 
 vigor in it. The game sounds okay, and the music goes from great (such as the music in the introduction 
 video, a remix of a Battlefield 1942 cue) to average (some load screen music) .
  
  Like its predecessors, Battlefield is known for having vehicles in multiplayer. And there are plenty 
 of them in Battlefield 2142. There are cars, tanks, and flying vehicles, and thankfully flying 
 vehicles have been streamlined this time. No longer do you need to have three hands in order to 
 keep a helicopter in the air for more than five seconds. There's also walking mechs, which is a 
 nice touch, given the setting.
  
  One of Battlefield 2's awesome features was the ranking system. You did certain objectives, you 
 got points, you would eventually rise up in ranks, even get awards for doing certain deeds. Eventually 
 rising up ranks would give you unlockable weapons. 2142 keeps this aspect, but since there's only 
 four classes instead of Battlefield 2's seven (or even Battlefield 1942's five) , there's a lot 
 of customization. Your Recon class can be a sniper or special ops, however unlocking weapons takes 
 some time and lots of unlocks in order to get to them. The ranking and unlocks are one of the great 
 things about the Battlefield series, as it gives players incentive to keep playing. The only problem 
 is that it tends to lead to a lot of stat padding online so you can unlock a weapon, badge or metal.
 
  
  Battlefield was always known to be a multiplayer experience, and Battlefield 2142 reflects on that. 
 The singleplayer was obviously put on the backburner once again. For one, you can only do Conquest. 
 You can only have 16 players, and only do a set number of maps. Second off, the bot A. I. is incredibly 
 stupid. Most of them clump together, and only a handful of them do things that actual players do. 
 For instance, one member of the Assault team was playing as the medic, and he always had the medic 
 box open and stood in front of a damaged teammate with it. He never deployed the box, or at least 
 as I saw. I've also seen teammates get stuck and spin around like idiots, even seen a teammate 
 walk a mech into a tree. The A. I. also never really deviates; so expect to be mauled by half the 
 opposing force since they're sticking together.
  
  Really, the singleplayer is an utter joke, don't even play it. Some would suggest it works as training, 
 but since some vehicles and game modes only become available when you're playing with a certain 
 number of players or online, you won't be able to try out certain features, even Titan mode, until 
 you actually play online.
  
  This game doesn't feel like a new game. It feels like it's an incomplete mod, a cheap cash-in. 
 It's not as robust as Battlefield 2 is in terms of variety. It feels like DICE took a step backwards. 
 It's a decent game, but it's not worth the $50 purchase. Wait a year or so down the line, when 
 the next Battlefield game comes out (and there is one coming soon) , likely the price will drop 
 like bricks. But hopefully the players won't.
  
  Pros: Titan mode, cool vehicles, ranking system, unlocks.
  Cons: Weak singleplayer, little game 
 variety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarukaSawaguchi
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of the greatest online games ever, featuring massive improvements over it's 
 predecessor, however, it's follow up 2142 feels more like a fleshed out mod or an expansion then 
 a new game. The new 'Titan' game mode is addictive, and possibly even better than 'Conquest'. The 
 game is set in the far future, though it doesn't really impress, this vision of the future is bland 
 and uninspired, nothing we haven't seen before. The graphics aren't anything spectacular, they 
 look nice, but they're bland and uninspired, just like many of the games additions. Battlefield 
 2 still looks much, much better. The game also is a major system hog, however, one nice thing is 
 the fact that the load times are now bareable. The game crashes, a lot. It's just as unstable, 
 if not more so, than The Battlefield 2 expansion. The game is addicting, but it's just more of 
 the same and delivered with less style. It's a game worth having, but unless your a total battlefield 
 freak, you might want to wait for the price to go down, as it's not an improvement over the last 
 game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-edge-9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Now if we could only convince most of you out there that team play is the way to go. This game 
 will not be liked by the lone wolf sect of players like battlefield 2 was because you just just 
 end up being cannon fodder for those who know how to team play. You will know this has happened 
 when you get steam rolled by the opposition and you cant seem to get people to work together or 
 follow orders. This is the first game in online play where you are at a huge disadvantage if you 
 do not belong to a clan.
  As far as I am concerned thats what makes this game special and will be the wave of future games 
 in this segment. Why have online gaming with high speed if you are not going to take advantage 
 of all the tactical and communication abilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarXPS
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Personally I did not find this game to my likeing, my reasons, well first off I think the game feels 
 a bit rushed, when you really get into it. For instance the game play and levels feel like a kind 
 of battlefield 2 mod? But there has been some improvements in the grapics mainly the lighting effects 
 and shadows. Also the vehicles do look impressive in the game especially the walkers and the tanks. 
 The weapons on the other hand look less impressive, mainly being the knife, when you try and stab 
 someone It does not quite work the way you planned?. There are some other annoying features in 
 2142 too like the camouflage system for the sniper, it only works if you hold down the button but 
 buy doing so you cannot operate anything else! But these are only minor issues, the main failures 
 in the game are Graphics, Game play and the Weapons system. O and the levels are a real let down 
 too. SNOW WTF??. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carversth
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  Everyone which already played any of the Battlefield game series already knows about the gameplay. 
 Vehicle action mixed with Infantry Action...
  On Battlefield 2, Helicopters and Planes was the worst part of the game, since BF2 wasn't a balanced 
 game.
  
  At 2142, is different.
  The game is balanced, the Infantry has a big chance against Vehicles.
  Some may say Walkers are 
 invencible, but a true BattleWalker pilot knows that it's not too hard to get his little toy blowing 
 up.
  
  With the ranking system, and awards (which now gives you more points to rank up faster) , you can 
 get unlocks, making the Soldier life more simple, easy and fun.
  
  With the 4 classes the game find it's balance, and gives chance to everyone to play and have his 
 fun, even if the player don't got any unlocks, all he have to do is use their basic equipment well, 
 learning the game controls, and some tricks... everything you can learn with practice or observing 
 other players.
  
  It's really fun to watch how the battle goes out on Titan mode, with a server of 40 players full...
 
  People working with squads, teamworking to win.
  Commander assisting his forces.
  Vehicles doing their job smashing the other team's guys...
  And when the way is clear...
  GO 
 GO GO inside their Titan :)
  
  I think Balance, Teamwork and Fun describes this game, I really liked it... and I play it everyday.
 
  
  Recommended to all FPS fans :D
  
  See you at the Battlefield, Soldier! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biteme12345
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  OK, so here's the deal, the game is great, overall, REALLY good concepts (again) with the different 
 classes. At first, when I discovered the Sniper and SpecOps from BF2 were incorporated together, 
 I was worried, as my FAVORITE class to play was SpecOps. BUT, I got in there, and played Assault 
 for a little while, which has also been mixed with Medic, and enjoyed it, then Switched to Recon, 
 which is sniper &amp; spec ops together... after getting killed alot and then figuring out the 
 tactics for recon, I am having a blast! That's the good side... the down side is this, if you don't 
 have voice capability and some friends or a clan to play with, you often find yourself left alone 
 on the field of battle. Commanders and Squad Leaders, if you're really trying to run the battle 
 like a real battle, with a bunch of people you don't know, forget it. When the others do follow 
 your orders, it's only cause they were going that way anyway. Most of the time, they'll out right 
 ignore you, then complain when you don't send them supplies, a UAV or what have you.... but then, 
 what do you expect from a bunch of people you don't know?
  
  If you do have a friend or friends, or a clan, and voice capability, then you're set, whether you're 
 in command, or just runnin as a regular soldier. Stay with your team and you're set. I've seen 
 some amazing team tactics used by Clans and Teams on both BF2 and BF2142... and if you're using 
 teamspeak, it gets even better. I have ACTUALLY seen a whole army act as one, at ONCE! Satellite 
 Bombardment at one location, while 4 squads, attacked two different flags at the same time. I was 
 on the OpFor at the time, and what amazed me was NOT the fact that it happened at the same time, 
 but the fact that it took so little prep by the opposing team! Needless to say, the team of people 
 I was on (who didn't know each other and weren't using voip) lost that round.
  
  OK so that's my take on the gameplay... what about the Tech?
  The sound is, decent... it might 
 be better on my system if I had a 3d soundcard setup, but I find if you use headphones, the 3d 
 sound still *sort of* works... alot of the gun sounds are slight recycled variations of BF2 but 
 the in game radio sounds atleast have been updated, and the game now has the option to make sure 
 all of these yelled comments are in english, which is nice. Loading times can be a bit of a pain 
 on this game though. They ARE better than BF2, but still long enough to be slightly frustrating.
 
  
  Graphics.... OK so here's my problem, I have the options turned down to medium or low, and with 
 antialiasing on or off, I still get a weird pixalation on occasions. I think this MAY be because 
 of lag, but still, when you want to see atleast SOME pretties, it's annoying.
  
  Now for the biggest problem of all online games: LAG. BF2142 has a lag meter on each server in 
 the list screen which is nice... the thing is, the game sometimes lags, even on fast connections? 
 This can be annoying, esp when the game glitches, with running or lying prone... I mean, when you 
 are sprinting along, happen to spot a sniper, and hit the dirt to avoid the bullet that is coming 
 towards you, (as most people would do) then suddenly stand up and run three more steps (usually 
 right into the oncoming bullet) it can be, frustrating. Truthfully, I am not sure if this lag is 
 due to my computer setup (and wireless network) or if it's because of the game.
  
  On another note, it seems if you crash out of the game, then log back on, you will find yourself 
 getting kicked from servers for duplicate CD keys... simple fix, shut down the game (the normal 
 way) wait 5 minutes and then start it up again. Amazing that EA can't account for IP ghosts. Oh 
 well.
  
  Still despite the minor glitches I've listed here, on the whole, with or without a clan or bunch 
 of friends, this game still kicks @$$ online! I would definately suggest to anyone who can put 
 up with EA and likes to play FPS online, should pick this one up!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhankeydinks
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  War is hell, thats what I say. War is fun, thats what some soldiers say. War brings peace. The 
 list goes on forever and probably will one day include War doesnt involve guns. Meanwhile we can 
 use Battlefield 2142 to see what World War 3 may hold for us. Do the guns shoot laser beams instead 
 of different calibers of bullets? Well, the answer to that is no. It seems according to DICE, the 
 company behind the battlefield series, doesnt think so but, the future holds many unlockables 
 and Titians.
  The game as usual has no campaign, and its single player aspect never did hold up when compared 
 to multi player. There is a back-story to this version, well there needed to be. Otherwise, it 
 would go something like this:
  Hey John, I wanna shoot a gun.
  Ok John, heres a gun
  Bob, I wanna a war.
  Okay, lets go piss off the PAC the same way our late president George 
 W. Bush pissed off the whole Middle East.
  Yeah thats how I see it. Well, the back-story, epilogue, is that it is the dawn of a new ice age 
 and two factions the EU and PAC are fighting over the land that is actually habitable. Therefore, 
 two factions, the European Union and the Pan Asian Coalition, which means no egotistical Americans 
 that, think they are better. When you first start, you obviously start at the lowliest of ranks 
 and have to work your way up to get unlockables and eventually new weapons. Unlockables consist 
 of grenades, steroids, emp grenades, tiny shields, shotgun blasts, odd looking deliberators, a 
 C4 like demo pack, and much more. On your way through your ranks, there are six unlockables for 
 each class; four classes in all. Then after you unlock three unlockables, up the same column, you 
 can then unlock a gun! There are two unlockables guns for each class but you must unlock all six 
 unlockables to get both guns. Currently Im working my way up both Support and Assault; the other 
 two classes are Recon and Engineer. So lets see, so far weve got, twenty-four unlockables, eight 
 unlockables guns, and plus another eight unlockables, four of which are for you personally and 
 another four for squad leaders. You and about another one million people are going to be very busy 
 with this game.
  The game plays just as BF2 did, except the weapons are somewhat futuristic and more accurate, if 
 you can call it that. I say that because the future doesnt seem too different from the current. 
 Conquest mode still stays pretty much the dominant game type while Titian mode brings some new 
 core values to the game sometimes it gets boring because your team just isnt that good. The new 
 APCs are useful for Titian mode because on the shields are down you just park them near the enemy 
 titian, right click, and your rocketing through air to maneuver your pod onto the deck that way 
 you can infiltrate the enemies Titian and destroy the core. The whole game really is just like 
 a BattleField 2 mod, or BF2s Vietnam. So game play wise, not much has changed, and the vehicles 
 feel more futuristic than the weapons and there is a new mode; Titian mode.
  Graphics, well, there is a new lighting engine which it either incorporates Bloom or HD, not sure 
 which one it is. Besides the new lighting, its the same engine, except the future looks bleak 
 compared to current day wars portrayed in BF2. The color palette doesnt change much with each 
 map and when it does, you wont notice. The palpable feel of OMG THIS is F***ING awesome isnt 
 there as much as it was with BF2 and it will feel like a mod. I can say though, that the sound 
 in the game is very stylish especially the score for the game. Its futuristic yet seems to have 
 undertones of Beethoven in the score, it actually makes loading bearable. Loading does seem shorter 
 though, well, after you get past that initial first load of any map then it speeds right through, 
 as long as you dont change any settings. Battlefield 2142 brings some new game play with it along 
 with a better customization of your soldiers. Somethings feel futuristic, other things not so 
 much. The feeling that its a mod just never really gets beyond your brain and sometimes you feel 
 bored of playing the old same game. wait its a different game. With some graphical glitches, and 
 glitches that have plagued the series for a while now it sometimes destroys the intense fun your 
 looking for in a war. Although, with a new lighting system, some really nice music, the introduction 
 of Titian mode, this game still lands on what the series is all about; awesome online play. In-Game 
 ads are in the game, not mentioned much, well, because they dont bother me. If this is how World 
 War 3 will be fought, though I would suggest you pick it up if your love the Battlefield series 
 or are looking for a good online game. Actually, yeah, pick this one up because if this is how 
 World War 3 will be fought then World War 4 will be fought with sticks and stones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tedwee
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a good game this is it but before you go buying this there are to things 
 you will need: An incredibly fast internet connection and a top of the range computer. If you don't 
 have the good computer I wouldn't really suggest buying this but if you just want the gameplay 
 not the graphics then you will be fine. However without a internet connection anywhere above dialup 
 then you are stuffed. Half the game is based online, sure there is the option to do Singleplay 
 but can you earn awards and unlock new weapons on singleplay? No.
  
  The things that really let this game down were that it isn't to compatible with alot of graphics 
 cards and two of the worst factors are that for some reason your rank progress and unlocks will 
 keep disapeering on the profile page, sure they are there on the battlefield but comeon EA a little 
 more stable please. The other thing is that no-matter how long you play on singleplayer you wont 
 earn any unlocks, ribbons, badges, medals or career points!
  
  That is why I only give it 8.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frithead92
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 23, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is the perfect blend of shooter styles, i would say its somewhere in-between America's 
 army and unreal tournament 2004.
  
  The graphics are visually stimulating and help create a sense of realism. The downside to this 
 is you need a good system to run it on high quality,
  
  The only downside to this game is its lack of single player fun, all you can do offline is kill 
 stupid AI. I gave this game a high learning curve because, as with most online games, when your 
 up against other real humans who have been playing for a long time, your going to be a noob for 
 quite a while.
  
  This game is great value for money, you can spend hundreds of hours playing online and never get 
 bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 3.8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  this game moves away from what makes the BF series great/different the vehicles, 2142 is mostly 
 bases and balanced for infantry, now I figured EA already found a perfect solution to make EVERYONE 
 happy, witch was having infantry only option, but no with 2142 its several steps back  no more 
 infantry only instead they made vehicles incredibly easy to destruct and some maps reduced the 
 amount of vehicles (like 2 cars and 1 walker total) , the unlock vehicle killer gun pilum takes 
 out ANY vehicle with 1 shoot EASY but even for a less skilled player never more then 2 shoots, 
 yet a tank shell barely even damages an air vehicle in air this game is very boring compared to 
 bf2 or 1942 for those who love vehicle combat
  
  but this is not all : EA refuses to release the map editor to sabotage custom mapping, yet they 
 dont sell or make any new content and the maps are as pathetic as it can get, in titan mode ALL 
 maps are just about the same , the maps are so similar that people dont have a preference at all, 
 in conquest mode there is 2 basic types of maps, the wide area supposed to be intended for vehicle 
 combat and a few infantry maps with very few vehicles, there is NO real urban maps like bf2 had, 
 Berlin, Belgrade, Celebere and Tunis dont measure up to mashuer or karkand.. so maps are extremely 
 disappointing and for end of 2007 it is an embarrassment to even release such maps with out any 
 creativity or love to detail
  
  the value of the game for $50+tax or 50euros is horrible, how ever if you get you game on sale 
 for $25 or on ebay for even $16 then its a great deal (like I did) , unfortunately EA found it 
 important although this game cant be pirated (just as most multiplayer games) to make it very difficult 
 to play the game with out the DVD in the drive, and in addition they tied the cd-key to the player 
 account in order to make resale or transfer of the game very difficult  but lucky not impossible.. 
 so thrifty shoppers be aware you will have a hard time with this one (unlike bf2)
  so for value I have to give it a very low
  
  sound and graphic how ever are great, still 
 cant give it a max do to the horrid error in physics and to other games having far better graphics 
 (graw) , seeing that a tank shell hits a air-gun ship and nothing at all happens just makes the 
 who thing bad, not any less then pocked pass right trough near objects like people or cars if they 
 would be holograms
  
  I dont even mind the bugs / lag / weekly patches.. those have NO influence on the score I give 
 2142, and the slighly futuristic theme i like as well
  
  so in short if you like infantry game play 2142 is for you
  infantry is balanced extremely well 
 in this game, probably the best I seen so far in a shooter
  
  but if you like vehicle combat check you bargen bin (like I did)
  vehicles are nothing more in 
 this game then big easy targets
  or if you did not buy it yet (end December) just wait the few weeks till much better games will 
 be released next year
  
  make sure you do not add your cd-key to the EA account you used in BF2 or you will not be able 
 to sell your game later !!! or only as double pack with your other registered games in that EA 
 account
  
  my 2142 goes on ebay next week ! I love it that much *sarcasm* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gransta
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard that BF2142 was out in the stores i was overjoyed. I rushed down the road and 
 got myself a copy. So far i have thought that it is the best in EA's BF series, but i think BF2142 
 could use a few improvements. Many people are missing boats and aeroplanes. I myself am missing 
 a bit of change, I have played this game over 40 hours and found that it becomes tiresome grinding 
 up my rank to be able to compete with the better players. I still give Battlefield 2142 a 9/10 
 but i do hope that they release an expansion with a few more things like boats and a bit more variety 
 in the things you can do to win. Do pick this game up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyroto
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 21, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  If you're a gamer, then you want a quick review - so here it is:
  
  Pros: Fun, newly tweaked vehicles to have fun in, weapons to play with. Graphics are very good, 
 lots of servers to play on, lots of people to play along with. Don't underestimate how valuable 
 this can be, since you're sure to find another group of people with the same playing style as yourself. 
 Yes this is like Battlefield 2, but only to those that have never or only slightly played Battlefield 
 2. If you've played BF2 a lot, then you'll surely appreciate Battlefield 2142.
  
  Cons: If you didn't like Battlefield 2, skip this title. Minor user interface annoyances that existed 
 in BF2, continue to exist in BF2142. Updates by the publisher, EA Games, most often break everything 
 for a few hours to a few days. So frustrating, but at least they're still produces fixes for the 
 game. Can burn a whole night before you know it, due to the addictive nature of the game.
  
  Summery: Loved BF2? Get this one. Hated or said so what to BF2? Then pass.
  
  Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goda
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  OK this is a really cool game but it has mad bugs Just 5 min ago i was playing and had a guy standing 
 right in frount of me not even 5 feet i dumped a clip in to him and he did not die yet he hit me 
 one time and i was dead and yes befor you say i was shooting at his head, This is not the frist 
 thing i tryed it on easy to hard same thing ????? Bogels the mind, Or how about this you chuck 
 a gernad guy keeps runing yet if your near one that go's off you die, Ok this is what i'm thinking 
 my hit box is as big a the level and theres it a dot that we cant see WTF. Now that i've bashed 
 it hears whats cool it's the bridge betwin Real FPS And SiFi FPS Nice i know to meny people that 
 bit** about i dont like it becouce it's to sifi like, Well hear you go Dam wineeeee Kids lol. The 
 grafs are tite and look mad good with a Nivida 7800GTX But even better on 2 in SLI. Game play is 
 crazy fast on small maps And can take hours on big maps. I'll just say this if you like FPS's no 
 matter real or sifi you'll like this game just HIDE ALOT 
  This game gets 2 thumbs up for game and a med finger for the glitch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w_rink_ly
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  As I said above, Battlefield 2142 does not have any Jets of Boats in the game, and, for me at least, 
 it is very hard to believe that the future of war cannot include high-speed Jets taking the ground 
 by storm at a million miles per hour. Also, i must comment on the Commander option in the game, 
 there is absolutely no difference to the Battlefield 2 version which really disappointed me, small 
 things never get old... However, the new Titan mode, Battle walker and vast accessories that u 
 can acquire lets u forget about all of the things it misses... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spy_hellscream
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  One major thing I do not like is the unlockables... you have to play the online multiplayer to unlock 
 anything... its actually kind of annoying, the fact that if you kill a group of enemies one of their 
 men will run out of no where and just medic them all back to life, I had three guys who I kept 
 killing and they kept bring eachother back to life within a second, that is annoying. But it is 
 a good game, extremely fun, when your running along and you hear the thud of a walker comming down 
 the road behind you and you fkn run for cover..... now thats fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelibertyjap
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 27, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I'll do my best not to flame EA and DICE but it's very hard to when they repeat their mistakes 
 time after time for profit. I'll start with a little background.
  
  Battlefield 1942 was a revolutionary game with the perfect formula in the gameplay department. 
 Sadly, Battlefield Vietnam was merely a mod to the core BF1942 with some game engine enhancements. 
 Fast forward to today...
  
  Battlefield 2 was released with a brand new game engine, some modifications to the gameplay but 
 maintained the core aspect. Now comes along BF2142. Again, this game is just a mod of Battlefield 
 2 with some new additions to the BF2 engine.
  
  Did I miss something or did they just mess up twice? BFV and BF2142 are both rushed products that 
 give the user nothing except a fancy mod. In fact, when BFV was released more people played Desert 
 Combat for BF1942 than BFV for quite some time.
  
  If I've learned anything, EA is starting a nice trend of crappy sequels to a great original game. 
 All of you who share this view can thank the thousands of idiots around the US and the rest of 
 the world for their contributions to making EA this way, since you continue to buy these poorly 
 made and tested games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvoStvO
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 16, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  Love the game... Great gameplay just like the classic bf2... has a few lagg issues in titan but conquest 
 is pretty clean... Weapons are great and the ranking system rules... Awards are a bit easyer to get,,, ribbons 
 are very hard.. hundreds of servers are always on with nearly all of them full... always a good multiplayer 
 game to find... Few more patches to clean things up and We havea real winner.... Congrats EA on a 
 great game.. I would recomend this game to all who have played the BF series.... For guaranteed multiplayer 
 action this is the winner in my book... Single player is sweet to but multiplayer is way better..... A 
 lower score by me givin due to the serious lagg issues in titan mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesse_jax
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  When i started this up i noticed strait away that it DICE had done a MUCH better job than they 
 previously had on BF2. Instantly, at the login screen you notice theres no lag, once you get in 
 the interface is nice, sleek and really simple. Finding servers is easier for beginners now as 
 they have a default server browser which is very simplified and easier to use but dont worry, they 
 kept a advanced/old school server browser for long time gamers.
  
  Once youve configured the game controls etc its time to play, so you find your server and your 
 in, you notice you will have MUCH higher Frames per second once in game compared to BF2, and even 
 though your getting higher fps, suprisingly the image and overall graphics are higher. The atmosphere 
 has been really been thought out well, with the snow and fog giving a nice smooth realistic feel, 
 but it doesnt stop there, the player and specifically weapon detail is superb, explosions and tracers 
 look quite good too.
  
  Gameplay wise youll find its been really simplified for new gamers, only a few classes and it lets 
 you know when you can unlock a weapon by popping up asking you what you want to unlock next time 
 you join a server or when the next map starts. The squad feature is basically the same as bf2, 
 but with more additions to make it better- if you know what your doing. Teams seem very balanced 
 and weapons are pretty balanced too, vehicles on the other hand seem to have been completly taken 
 out of this edition to the BF series, i barely see them being uses except for the Walkers.
  
  overall its a nice game, but i feel they have gone from wide variety of ways to kill people 
 to a more of a counter strike feel, vehicles have basically been taken out/abandoned so its more 
 of a on foot close combat game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RawStorm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  BF2142 is definately WAY more fun than BF2. It is not as revolutionary though. Everything that 
 you hated about BF2 (air superiority, base rape, invincible tanks) is corrected since there are 
 no planes in BF2142, and the tanks don't have a mchinegun as their secondary weapon. The unlock 
 system and the point system is really good cause you rank up MUCH faster then you did in BF2 and 
 the unlocks are truly awseome and make a real difference in the game. You also get a lot of points 
 for getting certain awards which increases your score even more. Titan mode is awseome but it is 
 WAY too laggy, Dice shoudl figure out a way to reduce the lag. When both shields are down and the 
 titans are close together i swear the framerate drops to like 2fps in the titan. There are a bunch 
 of new vehicles like the hover tank and walker that make it really cool. the boost on the cars 
 is cool too. Another thing i liked is the aircraft are much more stable than the helocopters in 
 BF2 so noobs don't crash them. the overshield around vehicles is a nice touch. It used the same 
 engine as BF2 which is good for me cause it can still run on my 9800 pro. Load times are now much 
 faster.
  
  Now to the bad part. BUGS. BUGS. BUGS. It is obvious that Dice did not finish this game on realease. 
 There are a ton of bugs everywhere that are annoying but lockily few spoil the game. Some of the 
 maps like Fall of Berlin also seem to be imiproperly balanced (why aren't there any cars???) . the 
 spyware and in game advertising i feel is wrong deep inside, but in the actual game you don't really 
 notice the billboards for intel processors. I also don't like that they charge $50 when they didn't 
 even uprgade the graphics and inculded in game advertising.
  
  Overall, this is the funnest battlefield game yet and if you are a fan you must get it, and if 
 you aren't a fan, get it too, you wont be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  The year is 2142 and a new ice age is slowly turning the planet into a cold desolate wasteland. 
 The EU and the PAC fights for what is left of the Earth not left covered by the ice. Battlefield 
 2142 has to be the best game so far in the series. You get points you rank up you get more points 
 and rank up again. The get points by kills and taking control points and healing and reviving and 
 fixing and by destrorying cruicial titan parts and defind your points and your titan. There are 
 40 rank ups and 40 unlocks to kep you playing this game for long periods of time trying to get 
 the the rank of Commander. The unlocks range from New weapons to running enhancers to battlenet 
 helments and EMP mines. Gameplay differs. If you are on a server with good people that works as 
 a team its better than servers that people run and gun and lose tickits for your team. Graphics 
 are good but are the same as Battlefield 2 (uses the same engine) sounds isnt much diffrent from 
 BF2 either same tune with diffent instruments playing it at the opening video. The game is 49.99 
 and worth every dollar of it becasue this game will have you playing for hours a week.,
  
  The Good: Graphics are good but nothing revolutionary, Sounds ok, 40 rank up and unlocks new titan 
 mode. futureistic weapons and gear.
  
  The Bad: Spyware that EA installed into the game, Lag if you dont have a good computer, always 
 have to be online to play. cant play all maps in singleplayer practice mode only 2 factions ( EU 
 and PAC) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slunks
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 11, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  When a game is released and its set in the future, it can really only come off in one of two different 
 ways. Awesome, or awesomely bad. Battlefield 2142 is the latest installment of its popular series. 
 Set in the year 2142, Earth is experiencing an ice age. Although you can only play as two different 
 factions. It has basically led all of the countries fighting for, what else, land. Specifically, 
 sweet precious warm land.
  
  Youll be playing either as the European Union, or the Pan Asian Coalition. Even though it just 
 seems to be code names for Americans versus Russians, it seems to get the job done of playing the 
 roles of axis and allies. However the differences in each faction dont just rely on what language 
 youll speak and how names are spelt. Each team has a different set of vehicles and weapons as 
 well.
  
  Incase you havent noticed, Battlefield is known for its vehicles and how they can be put to good 
 use. None of that is false here. You can expect to jump into Hovertank to swivel around smoothly 
 and make explosions in style. Or maybe a Battlewalker that can shoot down everything in its path. 
 But when it comes to the air battles, its rather toned down compared to previous measurements. 
 There are your Gunships and Transports, but the sight of two aerial dominators in the sky dogfighting 
 is virtually gone.
  
  Gunships are slower and dont go quite as fast as jets did in previous Battlefields. However, just 
 like many vehicles in this game, they hover. Making it much easier to control and maneuver. But 
 they just seem much more meant for destroying the other teams tanks rather then getting in a fight 
 with another gunship. And although each vehicle is unique, great and fun to use, certain vehicles 
 dont exactly feel 200 years ahead in the future. As example, your standard buggys are still mainly 
 weak and really only used to get somewhere fast, preferably to another stronger vehicle. As they 
 are still the same weak armored, one turret cars that move around fast. Only this time around they 
 have a limited time use of nitro-like boost. You may even start asking yourself why certain tanks 
 still run on the treads of today, yet you will see a hovertank that seems more appropriate for 
 the setting.
  
  Although this experience may feel and seem familiar, this is not saying that 2142 is more of the 
 same. There are ten new maps to play on, each play different, offer different sizes, strategies, 
 and modes. It even goes to say that each map is so different from one another that they even have 
 their very own theme song that plays while the map is loading. Even though youll probably find 
 your favorite map and stick to playing it most of the time. Youll be fighting this war in both 
 Europe and Africa, both sharing half of the maps. Europe of course is covered in icy cold snow. 
 And the maps in Africa mostly take place in hardened dry terrain.
  
  While fighting in Africa, you may start to wonder where the heck the North Africa is? Where are 
 their people and why is EU protecting them while they sit back and do nothing to help? Along with 
 basically the entire rest of the world? Where is everybody? Yes, the story is full of a decent 
 amount of plot holes and it seems more or so as an excuse to only allow two factions to be playable. 
 But considering this FPS in particular doesnt quite rely on story nearly as much as its gameplay, 
 its hardly worth noticing or caring about.
  
  The gameplay in Battlefield 2142 comes along with its classic, Conquest mode. But a big addition 
 to the series has been added, otherwise known as Titan mode. While Conquest offers no changes and 
 still supports up to sixty-four players, Titan mode stands up and allows you to experience different 
 gameplay in Battlefield like youve never have had the chance to before. This mode allows up to 
 48 people to play on a select number of maps. But it mainly throws giant oversized battleships 
 up in the sky, other wise known as titans, and makes each team almost have to go through a quest 
 in order to destroy their opponents titan before the other team does likewise.
  
  To explain, there are five missile silos on the ground. Which if you stand by one long enough youll 
 capture it. These silos are also on a set timer, and at the end of the timer a missile will be 
 launched towards the opponents titan. Or vice versa if they have it captured. It will continue 
 to pound on your or their titan shield, which after so much damage, the shield will fail. Allowing 
 the opposite team to board its enemies titan. This makes the game more intense then it ever has 
 been before, there is a continuous battle going on at ground level for silo control. Because once 
 the shields go down the silos will keep hitting the enemy titans.
  
  You also need to protect your titan once the shield goes down, hence there are four consoles inside 
 both titans. Once those consoles are destroyed, it mysteriously blows up the door to the main reactor 
 core room. If enemies get to this and start shooting at it, it will drain the main health of the 
 titan. And it only takes a few rounds of demo packs to practically take down the entire titan single 
 handedly. Titan mode is obviously fun, new, intense and necessary to play as it definitely serves 
 as a good time away from the same old Conquest.
  
  Even though its vehicle play was rather the main focus in its previous installments. We now have 
 a great new unlock and award system to fondle with for our infantry. Basically, your score in the 
 game acts as points. The more points you get, youll be upgraded in ranks. Each rank you obtain, 
 you get an unlock point. After that long yet quick process, you spend your point on an unlock. 
 You can obtain unlocks for any of the four classes, items you can use only when youre squad leader, 
 as well as upgrades that are active for whatever you play as. Such as stamina boosters that allow 
 you to sprint longer distances.
  
  The classes compared to its predecessor may have been reduced from seven to four. But they have 
 more depth to them and do better then before in their specifics. These classes are Recon, Engineer, 
 Assault and Support. Recon serves as a stealthy special ops combined with a sniper rifle and demo 
 packs. Engineer will repair and destroy vehicles while equipped with a rocket launcher. Assault 
 plays as your medic as he can heal and revive people; his weaponry is aimed towards anti-infantry. 
 Support has heavy machine guns, he will as an ammo hub and they can also deploy a number of things 
 to aid them, such as defense turrets and see through mini-shields that stop bullets.
  
  Each class has two trees of unlocks, you can only unlock the next thing in order. Both sides have 
 three items to unlock, and then a weapon. Weather or not its an improved rocket launcher, or a 
 machine gun that deals heavy damage. These guns you unlock are arguably much better then your classes 
 default. And considering getting ranks starts to take more and more time to progress, as it will 
 take more points to gain a rank. It really becomes a lengthy progress to unlock even half, or all 
 forty things. But it's more than enough to keep you playing without losing all of its fun.
  
  To help earn points, this edition of Battlefield really helps support and encourage team play. 
 Considering you get points for pretty much doing, well, everything. No matter if your just driving 
 your teammates, repairing a vehicle, doing a good job commanding, listening to squad leaders, killing 
 people, taking silos. You really dont have to go out of your way to earn points in this game. 
 It certainly helps making everybody work together just to get an unlock or two. Also, you can earn 
 awards for doing various things. Such as going on killing sprees or destroying a certain amount 
 of titan defense cannons. You can also obtain dogtags by knifing players, which although only really 
 serving as collectible bragging rights, they are fun to try an achieve.
  
  However, one of the things about Battlefield 2142 is that it comes with its few flaws that really 
 pick at your teeth. While respectable, the load times while joining a server and loading up the 
 menu screen seem somewhat lengthy at times. Also, there seems to be noticeable lag if a commander 
 moves the titans while youre on it. And it certainly does have connection issues, which become 
 increasingly and mind numbingly frustrating at times. As with everything, it varies. As you can 
 have a full week of playing without getting booted off EAs server once. And then you could get 
 knocked off so much in one day to a point where the game eventually becomes unplayable for the 
 time being.
  
  Simply put, theres a lot of good here in Battlefield 2142. There's certainly a lot to talk about. 
 Despite a few kinks in the system that will surely be worked out. If you can look past a flaw or 
 two, theres a lot of fun to be had in this game. Its huge, overwhelmingly intense battles as well 
 as its unlock system can be almost to addictive. It takes a few features of its predecessors that 
 needed to be improved on, and adds a few as well. It was almost unimaginable that shooting down 
 everything in your way with an over sized mech or stabbing a fool in the back for dogtags would 
 be so much fun.
  
  The Pro's
  +intense, satisfying gameplay
  +great set of new weapons &amp; vehicles
  +titan mode
  +unlock &amp; award system
  +fun new 
 maps
  +awesome, well fit soundtrack
  +mechs n' dogtags!
  
  The Con's
  -lengthy load times
  -unstable connection issues
  -fair share of bugs &amp; glitches
  -story 
 has some noticeable holes
  -certain vehicles dont feel so futuristic
  -poor singleplayer for those without a internet connection
  
  Recommended as: Fans of the series 
 should definitely look into this game, those interested however not completely sure should go take 
 a gander at the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _seVen_
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  This game is polished to the maximum. This is what DICE did:
  
  - Take the BF2 engine, optimize, so it'd run on weaker computers, optimize load times
  
  - 
 Take the guns, add more realistic and challenging recoil
  
  - Add more vehicles and unlocks
  
  - Add a brand new gamemode
  
  - A new enviorment, what 
 about future?
  
  And then, you get BF2142. It's a great game, really fun. If you're a fan of the BF series, it's 
 a must have. If you don't own any BF games, this one is for you to buy.
  
  The game has good graphics, nothing big, actually, but it's just good enough so you can feel like 
 you're in war. And although it still demands a beefy computer, it has lower requirements than BF2, 
 and the load times.. well , they're MUCH shorter.
  
  I like the new unlocks, makes the game last waaay longer. The only fall-back of this is, that, 
 newbies will have hard time knowing the game as they have only the default, and pretty weak weapons.
 
  
  The vehicles are good as ever, I like the nitrous addition. Although, making flying easier wasn't 
 the best thing to do, because now, anyone can fly a heli or a plane.
  
  Overally, the game is fun. It's very much fun, but, the pricetag isn't very much fun. I picked 
 it up for 30 pounds. That's alot, since this game is more likely an uber-patched version of BF2.
 
  
  But if you can get over that, prepare to have alot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsKing
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 8, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  I kick the horse with my spurs and it goes! Much like my computer while I was playing this game. 
 I'll say the first major down falls of the game first, then move onto the good stuff.
  The first issue that the BF team still hasn't resolved is the fact that you can't play with your 
 unlocks offline still, this just pisses me off to all hell on those bad internet connection days. 
 The second issue is that there are still a few glitches in the game, but they've already came out 
 with a patch, BUT why do you make a game and it needs a patch within the first week??? It just 
 confuses the hell out of me! The other major problem I see is that the vehicles are a lil bit too 
 strong in this game. There's little improvment with the infantry and MUCH improvement with the 
 vehicles, **** mech warriors!
  Now onto the good stuff! The graphics = amazing, much like all the BF series games do. The sound 
 is pretty nice. When the artillery hits right next to you and your speakers are on full blast you'll 
 get a little scare. The new unlock system and weapon equiping system is so much better. If your 
 looking for a new game and like FPS then I suggest this one for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattrider
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  9:2
  
  Nope - that's not my Kills to Deaths ratio... it's the number of hours spent troubleshooting the 
 game versus actually playing it.
  
  It's damn annoying and has led to my low 'tilt' rating.
  
  Spurious kicks, CTD etc have all 
 made for a very frsutrating experience. I have trawled forums, uninstalled Windows updates, reinstalled 
 BF2142, reinstalled patches, changed anti-virus suppliers... the works. And I am a techie too! 
 What must this be like for the casual gamer?
  
  But all of that aside - it is a great game, slick, fast, nicely balanced, with a great feeling 
 of achievement through the rank and unlocks system. Instead of just shooting stuff (awesome fun 
 that it is - especially with the great sound) I now want to spend 10 minutes in the air in a round, 
 just to gain that elusive pin... far more longevity than previous BF's (and I have had them all) . 
 The only thing I would like to see is more maps with greater variety. I know there is an Ice Age 
 on - but do they ALL have to be snowy?
  
  Please sort out the technical issues EA and provide us with more maps soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glory_Of_Scar
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game is truly masterful, Congrats to EA and Dice :)
  This game seems to keep everyone who loves any FPS happy... It has the Shooting skill required 
 for CSS, but i cant compare the Variety and excitement to any other game, because it reaches beyond 
 any of them! With 40 unlocks and 3/4 weapons for each class, along with 6+ abilities and other 
 equipment, the game is simply what you want it to be! you can do pretty much what ya want!
  While BF had 7 unlocks, this has 40! Titan mode makes the game even more vaied as you can do so 
 much with it! adding a real twist to the already awsome game
  Looking for a game that will last you? Buy this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad_liquid_1985
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 6, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  i love this game only the patches i cant istall them wich is a serius bummer
  
  plus the game has some killer gun and mechs woot i love it
  
  just by it your zelf and you 
 will 
  
  i love this game only the patches i cant istall them wich is a serius bummer
  
  plus the game 
 has some killer gun and mechs woot i love it
  
  just by it your zelf and you will 
 
  
  i love this game only the patches i cant istall them wich is a serius bummer
  
  plus the game has some killer gun and mechs woot i love it
  
  just by it your zelf and you 
 will 
  
  i love this game only the patches i cant istall them wich is a serius bummer
  
  plus the game 
 has some killer gun and mechs woot i love it
  
  just by it your zelf and you will 
 
  
  this game rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NDakota2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  A few weeks ago, I decided to pick up 2142 and try it out. I have always been a huge fan of the 
 Battlfield Series, having played 1942, Vietnam, and 2, along with all of their expanison packs. 
 However, after a long break of suspended usage of these games, I have decided to jump back into 
 the series and start out new, and 2142 presented a wonderful enviroment for me to do this... To 
 start off with, lets focus on the GRAPHICS:
  For all of you who are fimiliar to Batttlefield 2, you know that the recent battlefields have ben 
 known for crisp, clean graphics, along with up-to-date physics and enviroments. The same can be 
 said about 2142, even though the graphics are a bit dated. You see, the developers decided that 
 it was not a good idea to venture off of a true and tested graphics system, and kept the one from 
 BF2 and put it into this game. Admitted, the graphics have been revamped and have been improved, 
 but overall there is a noticable similarity to the BF 2 engine. Altogether, however, the graphics 
 still please the eye, and on high settings can actually be quite impressive. Overall, for the graphics, 
 i will give them an 8.
  
  Next, lets venture into the sound department with the SOUND:
  The battlefield series has always been commended for its excellent sound production and quality. 
 2142 is no different. On high sound settings, the sound can be quite remarkable. Listening to the 
 roar of the jet above me, or the loud whistle of the artillary that is bombarding my postion excites 
 to an uncomparable level. The sound is incredible, and something that must be given full respect 
 for being so good. Overall, sound is a 10.
  
  Next, the value. This is quite an easy part to review. Picking this game up for 50 some dollars 
 was not an easy choice, but with this type of attention to detail in the game and the replayability, 
 it was a choice well made. For those with you low on cash, wait until the price decreases. Otherwise, 
 you are fine. Overall, value gets a 7.
  
  Now the fun part begins, GAMEPLAY:
  Lets begin with a little lesson, shall we? I have always been an enourmous fan of the Battlefield 
 series, and i believe strongly that BF 2 was the highpoint in the series. 2142 does not, in any 
 way, dissapont. To begin, the overall command system of BF 2 has been brought back, although it 
 has been improved in a number of ways. Squading up is an excellent experience, and one that comes 
 with rewards. The overall excitment level of this game is incredible, from the beginning to the 
 end. Combat is at an all time high for enjoyment, and the game runs smoothly and balanced. Titan 
 mode, a new mode in which players must assault each others enourmous flying base, is an incredible 
 addition to the BF series. Fun, exciting, and interesting, Titan mode can hold your attention for 
 days on end. The gun and vehicles, although futuristic, feel believable and react in ways you would 
 expect. The gameplay, overall, is an astonishing 10!
  
  Finally, the TILT:
  Being an enourmous fan of the BF series, i cannot resist this game. It lives up in all expectations, 
 and then some. Perhaps the fact that i would go on for hours typing up this review, but have time 
 restraints, is another reason why i am giving this game a tilt of 10!
  
  Well, thank you for reading my review, if you wish to buddy up or squad up with me, send me a friend 
 request. Im NDakota08, and although im only a seargent silver, i love being commander and squad 
 leader (im going through West Point) . Thank you again... NDakota08 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  Fed up of fighting wars that have already happened or happening right now? Then how about forgetting 
 all of that and move to the year 2142. A year full of Eskimos and igloos and penguins and ICE! 
 After fighting in deserts, jungles and on sea, DICE have decided that a frozen wasteland would 
 make an excellent battleground, so thats where Battlefield 2142 comes in. Its an adrenaline filled 
 fun first person shooter that seems familiar, yet has some nice new additional features to make 
 it worthwhile.
  
  The story to Battlefield 2142 is the world froze over in 2106 (Global warming comes true!) . After 
 debates the worlds governments were forced to face the reality of the intimidating cold. As the 
 snow swept down from the north, living became impossible. Losing countries, the governments decided 
 to form two new superpowers, The European forces (EU) and the Pan Asian Coalition (PAC) army. Now 
 speed to 2142, the Europeans are trying to protect Africa, one of the only places that as of yet 
 is to be affected by the cold. Players can expect to have battles in both Europe and Africa, so 
 everything isnt just a ground of white. The game only features those two armies to use in battles. 
 No doubt some add-ons will come out, with an extra team or two to fit into the storyline at some 
 point.
  
  Upon starting the game, the first thing to hit you while playing Battlefield 2142 is just how familiar 
 it all seems. The game uses a modified version of the Battlefield 2 engine and thus you cant help 
 but feel that its just a top produced mod for the previous game. Its happened before though. 
 Battlefield: Vietnam suffered from the same d&eacute; j&agrave; vu experience, but even so the game 
 was still fun and its no different here. So while nothing major has changed to the gameplay, theres 
 certainly more features than ever before in a Battlefield game.
  
  Since the game is set in the future you can expect to see all sorts of high tech weapons. Players 
 wont have to worry about some crazy arse weaponry though as there doesnt seem to be anything 
 over the top. There are no light sabres or energy particle weapons here. All the weapons just look 
 like a futuristic version of present day weaponry. There are around 40 weapons and upgrades to 
 unlock, so theres plenty to check out, even if they arent so advanced. The same can also be said 
 for the vehicles as well, apart from the awesome inclusion of Mechs, they are all just future looking 
 present day armoury, just what the hell have they been doing for 130+ years? Well I guess apart 
 from placing ads (more on that later) the answer to that could be they made air vehicles less dominating. 
 Gone are the days of constant death by aircraft bombardment in Battlefield 2. They seem to be weaker 
 and less involved in combat in 2142. To some that will be welcoming news.
  
  Asw you can expect then, playing Battlefield 2 will certainly give you an advantage, plus a nice 
 little red 2 symbol next to your name. It shows that you are a battlefield 2 veteran. The core 
 mechanics of the game are quite the same. The Conquest mode from past games returns here and is 
 identical. Conquest allows for two teams of up to 32 players each to battle it out for capture 
 points on the map. These flags once captured speed up the decrease of your opponents tokens, so 
 the more flags you have the faster your opponents tokens decrease. Capturing flags also allows 
 you to spawn to that location too and if the map lets you, you can capture all the points so none 
 of the other team can spawn onto the map. This means killing the rest of the players on the map 
 finishes the game off earlier than usual.
  
  Titan is the new gameplay mode added to Battlefield 2142. Titan mode doesnt let you have 64 players 
 total this time, but instead 48. Its still a decent amount and more than most other games allow 
 you to play with. In Titan mode the teams are trying to destroy the oppositions Titan, a hovering 
 behemoth that can be moved around the battlefield by the commander of the team. It merges some 
 gameplay elements from conquest (having to capture missile silos instead of flags, these silos 
 launch missiles on regular intervals at the titans.) Hitting Titans with missiles lower the shields 
 that protect it. After that you have the fun of boarding onto the Titan. This is done by means 
 of getting blasted up onto the Titan via a mobile personal carrier. Titan mode is a lot more team 
 dependant than Conquest. If you manage to get a good team together youll be able to overcome things 
 a lot easier, especially getting teams into the Titan, as youll be in close quarters using cover 
 to get your way through to the Titans reactor to blow it sky high, although to a unspectacular 
 fashion. It just sets alight with some bang sound effects. It really should just go BOOOM with 
 pieces flying everywhere. It feels somewhat anti climax after all the work you put into destroying 
 the beast in the sky.
  
  To coincide with the gameplay changes are also the reduction in the amount of classes. Battlefield 
 2 consisted of seven classes, and even the first game, Battlefield 1942 had five. This version 
 has just four classes. Now it may seem low but these are a lot more customizable than any other 
 classes in a Battlefield game. Classes from older games are merged into the same one. The Recon 
 class is a mixture of a Sniper and Special-Ops. Assault is a mixture of the Assault class and Medic 
 class. Battlefield 2142 relies heavily on unlocking weapons and items, as these will let you customize 
 the classes. There is a lot more to unlock in this game than there was in Battlefield 2, they also 
 unlock a lot faster, but overall youll have to play the series longer than ever before to unlock 
 everything that is available. While it helps to unlock single things faster. If you want to spend 
 time and effort on a class then you end up neglecting the others. When you come to play as anything 
 else, theyll be less effective then they would have been with the unlocks you could of put into 
 them.
  
  It seems that DICE has put more focus on squads that ever before this time around. Past games had 
 squads in but a few would never bother with it, they preferred to be lone wolfs and thus the game 
 doesnt always play out the best like that. In 2142 the squads are back but DICE has made sure 
 people playing in squads are rewarded more. Squads that are doing well will receive Squad Field 
 Upgrades. These are temporary unlocks. Once unlocked, these can be used as long as you stay on 
 the server. It also serves as a good way to try out the next unlockable weapons and items, seeing 
 as it allows you to unlock the next stuff in the unlock chain without actually using your points.
 
  
  Battlefield 2142 feels more polished from a release point than any other previous instalment. Past 
 games have had reports of bugs and glitches. A lot of Battlefield 2 players will remember the pain 
 in the arse bug that affected the server search engine on the release of Battlefield 2. If you 
 arent sure, it basically made it hell to actually find a game and try and join it, because of 
 the server list freezing or jumping around like a hyperactive kangaroo on red bull. This doesnt 
 mean 2142 is bug free. Badges dont seem to unlock right away, or on some occasions not registering 
 at all. One point I had to go back and gain the missing amount again to force it to unlock correctly. 
 Hopefully DICE will cough out a patch soon to fix some of the minor niggles. Youll be able to 
 seen when its out by the news headliner at the bottom of the screen. It scrolls past showing updates 
 in the community. A very nice feature DICE.
  
  The game does occasionally have some moments where it looks great, even if it still is an old engine 
 in use, it manages to hold on. The graphics are used to their full effect to help create some nice 
 gritty level designs. It features little pieces of details too, like the fuzzy visor interference. 
 This happens when youre near EMP devices, or huge explosions. Sound furthermore truly adds to 
 the feeling. Youll hear the characters shouting out locations of enemies, friendly or just plain 
 scream in pain for a medic. The whole game manages to capture the atmosphere of war quite well, 
 even if you cant blow peoples legs off.
  
  There's been a wave of concern about EA and their choice to stick in dynamic advertisement in to 
 the game. Its not secretly stuck in there. The game comes with a leaflet informing the user of 
 the feature and what it does. It hasnt affected the way I have played the game. Its not like 
 they stick it right in front of your face. Its on places that you would expect to see adverts 
 in the real world. Most matches I havent had time to check them out, especially in city maps where 
 the action is nearly always heated up. The leaflet does tell you have to play the game without 
 having it enabled. To do this youve got to install the game on a machine that isnt connected 
 to the internet. Apart from LAN games this pretty much makes the game useless, unless you want 
 to shot bots in the face for the rest of your life.
  
  I guess Battlefield 2142 is kind of like a soldier in war. Do you want to risk totally revamping 
 the series, releasing a new person into the world, knowing theres a chance he could be shot down 
 within a day or two of going out to fight? You could take the safe route and use an experience 
 war veteran who has more of a chance to survive. This is the route DICE decided to take with the 
 game and while familiar, it does exactly what it sets out to do. Update the franchise in a way 
 that features some new ideas that are worthy of a purchase, but is still in familiar territory. 
 It might not be revolutionary or as exceptional as when the series first hit the market. The most 
 important thing at the end of the day is that its fun, and Battlefield 2142 is certainly very 
 no incredibly fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icenflame
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 6, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  At first this looks like a cheap mod of BF2 it was released with a substantial amount of bugs however 
 these have been ironed out to leave a crisp clean game which offers one of the best team oriented 
 online multi-players out there! The Urban based maps are original and offer a great variety in 
 strategies. This is defiantly worth the hard earned cash! With the advent of pods getting to battles 
 is faster and the pace of the game has increased. You'll keep coming back for more ! At first this 
 looks like a cheap mod of BF2 it was released with a substantial amount of bugs however these have 
 been ironed out to leave a crisp clean game which offers one of the best team oriented online multi-players 
 out there! The Urban based maps are original and offer a great variety in strategies. This is defiantly 
 worth the hard earned cash! With the advent of pods getting to battles is faster and the pace of 
 the game has increased. You'll keep coming back for more! I have found the Battlefield series to 
 be highly addictive and have spent in excess of 500 hours playing both BF2 and BF2142. If you have 
 a broadband connection and enjoy FPS get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJSpangler
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  A fine addition to the series. While it plays similarly to BF2, the gameplay, map design, variety 
 of vehicles are far superior. This combined with a more in depth class/kit system with nice and 
 useful upgrades make a great online game experience. The kits are far more balanced and unlocks 
 are great for offering a way to customize your players gear to fit the situation facing you on 
 the battlfield. If you enjoyed BF2 I would definately suggest this. Titan mode offers a nice mix 
 on the gameplay, however it does lag a bit on older systems with 32+ people. Anyone who has played 
 a Battlfeild game knows that EA/Dice have yet to work out minor bugs. BF2142 is no exception to 
 this however as of now there are no huge exploits. Things I would have liked to see: a more futuristic 
 weapon system, the Mech/walker cool but they still use tanks in the future as well as jeeps, CTF 
 mode - common BF1942 had it and it was great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happyboy75
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  battle field 2142 is a great game don't get me wrong but you have the feeling that its no real 
 change other than titan mode and the pins the pins are great but they make the experience a bit 
 too easy and how you think that you will get revived from person without a defibrillator and the 
 lack of vehicles i mean not even a plane thats one of the best bits if your good at it or not but 
 its good how the helicopters dont rule the skys anymore i mean in bf2 there would be guys floating 
 around in these helicopters demolishing anything in sight and frankly im sick of downloading patches 
 for it hell they released one before it was on public release and ive been kicked 50-60 times and 
 have had 5 patch problems not to mention the EA link CD key problem cmon DICE create a game that 
 is finished its not about getting it on time everyone here would be fine if kept it a little longer 
 AND FINISHED IT my brother pre-orded this and stopped playing because of these problems u need 
 to improve well if you read this thank you time anything u would like to add anything contact me 
 at happyharryhunter@gmail. com oh yes im from down under 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visualedit
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 1, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  Since the gamespot members are very successful with their review style, I'm going to write my review 
 almost like the gamespot's. The Good: Battlefield 2142 improved it's graphics and EA Games made 
 a good idea to add the new game mode, Titan. The new machinery in the game adds on to the intense 
 field fights. The Bad: Although Battlefield 2142 did add new game modes, and added new machinery 
 and made the graphics much more beautiful, the gameplay is some-what like Battlefield 2. Battlefield 
 2142 is like another version of Battlefield 2 but with different weapons and machinery.
  
  Battlefield 2142 doesn't have any more tactics then Battlefield 2. There isn't too many new equipment 
 and the gameplay, like I said before, is similar to Battlefield 2. EA Games didn't take the time 
 to change the gameplay making Battlefield 2142 not as sucessful. If they added more actions (exp. 
 hand to hand combat, back flips. ect) they could've made Battlefield 2142 much more intense and 
 interesting. Imagine, if your stuck in the middle of an intense field with no more gun clips and 
 your knife totally worn-out (though in the game you can't really worn your knife out) , and you 
 know your only way out is hand to hand combat. With all the uppercuts and kick flips it would make 
 Battlefield 2142 much more intense and fun. Though Breakdown (another game, not related to Battlefield 
 in any way) wasn't that successful, it would be very fun to have the same fighting techniques (exp. 
 kick flips, punches. etc) . But props to EA for trying to make Battlefield 2142 an excellent shooter.
 
  
  Good or a waste of time: I would say, it's good, buy it if you like futuristic shooters with interesting 
 new machinery, but if you don't, then don't waste your money.
  
  Thank you for reading my full review.
  
  ~` visualedit `~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerwiz09
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is just probably one of the best game I have ever played. Where shall I start? First 
 off, the graphics are awsome, and smooth. And sound is great too, especially the effects- from 
 the futuristic machine guns, to explosions fom RDX demopacks and AMP mines, to hover tanks and 
 aircraft blowing up, to the cries of your fellow soldiers as the fall beside you in the midst of 
 the intance battle situation that battlefield 2142 brings to your pc. Theres nothing wrong with 
 the controls, as can change them to your liking anyway. I haven't played battlefield 2 but I know 
 the new almost imediate unlock receival, differs as you don't have to reboot... definatly a plus. 
 The addition of the new titan mode, definatly a great new idea, besides conquest can get boring 
 over and over, this is a fresh new mode, that I welcome warmly to the game.
  
  Its also nice to try out the new futuristic wepons and items, like the recon cameo, and EMP items. 
 Once again the unique squad play is one of the battlefield games great qualities. But in my opinion, 
 allthough the multiplayer is basically the what you'd be playing most of the time and the best 
 part of most games, I feel the game should have had a story, or campaign single player mode, like 
 the most first person shooter games, but its fantastic multiplayer makes up for that. Over all 
 this game is a MUST-HAVE for any shooter fan. What flaws this game has is majorly outweighed by 
 its good qualitys. You'll get hooked once you start playing. BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincewulff
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game I had a lot of Oooh's and Awe's. But after playing for about 
 thirteen hours and playing each level at least three times each I started to wish they'd incorporated 
 more levels into the game. There aren't really a whole lot to play with. Also is it just me or 
 are these levels smaller than on the first Battlefield game? I was hoping that with a new game 
 there would be bigger and better levels with seemingly infinite places to battle, hide, and snipe 
 from. This is supposed to be the future and they could only think of two basic settings to place 
 the game in? They have desert, and snowy places. They should have at least tried to think of a 
 few more settings. Plus there's too much urban environment. Where's the open battlefield with strategic 
 hills and walls. I want scenes from the terminator movies with nighttime levels and ships flying 
 overhead and walkers marching past. And mentioning that, why do they have so few kinds of vehicles. 
 They've got jeeps, tanks, transports, and walkers. And each side has a different kind which adds 
 a little variety but still. They should have five kinds of tanks on each side with things such 
 as double-barrel turrets and stuff. Another thing they're really missing is boats. With all these 
 futuristic battles going on you'd think there'd be someone trying to storm someone elses beaches 
 to make an attempt to hit the base from the back door. But no. Instead they come driving up with 
 a gigantic Titan for all to see and say Hey! Here I am. I'm willing to try to match your single 
 Titan with my single Titan and see who wins. Yepee! It just seems kind of shallow to me. But none 
 the less I still thoroughly enjoy this game, even though I think some people out there are cruising 
 through the ranks too quickly. (They should have made it so that it takes a few weeks to get up 
 a rank.) But the game is still quite fun and I look forward to playing it for quite some time to 
 come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P4uL4d4ms
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  In EA's new edition to the Battlefield series (2142) you get to wage war in the 22nd century. One 
 feature I liked best of all about the new Battlefield game is the fact that you don't start out 
 with all the weapons and equipment. You're soldier will gain career summary points at the end of 
 each round. Once you reach your goal, say 500 career points, you are promoted and you can choose 
 an unlock. This makes it more of a challenge for players so you don't just get bored of playing 
 it after a month. There are two different game modes, conquest and titan. In conquest it's head 
 to head battle and the faction that loses all their points is defeated. In Titan, you have to destroy 
 the apposing faction's airship (titan) . Very challenging and very fun. Haven't lost interest in 
 it yet and I'm at 43 hours now. Here's to 43 more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BananaUK
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 29, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  Yes, thats right another Battlefield game, 2142 jerks the gamer forward in time to the Great War 
 between the European Union, and Pakistan. EA does not really give the gamer a background story 
 behind the war, but drops little hints on the map loading screens. (Right)
  
  In comparison to Battlefield 2 things havent really changed. All EA has done is tided up the graphics, 
 and added one new game feature Titan Mode. The game mode puts the emphasis around a Titan (Aircraft 
 Carrier) in the sky, where players fight to secure missile launchpads to knock the Enemy Titans 
 shield out. Once the Titan shield is down, players from the opposing team can board it, and eventually 
 destroy it. Unfortunately apart from the Titan Mode, this game is the same as Battlefield 2, but 
 in the future. Yes there are, new weapons, new maps, and new equipment to unlock, but its still 
 all the same. But, If you have some good friends, and know how to have fun you may enjoy it :D
 
  
  BF2 = BF 2142 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I have played BF1942 and BF Vietnam, plus the demo of BF2, and I'm officially most fond of BF2142 
 because of all the cool new gadgets and, just as the creators had hoped, the unlocking system will 
 keep me playing for a long time. The old conquest mode is included, but I like the Titan mode more. 
 Titan mode is where you control the silos around the map (much like conquest) but all the while, 
 these silos are shooting missles at the opposing team's Titan - a big space ship floating above 
 the main base (actually, more people would consider the titan the main base as opposed to the base 
 located directly underneath its starting point. and yes, it can be moved but by the commander only)
 
  These missles are shooting because there is a force field around the enemy titan that keeps you 
 from entering the titan at all, but once the force fields are down, the missles begin doing damage 
 to the actual ship.
  At this point, rarely do you wait for the destroying of the titan to be done by the missles, as 
 you can use multiple ways to land on the back of the titan and use squad tactics to destroy 4 control 
 panels which open up the reactor core in the center of the titan while trying to overcome their 
 defense all-throughout the titan's corridors. Once the core has been destroyed, its time for an 
 James Bond style sprint out onto the back deck of the titan, where you will leap off and parachute 
 to safety just as the explosions finally destroy the titan all-together.
  this is where i have one of my complaints, you are forced to watch an animation of the titan exploding 
 every time you finish the game. nothing new ever, just 20seconds out of your life. but i can cope.
 
  the only other complaint is that there are but 2 flying vehicles in the game other than the titan, 
 but you dont really notice this in the long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesis2403
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 26, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I really don't like this game. It's not bad, but it's certainly not good.
  
  The gameplay is disapointing. The game just seems basic, theres no single player other than an 
 AI inspired multi-singleplayer room that fails to include all the gameplay maps and modes. The 
 actual gameplay leaves little to be desired. The controls overcomplicate everything with features 
 that simply aren't used. The only in-game feature I liked was making the character run as this 
 was the only realistic content in the game, even for a sci-fi game like this.
  
  There is some decent content, you can aim down the sight although this feels like a more accurate 
 zoomed in version of the 'fire-from-hip' mode. In automatic fire mode (even when aiming down the 
 sight) , it's very innacurate. Remember we are in 2142, you'd just expect better. The ranking idea 
 is good and is challenging. Earning unlocks to get new equipment is an interesting feature too, 
 but unfortunatly it doesn't make up for the rest of the gameplay. Average.
  
  The graphics are also bland though considering there is an ice age, this is what we would expect. 
 Still, the graphics remind me of a higher-resolution version of Delta Force 2. The sounds too are 
 average. Bang bang, boom boom and crackly radio voices. Hardly epic.
  
  The good of this is that because the game's content is as poor as it is in terms of gameplay, you 
 can support the 64 player server on a 2MBPS line with a little trouble. It contains all the standard 
 feature that an FPS should. However, the game overcomplicates itself and for me it's very uncomfortable 
 to play.
  
  If you're looking to run around like a mad man shooting anything that moves and your not bothered 
 about gameplay, graphics or sound this is a good game. Don't expect this to live to the standard 
 of games like CoD2 though. I feel this game is on to something, it just seems to lack effort that 
 would make it a good game. Average. Very average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  yes finely they have make a war game of year 2000 or something
  i love that gameplay its good only one thing is badly of the game that teleport thing you cant 
 choose the good person like as example im on a building but i see there is a rhino and shoot all 
 my team people down
  then i will try to teleport there than ive the wrong guy thats badly but its great game vehicles 
 to! almost all things i can shoot stuck! much of objects to
  protect your self in the game like boxes etc sound is good but maby must they make a little bit 
 music sound and i mean that you all most go died or something or that you going to a hard war where 
 realy much players go died that there a good sound must be added the game is realy good in the 
 muliplayer thats the end i give a 8.6 of the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyhorse_0411
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is an excellent online multiplayer game. The two game modes complement each other 
 very well and there are plenty of maps to play on. There is a good choice of players per map, ranging 
 from 16 player conquest to the massive 64 player titan battles.
  
  The 4 soldier types provide a good contrast, each with its own pros and cons. The upgrade system 
 provides good motivation to spend plenty of time trying to improve your rank. Each new rank brings 
 a new unlock, so the longer you play, the better soldier you become.
  
  The single player mode leaves a lot to be desired. There is no campaign or challenge. It is simply 
 a multiplayer game with AI opponents. It is good that you can choose the skill level of your opponents, 
 ranging from bumbling fools to hard-core soldiers. Another annoying feature is that you cannot 
 score points unless you are playing on a ranked server. This basically eliminates the need for 
 a single player mode because you may as well be earning points on multiplayer instead of wasting 
 time on single player. The only reason that you would use the single player is if you have no network 
 access. But this is a contradiction because in order to get into the menu to select your game mode, 
 you need to sign in to EA. Aside from these short-comings, Battlefield 2142 is an exciting multiplayer 
 game that is a lot of fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkieg
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  I'm really into my FPS's and was expecting a game with a storyline. Once you have played the game 
 for an hour, expect no more. It's a very easy game to get used to, kill the enemies and capture 
 the flag - it really goes no further than that. I'm not really into internet games either and the 
 fact that you can only really play this game online is very annoying in my case! Obviously there's 
 a lot of people out there who love it, I just think once you've played it for an hour, there's 
 nothing more to accomplish. The animation of soldiers is very poor too - if you're not playing 
 the game online, you'll feel like you are in single player mode as the way characters move is just 
 like how they would on multiplayer. It takes a lot to unlock weapons etc which you can only unlock 
 by playing online - so for people who aren't great at online games, you're screwed, you're stuck 
 with the standard weapons. Overall I was expecting a lot more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anti-strider
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 24, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 could be named an alternative time machine. Why? Cause the future war looks so 
 incredible, you just think it could look just like this.
  
  Battlefield series has always been about war, so this won't be a exception.
  Large command ships 
 Titans, killing machines Walkers, hover tanks, Helicopter and jet hybrids, and lots of other really 
 cool stuff that lets you elevate your war, change your tactics and destroy the enemy much more 
 interestingly than ever before.
  
  Plus, the ranking system has been improved. Now, you don't have to play 2 years to become a general. 
 The awards lets you achieve that easily. Every award in 2142 is worth many points.
  
  Graphic changes are'nt very big, but you will notice them.
  
  The other little change has been 
 made in music. Now every map has it's own soundtrack.
  
  Oh, theres also a new titan mode, new award system, new unlock system, etc, etc, etc. Just get 
 this game to see this all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thewtfpwner
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  Overall, this is a solid game. It lives up to the Battlefield name... good multiplayer, and lots 
 of shooting/blowing stuff up. An interesting aspect of this game is the combination of different 
 classes from the previous games. For instance, there is the assault/medic class, the engineer/anti-armor, 
 the sniper (recon) , and finally the support class. Another cool thing about this game is the idea 
 of unlockables. Each class has six unlockables, that you can acquire through promotions. Every 
 time you get promoted, you are able to choose a new unlockable. You gain the rank to be promoted 
 through multiplayer ranked matches. Each class has 4 miscellaneous unlockables and two weapons. 
 There are two multiplayer modes: Conquest and Titan. Conquest is the same as previous Battlefield 
 games. Run around capturing spawn points, and reduce the enemy's reinforcment count (or tickets) 
 to 0. In Titan mode, each team has a really big flying thing called a Titan. The Titan can launch 
 ships and landing pods. The object of the game is to destroy the other team's Titan. To do this, 
 first you must destroy its shield. To destroy a Titan's shield, you must capture 5 land-based missle 
 silos. These operate much like spawn points... except that they also fire missles at the enemy's 
 Titan. After the enemy's shields are down, the missles will continue to fire at the Titan, damaging 
 its hull. You may also use assault pods or flying vehicles to board the enemy Titan. In each Titan 
 there are four control panels. If all four are destroyed, then the attacking team may enter the 
 Titan's reactor room. Attacking the reactor greatly decreases the Titan's hull integrity. When 
 the hull integrity reaches zero, the Titan is destroyed. There are only four single player maps, 
 but since the bulk of this game lies in multiplayer, it's not too much of a problem. Some vehicles 
 have been tweaked slightly, but they still play mostly the same as in previous Battlefield games. 
 A new vehicle is the Battlewalker. Battlewalkers are very tough, two man mech-like vehicles. The 
 driver can fire a machine gun and missles, whereas the second player in the Battlewalker can fire 
 a machine gun and anti-air EMP missles. In conclusion, a great game from the Battlefield franchise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-geoffrey
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Again whe must fight on the battlefield but this time in the year 2142.
  the story is just as thin as you would think of a battlefield game.
  it's just about the world 
 in chaos because a new ice age has begun.
  and the humans ( Europe and China ) are fighting for land ...
  but now back to the serious stuff.
 
  first of all the new mode u can play it's called: titan .
  it's a mix of the original conquest and assault.
  both team's got a titan, a titan is somekind 
 of HUGE battle ship that's flying very slowly true the air.
  first of all both teams need to take as much silo's (flags) at a time when u got a silo it will 
 fire automaticly at the enemy titan.
  when the shield's are down u can bord the enemy titan.
  this is where the ''assault'' part starts 
 in the titan there are 4 console's these need to be destroyed.
  this can go very fast in case nobody defend's them but don't expect that to happen....
  u will 
 have a very hard time attacking and would rather defend because it's just simply EASY...
  but luckily a lot of players dont care and rather attack.
  after all if u got a little squad 
 that wants to help each other it can be done.
  when the 4 console's are destroyed u must destroy the core ...
  when u hit the core with a full 
 c7 pack (5) the titan get about 25% damage
  meanwhile the silo's will just keep shooting and shooting so the choice what do to is your's.
 
  so as u can see titan mode could be a lot of fun.
  but there are some major problems at the release of 2142.
  like huge big lag in the titan.
 
  but the latest patch 1.05 was a big improvmend so the lag is about 50% of what it was.
  messy messy messy EA .
  but still a lot of players just played the game with a lot of moaning 
 .
  ofcourse whe can still enjoy playing conquest mode.
  but this mode has no lag at all .
  but after all the game just feels not finished with to much 
 problems it could had been the end of the good name battlefield always had but the rest of the 
 game was so good nobody really wanted to stop playing.
  the new future setting really did the job NO laser shooting! ( exept one of the walkers..)
  one 
 of the things many players where afraid of.
  but it still playes with the same engine but a very new side of it.
  the charracters are looking 
 very tuff as are the weapons.
  these are perfectly in balance.
  and all have good use.
  there are a few weak points after all ...
  like the chopper or.. eeh.. i dont know spaceship 
 ? it really is hard as gunner to hit with the rocket .
  just to hard.
  i wont except the chopper playe's a big role in the war's people will be playing because it just 
 to weak.
  no jet's to so i think there will be some people that really miss that.
  the biggest miss is that the speed of the game layes much to low.
  bf2 player will have an easy 
 day because new players never played the fastness of bf2.
  first time u switch from bf2 to 2142 u definitly feel like a ya granddaddy.
  the ranking is made 
 much easyer than bf2 to not 100 hours for gold assault but 50 so u won't spend days of your live 
 getting the stupid badge !.
  i just think this game could be ment for a little waiting for bf3 .
  meantime u could play bf2 
 or 2142 mabey even both like me.
  a bad start of the game but a patch or two could make this game just perfect.
  but still u will 
 never find a better 64 player shooter thats for sure ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NorwichCoach
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the DEMO of this game, to be honest I was very unsure as to whether or not 
 I would actually purchase it.
  I broke down and gave it a shot.
  
  AM I EVER GLAD I DID......
  
  This game brings war to a completely different level. The weapons 
 are amazing, and the unlocks available are often and worthwhile. Take care when making your choices 
 because the choices you make will help you progress towards other unlocks. Know what you want to 
 do and do it.
  
  This game depends heavily on squad cooperation. If you are a lone wolf you will find yourself being 
 left behind. Take advantage of the scoring system and the new squad based technology in order to 
 enjoy this game to its fullest.
  
  Always make sure you work with your team mates, watch their backs and they will watch yours.
 
  
  Titan mode is again an amazing idea for this game genre. Defend your titan, take the control points 
 and rack up huge scores.
  
  The Hover Tanks in my opinion are the funnest armor I have ever driven. If you learn how to use 
 them properly they can be totally destructive to your opponents. They can turn on a dime, move 
 sideways, Hit, dodge, hit again and you come out without a scratch.
  
  The Air transport and Air assault vehicles need to be practiced in. They are so very different 
 than anything I have ever experienced before. Once you get the hang of them you can drop your transport 
 on a hair if you need to. Their hover capabilities is amazing and quite simple to control, once 
 you practice.
  
  Squad up, have fun and I'll see you in the war zone.
  
  =DD= JohnDuffy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconsoc
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  I have always loved the Battlefield series and hated the developers. EA/DICE can't seem to grasp 
 the concept that releasing a bug ridden game irritates the consumer. Walkers, the staple unit of 
 2142, slide around sometimes, other times they walk in place while they should be standing still. 
 Titans moving cause dead players to slide into walls making a revive impossible. If someone walks 
 by you when you are prone on a titan, there is a slight chance you will fall out of the titan. 
 Players can bypass defenses by magically jumping through titan walls into reactor console areas. 
 How can any of these bugs have made it through testing?
  
  Other irritants include playing on servers where stats do not register. Other times you will load 
 in as a private with no unlocks. Air-power in the future is completely worthless due to the whiners 
 who couldn't handle the BF2 planes. Why do the SMGs overheat so quickly? One would think that a 
 futuristic gun would have supercooling to lessen the heat build up. Instead we have a gun that 
 fires for 4 seconds and gets overheated.
  
  Though the concept is good and potential for this game is high, the execution is horrid. EA/DICE 
 need to re-evaluate their testing department and stop pushing games out before they are ready. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PureDemon-
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is a team based First Person Shooter, in which playing as a time is the most important 
 thing. As the predecessor of Battlefield 2 one of the best team based FPS games out there, it has 
 a lot of fans to keep satisfied.
  
  In Battlefield games you are one of the soldiers in a huge map where 2 armies fight it out, in 
 2142 you do this by using 1 of 4 kits each kit contains certain weapons which aren't available 
 in other kits. You can play as Recon where you will rely on stealth and sniping to take out your 
 enemies, you can play as Assault which gives you a good overall kit with an assault rifle but also 
 the ability to heal yourself and team mates so its kind of like medic. Support is a kit where you 
 get this big machine gun in your hands, yet also gives you the ability to resupply yourself and 
 team mates. Engineer the last of the batch, is the kit for vehicle use, you are equipped with a 
 rocket launcher to deal with those pesky tanks and other vehicles and you gain the ability to repair 
 vehicles.
  
  Each of these kits are good in some parts and bad in the other. New is the option to customize 
 and unlock new items and weapons, and thus increasing your overall combat effectiveness. Each kit 
 will have a total of 8 unlocks, 2 weapons and 8 items, when you first visit the unlock screen you 
 will notice that there are 2 separate branches of unlocks for each kit. You'll need to unlock the 
 items in a specific order, in order to get the weapon unlock. For example, if you are playing Assault, 
 and you want to unlock the medic branch you will need to unlock the Defib in order to get the Advanced 
 Medic Hub, then the smoke grenades and after that the Voss Light Assault Rifle.
  
  There are also Player Abilities and Squad Leader unlocks , this is were one of the problems of 
 the game comes in. When you first get the game you will not have the ability to use grenades, and 
 your stamina and sprint recovery is low, so you will have to unlock those abilities. The game rewards 
 you for being in a Squad and the most effective squad will need a good leader, that's why you have 
 Squad Leader unlocks. Each of these unlocks requires you to have some squad members. You have the 
 spawn beacon which can be dropped anywhere to help squad members spawn at a set location, of course 
 this can be destroyed. You also have access to 2 flying drones one of them scans the area and acts 
 like a mini mobile UAV while the other drone has guns and will shoot anything marked by squad members. 
 The big difference between BF2 and 2142 is Titan mode a new mode which brings you a large map and 
 two huge flying ships, which act as a main base, the objective is to conquer the missile silos 
 in order to damage the enemy titan's shield and afterwards destroy it. Of course during this your 
 Titan will be taking damage too, this mode will require a solid defence and a strong offence. Like 
 I said BF2142 brings a lot of changes some good some bad, one of the most noticeable changes are 
 the scores, while in BF2 you eventually had to make jumps of 12000 points or higher, in 2142 getting 
 ranks up is easy and fun, and you never really get stuck on a rank.
  
  BF2142 is a must have for BF2 fans but also gives pleasure to people who have not played it yet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonbuckler
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  If you've played BF2 then you'll know what to expect from BF2142. The game play in general is very 
 similar, only now it's much better balanced. Gone are the problems of airpower repeatedly spawn 
 killing everything till they get bored and leave. There is a much better rock/paper/scissors idea 
 going on - e. g. apc's are great against infantry but can't even damage tanks. Tanks are powerful 
 but if you can get behind one it's a one shot kill for an engineer, other tank, or fixed railgun 
 turret. This in my opinion makes the game much more fun. The unlock system is also better, as there 
 are a lot more unlocks, they are easier to get and make more of a difference to game play.
  
  That said there are problems - being an EA game it's full of bugs at the moment, so needs a 
 few patches to sort it out. The new titans are the weak points as far as gameplay goes. The game 
 play assaulting the titan itself hasn't been very well thought out - there is only one titan interior, 
 and the defenders basically just have to defend a few long corridors which leads to a few support 
 players setting up shop with their heavy machine guns, shields, and unlimited ammo and just sitting 
 there killing the onrunning attackers for 15 minutes. Dull after you've done it a few times.
  
  Even before you assault the titan it's turrets lead to rampant spawn killing - you just fly 
 the titan so it can see several silo's and start firing with very little skill. You can destroy 
 them but the guy manning it can fix it up again in a few seconds and continue where he left off. 
 This gets a bit dull.
  
  That said there's lots of conquest (BF2 style capture the flag) maps as well so you don't have 
 to play titan mode, and even playing that mode you can just leave the titan assault/defence to 
 the stat padders and fight over silo's instead (silo's will eventually destroy a titan without 
 having to board it) .
  
  Graphically, sound, etc it's basically BF2 again which isn't the end of the world - no it doesn't 
 look as pretty as a next gen game will, but if your machine could play BF2 it'll be fine with 2142 
 so requirements aren't too high. Game is hard because a lot of people know what they are doing 
 - until you learn the maps and the game mechanics which takes a while you'll die a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveslayerv1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  altough i have only just got into the battlfield series i belive this has to be the best mmo-fps, 
 when i first heard about this game i thought it was going to be dissapointing, but i take it back. 
 i downloaded the demo, and started to play it, i did think it lacked at first, but then you start 
 discovering the in-depth gameplay and team work, it's not just a shooter it's a tatical war.
  and when you start likeing it your hooked, there is no turning back. i would rate this game 9/10, 
 the unlocks are hard to get after you become a corpral but if you play enough then unlock's become 
 handy toy's to maim, maul and scare your enimies with, i love the way it's other pepole your fighting 
 and not a computer programmed for one purpose with no judgement and tactic, a must buy. and if 
 your new to battlefield, you will not be dissapointed, go buy it. and play to your heart's content. 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  GIVE E'M HELL !!!! - daveslayerv1 (marine-hunters) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wamzip
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  I followed the hype during the development of this game due to my existing obsession with BF2 and 
 downloaded the demo on the day of its release. I must admit I was very disappointed at first. There 
 was very little advancement from the BF2 engine in terms of graphics, gameplay and most of all 
 polish. Having said that I took the plunge anyway and bought the game anyway. Luckily I've changed 
 my opinion greatly in the 50 hours I've spent on the game. I realised soon after playing the game 
 that the demo just didn't do it justice. The level selected for the demo was one of the least impressive 
 and most visually ugly. Also, it didn't feature the games strongest point - unlocks. The main trouble 
 I had with the demo though was 'change'. The game feels different from BF2 and as a result is hard 
 to accept. If you haven't played BF2 you shouldn't have a problem but if you are a BF2 Vet, Just 
 give it a chance, you'll get used to it. For people who haven't played Battlefield before: This 
 is online First person shooting at its best! The levels are huge, The graphics are impressive, 
 the team play is refreshing and the atmosphere is perfect!. Some firefights are so intense you'll 
 feel as though you're right in the middle of a Hollywood war film - Think the opening seen from 
 Private Ryan. Be warned though, This game is difficult to master, you're first few hours of gaming 
 will probably result in lots of death and very few kills. The game rewards dedication via a long 
 learning curve and a weapon/item unlock system. You should be prepared to spend as much time on 
 this game as an RPG like World of Warcraft. I've spent over 250 Hours on Battlefield 2 and still 
 have very few of the Expert awards. For people who have played BF: The improvements to the engine 
 seem subtle at first. Minor alterations to the squad system, HUD, Classes, unlocks, points and 
 The extra game mode are all changes for the Better! The overall feel of the game seems less graceful 
 and frustrating at first but you'll get used to it. I like to think it's due to the troops needing 
 heavier armour to combat the more advanced weapons. The increased no. of ranks and unlocks make 
 you feel like your making more progress than you did in BF2 and keep you gripped. The new Titan 
 mode is great fun and is a welcome change of pace. The Point system now rewards team play massively 
 and is very beneficial, I actually make an effort to find a team to now! Although this game is 
 excellent I must warn newcomers to the series and BF vets alike - The game is very unstable at 
 the moment. I'm told BF2 was the same during it's first months and I was hoping it would be different 
 with 2142 due to beta testing but alas....... This game has more bugs that I've had hot meals. There's 
 a patch coming out in the next few weeks (Nov 2006) which should help matters greatly. That said, 
 you can play around the bugs and it hasn't ruined my experience so far. I've already got 50 hours 
 under my belt in 2142 and I expect to log many, many more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKLDMARK
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  If you've played any of the Battlefield games: BF2, BF1942 etc. its no different from the rest. 
 The setting is the future now, with new mechanized vehicles and weaponry that bring a nice look 
 to how a futuristic battle would be fought. It still has the ranking system just like the rest, 
 gaining privilages to unlock new gear for your soldier to become the best and proficient soldier 
 he can be. Though I must say I was a bit disappointed that when starting out, the ability to use 
 a frag grenade of the sort is not available until you gain your first unlock point to be able to 
 equip and use it. Expected from being such a new game coming out, there were times where the game 
 would log you off from the room back to screenname log-in while in combat. But all in all I must 
 say it is still a very good game if you love shooter games such as this. Just look forward to see 
 updates to fix such issues in the upcoming patch they will soon have out. Maps are great and the 
 types of play are definately fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baselerd
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Here is the last AAA shooter to be released for PC before 2007, and it is a good one. However, 
 this is not to say it is flawless. While the game seems to be better optimized in general, the 
 new titan mode suffers terrible server-side lag, and the game might not be different enough from 
 BF2 to warrant the purchase of this game for people who own BF2.
  
  The gameplay is amazing, and is a nice enhancement from BF2. While the game structure remains the 
 same as the previous Battlefield installments, the infantry combat is much more visceral and fun. 
 The game seems well balanced, and the new unlock system is amazing. Each class now holds it's own 
 and is flexible enough to feel like you as an individual build your own tactics. Furthermore, the 
 unlocks are far more frequent that those in BF2 and give the player a larger sense of accomplishment. 
 The titan mode is a blast, although extremely laggy (varying from server to server.) Hopefully 
 this is cleared up in a patch soon.
  
  The graphics are great, not next gen, but definitely a substantial improvement over BF2. The graphics 
 engine has been upgraded with bloom effects, textures have been made crisper, effects are much 
 more explosive , and the detail in the levels has been improved. The result is a much more captivating 
 experience, with a slight increase in demands on the PC.
  
  The sound is excellent, the main improvement being the weapon sounds. They sound extremely powerful; 
 the end result is the action seeming much more intense than BF2. Additionally the music is good, 
 although not something I will be listening to for my leisure listening. To add to the audio ecstasy, 
 BF 2142 supports EAX 5.0, x-fi and uses audio hardware to its fullest to create 3d sounds that 
 really add to the game.
  
  On a side note, the in game advertising has caused quite an uproar. I initially was skeptical of 
 this as well. Apparently the adware in the game only uses your ip to determine your location to 
 bring relevant ads. And it is all self contained within the BF2 .exe, so there will be no adware 
 running while you aren't playing. And so far, I have only seen a Intel Core 2 duo ad, which isnt 
 very intrusive, as the ad looked worn and destroyed, as if it was a remnant of the pre-war period. 
 Either way, it isn't as bad as I thought it would be, nor it is a welcome addition.
  
  Overall, this game is excellent and superior to BF2 in almost every aspect. However, I do not believe 
 that the new features are enough to warrant the purchase of this game if you own BF2 and are only 
 a mild fan of it. But for newcomers to the series, look no further. This is a great game, and most 
 people who purchase this will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theplayboy0
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  The bugs will drive you insane. This game is nowhere near ready for release. The leader board has 
 been renamed the cheater board. EA has yet to address all of the issues. The new titan mode offers 
 plenty of wall hacks and glitches that immature individuals prey upon. The game is not worth the 
 buy at this point. It needs an expansion. The maps are too few and too similar. They get old very 
 fast. The landscape and the environment are bland and boring. It may look new but there are no 
 vibrany colors due to the freezing of the earth. Everything is cold, especially the interface. 
 BF2 was warm and welcoming whereas 2142 isn't. It's cold and lifeless. Imagine BF2 as being the 
 beach on sunny day full of beautiful people to stare at. Then imagine 2142 as being alone and isolated 
 in some space ship in the movie Alien. It's cold and doesn't have a good feel to it. The game overall 
 is very balanced though. They did a good job with making sure that nothing is completely overpowered 
 and not useful. Everything has a use although it does need some freshining up. The engine is way 
 to old to play this game. Remember in BF1942 on the carriers and on the battleships and such how 
 your character used to jut around and get pushed around all over the place? Same thing happens 
 here on the moving titan excpet it's in the middle of the air. You often slide through the floor 
 and you think that you are lagging or that your FPS had dropped but it's not you, it's the server 
 tyring to run the ancient engine. The bugs are too much to handle at times. It's almost a menance 
 to put up with but the game can be fun if everything is working properly. Don't join a server that 
 has more than 32 players and for the most part you should have a good experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piru_lee
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Exactly the same as Battleflied 2, (GREAT) , all weapons and vehicules are easy to use, 
 if you know how to play the BF series then you won't have any trouble playing this game. The only 
 thing is that in single player the bots are dummies because they don't follow player orders.
  
  Graphics: A very little much better than BF2, but still nice graphics. Diserves a 9.
  
 
  Sound: Ahh what can I say, same as BF2, great sounds and ambient fx.
  
  Value: A must own pc game, this game is great, cool online mode with rank option, (64 players online) 
 and pretty fun single mode.
  
  If you like first person shooter you should have this game in you collection, if don't, try it, 
 it's fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doodlefish
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This game was immediatly interesting for me, i had played battlefield 2, but had not much liked 
 it. All the new technology is great, quite simple but interesting. Singleplayer will instantly 
 get boring for you and should only be used as a tutorial, this is meant to be an online game. The 
 online gameplay is great as long as you find a server with good players on it and an active administrator. 
 The gameplay in the beggining is not too good, but it gets better when you start gaining ranks 
 and getting unlocks. There is a new gameplay mode in this game that didn't exist in the previous 
 battlefields, titan mode. Titan mode is great fun and in my opinion, is a lot more fun than conquest. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reasony
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  You cannot help but get a sense of deja vu when first playing this game. In fact, the first night 
 I had it I felt rather jaded since I am rather burned out on Batlefield 2. However, after plunking 
 down my hard earned loot, I was determined to get my money's worth. I persevered and eventually 
 realized I was having a lot of fun with Battlefield again, and some key differences are perhaps 
 the reason. Iniitially, flying vehicles do not overwhelm the battlefield. There was no map in which 
 I felt the team with the best pilots won as I always felt in BF2. Secondly, flying vehicles seem 
 easier to pilot, so everyone can take a turn and have some aerial fun (I was even able to cap a 
 missile silo by hovering, something I could never do in an Apache in BF2) . Thirdly, tanks are also 
 less dominant, while at the same time, lesser vehicles like jeeps are can be superb offensive threats 
 as opposed to merely transportation. Finally (and by this word I just mean I'm done and not that 
 these are the only 4 differences) , the promotion/unlock system is better. Like a rpg, advancements 
 come quickly at first but get sparse as your character advances, making you choose carefully. (Nonetheless, 
 EA allows 4 characters per account so people can choose 1 character from each class and unlock 
 everything from each tree.) In sum, the game has much greater emphasis on infantry, with vehicles 
 (both land and air) playing more of a support role than being the dominant feature of every battle. 
 This changed emphasis has made me a very big fan of this game over its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofan-11
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  battlefield 2142 is suprisingly almost exactly like battlefield 2 (besides the fact that there 
 is a new game mode called titan) . BUT, the graphics are way more demanding because of titan . the 
 Conquest game mode SUCKS. they pack 64 people into 32 player maps!!! so you die almost all the 
 time. plus, since many people (like me) got the game about 2 weeks after it came out, a bunch of 
 the people i played had every single upgrade; which in turn made it extremely hard to get some 
 points. overall, the graphics are good, but they are more demanding than bf2. the gameplay on TITAN 
 is pretty exciting, yet again, if you are on the titan, it seems almost claustrophobic-like in 
 it. plus, there are so many bugs that even the latest patch (1.06) doesn't fix. like the rank glitch. 
 the rank glitch is a bug where it brings your rank down temporarily for the whole game. IT KEEPS 
 YOU FROM GETTING POINTS TO RANK UP!!! wtf? Also, if you die on the titan, you can see through the 
 whole thing and it is just wierd. (which i'm sure that they will come out with a patch that fixes 
 it) . One last thing is that if your commander is moving the titan, and you are on it defending 
 it, YOU CAN FALL ALL THE WAY THROUGH THE TITAN. you literally fall right through the floor. BUT, 
 although these bugs are extremely annoying, they will in time be fixed. So, if you want to see 
 if you like this game be my guest; its up to you anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platybelodon
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  Although I was initially enthusiastic with what seemed to be a game with numerous possibilities, 
 I am disappointed after having been playing for a while. Some of the physics and interaction with 
 the environment are downright awful -- aboard the Titan one shakes and trembles when lying in the 
 wrong spot. Also, you can get stuck behind corners and walking and jumping among obstacles feels 
 very 90's. Sometimes misslies fired at consoles fly through the wall instead. This is just bad 
 game development and I don't think this can be reversed by patching. As for general gameplay there 
 are numerous peeves. Tanks are disappointing -- they are slow and weak and aiming over a distance 
 is awkward and not what one expects of futuristic weaponry. Their grenades suck (sorry, but I cannot 
 find a better word) and one needs to be spot on to even kill a plain foot-soldier. Same goes for 
 other vehicles, as most of them are very clumsy and counter-intuitive in their own way for what 
 you expect from future warfare. Of course one needs to limit weaponry in its strength, but in BF2142 
 it feels like, to that effect, they have been deliberately ill-designed to make them clumsy, and 
 hence they are unpleasant to operate. I mean, in the year 2142 one would expect to be a walker 
 to have some dampening of motion shaking -- now it is virtually impossible to aim while moving. 
 Keeping a lock on enemy aircraft with your emp missiles (from within the walker's co-driver seat) 
 is hopeless if the thing is not standing still.
  These are just a few of the issues that negatively affect gameplay satisfaction. There are many 
 more issues, including sluggish operation of the commander interface (it takes too long to do something 
 simple, and operation of the map is very laggy) ; the flawed teamkill system punishing you for teamkills 
 you didn't actually make (you are walking around in a walker, a friendly aircraft rams you from 
 behind, and all of its passengers get to punish YOU for a teamkill... this is ^really^ frustrating, 
 especially as it can get you kicked from servers) ; even with all graphics set at highest it is 
 hard to discern water from land until you are really close to it; and several other smaller annoyances. 
 On a more general note, I feel that EA has been delivering sub-par products lately. A pity, because 
 once they set the standard in many areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkme
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 1:28 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game i was hoping for a revolution but was quite disapointed. The graphics have 
 heavely improved but the gameplay stays much the same and where is the enviroment damage.
  
  Enviroments were preety good but still needs a bit of a polish up.
  
  Sound was really 
 good it realy gave a sense of being there.
  
  Multiplayer i think really makes this game and is one of the biggest high points.
  
  The camaign 
 i think makes you feel a little lifeless and the gameplay throughout was getting repetitive (shoot, 
 run, get in vehicle, shoot, jump out vehicle, shoot, run -repeat) I hope battlefield: badcompany 
 will be much better.
  
  Over all it still is best in the series it just needed some more work and a bit more story line. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiblespoop
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  After about 3 games of past and present warfare, DICE had decided to bring the battle to the future. 
 There are many new features that the future can bring to the battlefield such as Battlewalkers, 
 active camo, and hover tanks, just to name a few. DICE has figured out some ways to change the 
 battle from previous enemy sighting=prone game play from the past battlefield games by having the 
 reticle get much larger after you prone. You must wait about 2-3 seconds to have a good shot after 
 proning, which leads to a different experience from the other games in the series. The choppers 
 and planes from Battlefield 2 and Battlefield Vietnam have been replace by a vehicle called the 
 Gunship. The gunship is a huge liability that does not compare in the slightest with Battlefield 
 2 choppers and planes. The gunships slid around once put into hover mode, and has a very wide turning 
 radius, along with very underpowered missiles and does not have a very good TV missile configuration. 
 Many things have transfered over to 2142 such as the squad function, and the Character Ranking 
 system. Even though there are a few changes that have been put into the game to try to make the 
 future a different experience from the present and past, there are still noticeable things that 
 have not changed from Battlefield 2. All in all Battlefield 2142 is a good game, but does not compare 
 enough to Battlefield 2 to replace it. This game should be checked out for anyone who enjoyed any 
 of the other Battlefield games, but would not be recommended over Battlefield 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lullylew
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 18, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  I have never played a Battlefield game before this one and thought id give it a go. I was surprised 
 to see my self straight into the action with no sense of what the hell i was doing. Its not to 
 user friendly with no real tutorial to walk you through things. It does throw up the odd tip with 
 voice coverage to help you out when you encounter something new BUT you hardly ever concentrate 
 on it when you're face to face with a bleeding great hunk of metal called a walker thats slapping 
 off rounds and rockets at ya. after a good few hours of learning the basics which was quite painstaking 
 (i recommend playing the instant action before hand to get used to the basics) i started to actually 
 kill things. Its very enjoyable and the rank up system with unlocks gives it a small sense of roleplay 
 to. Titan mode is great fun, getting shot into the air in a pod and boarding the enemy titan has 
 its moments, specially if you land on someone (total finesse great fun) . Other than it being difficult 
 for newcomers the only other niggle is the amount of bugs it has, but on their side it is an online 
 game and a newly released one at that so you have to expect that. Patches will no doubt be thrown 
 out over time so the bugs shouldnt be a problem later on. All in all its a brilliant shooter for 
 anyone that likes a multiplayer shooter, stay away if you are one that enjoys the more In depth 
 play of something like F. E. A. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: binaryking
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are extremely clean. I have had no problems. Those that are having issues with the 
 game most likely don't have enough PC to play it. This is the best of the series! The sound is 
 very well done. There are a TON of different vehicles from futuristic tanks, walking robots, apc's 
 and even gunships!
  
  Titan mode is probably my favorite. The more I play this game and unlock more things, the more 
 I love it. If you buy this game though, you better have at LEAST a 6600GT. If not, you will be 
 disappointed.
  
  3.2 GhZ P4 HT w/ 2 GB Corsair Ram XFX 7600GT and an Audigy 2 ZS. Plays perfectly! Also get yourself 
 the nostromo n52, goes GREAT with this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  For all accounts Battlefield 2142 is very similar to the modern tactical shooter Battlefield 2, 
 in the same way that BF 2 was similar to BF1949. However the little differences in 2142 are more 
 than enough to separate it from its more respected brother. The first major difference to gameplay 
 is the adjustment of ranking and unlocking system. Instead of unlocking a single weapon per class 
 (or two with the expansion) there is numerous unlocks available for the four classes. In some cases 
 the equipment that was assigned initially to BF2 players requires unlocks before accessing. This 
 includes reviving kits, explosives, grenades and many others. Fortunately most of these items are 
 tier 1 and can be unlocked quickly if needed. The other unlocks add depth to each build, each soldier 
 can customize their load-out for their style of play. Its also possible to unlock all items on 
 one soldier if you want to play many different classes.
  
  This unlock implementation brings up the issue of balance, new players do not have the better equipment 
 to start with but that doesnt mean that a skilled played cant outdo a mediocre player with a 
 few unlocks. In other cases field upgrades are assigned to good performing players so they can 
 try out various items before unlocking on a round basis. This means that if your squad plays well 
 youll get unlocks which levels the playing field. The new unlocks add extra depth onto the persistence 
 of Battlefield 2 and create an interesting dynamic when players pick up items theyve yet to unlooving 
 deployment zones. Beacons offer a second chance for squadsck. The other large change was made to 
 the point system, more points are now given for defending and attacking specific points given from 
 the commander or squad leader. Likewise those giving these orders will receive points if squad 
 members engage the enemy within range of the ordered attack/defend point. This makes playing properly 
 in a squad far more rewarding in terms of points. Lone wolf players will need to be much better 
 to score above a squad member following orders. This doesnt mean that lone wolf players are going 
 to be disadvantaged, there are plenty of ways to gain points outside of following orders. The point 
 structure has also changed slightly from Battlefield 2. In BF2 global points were used for ranks 
 and unlocks, BF2142 includes Career points. In simple terms career points is global points plus 
 medals/awards/badges/pins. So earning awards now is more beneficial towards unlocks because of 
 those extra points. As with these extra points comes the addition of pins. Pins are smaller awards 
 than badges but they are ones which can be received many times. They offer career points each time 
 awarded which greatly helps towards achieving the next rank or unlock.
  
  Titan is the new gameplay mode that is similar to conquest during the first stage, at which point 
 the shields on the Titan are removed and the game becomes assault like gameplay. Fighting on the 
 Titan can be great fun, close corridors can make for some long firefights due to cover on the walls. 
 The game mode last longer on average than Conquest due to the two stages of attack. Many awards 
 are also centered around the Titan game mode which often makes points easier to come by than playing 
 conquest.
  
  Battlefield is not without its problems, as many should be familiar based on their experience 
 with BF2. Numerous bugs have crossed over to BF2142, one of them is the red/blue tag bug which 
 turns an enemy into a friendly or vice versa. Many of the new issues with BF2142 center around 
 the Titan game mode. Associated with this is the issues of exploitation, many players are gaining 
 huge scores by abusing the new scoring system. Luckily most of these issues arent incredibly serious, 
 if you survived the numerous crashing problems in BF2 then you will have no problem surviving BF2142.
 
  
  The game in general improves on everything that BF2 had created. The graphics are a step up. Surprisingly 
 it can run very well on the lower end machines too. There are fewer vehicles in the game and no 
 jets are present which creates a more focused experience. The sound is probably the best Ive heard 
 in a game, from the music to the effects its incredibly solid. Some areas of gameplay appear to 
 have had some skill extracted compared to the BF2 version, however many times it seems that some 
 things are easier to get into but there is still a learning curve. Other areas are more complex 
 including the real presence of weak points on vehicles Getting back into the action has never been 
 this fast in BF2. Titans offer huge deployment ranges from pods, apcs and transport ships are moving 
 spawn points and squad beacons can be placed to retake capture points by providing an easily destroyed 
 pod drop zone.
  
  Its hard not to recommended BF2142 as its the best online shooter of the year. If you cant stand 
 some bugs and exploits then the game is probably not for you. If you are a strong modern warfare 
 purist then you might not like the change in direction to a sci-fi themed action ride. For everybody 
 else its a refreshing change to the Battlefield franchise with enhanced solider customization 
 that is above all else incredibly fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdfireTrilogy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  What Battlefield 2 began, 2142 definately perfected. While the game still uses the great but becoming 
 dated BF2 engine; it has had much work done to polish, optimize and otherwise improve upon it as 
 a whole. The game actually loads faster then the original and runs at a smoother and constant framerate. 
 Unlocks and ranks have been greatly enhanced and now play an even more integral part of the game. 
 Online play is the main board for this game as was its predecessor and this is where it truely 
 shines. As a whole a quick look over shows a solid game and while some of the BF2 hype has worn 
 off since its release it is still being played by hundreds of thousands of people and its developers 
 have promised to keep working on improving it and keeping it competetive. Basically if you liked 
 BF2 then you will like this game and if you havent and your computer can run it ... pick it up! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agunst99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  great game amazing gameplay pretty good graphics. there a ton more upgrades to choose from and 
 you level up alot faster. they shortened t he amount of units available so they combined them together. 
 i would recomend this game to any one that likes fast pace first person shooters. best online shooting 
 game that i have played so far. specfically meant for online you can play it offline but there 
 is no campaign mode either just like all the other battlefields so if you like first person shooters 
 and playing online then i would recomend taking a look at this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dpreedx17
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  All in all I wouldn't be given this game a harse review if it just simply worked. Lack of content 
 i. e. only 5 maps total upon release, and so many bugs its sure to drive anyone crazy. At the core 
 the gameplay itself and the idea are nice and deserve a good score, but EA needs to finish what 
 they started before selling buged out contentless games to the public. Shame on you EA. Once the 
 game is complete i might consider revising my orginal review but the fact remains that the game 
 is just not as playable as its suppose to be. Ovious bugs such as disconnects and game crashes 
 should not be issues in final releases, minor things the content additons and such can always come 
 later, but something that makes the game unplayable is just not nessassary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FootFetish24
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Game play: Is in its own right to be outstanding, when you are in that squad of 5 people and you, 
 and you stick together and start spanking the other teams ass, its a good feeling. The game play 
 can be a little bit more balanced, the APC's rockets are the cheapest weapon in bf2142 because 
 of its area of effect and damage. The tanks are way too underpowered and the mechs have some glitches 
 in its walking ability.
  
  Graphics: The graphics have been tweaked to look better but its still the same old bf2 engine, 
 nothing impressive but it still stands up to be a good engine.
  
  Sound: The sound is by far the best thing in this game, it feels so much more intense now because 
 they improved the sound, so many examples such as being prone behind cover and you feel the whizz 
 of bullets coming at you at 5000rpm, or trying to sprint behind cover as a walker attempts to shoot 
 you 20 feet away, as the dirt gets forced to move upwards and conceals you and you hear the heavy 
 caliber shots coming out of the walker. So much to talk about sound. Overall the sound is the thing 
 i keep coming back too.
  
  Value: Alot of replay value because of the unlocks and the medals. Very fun to collect unlocks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  First off i wasn't a big fan of BF2 and still arn't i think the game engine lets down on the gameplay 
 + EA and all the bugs. Bf2142 is a good games, i don't see myself playing it like CSS though.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Fast, fun and lots of options. You'll start off pretty weak compared to everyone else and that 
 can get annoying but get into a great sqaud and you'll be fine.
  
  The most annoying thing though is if you need a lift and shout out, people in the vehicles drive 
 off or run you over lol.
  
  Overall though it's nothing different to BF2 and titan mode is basically conquest with 2 flying 
 ships.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Still good but looking to be getting old soon. The game evengine however is annoying buggy and 
 not interactive. It doesn't feel like your hitting any targets or firering a gun, or even running 
 tbh.
  
  Sound:
  
  Loved the sounds, near perfect.
  
  Value:
  
  I don't think it's great value for something thats little change from BF2, not that i expected 
 anything else from EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorbichov
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- This game has one major good thing and one major bad thing going for gameplay. It still 
 lacks the singleplayer campaign of BF2142, which I, for one, take as a very sore loss. The greatest 
 new addition is Titan Mode. The aim of this map is to destroy your enemy's Titan. These things 
 are MASSIVE, and they move (this does cause complications when you die however, as your body tends 
 to disappear under the floor) . To do this you must capture and hold up to 5 missile silos to bring 
 down the shields, then either keep the missiles going or board the Titan and destroy its core. 
 The new Battlewalker is a very sturdy and balanced addition to the game, and the hoverjets mean 
 that the aerial combat is also more balanced. Also the ranks are better distributed to give more 
 opportunity to get upgrades
  
  Graphics- The graphics quality is almost identical to BF2, yet the movement of the player is far 
 smoother and looks far more natural, the view pendulums back and forth as you sprint with your 
 rifle and diving feels smoother, the scale is also different, which makes it look like you are 
 seeing through an extension of your own eyes.
  
  Sound-The brilliant BF1942 themetune is back, albeit slightly modified. The sounds are very natural 
 but have a few issues that need to be addressed in the next patch. There are also a couple of issues 
 where the sound effects drown out aural commands, but as they are usually accompanied by text it 
 doesn't bear worrying about
  
  Value- Definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scratzin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The good: Deep persistance, great gameplay, great graphics (despite what they might tell you) , 
 superb sound
  
  The bad: Still kinda glitchy (first 10 players on the leaderboard are cheaters &gt;_&gt;) , game 
 crashes every now and then just as in BF2. adware and spyware havent been implanted though.
  
  Well, a great game.
  
  Its BF2, but then better. In my opinion, BF2s mark was to high on 
 gamespot, and 2142s mark was to low. But thats my opinion. Everyone wants something else. Lets 
 get back too the game.
  
  I've been playing it for 3 weeks now, and there are only 2 things that have ruined my playexperience 
 for a few mins
  
  1: The crashing (too be suspected from a BF game though)
  2:  This game is extremely glitchy, and all the noobs know them, 
 and they aint afraid to use it. Play on clanservers, as they usually have a high percentage of 
 admins on them.
  
  Meh, getting back to 2142 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyPegasus
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  When you are playing Battlefield 2142, you will constantly have the feeling that you are playing 
 Battlefield 2, but just in an other setting with other weapens and stuff. You don't have to cry 
 about that, because the gameplay of Battlefield 2 was very good and addictive, and so is Battlefield 
 2142. The new Titan mode is great and stretched. It feels just great when you jump of an explosing 
 titan. Saidly, there are a few bugs, especially on titan mode, but not as much as we had when Battlefield 
 2 was released. We can expect the first patch in a few weeks, so let's hope those bugs will disapeare 
 after that. Battlefield 2142 is just like Battlefield 2 a very addictive multiplayer game, but 
 it isnt very renewed. When you like to play ours online against more 32 other players, Battlefield 
 2142 is the right game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wanderer818
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 10, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Stick with what works. Battlefield 2142 takes the awesome multiplayer from BF2 and throws it a 
 century forward. Consider it the Battlefield Vietnam counterpart to BF1942. The difference with 
 this iteration, though, is that BF2142 takes us into an era that hasn't actually been experienced 
 yet. Titan battles are a nice addition that add some more variety to multiplayer games, but they 
 can be pretty laggy at times if you don't have a top-notch PC. BF2142 isn't incredibly innovative, 
 but there's no point in changing an already superb multiplayer system. The nice thing about the 
 futuristic setting is that it's futruistic enough to feel cool and not just a skin, but it's also 
 a believeable setting. The environments are immersive and the sound is superb. The single-player 
 is a joke in my opinion, but you really shouldn't be playing this for the single-player anyway. 
 I think there could be more factions available, but there's always room for expansion (China + 
 Japan) . The loading times have improved since BF2 as well, although they could be better. Despite 
 those complaints, BF2142 presents a multiplayer experience unparallelled by any PC game currently 
 available, and if you're looking for a multiplayer game to play for hours on end, look no further. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyriel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  This BF release really offers FPS lovers new content and a fresh approach to the genre. Here are 
 a few of the fun and appreciated high points:
  
  - Introduction of the Titan mode which is a unique 2 step combat where action happens down on the 
 ground with capture points and up inside a baseship with a destroy / protect type of game. - A 
 lot of award, level up, unlocks with adds a nice flair of RPG within the game. You really start 
 to build a character as you play those rounds. It's always fun in the game when you get the Soldier, 
 you deserve an award and know that you just got bonus points and are that much closer to level 
 up and get the new unlock
  
  - Very squad based. More emphasis on the advantages of playing in a squad. You even get temporary 
 unlocks if your squads plays well together
  
  Yes there are issues. Yes it's EA and they prefer to beta test their games in-house and end up 
 always missing major issues. However, this time, the issues are not game breaking and the classes 
 and vehicules are actually balanced. Also, this time around , the Europe EA team seems to be listening 
 and already patch 1.05 will address a lot of major issues.
  
  Personnally, this is really good value for the money. If you love FPS games and teamplay, you'll 
 get a lot of playtime for your buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pemobian
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this brief, because there simply isn't much to talk about. Battlefield 2142 is Battlefield 
 2 with futuristic guns and vehicles. That's it. Whether that is good or bad is going to depend 
 on two things: 1) whether you like futuristic shooters and 2) whether you are a devotee of the 
 Battlefield franchise. Even if all of the above are true, I'm still not sure whether the latest 
 BF game is worth the US $45 to $50 you're going to pay for it.
  
  After finishing the installation, you will be prompted upon starting the game to register for an 
 account with EA. This is required even to play single-player or over a LAN. Even after you've registered, 
 the single-player missions are limited to the 16-player versions of each map, which sucks severely. 
 You can play larger maps via LAN, but there is no cooperative play versus bots in the Titan mode 
 (the only truly new thing in BF2142) , which essentially makes this an MMO-only game until someone 
 releases a mod.
  
  Speaking of Titan mode, it is rather nifty. Each team has a giant, lumbering airship, and the goal 
 is to bring down that of your opponent. You start by capturing missile silos, which launch rockets 
 at the enemy Titan and eventually penetrate its shield. You can then keep launching missiles to 
 bring the ship down entirely, or you can board it with infantry (which makes for some awesomely 
 nasty firefights) .
  
  The high entertainment value of Titan mode is, sadly, also one of the game's worst downfalls, because 
 it essentially requires one to play online or on a huge corporate or school network. For a small 
 group of casual gamers or for those with unreliable ISPs (*raises hand*) , this one cool feature 
 of the game -- arguably the only feature that makes it even worth considering -- is useless.
  
  Further, as has been the case since Battlefield Vietnam, there is no campaign. This is utterly 
 baffling, given the extremely interesting back-story that was crafted as BF2142's premise.
  
  In short, if this game interests you, I suggest buying it through eBay or U-Bid, where you 
 might get a price significantly below retail (just make sure it isn't pirated or registered) . As 
 a glorified mod for Battlefield 2 with only ten maps, Battlefield 2142 simply does not justify 
 the $45+ price tag. This is doubly true when you factor in EA's newfound love of in-game advertising. 
 Yes, you read that correctly -- EA is now displaying ads in games that people have spent their 
 hard-earned money on.
  
  For me personally, this will probably be the last Battlefield game I indulge in, unless EA gets 
 their collective act together. That said, BF2142 isn't BAD -- it just isn't good for the money. 
 I don't want to be penalized for playing offline or on a LAN, nor do I want to stare at ads after 
 forking over $50 for said hampered product, but that's exactly what is happening. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stanleycup98
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is the next installment of the Battlefield series. Developed by DICE and EA, this 
 is probably the best game. Gamespot seemed to rate it too low. Many other people are deciding not 
 to get this game for a few reasons. I will try to explain these reasons to you and why they are 
 not good excuses to buy this awesome game.
  
  One of those reasons is dynamic ads. People are saying, without even trying the game, that the 
 ads are going to make the game suck. The ads blend in to the environment, and aren't that bad to 
 be honest. And why would you decide to not get the game because of some pictures of Pepsi and stuff 
 on a billboard somewhere on the map? People are also saying this game has spyware. It is not have 
 spyware. You see a paper when you open a box about IGA. The only thing this does to your computer 
 is retrieve your IP, which gamespot probably has already done. In game, it records how you look 
 at the ads, when, what ad, etc.
  
  GAME MODES- TITAN AND CONQUEST
  
  Now on to the game. There are two game modes, conquest and titan. Conquest has been in the series 
 since the start, and you capture control points around the map. When one is captured, you can spawn 
 on it. The new titan game mode is conquest, with silos, and a giant floating ship you need to blow 
 up. In the start, your ship, a titan, has a full health shield. Your goal is to destroy the other 
 teams shield. To do this, you have to capture and defend the 5 missile silos around the map. Every 
 2 minutes, they will launch a missile that will hit the enemy titan. Once the shields are down, 
 you have to assault the titan and blow up four consoles, then a reactor core. That will blow up 
 the ship, and you win. However, you must stop the other team from doing the same thing. Some servers 
 will have lag when youre inside a moving titan. This will be fixed in an upcoming patch, so it 
 won't be a very big deal anymore.
  
  BUGS/GLITCHES/EXPLOITS/SUCKY OR TOO GOOD STUFF LOL
  
  Glitches. Not that many I have really noticed so far. The only ones are probably a gliding 
 walker, bodies falling through the titan, gliding around, and when youre critically wounded, the 
 timer doesnt always show. They aren't very bad, to be honest. Of course, there are many minor 
 bugs. They don't really annoy me that much and it shouldn't you either, but they may, as they do 
 now ;)
  
  There are currently lots of exploits in the game. I will not post them, because they are illegal 
 to do. Hopefully, they will be fixed in an upcoming patch Since this game is still a new release, 
 there are still imbalances. The unlocks can be worse than the defaults and some of the equipment 
 is just sh*t. Hoping that these things are either nerfed or buffed upcoming patches, then I wont 
 care for now. But if DICE doesnt fix this... Ill be POed.
  
  MOD?
  
  People may say this game is a mod. They say this because it uses the same engine as BF2, and feels 
 the same. Yes, that is true, but it also has many more features.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The game play is easily comparable to BF2. The feel is the same. The game play is great, and the 
 game is hard to stop playing, since it goes on forever... 9/10
  
  [quote=Stanleycup98] Well, they are both very alike in core gameplay. The classes are basically 
 the same, the seven classes were split into 4, so all of the 7 are still in the game. But by combining 
 two classes into one class, you can be a mulit solider. Like a medic that has a heavy assault gun 
 and weapons. There are more slots to for your weapons, so their abilities are different as well. 
 The vehicle physics are the ~ the same. [/quote]
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are an improvement over BF2, yet not up to par with next generation games. The game 
 will look pretty good though on medium-high settings. 7/10
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound in this game is great improvement over BF2, The guns have distinct sounds, they sound 
 awesome, and noises of vehicles are great, the loading music/menu music is waaaay better than BF2. 
 One of the things I noticed in the game was how when a tank fires, the sound rips the cold air 
 (snow maps) . 9/10
  
  VALUE
  
  This game is worth the $50. You will NOT regret buying it. However, I would recommend you try the 
 demo first. 10/10
  
  I highly recommend you get this awesome game. If you liked any other BF game, you will like this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZiRa-Bosnia
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 8, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  I played this game lets say , 15 hours but thats enough , Battlefield 2142 like
  all other battlefields is considered as Multiplayer-only game , since singleplayer part with BOTS 
 does not cover all beauty of this game.
  
  As we predicted Ice age is here , what to say - too much maps are in snow and
  fog , thats the 
 part i dislike , maps weather better to say. BF2142 like BF2 have
  maps for 16/32/64 players , Game have new type of gameplay , we have
  standard Conquest and new 
 Titan mode. In conquest mode as we all know
  we fight to capture some flags , in NEW titan mode we fight for SAM site positions , from which 
 we launch rockets to ENEMY titan. For more info
  watch ingame tutorial avaible in demo and retail version of the game.
  
  I bought my version 
 from EA Link , everything works great now when i upgraded my PC i got solid FPS on 1024*768 and 
 med details. Enough of this lets talk about game itself.
  
  As i sayed in intro game have strange maps , i mean no more nice trees and nature everything is 
 covered with snow , dust , fog but thats not so bad , Gameplay is not so good as in Battlefield 
 2 , but story of the game will pull you in. ITS NOT SO BAD as people on forum say. I tested game 
 on 1.01 ver so it still contain many buggs and glitches . we have 2 factions in game PAC and EU 
 , they fight for the land and resources to survive the ICE age. Game bring us new Hoover tanks 
 , Walkers ( walking things from C&amp; C tiberian Sun GDI side lol) , its so cool
  when you enter combat with 1 =) . I have nothing more to say its a battlefield serial game , i 
 bought it and im happy with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemes1s3000
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is very much different from what you've encountered in Battlefield 2, there are 2 
 factions (European Union and Pan Asian Coalition) and 4 different classes in each faction (Assault, 
 Recon, Engineer and Support) .
  
  So far the cons that I can think of for this game are: only 2 factions, 2 air vehicles and 4 land 
 vehicles, which is a big upset to me since Battlefield 2 had a hell of alot more vehicles and so 
 forth. Since it costed $60 upon release day, that was an even bigger upset.
  
  Graphics were a slight enhancement to the BF2 engine, it's pretty much the same once you start 
 it up, I can guarantee you that you won't be able to tell the difference during gameplay but, pretty 
 to look at none the less. The gorgeous sunset will really want to make you land the drop ship on 
 someone special.
  
  I gave a high score on the sound attribute because it was truly something great to listen to, a 
 real live war if you will; is happening infront of you and you can really feel the bullets zing 
 by your ears. The music score for this game is by far the best in the series, it really gets you 
 in the mood to pick up a parked walker and wreck some havoc.
  
  Value for this game is honestly for you to decide, as for me, $60 (launch day price) for a game 
 with little features, that just doesn't work for moi, I might as well have stayed with Battlefield 
 2. Maybe in the near 2142 future, a patch will be released giving us more factions or vehicles, 
 hopefully.
  
  If you enjoyed Battlefield 2, then there's no excuse in not trying out the 2142 demo, despite what 
 you may have read in these forums, this game is really enjoyable thanks to the massive selection 
 of unlocks. Remember, once you buy this game, it's yours to keep, because there's no chance of 
 you returning or exchanging a CD key game.
  
  Happy gaming and be sure to tip your medic.
  
  PROS:
   Fun multiplayer.
   Huge variety 
 of unlocks.
   Easy to learn.
   Mature community.
   Unique game modes.
  
  CONS:
   Lack of land and air vehicles (4 land and 2 air, expansion included.)
   Lack of classes (4 
 classes, Medic, Support, Recon and Engineer.)
   Known bugs here and there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troyboy2k
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 7, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 has not evolved much from Battlefield 2. They both are pretty fun and enjoyable 
 games to play, but we all have been there and done that before. The Titan mode is fun, and is the 
 only mode I play when playing the game because its a new element into the Battlefield series. This 
 game stays true to the series and gameplay of its predecessors but its time to take the Battlefield 
 games to the next level. Try offering 3 teams at once for instance, that would be a nice addition. 
 Also make the sides unbalanced so each side has specific strengths and weekness, don't just limit 
 it to the pros at the game to the newbs . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brundlefly76
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I am a hardcore BF2 player, and was really disappointed by the 2142 demo. The problem is that the 
 demo doesn't include any of the great unlocks in the game, which are available very quickly in 
 the full game and round out the gameplay.
  
  My favorite unlocks are the advanced squad features, especially the spawn beacon, which makes being 
 a squadleader much more powerful.
  
  I dont want to say whether 2142 is better then BF2 or BF2: SF, but I can say that it has replaced 
 all my BF2 playtime since the full game came out, which no other game has done since BF2 was released. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxLordDavidxx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Well, I had played Battlefield 2 for quite some time before I picked up this game and I loved it. 
 It just felt very real and immersive and I loved practicing using helecopters and jets and ending 
 up accidently TKing everyone (sorry teammates, lol) along with just jumping in all the boats on 
 the Wake Island 2007 map and shooting everyone with a sniper from the boats and killing everyone 
 on the beach.
  
  I then heard there was going to be a sequel to this great game and I thought that was great that 
 this game was going to be made even better.
  
  When the beta came out, I unfournunately did not get a key so I read on the forums for other people's 
 experiances and they all said Boring, too many bugs , this sort of put me off, but none the less 
 I brought the game, still feeling pleased with my purchased.
  
  ---
  
  When I first got the game, I think half the fun is trying to get all the unlocks. I personally 
 found the idea of a Automatic Sentry Gun very cool so I went and unlocked all of the support unlocks 
 pretty fast. And in the end, I had a really good time, since this class is really good when you 
 join a squad and becomes especially fun when you are defending the titan and you are placing your 
 sentry guns all over the place and hitting your teammates over the heads with ammo packs as you 
 try to make sure you don't get hit.
  
  As for all the 3rd party advertisements that apparently have been putting so many people off; from 
 my experiance, I have NEVER seen a single ad in this game that wasn't related to a propaganda towards 
 the Battlefield 2142 and I have played for over 100+ hours so I shouldn't worry about that at all.
 
  
  ---
  
  Overall, this game is just... really fun if you like getting 64 players in one map and all blasting 
 each other to pieces, or if you want to go into titan mode for a more strategic approch.
  
  I'd reccomend this game to just about anyone who is a fan of first person shooters or generally 
 anyone who likes PC gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robin3311
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  Ok first off. I was really excited about the game cuz of the future look. I think we all were. 
 When i first got in the game, we all noticed the customization the soldiers can have now. (Good 
 Move EA) The new game is based in the future where you have to fight for the planet. The maps are 
 a winter theme. And all the maps are pretty much ruins of lost citys and such.
  
  GamePlay --
  
  The gameplay is not going to be like Counter Strike: Source. What i mean is the 
 low FPS and some lag. This is a BF game guys. So dont be looking for a game where it takes a alot 
 of skill to kill them. And dont wounder why a guy with a shotgun can snipe you from 50 feet. Its 
 the way the games work. It is a fun game to play. And the new Titan mode is alot of fun. but ofcource 
 be ready for sum lag. If you have played other BF games. This game is ganna be a little diff. The 
 Sniper rifle shakes now. Like in Real life. Prob to cut the number of nuubs thinking there good 
 with a scope. The Graphics are smooth. Give the game a few week before you judge it. There is alot 
 of gear you have to EARN. Yes folks. You have to earn ur own gear. I would go more into this but. 
 I have no spacebar on my PC. Dont Ask,
  
  OverAll --
  
  The game is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tialian
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  Before you even buy it just think about the fact that this more like an expansion or mod for BF2 
 in the sense that it uses the same graphical engine.
  
  Now open the box and you make your first discovery, a disclaimer telling you there will be extra 
 ad software installed. This software will monitor your activity while you play the game and display 
 appropriate ads on billboards located in several places around each map. This might not seem so 
 bad at first, except that you just bought a game based on the future with a whole back story detailing 
 how you ended up on the battlefield. It might ruin your whole immersion in the game and it might 
 not, there are mixed feelings about ads in games especially brand new games that are set in a time 
 period other than the present.
  
  The game play is pretty good but you can definitely tell there are some bugs to work out like punk 
 buster kicking you from a server every two minutes for no reason. The game also plays differently 
 than BF2, the weapons don't seem to be as accurate and you really have to use the right weapon 
 for the right job. For example you really need to have an Anti-Air weapon if you want to do damage 
 to air vehicles, the guns on a buggy don't do any damage to air vehicles like they did in BF2. 
 There is also a bug with unlocks, people are gaining ranks but not getting any unlocks.
  
  The graphics are as good as BF2, basically they are the same as BF2 so enough said there.
  
 
  The sound is just as good as BF2 as well.
  
  Value not so great, with the game in it's current state it's a lot like BF2 except you have less 
 accurate weapons but more cool things to unlock. It's still worth playing if you can stomach the 
 ads. I would recommend waiting a while until some of the more annoying bugs are worked out otherwise 
 you might find you paid a new game price for a game you can't even enjoy. Best thing to do is download 
 the demo first so you experience some of the game play/bugs first hand and decide for yourself 
 if it's worth it.
  
  And actually you might find that BF2142 has a lot of similarities to a game that came out in 2003 
 called PlanetSide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StevenJWeir
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Basically Battlefield is a similar premise to Counter-Strike, its a Multiplayer only gameplay, 
 there is a single player element but its just the same with bots.
  
  Battlefield 2142 is a standalone game as aposed to counterstrike which is a mod for half-life. 
 Battlefield 2142 is a really simple premise that has never changed, there a number of bases on 
 the maps, you travel to the base, stick around inside the base area, a meter goes up as you capture 
 that base, you get points for doing so, and defending against invading enemy and points for taking 
 bases.
  
  Its really simple and really fun, made better by vehicle play and all the different weapon classes. 
 Titan mode is same idea, but when you capture the bases, a Missile is launched from it and it goes 
 into the shields of your enemy titan, which is a big floating air-craft carrier ship thing. Both 
 teams have one, the match starts by taking bases, the more bases, the more missiles you have attacking 
 your enemies titan, once the outside shields are down on the enemy titan you can fly upto it and 
 board it. Once inside you can blow up 4 consoles to gain access to the core of the ship, then you 
 destroy that and get the hell off the titan right before it blows up or you blow up with it. The 
 titan mode is fun because there are always big fire fights in the titan corridors as the enemy 
 defenders work hard to stop you attacking.
  
  You should deffinatly get this game, I would recommend it to EVERYONE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I am a BF2 a phile . And I am proud of that fact. I play every day, some days 1 hour some days 
 3 or 4. I love it. It looks stunning and it plays even better.
  
  I have been hooked on the Battlefield series for the last 4 years. I buy every upgrade.
  
  
 So, when 2142 came out I got it day one. My 1st problem was I had to patch immediately. This was 
 the 1st day of release and I had to patch up, in order to play online. Ok, I thought I will live 
 with that. Not that I look forward to patching Battlefield as I have some real porblems patching 
 BF2. And guess what, it wouldn' t F'in patch..... Unhappy or what. Not a good start me thinks. 
 So, I get out my emails from EA on patching BF2 and I reboot as admin and install. Hurray, it worked.
 
  
  Next I set my graphics to the same settings as BF2. Then join a game with baited breath.... I choose 
 my gear, pick my spawn and away we go. Or I should say judder. It's bloody slow. My frame rate 
 has dropped about 10 to 15 fps. The graphics looked nice, but nothing spectacular, nice to have 
 a winter setting for a change. I juddered to a flag and got hammered by a faster player. Oh flip, 
 I exclaim. The leave the game to drop my graphics settings.
  
  Next game, I am running at a faster frame rate, but lower resolution. I run to tackle some bad 
 guys. I snipe from a distance and my gun sounds like a wet fart and hits the payer leaving barely 
 a graze. I know, I know the first weapons you get a pants but my god these really are. The support 
 gunner might as well use a pea shooter.
  
  I was losing interest know.
  
  I tried some vehicles. Walkers, tanks, APC etc. They are ok but some thing is missing.
  
  I 
 know what it is that really works with BF2 for me and I mean me, not you. It's the realism. I love 
 to snipe and I feel like I truly am when I play BF2. I love to run around as support and drop ammo 
 here and there. I
  
  2142 just doesn't work for me at the moment, may be I will get the bug, but not yet. I love sci 
 fi, but this just ain't got it. Sorry, but I will stick to BF2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vetteman24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 5, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  2142 focuses even more on squad combat and rewards directly result from being a teamplayer. The 
 maps, weapons, and vehicles are all very well done and so much fun to use. The sound is amazing 
 compared to BF2 explosions of vehicles overpower all other sound when you're close. Blowing up 
 a tank is very satisfying now and the AT rockets sound more powerful when you fire them. EA hit 
 a home run with this one! The large amount of unlocks allows a lot of customization depending on 
 your playing style. Unlocks are no longer just weapons (though each of the unlocks is very effective) , 
 they also include extra toys for squad leaders, customization of player abilities (longer sprint, 
 faster recharge of sprint, extra nade, extra clip for pistol or SMG) and customization of your 
 primary weapon. Shotgun and rocket attachments for the Assault class .
  
  Stabilizers can be unlocked for Recon class along with adaptive camo and other nasty weapons. Engineer 
 can unlock the ability to repair faster and the weapon unlock is very deadly to armor. Support 
 gets their toys, too, including a good heavy machine gun that is very accurate when prone, a sentry 
 gun that can be dropped at choke points to fire at enemy and keep them busy, and an EMP nade that 
 temporarily shuts down any vehicle in the area in case an engineer isn't around to take it out. 
 And what I've listed is just the beginning, there are many more interesting tweaks you can unlock 
 for your soldier. The maps are all very interesting and offer enough variation that different styles 
 of play can have their fun. Much more cover for infantry to defeat vehicles in a strategic manner. 
 When used properly the armor is still deadly as usual, but it is not overpowering. This game is 
 an instant classic for me and has been even more enjoyable than BF2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hittin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 4, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Introduction :::
  I will be reviewing Battlefield 1942 in this review, I have rented this game from Blockbusters. 
 Digital Illusions Creative Entertainment have now made a game out of the past (Battlefield 1942) , 
 the present (Battlefield 2) and the future (Battlefield 2142) . There is an Ice Age that has just 
 covered the Earth completely, and you must fight if out for the last piece of land! Will you go 
 to Asian Coalition, or Europe!
  ---
  Game play :::
  This is the most impressive part of the game. You can choose four classes in this game, they are, 
 Recons, Assaults, Engineers and Supports, all have their up and downs. Want to save your friends? 
 Become an assault. Want to break that annoying tank? Become an Engineer. Want to supply your team 
 mates with guns, ammo, health packs? Become support. Or do you just like having a sniper and fragging 
 all the other enemy! Then become a recon.
  In Battlefield 2 there was 7 classes to choose from, now there is 4, this is good for a chance, 
 as it is less complex and more easy to battle. You (and any other player) are allowed to choose 
 one gun and two equipments, this means you can have a little bit of preference.
  In this game, you HAVE to work as a team, in Battlefield 2 you could wonder around all alone for 
 hours, in this game sticking with your squad will mean you can accomplish the mission more easier!
 
  The game play is fast, smart and a lot of fun.
  ---
  Graphics :::
  Battlefield 2142 runs on the Battlefield 2 engine, this game has pretty much got the same graphics 
 as Battlefield 2, maybe a few changes and tweaks to make it look better, but Battlefield 2 had 
 great graphics, so there's not a lot of chance here.
  ---
  Sound :::
  Sound is surprisingly good in this game, ever map has it's own theme song when it's loading, and 
 the music in the loading screens gives you motivation and inspiration to fight!
  ---
  Conclusion:
  Get it, get Battlefield 2142. This game is awesome. If you liked or owned any of 
 the previous Battlefield 2 games, this game is a must have. If you love First Person Shooter games, 
 this is a must.
  Battlefield 2142 is a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexlexia2000
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  I was excited about the release of this game but i was slighty disappointed upon its actual release. 
 the game didnt feel much different from bf2 and just felt like it was repackaged in a futuristic 
 shell. i like the new system of upgrades for ranks and i like the new scoring system. there are 
 ways of exploiting this however which people have found online, the awards system needs to be sorted 
 as points are getting awarded for no reason and there is loads of problems with titan mod with 
 regards to lag and the titan guns points resupply problem. many people have experienced problems 
 with punkbuster and connection problems which are plenty of things to be sorted out in patches 
 yet, i hope this will be done soon as ea have a potentially great game here....
  
  the guns available need some getting used to as they are unfairly balanced, the graphics are great 
 as is the sound, lag is a problem in larger servers and servers regularly crash and u lose ur hard 
 earned points. with regards to vehicles they are good but the damage they take etc is hard to predict 
 and the ground defences do take them out but take a while to do so, also the grounds defences kill 
 stats are not recording properly and it is difficult to knife someone as the range of it is unpredictable. 
 future patches will help turn this good game into a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  As ice begins to overrun the earth approaching from the north and the south plunging us into chaos 
 as we fight for each scrap of land, I just want to say... thank God I am in Texas; I am closer 
 to the equator. Battlefield 2142 takes place in, well you guessed it, 2142 as another ice age closes 
 in. The powers that remain fight for every inch of the remaining natural resources. Oh and don't 
 let me forget the trappings of sweet, sweet, glorious, flaming, mechanized death as you stomp around 
 in battle walkers. The graphics in this game make me beg to have the biggest and the baddest video 
 card system, but alas I am working on it. This game is beautiful and the detail level for each 
 model is painstakingly arranged. To sum it up quickly, this is a sexy game. Ok, so nobody has a 
 clue as to what an EMP detonation would sound like in real life. So, mind you, if I am standing 
 next to one when it goes off, I am pretty sure it would sound exactly like it does here. The benefit 
 of doing such a futuristic sound is that you get to play with such things and be more creative 
 than realistic. That aside, I had no trouble believing that each of the weapons and vehicles would 
 sound like they did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennis8
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  The next installment of the Battlefield series, 2142 takes place in the near future, where ice 
 has taken over the northern parts of the world, and 2 factions are now fighting over whats left. 
 I've played Battlefield 2 and those who say this is just a mod, well, not really. You can say that 
 the gamelay elements are the same, with a couple of new features, a little tweaked up graphics, 
 and the most major one would be the addition of Titan mode. Titan mode is a new one to the battlefield 
 series, where in you must capture silos instead of flag points. At regular time intervals, the 
 silos will fire missiles to the enemy or your own titan, depending on who has ownership of it at 
 the time. When the missiles breach the enemy titan sheild, you must board the enemy titan and destroy 
 the 4 computer consoles to gain access to the reactor core. Then, destroy the core with small firearms 
 or demo packs and explosives and make a hasty retreat, or join in with the titan's spectacular 
 end. The ranking system has been made so that there are 40 ranks to acquire, and every time you 
 increase in rank, you receive a unlock. After calculating the 40 ranks with the amount of unlocks, 
 it seems that in order to unlock all the weapons and items for all kits and the extras, you will 
 have to acquire all ranks. To some, they might find the new system challenging where you must unlock 
 everything from a frag grenade, to a new weapon. Others may find it daunting to spend hours on 
 end just to unlock their favorite kit to full potential. To the extent of the AI, it seems that 
 it's been improved (a bit) , but not too much to say that it's a challenge. And I found the singleplayer 
 lacking, with only a handful of maps to choose from, and there is no titan mode for singleplayer. 
 Also, you can only use unlocks that you have acquired online. Other than that, i find the multiplayer 
 part enjoyable, especially with the addition of the buddy list wherein you can keep track of players 
 you enjoyed playing with. And faster loading times is also a plus. The game soundtrack gives a 
 refreshing battlefield experience. And aside from these, replayability is a great factor, as long 
 as you have access to the internet, and a fast one at that, or suffer getting continually kicked 
 from the servers for high ping. With all the pro's and con's aside, 2142 is a great new addition 
 to the already great battlefield series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bonius
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 3, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I'm a huge fan of the BF series but I'll try to keep this review as non-biased as 
 possible. Bear with me!
  
  The game itself is just like any other BF game you might've played during the past years. The standard 
 Conquest mode plays out as it always have - Great. BF2142 isn't anything special on that point, 
 it's just absolutely astonishing. As usual. Titan-Mode; everyones new favorite! For a damn good 
 reason as well! This new gamemode is one brilliant idea from the developers. It feels like they 
 took the idea from the FH mod for 1942 and redid it, flawlessly. Titan mode is all about capturing 
 missile-silos on the map, which will fire missiles towards the enemy titan, damaging it's shields. 
 Eventually the impacts will have caused so much damage to the Titan that the shields will drop, 
 and this is where all the fun starts!
  You can either choose to board the titan, or keep on pounding down below, eventually the Titan 
 will blow up anyway. The fastest way to destroying the enemy Titan is to board it and destroy the 
 so called reactor consoles. Once these are blown into oblivion you get access to the reactor core. 
 Destroy the core and you win - sounds simple doesn't it?
  
  .... It ain't
  
  Just getting onto the titan can be a 5minute painstaking adventure, with loads of respawns and 
 swearing. But when you finally get an attack going, you can't do much else than gaze on how thought-through 
 the titan really is!
  Consoles 1&amp;2 are situated in a long ) -bent corridor, which makes up for nothing but a bloodbath. 
 Sometimes it's taken the attacking team nearly 15 minutes just to get past the defence that the 
 defenders sets up in these corridors. One word suits this situation rather well: Slaughter. But 
 the reward of finally getting into the core and blowing it up is something that most FPS games 
 this game just can't deliver. It feels just as satisfying as having (can't say it here but you 
 know what I mean) for the first time. Rewarding is the least you can say about it!
  
  It also seems like the developers have focused more on the maps this time around; beside the normal 
 countryside blastoffs &amp; city mayhem we're used to in the series, they've made something different. 
 I can't really say what it is, but the maps feel more thought through.
  Compared to BF2, the maps in BF2142 feels alot more polished than it's predecessor. Another thing 
 that might increase the polishness factor might be the fact that the people behind the static objects 
 have been thinking alot more about actually using the environment in combat. More buildings have 
 high access points, and alot more interior can be seen. This makes up for excellent close quarters 
 combat - compared to BF2 where the closest you would get to CQC was inside construction-sites and 
 maybe a small passage through a building. All this focus on the action-packed gameplay that the 
 BF-series represents blends in just right. Not too much, not too little.
  
  BF2142 also feels alot more hectic than the other games in the series. In BF1942 &amp; BF: V the 
 focus was alot more on vehicles; how to use them correctly, when to use them, what is most effective 
 in this situation, and so forth. In 2142 it's all blended in. Infantry is no longer target-practice 
 for the hardcore tankers or pilots, they can actually put up a fight against these targets. Another 
 aspect that probably makes the game alot more hectic is the overall weaponry. I guess some people 
 will disagree with me, but I really felt that the heavy weaponry in for example BF2 just felt a 
 bit awkward. If you have a weapon that can spit out 700 rounds a minute - why on earth doesn't 
 it do that?! Take the PKM Machinegun in BF2. That gun looks like a real badboy when the first times 
 you see it, but when used it doesn't feel mean at all. Sure it has a neat sound, but that's about 
 it.
  The LMG's/HMG's in 2142 is a different story. When someone opens fire on you with any of those 
 badasses you just hit the dirt and stay there until the guy stops shooting. Either you die, or 
 you somehow you might've survived.
  Those guns can really make a hell of a difference in those CQC situations i mentioned before. You 
 really don't want to be on the wrong side of a MG firing line. Trust me.
  
  
  
  -Great gameplay
  -Intense combat to say the least
  -Really thought through unlocking system
 
  -Greater rewards for teamplay
  -Well designed maps
  -More focus on infantry combat
  -Loading times are blazing fast even on lowspec computers
  
  -Titan Mode FPS drops are more 
 than common (being fixed in next patch)
  -GFX Engine is getting a bit old. Not bad, but not extremely good either
  -Physics could be a 
 bit better
  -It's going to ruin your social life for the next 2 months
  
  Overall a great game, worth all the $ it will cost you. If you haven't played this one, you'd better! 
 It's 5:10 in the morning, and I'm swedish. English isn't my native language so please bear with 
 me! If you have any comments about anything in the review, or maybe the review itself, please send 
 me a PM! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheElusiveJedi
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Theres a clich&eacute; to start video game reviews describing a scene that grabbed the reviewers 
 attention and then proclaiming that they are, indeed, playing a game. For example, the reviewer 
 is under heavy fire by enemy troops with only his trusty sidearm for company, while air transports 
 scream overhead and the distant approach of a tank can be heard. When it comes to a game like 
 Battlefield 2142 its hard not to describe the feeling you get in situations quite similar to this. 
 The thought that you are on an enormous battlefield with real-life players slugging it out in a 
 variety of guises is quite exhilarating. Except, on this battlefield, all sense of tactical awareness 
 and the common sense mantra that shooting your teammates in the back isnt the best idea of the 
 century, seems to be thrown out of the window and crushed by a passing steamroller.
  
  Battlefield 2142 was always inevitable, not only because EA tend to churn out a long line of games 
 part of the same series, but also because a future Battlefield was the only logical step forward. 
 The World War II aspect has been done to death, Vietnam was a failure (both in real life and in 
 video game world) , and the modern aspect screamed war on terror. Also, having a Battlefield set 
 in the future allowed Dice to throw a bunch of creative ideas into the pot as they were unconstrained 
 by the limitations of Battlefield games based on real-world events. However, its good to see that 
 Dice didnt go overboard when they were presented with a completely blank slate in which to scratch 
 out a new Battlefield  lasers and teleportation are out of the picture here. Dice took the Battlefield 
 2 engine, modified it a bit, and came out with a Battlefield that, although set in the future, 
 allowed us to relate it to reality in a way that Star Trek cannot. Combined with a new blank slate 
 and the realisation that players would probably like something more than Conquest mode for once, 
 the Titan mode emerged.
  
  The plot is unimportant but it needs mention to introduce the Titan mode. The Northern Hemisphere 
 has frozen over and billions are forced to flee to the warmer lands far south. As a result wars 
 break out over what little land remains, as is typical of Human nature. Two factions, the EU and 
 Asian PAC, are fighting over the African lands with no indication to where the North Africans or 
 USA have got to (possibly a future expansion pack?) . Due to this you get rugged ice covered maps 
 while occasionally jumping over to desert style maps. The two factions having been used to transport 
 refugees to the south  have adopted the Titans as command centres and, as such, the aim of the 
 Titan mode is to attack and destroy these floating behemoths.
  
  The Titan mode is a combination of conquest (which also returns) and the new aim to destroy the 
 Titans. Players much capture missile silos, which, in turn, launch regular missiles that will 
 eventually destroy the enemy Titans shields. After the shields are down the players can either 
 land on the Titan in an airships or launch from pods in an APC. They must then take down four-control 
 consoles, which gains access to the Titans core. Destroying this means your team wins the round. 
 It also means a great deal of teamwork is needed, especially when both Titans shields are down. 
 If most of your team are attacking the enemy Titan this leaves your Titan undefended, leading to 
 a quick defeat, but this also means that their Titan may be lax on defence, unless the opposing 
 team is pretty clever that is. It can lead to pretty close stalemates if your team is working together 
 by defending and attacking at the same time. You also have people running around on the ground 
 holding the silos continue to pound the enemy Titan and take more damage off the faltering hull. 
 The Titan mode can fill you with sheer utter joy, topping up your flask of gaming goodness, especially 
 when you all run laughing and screaming off the exploding Titan, the opposing teams impending 
 doom finally realised as they frantically scramble for the escape pods or airships.
  
  Of course, teamwork always comes down to the players on the server. If youre playing with a group 
 of friends then the match can be pretty fun. Its not to say that the match cant go fun without 
 friends. The squad system encourages players to work together, that is, if they actually join a 
 squad. Squad leaders can place spawn beacons and also act as mobile spawn points, providing they 
 are still alive. This means the squad leader can instantly get backup when left alone, as squad 
 members re-spawn on his/her position. You now gain experience points by completing squad objectives 
 set by your squad leader, something missing from Battlefield 2. In fact, experience points are 
 gained from pretty much everything, which is most likely why teamwork is far more preferable this 
 time around. As a medic, which has been combined with the assault class, you gain experience by 
 healing people and reviving them. Cue players running around healing their comrades for experience, 
 not because of companionship. All this experience adds up to the returning rank system and a variety 
 of unlocks you can gain to improve your soldier. It gives you a sense of something to fight for; 
 something to while away the hours helping your team gain the upper hand. This doesnt mean your 
 team will always work together, quite the contrary, many players have little sense of tactical 
 awareness and will continue to throw themselves at the same objective without thinking of alternative 
 ways to accomplish the same objective without constantly dying. The response to losing the round 
 is to start a mutiny on the commander, whom returns with his usual artillery and aerial scans, 
 even though its often not his fault. Like any war the commander is only as good as the troops, 
 and if his troops refuse to follow orders without any passion or refuse to follow them all-together, 
 then they are the ones who are to blame.
  
  When it comes to vehicles Battlefield 2142 has an interesting bunch. Big mech type walkers will 
 scare the hell out of you when you first witness one stalking towards you, while hover tanks can 
 move sideways quickly across your field of view, before making a nice little carpet of you across 
 the snow. Most of the other vehicles are revamped versions of the ones youll have employed in 
 Battlefield 2 but some, like the APC, are more integral to the round then before  if youre playing 
 the Titan mode. Theres an issue with air support however. The gunship is far slower than the jets 
 in Battlefield 2 and they seem far easier to take out when launching an EMP from the ground. Still, 
 it all depends on the pilot, as one stalking you can be pretty annoying when you dont have anything 
 to take it out.
  
  You cant review an EA game without mentioning a few bugs, and Battlefield 2142 has its fair share. 
 Amazingly some of the bugs from the beta make their return in the final game, and when any game 
 has to be patched on release day you have to wonder just what the testers have been doing. Bugs 
 will always be rife in Battlefield games since there are so many things the players can do that 
 theyll always find a bug somewhere the developers never even dreamed of. The game sometimes crashes 
 at the start of maps, and the screen can go all funny when you try to choose an unlock during a 
 game. Corpses still slide around on board Titans, which can make it awkward to revive them - eventually 
 falling through it towards the ground. Lag can also be pretty horrendous during the Titan mode, 
 but its more due to the server than anything.
  
  The bugs are minor niggles in the end and hopefully you wont experience anything horribly annoying 
 that would take your enjoyment away from the game. Annoyance will come more from running into an 
 enemy walker that promptly blasts your body into a billion atoms, or being hit in the face by a 
 team-mate in the closer quarters of the Titans corridors. With the unlock system and two fun-filled 
 modes theres always plenty to do in Battlefield 2142 and, being a Battlefield game, making your 
 own fun has always been the aim of the game. Whether you choose to be a pilot ferrying your team-mates 
 into battle, or a sniper nestled in your own little high spot, or whether you decide to flank an 
 objective instead of meeting it head on. Battlefield has always been a series where every round 
 will be something different, a splurge of amazing moments youll remember for the rest of your 
 gaming life. Although the engine is showing its age Battlefield 2142 can still impress with the 
 sheer amount of flexibility you can employ, which, is of course, all depends on whether your team 
 wants to work with you or pursue their own vain interests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookiejmonster
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 3, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  The graphics and sound quality are great everything is nicely polished. Everything looks nice and 
 the whole leveling up is nice but its hard to start playing when your trying to figure out the 
 controls and maps when people who have no lives have the best weopons and have already mastered 
 the game thus owning your face and making it no fun. Wish there were more servers for new people. 
 Because of the leveling up it seems like I play more to level up and for points than to actually 
 playing for entertainment. It always seems like I get stuck on a team that is losing because of 
 autobalance. The titan mode is nice but usually teams dont react quickly enough to the shields 
 being down. Plus I have encountered some spawning problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: igl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  I think this is by far the best in the series - but don't think it works.
  Some facts:
  The stats are broken, half of your badges and pins you get during a game, never show up later in 
 your profile.
  
  Stats are updating every now-and-then only.
  
  Sometimes it skips a tier and you get 2 promotions at once.
  
  You will most likely get disconnected 
 from the EA Master-server several times a day.
  
  The titan mode is flawed and has so many glitches it's no fun at all. So don't bother with it, 
 unless you want to go for a badge that requires you to play titan mode.
  
  Conquest is the good ol' thing, with a few quite enjoyable maps.
  I Recommend a max of 20 People 
 for a enjoyable experience.
  
  Once you have some unlocks like sprint boosts, you are only as good as you are in bf2 normally.
 
  
  The unlockable weapons are good and worth it.
  
  Same glitches BF always had.
  
  They should buy a physics engine, they can't code one themself.
  Issue-FPS at it's best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pms81350
Rating: 2.6
Date: Nov 3, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  After debating on whether or not to buy this title I found myself without a shooter and well you 
 know how that goes. Bought it, installed it on my bleeding edge 64 bit overclocked machine and was 
 immediately underwhelmed by the cheesey graphics and the way too familiar audio. I run all my games 
 at 1600x1200 and this title looks like hammered crap. Soft cover looks like it was cut and pasted, hard 
 cover looks uninspired and boring. For all intents and purposes this title could easily have been 
 just new maps and weapon upgrades for BF2.
  They have brought absolutely nothing new to this franchise and it sticks out like a turd in a punch 
 bowl. I was insulted as a gamer by the terrible graphics we were supposed to accept, as some of 
 the areas were as ugly as a mud fence.
  Whether this title was rushed to market to hit the holiday season or was just rushed period matters 
 not. If it came down to receiving this game for the holidays then I would rather have a lump of 
 coal in my stocking. A shameless display of corporate greed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBeen4488
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 2, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  im a bit pissed that when i was a rockie i got 3 upgrads that i could purchase and when i went 
 to purchase them it said 0 upgrads left main that suked. but to make it waost when i got my next 
 upgrad i wanted a defribulator but it purchased so sniper upgrard man im so piss. i just need to 
 filll up some space ( ( ( ( (&gt; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpikeJones767
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 2, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  I'd really been looking forward to this game for some time but right from the start after installing 
 it Im regretting buying it... The pain starts right from the beginning when Dice/EA forces us to 
 sign up to a EA online account... They claim we can play offline on 5 maps with bots but every 
 time I try to play with out going online the game locks up my computer and crashes...
  
  I don't recommend this game because its a big HASSLE and Dice/EA make us jump backwards threw flaming 
 hoops just to play this game... They've ruined what should've been a good gaming experience... 
 I really wish I could return it for a refund... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War_Tourist
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 1, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 at first really doesn't impress. It looks like BF2, artillery strike is now sharpied 
 out and replaced with orbital strike, there are 4 classes instead of BF2's 7, and I now have to 
 unlock **** that I used to get 0-day. That plus the we're installing spyware insert in the box 
 was giving a real terror from the deep vibe. But ultimately the changes that are present are well 
 thought out, and to be honest, there's more spectacular carnage going on in populated servers of 
 2142 than even the best BF2 servers.
  
  One major but totally under reported change to the game is you now more or less you create new 
 characters for each of those 4 meager classes. You'll get unlocks frequently during your lower 
 levels and you can pretty much exhaust any branch of the tree in I suspect around 2 hours of play. 
 After that though it slows down, but since if I want to create a sniper class, I can just create 
 a new character . The more I play them, the better they get in non-branch skills like sprint speed, 
 extra grenades, etc, so if I specialize, I'm still rewarded. Once you start playing like this, 
 you don't really miss anything that's now unlockable but used to be available at start.
  
  The titans turn out to be pretty bad ass. Controlling their movement is easily the most potent 
 new commander ability. The underside of these things is covered in 4 batteries of the equivalent 
 of 8x bf1942 artillery rounds. The commander can easily park this thing over any one command point 
 and obliterate anything that gets close to it. Watching an enemy try to contest such a titan controlled 
 location with their own titan leads to some very... let's say... Do Lung bridge (from Apocalypse 
 now) moments. The more you play, the more you catch the bizarro features like machines guns getting 
 more accurate the longer you fire them, the little portable UAV unlock that squad leaders can choose. 
 There are these little portable shields that are actually pretty good at stopping bullets, but 
 because they're glowing, unambiguously give away your position, you can't be near them. Using them 
 for misdirection ambushes though is an art form worthy of its own post.
  
  So, overall, what could dismissively be called BF: Vietnam of the BF2-generation, turns out to 
 be a solid half-step forward for the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Topazworm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I managed to play the beta of this game, and suffice to say, I wasnt impressed. So after that 
 I waited, and finally cracked the bought the game. This isnt an in depth review, because that 
 would take ages! Just a summary.
  
  The first thing I love about this game is the nice new menu. In BF2 if you wanted to bind a key 
 to one thats being used, youre roughly told TOUGH . You have to wade through the menu and find 
 the conflicting key and they remove or change it, go back and re add your key. Thankfully this 
 has been removed. It now sensibly gives you the option to overwrite or keep. Great stuff.
  
  Also another big improvement is the server browser. This now gives you a basic and advanced 
 mode. Basic, I think is pretty pointless as most gamers will jump to advanced. In basic youre 
 treated to the list or servers and a coloured icon for its ping. Green, orange or red. In advanced 
 you can see the actual ping. Much better.
  
  The game itself, once you jump into it, reminds you of BF2, obviously.
  Its using the same engine 
 for a start. And unfortunately the chat system, and font remains the awful same. But a lot has 
 also changed. Everything from the commander menu, squad menu to the way you interact with the world 
 has been improved. In BF2 the commander screen was a confusing mess, but now it seems simpler and 
 allows you to get the job done right. Another thing I am pleased about is the UAV. This time around 
 it doesnt highlight enemies within a huge radius, now its smaller. Also air born vehicles dont 
 have chaffs. This time they just have a shield you raise at the right moment. I like the fact the 
 air born vehicles are limited. Because nothing annoyed me more than an ace player, owning the field 
 in a fighter jet. This time around they are almost more vulnerable in the air, as they cant travel 
 as fast as BF2.
  
  The reward and ranking system has also had an overhaul. This time, its a lot easier and faster 
 to level up. While playing for the first 3 hours I managed to increase my rank by 2. Not bad. The 
 unlock system is also a lot more complicated but worth it. You now have only 4 classes to choose 
 from, but each can unlock a wealth of upgrades. In fact youre spoilt for choice and its hard 
 to find the right one. There are lots of clever gadgets and gizmos to help you along that people 
 didnt know existed. For example as a sniper, you can get the upgrade of a portable cloaking device. 
 Just press and hold fire and your character practically turn invisible, well almost. To others 
 you are a blur. There are so many tools:
  Remote bomb disarmer
  Faster reload
  more health
  Portable gun turrets
  A floating turret to protect you
  Portable spawn beacon
 
  Device to track enemy vehicles nearby
  
  Etc etc. And thats just the tip. I never thought I would like this game as much as I do. In fact 
 I think its much better than BF2. The only problems are the people. You join servers where people 
 just muck about, either not joining squads, having a squad each or no teamwork what so ever. But 
 that just depends on where you go.
  Thats it really. Its a great game and I would recommend it to anyone who loves BF2. The only 
 small problem I have with it is that its so much better than BF2; I dont think I will ever play 
 it again.
  
  FiN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRM114
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start off by saying that BF2142 is an excellent game, which improves on many of its 
 predecessor's faults. Changes to the points system, vehicle strengths, and the titan game mode 
 introduce even more emphasis on teamwork to the battlefield franchise and are a definite improvement 
 over BF2. If you enjoy BF2, but were starting to find the game growing a little old after a year 
 and a half of continuous play on Karkand, 2142 is a great buy, and is not nearly as bad as some 
 of the haters would lead you to believe. One major adjustment that deserves mention is the decision 
 to (finally) incorporate an in-game buddy menu system, makes squading up with your clan or friends 
 a hell of a lot easier.
  
  Be warned as 2142 is just as addictive (and fun) as the old battlefield 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainstringer
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 17, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Its excellent for a computer with high spec with 2 gb ram but people with out decent computer will 
 be put of because they get to see bad background with slow bots and slow shooting but if you upgrade 
 to get a sc fi experience its different ley magniffercent with the effects of blasts of guns and 
 the escape pod is pretty cool to
  The weapons for this battlefield are nice visual effects specially with walkers there cool like 
 the gattling guns and missile's also if this is what there doing now its going to improve big time 
 but one thing they need to improve on levels by making more not 5 for the money at least 20 would 
 be nice but i rate 10 what i played haven't played online but soon well to see what its like the 
 new titan is mean't to be cool i reckon it will improve in future also they could of made a map 
 editor withouut it they should sort it out with small mods on a cd but a big mod is the idea of 
 a good game i still rate it ten what i played so far 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilly2001
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 1, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  Like the makers said, they don't want to make a remix game with BF2, and thats what they did. Although 
 it has the same engine as BF2 and the game-play idea is similar it is its own game by right. The 
 new titan mode is a great addition to the game and opens up new strategies and the new kit system 
 give you more freedom on how to take out your enemy and help your squad. The walker is also a great 
 addition, a good anti- tank (and anti-air with 2 people on board) it brings the future feel in 
 the game, also the new hud system that tracks your enemy when your teammates see them is a great 
 idea and encourage gamers to join squads. although there is still some problems like delay stats 
 updates, where you play and get points on the round but you don't get promoted or awards you have 
 earned, and connections trouble, being kicked while playing for no reason, it is a great game none 
 the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FIghterFX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 1, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  ok so this game is good but it could be much more better if ea could make a new graphic engine 
 to the game and if they could make more maps couz when you install this you wil get only 5 maps 
 :|.... of course there are much more maps in the multiplayer that people made but this is the job 
 of the creators (ea) the multiplayer is very good you can play with 64 players and its very fun 
 the bots are ok but they could be better. but when i play this sometimes i feel like i play in 
 a mode and cuz the graphics is still the same from battlefield 2 overall this is good game that 
 could be much more better if :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liquid_47
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 1, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  There were many people claiming that this successor to 2005's Battlefield 2 was not a full blown 
 sequel; merely a very good mod. To many, that is still the case, but I can say everything has been 
 improved just a little bit to make a justification of buying this game.
  
  Instead of a contemporary battlefield, developer Dice have decided to take the fight to the 22nd 
 century, pitting the European Union against the Russian lead Pan-Asian Pacific in a world which 
 is undergoing a new ice age. Although the introductory cinematic is awe-inspiring, the actual battles 
 are not, largely because it's been done 3 times before.
  
  The gameplay is essentially the same: two teams duke it out on large scale battles, taking control 
 of key points on the map.
  The biggest addition to 2142 is the Titan mode. Basically, two teams take control of missile silos 
 placed all over the map (much like the flags in the previous games) , which fire missiles at enemy 
 titan's at frequent intervals. The aim is to bring down the enemy titan's shields, and after this, 
 a whole new strategy opens up: close-quarters combat. Much like the opening of the first Star Wars 
 movie, the two factions battle it out in the small corridors of the titan; the attacking team must 
 get to the reactor core to bring down the titan fast. However, it is also critical to keep the 
 missile silos on your side, because they're just as important after bringing down the titan's shields. 
 This is where teamwork comes into play.
  
  Battlefield was always about teamwork. However, most of the time servers were filled with Rambos 
 who got just as many points, if not more, than people who worked in teams. 'Good' squad leaders 
 who previously sacrificed kill points to stay alive for his/her squad members were usually at the 
 bottom of the ranks, even though they were the fine line between winning and losing. Dice took 
 note of this, and 2142 addresses this. The best way to gain points now is to join a squad, that 
 actually plays like a team. Good squad leaders will issue orders, and fighting on behalf of his 
 orders will gain you bonus points for each 'basic' kill. Squad leaders also get points for 'Squad 
 leader success': points which reflect how effective your squad is at working together. Also, the 
 majority of the Commander's points now come from how successful his whole team is doing: an incentive 
 to actually be a 'Commander' rather than also playing as a frontline soldier which many thought 
 they could balance out.
  
  The seven kits from Battlefield two have been compressed into four kits in 2142: Recon, Assault, 
 Engineer and Support. Recon splits into the Sniper and Spec Ops; Assault has the Medic branch; 
 Engineer is coupled with the Anti-tank class, and Support is the odd one out. Each class has unlocks, 
 which can be mixed and matched to your playing style. Unlocks are gained by going up ranks. The 
 points you earn on ranked server rounds directly affects how many rank points you earn for your 
 'soldier': the higher the rank, the more points you need to move up, and this is the tactic Dice 
 is using to keep players hooked on the game for a long time to come. Squad leader unlocks are extremely 
 beneficial to a squad: if you love taking command, then these items will definitely come in handy. 
 There are also field unlocks: temporary unlocks you get until you disconnect from the server. The 
 vehicles have basically had a facelift from Battlefield 2. They're essentially like their modern 
 day counterparts, but have a futuristic feel to them. Even the Hover-tank feels quite familiar. 
 The air vehicles also feel the same. They are also easier to fly this time around, which is unfortunate 
 for those who spent forever learning how to pilot the aircraft, but good for those of us who never 
 spent 7 hours of single player practising our leet flying skillz. Most vehicles are also easier 
 to destroy on foot, especially the tanks, which seemed a bit overpowered in Battlefield 2, where 
 it took the average player many lives to bring down one tank. It's all good, however, a hallmark 
 of 2142 is the Battlewalker: two story mechs that will get the teamspeak lines in a frenzy. In 
 all the games I've been in, when one of these gigantic bots come around, everyone runs for cover, 
 and everyone unneccesarily screams on the chat line. In a tank they're easier to confront, but 
 on foot, it does get your blood pumping when one sees you while you're playing hide and seek with 
 it. Word of warning battlewalker lovers: if Liquid47 is on the opposing team, remember to check 
 those robotic legs for any signs of RDX packs (well, it's too late by then) .
  
  The graphics and sound have had minor improvements over it's predecessor. Better animations, more 
 detailed textures et all are apparent while scanning the battlefield. The sound also fits the high 
 tech wizardry of the future: EMP strikes not only sound like the real deal, but mere seconds before 
 a strike comes, bits of the ground rise up much like what happens when Dragonball Z characters 
 power up. However, the drab colours bring down the quality of graphics, and while a monochromatic 
 colour scheme is synonymous with science fiction, it wouldn't hurt to inject a little bit of colour. 
 And those with colour look weird in a game where shades of grey are the new black: The EU uniform 
 with their bright orange uniform stick out like a sore thumb. It also brings up the question: Why 
 the hell did they choose orange in the year 2142?
  
  Overall, not a lot has changed from in Battlefield 2142, but what has changed, is enough to warrant 
 a purchase: Titan Mode, improved ranking system, more unlocks, and graphics and sound will gradually 
 win you over. And even if you are still a sceptic, and swear that you'll never play another Battlefield 
 sequel since EA has allegedly butchered the franchise, let me tell you this: Once you play this 
 game, you'll never go back to the stinking, filthy and archaic battles of yesteryear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingDisgrace
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 1, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is like a familiar soda, or candy, with the same base or core that you know and 
 love, yet you know something is a little different. There's a little twang that leaves you wondering 
 why you're playing a game that is so familiar to it's one, now nearing two-year old predecessor 
 and actually enjoying it. 2142 brings back so many old flavors, the squads, the conquest, the commanding, 
 the same old kits with reminiscent flavors, yet there are some original concepts added to the formula 
 along with refinements to the original gameplay that won't let you leave this game on the shelf 
 once you get used to what's new in 2142. So, what is new in 2142? You get a branched unlock system, 
 meaning you'll be unlocking some cool new gadgets and eventually, guns to your arsenal at your 
 descretion according to the staged layering of these unlocks. Those familiar with 2142's predecessor 
 may grumble that you actually have to unlock grenades of all things, along with a longer and faster 
 sprint that you had right from the get-go in Battlefield 2, but there are redeeming qualities to 
 the original and newer unlocks here. Recon players will be able to unlock acessories to add to 
 their sniper rifle to steady it's aim and give it a more focused scope, and along with the stealthy 
 theme of the recon kit, you'll be able to unlock an optical camoflauge letting you sprint behind 
 enemy lines unnoticed, or at least most of the time. If you'll remember, or if you don't know, 
 there were seven kits in BF2. Now there are only four, where Spec Ops and the Sniper combined to 
 create the recon, the medic merged with the assault kit, the engineer picks up the anti-tank's 
 rocket launcher, leaving the support kit all alone. Many would assume the support kit would be 
 neglected because of this, but I personally play Support almost all of the time because of what 
 it does pick up. Not only can the support kit distribute ammo to your trigger-happy mates on the 
 front line, they receive a number of ways to fight the good fight without risking their own necks. 
 A few of the individual unlocks the support kit receives are a sentry gun, an automated machine 
 station that locks onto enemies within it's sight and unloads whether you're right next to it or 
 on the other side of the map. The support kit also receives a unlock that can recognize and thwart 
 the Recon's Active Camoflauge, revealing the soldier, allowing you to point him out to teammates 
 or just unload on him yourself. Also, for support soldiers appraoching a firefight, there is a 
 sensor they can use to pick up enemy soldier signatures anywhere on your screen, through anything 
 so you can get the jump on where trouble is. This is just a taste of the complexity and strategy 
 that can be applied to any Battlefield game, and 2142 delivers on this with shining colors. This 
 may be all and well, but how does the game balance? Almost every map has vehicles, air tranports, 
 APC's, tanks, along with a new vehicle addition, the walker. These beastly two-man death machines 
 may be the slowest vehicle in the game, but what you get in firepower more than makes up for it's 
 awkward humanoid movements, along with the quicker but more brittle tank, the troop-carrying APC, 
 the nimble jeeps, along with the anti-ground and anti-air installations that cover every map within 
 the game. Check for vehicle balance, what about the ground battle? Your basic infantryman in BF2 
 was arguably a little underpowered, dominated by almost any vehicle on the map, much to the dismay 
 of anyone wishing to rack up points as an anti-tank man. 2142 rectifies this by giving the power 
 to the troops, giving the anti-tank unit an adequate launcher, the support kit EMP grenades that 
 temporarily stall any vehicle, and the assault kit a smoke grenade that sprays a fume of the thickest 
 smoke you'll ever see, allowing any man to escape a devastating death? But what if you're not equipped 
 with that rocket launcher, or have those handy grenades, and you're all alone? That's the whole 
 problem, you shouldn't BE alone! 2142 reintroduces the squad mechanic, allowing you to be with 
 up to 5 other soldiers with a squad leader directing you across the battlefield, which is now almost 
 essential to your survival. New incentives are added for joining a squad: Squad leaders receive 
 success points for accomplishing varying tasks, and can unlock a beacon that they can put down 
 anywhere on the field, along with a drone that can spot enemies, and even defend you. Any enemy 
 pointed out by a squad member is also displayed with a marker on their screen, allowing for cohesiveness, 
 and a sense of true accomplishment whenever your boys, regardless if you know your mates or they 
 live in a different corner in the world, get the job done. One constant has always been true in 
 the Battlefield series: You get one game mode, and only one: Conquest, a widespread game of capture 
 the flag, with different points on the map that you must capture to keep enemy troops away from 
 your commander's resources, and to put a drain on their remaining ticket count, or troop numbers 
 that they can distribute onto the battlefield. Reduce this ticket number to zero or capture all 
 the the points on the map to win, and that's pretty much been it, even in the assorted freelance 
 mods that have been created by the Battlefield community. 2142 breaks this ice, by adding the Titan 
 mode. It's still a form of CTF, but with a different objective: Instead of draining the other team's 
 ticket, you must destroy the enemy's floating aircraft carrier, the Titan. There are missile silos 
 situated around the time and you must capture that send missiles to break down the Titan's shield, 
 and then it's hull. The new element of strategy added to the game, however, is that once you have 
 destroyed the shield of the Titan, you can go ahead and attack and occupy the Titan, blowing it 
 up from the insider by destroying it's control station and then finally, it's reactor core, allowing 
 for a swift and decisive victory if pulled off correctly. However, it it easy to defend these positions, 
 with hallways resembling the narrow corridors of a Star Wars movie, making it almost impossible 
 for even a whole squad of attackers not to be mowed down by prepared defenders, bogging down the 
 attackers and allowing the other team to capture the missile silos still gradually destroying the 
 enemy titan until it's too late to capture the silos or destroy the other's titan. It's a fresh 
 and fever-paced addition, worthy of a Battlefield game. Is 2142 a perfect game? Not by a long, 
 far-off shot. The graphics engine recycled from BF2 still looks nice but the lack of interaction 
 with these environments along with the still-quicksand-fast loading times are an unwelcome memory 
 from BF2, and the fact that the game is still a system hog may drive away lower-end computer owners. 
 The learning curve will be brutal to new players, and you'll spend dozens of hours being completely 
 destroyed by more experienced players until you can start to scrape back and actually have more 
 kills than deaths in a round, and not feel overwhelmed. However, if you value a game that isn't 
 completely based off of your fast-twitch reflexes and reactions, ala Counter-Strike, and you actually 
 like teamplay in your FPS, Battlefield 2142 will be a worthy addition to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micahman212
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  Now there has been alot of bad talk about Battlefield 2142 because of the spyware in the game bu 
 if you get passed all that the game is great! Sure most people say its just a mod of Battlefield 
 2 well what do think Battlefield 2 was a mod of battlefield 1942 so stop wining you Battlefield 
 2 war hawks! Battlefield 2142 is great for many reasons i will list them to make it weasier for 
 you weaker minded people out there to read
  
  1. GREAT GRAPHICS -though some people say the graphic system is showing its age it is better than 
 ever
  
  2. GREAT SOUND -the sound in this game is superb explosions emp strikes it is great
  
  3. Maps 
 are made unbeliveable well! - the maps in 2142 are way better than BF2 and are much more balenced.
 
  
  that is all now go get the game soilder! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joca133
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 31, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  Loads of bugs and EA Downloader sucks. Can easily be considered a BF2 mod, with improved gameplay, 
 but futuristic theme may discourage some BF2 fans. New ranking system and vehicles have balanced 
 gameplay but there are some things missing.
  
  Dont have too much high expectations about this game.
  Dont Dont DONT buy this game via EA 
 Downloader. Because:
  
  1) You will pay more than in any store.
  2) You will have problems with ea downloader.
  3) Downloading 2 Gigs will take 3-4 hours minimum 
 no matter what connection you have.
  4) The first time I downloaded and installed the game I received an error as it was incomplete 
 and I had to download it and re-install it all over again.
  5) When EA Downloader is updated all your cache will be deleted and you will have to download everything 
 again and reinstall the game so you dont receive Invalid Cd Key messages.
  6) Ea Support will never solve your problem and, despite their policy of 24 hours response, they 
 will gain time by providing ineffective and evading answers.
  
  Good gameplay. Graphics are nice but similar to BF2. I guess it runs great on any computer capable 
 of running BF2.
  There is nothing big about the sound. Some new effects, but old commander voice etc. Very very 
 uninspired.
  
  Classic BF2 is still the best. Bugs and EA poor support and game quality is a pain in the ass. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0Silverwolf0
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  Although not my favourite game of the Battlefield series, but i've still definately enjoyed playing 
 the game so far.
  
  Having being a fan of the Battlefield series since the demo for Battlefield 1942, and after putting 
 in several thousand hours of game-time combined into the series, I've had a lot of experience with 
 the game and how they play. Battlefield 1942 was an instant classic, it's style of gameplay revolutionary 
 to the FPS genre at the time, and it's little brother, Battlefield Vietnam, breathed some new life 
 into the series with it's revamped Battlfield 1942 engine.
  
  Now with the release of Battlefield 2142 a lot of players have complained about EA trying to milk 
 the series for all it can, and in some ways I do have to agree with that. However, as Battlefield 
 Vietnam did for Battlefield 1942, Battlefield 2142 breathed new life into the series just as interest 
 in Battlefield 2 was failing, particularily due to the extended delay of fixing issues with the 
 1.3 patch.
  
  Although the graphics in 2142 didn't get any revolutionary upgrades, there's still a little bit 
 more eye candy. The new upgrade system has it's good and bad points. I'm definately not a fan of 
 having to unlock grenades and the defribulators, as this means a BIG difference in gameplay in 
 any ladder that decides to run without unlocks. However some of the new toys are definately quiet 
 handy, the new squad beacon and deployable ammo and medic kits in particular. Of course the unlockable 
 weapons causes the same issues as previously, with some players having 'superior' weapons to others. 
 However I feel that player's ability to customise their loadout on-the-fly means kits are now far 
 more specialised, which makes for far less of a one kit kills all scenario, a problem often complained 
 about with the AT kit and it's DAO-12 unlock in Battlefield 2.
  
  There are still particular things I have problems with. The support player's ability to fire from 
 the hip with a machine gun that's almost as accurate as a sniper rifle rather annoying, specifically 
 when all that needs to be done to stop that issue is to make the standard deviation of the machine 
 guns, in any position other then prone, so high that it's pointless to fire them unless prone.
 
  
  But enough of my rambling =) . The graphics are great. The gameplay somehow feels more congested 
 then Battlefield 2, but it's still fun. The sound effects on certain weapons are very dissapointing, 
 but others sound great. The balance of the kits and vehicles is fairly good, and seems better then 
 it was in Battlefield 2. Overall a good game, but still has it's problems.
  
  I recommend the game to people who enjoyed Battlefield 2, but I suggest trying the demo first to 
 be sure, before forking out your hard earned cash for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezequiel777
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  this game is so cool!!!!!! i know a lot of you are mad because of bf2 being kinda the same game 
 but you've got to admit this game is superb!!!!
  i've played only the demo like one thousand times and i could play it any time again. It's so fun!!!!!! 
 fun, fun, fun!!!!
  the new mode to play it is fantastic.
  If you're thinking about getting this game, get it!!! buy it or steal it but just get it!!!!!! 
 it freakin rocks, and once you login be afraid if i'm playing!!!!!!
  damn one hundred characters!!! i have to write this in order to submit my post!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrxdemix
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  So far the Battlefield series has been incredibly successful. Starting with 1942, you could literally 
 get infinite play value as it was one of the first games to not only have a great FPS engine, but 
 it included vehicles such as tanks and aircraft. Battlefield 2 was no different. Not only did it 
 set a huge standard for the games to come but it introduced the rank system. As you accomplish 
 things within the game, you are rewarded with points which not only slowly build you up the rank 
 ladder, but give the ability of getting unlocks as well. Now 2142 has arrived. I was very hesitant 
 to get it because of it's reviews but I ended up getting it anyways.
  
  Let me say first off, I purchased Battlefield 2 nearly 2 months ago and got this game recently. 
 So far I am confused as to why it got subpar reviews on most websites, but I will be 100% honest 
 with you. As far as the gameplay goes, it hasn't changed much since the last installment. The gameplay 
 pretty much feels like BF2 did but it has some new things thrown in, such as the bobbing when you 
 move and the highly improved netcode system. Overall, if you have played BF2 then this game will 
 feel very similar, and I believe that is one of it's weaknesses.
  
  I believe the graphics are incredibly good. For the most part, you are going to need a good computer 
 to even run the game. They are just what you would expect in the newest version of Battlefield. 
 Everything around you looks set in the future to set the vibe, and there are some amazing effects 
 you will see when you play. For example, when you zoom in with a gun you can see the lights on 
 your gun showing the current status of the gun. All of the little things mixed in with the exciting 
 explosions and high polygon models make for quite the experience. However, the game doesn't run 
 too well. While the graphics are about par for today's graphics, the game runs surprisingly unstable. 
 It has that unpolished feel that BF2 has. Some say this is due to the large maps.
  
  The sound definately sets the tone for the game but lacks a little. The guns sound spot on but 
 there is a lack of sound in the game. It feels very quiet at times. The LMG sounds incredibly fierce 
 and the battle walkers sound indestructible. The sounds in this game are a big upgrade from BF2. 
 They not only help make the game feel in the future, but create a near movie-like experience. One 
 of my gripes with the sound is the lack of variety.
  
  The only other gripes I have is that it has had some bugs so far but that's to be expected from 
 a brand new game. EA has been notorious for their poor support and it seems history repeats itself. 
 There are even billboards in the game that advertise EA related products. I have looked into it 
 and it is in no way obtrusive to your computer but is just nonsense. It also feels like a mod to 
 BF2 like you might have seen in other reviews. If it were a mod it wouldn't work anyways since 
 it is much more than just a modification of BF2, hence why it's a game of it's own.
  
  So far I have put over 40 hours into the game and I am quite tired of it solely because of the 
 fact that it runs poorly on my machine. Anyone who has played a Battlefield 1942 and especially 
 BF2 should know these games have some of the longest replay value you can witness for an FPS. This 
 game is no different. The new unlock system is among the best I have ever seen. There are 40 unlocks 
 and 42 ranks, and tons of badges, pins and medals to earn. That in itself will keep you playing 
 for a long time, let alone the amazing gameplay. I would recommend this game to anyone who has 
 a good computer and enjoys a good large-scale sci-fi game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fxdm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of those games that at first, you'd think to say been there, done that , but this 
 one puts a spin on the Battlefield genre. While it keeps the main gameplay of BF2, it manages to 
 add some cool little things, such as how the camera shakes when you move while in a walker. They 
 also added a lot of cool gadgets and weapons, such as the active cammo for the Recon class. Also, 
 many of the weapons in BF2142 function differently than in BF2, even though they seem exactly the 
 same at first. Another cool addition is the Titan mode, but it can only be played online, and because 
 there are lag issues in the mode, it isn't as good as it would seem. Overall though, I'd say this 
 is a good game for veterans of the series or newcomers. If you like FPS's and Science Fiction, 
 then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrbje
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  And they dont really make it, loads of good stuff in this game and by all means its still enjoyable, 
 it just seems they didnt push the limits at all, rather in many art areas they seem more to have 
 taken the easy way out.
  
  Dices vision of the future is bland and featureless in many aspects, many of the maps has the aproach 
 of we just clone this asset wich is booring to beginn with around here, there and there,, and we 
 are done! written all over it, this gives me a real 80s games feeling, i though we where done with 
 this, if you are going to clone it atleast make it look good to beginn with. But they dont, and 
 as a result its a world mainly comprising of the primitives of an old 3D editor, doughnuts, capsels, 
 spheres and boxes, LOADS of boxes, its almsot as they have made an effort to make everything square 
 and boxy, even the civilian cars of 2142 will obviously have the aerodynamics of a refrigirator, 
 i doubt it.
  
  Textures dont add much either as its all very pale and featureless, i have a really hard time making 
 out the different uniforms,, they all look the same at fps speed.
  
  More importantly everything seems more chatotic now, since there are more mayham instruments awailable 
 to inflict death to you and you end up not knowing how you died, some invisible dude, a sniping 
 headshot from 30 km away or some drone thingy, its all gotten really unmanagable.
  
  But its got good stuff, sound is good and beliable, environment fx are good, not groundbreaking 
 but pulled of good, they just could have done so much more with it. More teamplayer devices are 
 in place, new upgrades look nice but still they could have made more out of this aswell.
  
  So all in all its entertaining but i have a taste of cheapness just exploiting the title, and thats 
 a smack on the wrist from my point of view. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono0
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  The game has some of the greatest graphics I have seen in a while, and the on-line game play is 
 great. When you play on Single-Player mode, the AI can be really easy to beat for beginners (lvl 
 1) but as you get better, you can improve the AI To maximum and take on some real challenge!
  However, In single player mode, your AI team mates will say the same thing over and over again 
 some times.
  The machines in this game are great, but you must have see them on other games like Mach Warrior 
 .
  Over all this is a really great game that is really Worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blankman007
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 30, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  2142 is alot of fun to play just like BF2 is. I like it personnaly a bit more than BF2 because 
 of the enviroment futuristic warfare is alot more fun. If you area shooter fan you will probably 
 enjoy this one as well. Variety of gameplay options make games like this more enjoyable than straight 
 run and gun shooters. Only real problem with this one is that its prettyt much BF2 in the future 
 which isnt all that bad but they could use a few upgrades to the way the game loading screens are 
 handled. Not really designed to be played on a low-level machine you definitly need a mod range 
 video card and at least 1g of ram to play this one efficiently and not turn it inro a textureless 
 blob. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eestlane4u
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 29, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  1. Battlefield Vietnam
  2. Battlefield 1942
  3. Battlefield 2142
  4. Battlefield 2
  
  This seems to be the top of Battlefield series for me with leading Battlefield Vietnam.
  The 
 thing why I do not like the new 2142 is because of the science fiction it contains, I like more 
 real-like games. For some people it might suite good.
  
  The score is my personal opinion, so just download the demo and decide yourself how it seems to 
 you.
  
  The Titan gamemode actually seems to be interesting, but I don't like all the ranking systems etc 
 because more simpler the better.
  
  Oh, and Vietnam is the first one because in it you can listen songs in vehicles (or behind landguns 
 ) :)
  
  BTW, I thought the game will be worse than it really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WNxSon-goku
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  ok so here we go
  battlefield 2142 may not be as good as battlefield 2 but after some years of realism its nice to 
 have a futuristic version of the game.
  
  i have played battlefield 2142 for aproximy 5 or 10 hours now and started to get some points.
 
  in the begining something you will notice is that you dont have granades untill you have scored 
 4 points. this can get very iritating as you are trying to hang on your groop and destroy the enemy 
 titan.
  there is a few unlocks in 2142
  the granades for an example is a recomended first unlock but there also is the new version of c4, 
 shotgun for the medic rifel, defibrilator and so on.
  
  the new rides are priety cool
  you got a few tanks and a cross up of helicopters and airplanes. what i miss is real planes tho 
 that might have been to mutch.
  the walker is the most fun ride acording to me. tho i havnt been able to use it that much beacuse 
 its the most desired to : (
  
  well after a few hours of playing i must say well done dice and i realy hope that more sweidish 
 game devolpers will turn out this good in rthe future cuz that woud be good for my homecountry 
 (if ypu havnt noticed my english spelling is quite bad) ;P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSigy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  Another year, another Battlefield. It seems EA loves to milk its franchises for everything they're 
 worth. Theres one little difference with BF2142 though, it actually turned out pretty good. Though 
 it's pretty much BF2 set in the future, some of the improvements to the squad combat and the new 
 titan game mode make this a worthy addition to the battlefield series. Titan mode introduces two 
 giant titan robots on each teams base that need to be destroyed. Capturing the missle towers (equivalent 
 to BF2s flag points) starts your crusade against the giant beast. After its shields are worn down, 
 you can either guard the rocket bases, or fly a ship up on to the titan and destroy from the inside. 
 It proves to be very tense with extreme fire fights. The new vehicles and weapons are mostly clones 
 of BF2, excluding the giant mech robot. They all control with the same fluent and simple style 
 that has been in the battlefield seires since 1942. The sound retains its sharp audio clarity by 
 providing X-Fi support. Even though we don't have real lasers, I'm sure they would sound exactly 
 as this game depicts. The graphics engine is beginning to wear old though. The textures look great, 
 and have rich detail, but the models themselves seem old. They have clipping issues and blocky 
 shapes compared with newer games. The special effects are top notch however. HDR improves some 
 of the great explosions that are abound in this game. The only real problem with BF2142 is the 
 net play. EA still hasn't ironed out the bugs from BF2, and random disconnects, slow load speeds, 
 horrid ping issues and the general server browser may drive some people to insanity. At least they 
 added a favorites tab this time. So, in the end, BF2142 is a good game, and worthy of any battlefield 
 fan. If you already didn't enjoy battlefield though, then skip it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redbear81
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  This game is like the other games in the battlefield series, just better. the sound is just what 
 the sounds would be like if you were actually there, they blend in with the environment. The graphics 
 are amazing, making the graphics of BF1942 look like the worst graphics in the world. The gameplay 
 itself, is the best part of the game. You can choose unlocks for you weapons, many more awards 
 than BF2, and great levels. The levels are made up and in the feature, but the location is the 
 same as in real life. Some levels are The Fall Of Berlin and Suez Canal and those locations are 
 right where they should be on the globe. You can also play 3 modes; Conquest, Titan, and Conquest 
 Co-Op. The titan is when you have to defeat a ship in the sky, by destroying its shields and destroying 
 the core. I dont want to give it all away, so you should watch the training videos if you can 
 find them. This game is definitely worth 50 dollars. Yes, the beta and demo may be laggy and has 
 a lot of bugs and it crashes a lot, but those have been fixed. However there are not many servers 
 as other games, you can still find some challenges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTBHEFLIN
Rating: 3.9
Date: Oct 29, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  Well the shine is off the apple at least with me. I've played about 2o hours now and the list of 
 faults is long, and maybe a little picky, but that's me. I' try to be objective. There is to start 
 with the veteran ranking system, the hype (as I understood it) was to reserve your BF2 game name 
 and get a rank above your BF 2 rank. There was a pre play patch, before release, so you knew the 
 glitches were just being found. 1. area denial weapons cover to much area, an unwary or new commander 
 will kill more of his soldiers if not careful. It takes way to long to recharge. 2. the player packages 
 are to complicated, and there are only 4. a sniper, assault, enineer and a machine gunner. The poor 
 enineer is also the A/T gunner and the weapon is inadequate and just not realistic. Last night I 
 shot a rocket into a crate to kill the man hiding there. As soon as the crate was gone, he stood 
 up and shot me dead.
  As a retired professional soldier with combat experience, this does not happen in reality. Also on 
 more than one occasion, have emptied a magazine into a mans chest at a range of less than 2 meters, only 
 to be stabbed by him. Reality check! Must be a very hyper version of Kevlar of the future. 3. All 
 the tools the players avatars need to be truly effective, are unlocks. That's right, unlocks, so if 
 you are new to the genre, or are not the best player on the block, you stand to be hindered from 
 doing your best by the game itself. 4. Oh ! if you think that I'm failing to be objective, you may 
 be correct. However I invite you to go to EA's 2142 website and read all the feed back and comments 
 ,then make your decision. This game had a lot of promise, and may yet be a good one, with some patches. I 
 think my time will be spent doing other things, rather than playing this game every waking moment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hairymop
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 29, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  Although Battlefield 2142 is a step up from Battlefield 2 in game play, the bugs keep it from being 
 a top rated game.
  
  First the good...
  The introduction of the new Titan mode is a welcome addition to the Battlefield game play. You 
 feel like Luke Skywalker in Star Wars Episode IV blowing up the Death Star.
  
  The new weapons are great and there is nothing better than pwning people whilst walking around 
 in a 30 ft tall Mech. The variations on the various vehicles takes getting used to but each vehicle 
 has it's charms. Variable unlock paths make every character a little different allowing for an 
 almost RPG feel to the growth of your character.
  
  The biggest upgrade on Battlefield 2 is that 2142 really forces players to play as a team to defend 
 the Titan, cap flags and more. If you don't play as a team, you are doomed to lose over and over 
 again. Even if your team has the best inidividual players, a concerted effort from a less skilled 
 team will win every time.
  
  then the Bad...
  There seems to a severe lack of communication from EA regarding what they are doing with the game 
 and when. There is no external stat feed yet so seeing your stats in a decent format or with all 
 the information you want to see, is not available yet.
  
  and the Ugly...
  The game server is a little unstable and I still don't trust the stats recorded although it has 
 improved. Finally...
  The Dice team and EA have promised that they are working around the clock to rectify all the issues 
 so I hope I will get the chance to upgrade this score at some stage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion85
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 29, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  After playing the demo a while I decided to buy this game. I wasn't the biggest fan of bf2, mainly 
 because of the base raping problem and the endless wait for the next unlock! The future environment 
 is well done, also the weapons are really cool and I like the fact that you can personalise your 
 character with emp grenades a defibrilator and everything. It is a lot better than having to chose 
 between 7 different types and just not getting your suitable weapon. The maps are also a lot of 
 fun because you might encounter close combat some time.
  
  The Titan mode is just great, many people say they got bored after a while but it just keeps getting 
 better and better. I think until now I must have played 85% in Titan mode.
  
  The vehicles are ok, I like the fact that the airplanes are better to handle than in bf2. And the 
 two legged robot is just amazing as it is strong against vehicles and anti air as well. All in 
 all I can say that I really like this game, they really did a good job on this one and I certainly 
 have something to play for the next few months. The fact that you unlock things much faster really 
 let you customize your character after a few hours already. Go buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gafuudy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 28, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  One thing that irratates me is that the reviewers at gamespot based the review off the demo. The 
 demo has a striped down game engine and much less conntent then in the actual game.
  THE GAME IS A SUPURB game not as good as half-life 2 or halo. But still a overall great game. with 
 great graphics and the new titan mod the game is fun and is so addicting that you will not see 
 the light of day for a few weeks.
  but who cares sunlight burns people like me. the game also does have a few cool vehicles to. like 
 the drop pod apc, the huge ungodly insane walkers or the titan its self.
  there is a few dissapointments as well though. like how the titan mod is twitchy or how EA did not 
 make a new engaine but just modified bf2's engaine.
  i do personaly recomend this game to any one who has played any battlefeild game (BF 1942, BF 2 
 ECT) or if you are just getting started.
  i give the game a 9.1 i love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZuljinRaynor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  When 2142 was announced, I was playing BF2 and really upset that they were putting out a new one 
 already. But the points system kept me on the fence instead of dismissing the game. The demo sold 
 me and I got 2142 and this is the game that BF2 should've been.
  
  Gameplay is very similar to BF2 but it is different without a doubt. Conquest gameplay is similar 
 but the maps all basically beat out every single BF2 map aside from Karkand and Gulf of Oman. Fall 
 of Berlin is a very intense map which is better than Karkand, and Tunis Harbor is what infantry 
 fans should love. Titan mode is the best though. The maps that have Titan basically play like a 
 mini conquest mode and then the Titan fight which is fantastic. Defense and Offense both are intense 
 and great fun. The Titan maps that stand out are Verdun and Suez Canal. Both great fun. Otherwise 
 the gameplay is the same, with different weapons and the whole unlock system which really changes 
 the gameplay.
  
  Sound is still fine, but sometimes things seem to lack power. Mechs for example, look tough, fire 
 tough but move like they are on a bunch of stilts. The sound of movement is weak. Some guns also 
 sound like a pinball machine.
  
  Graphics look like BF2 but with a different art direction. They aren't as gritty as BF2 but that's 
 cause it is the future. Some levels have orange tints, others have brown and others white. The 
 graphics are still great.
  
  People are reporting problems, but most of them I haven't had. The only ones are the EA master 
 server disconnects which are frustrating. Also people who got it at launch didn't have all their 
 stats registered so stats are skewed.
  
  2142 is a great game if you felt disappointed with BF2. If you didn't play BF2, 2142 is a must 
 buy. If you bought BF2, well, you can feel ripped off. I was feeling that way but I got over it 
 since the game felt much better than BF2. If you like the way BF2 is, by all means stay unless 
 your friends migrated. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JesterJim
Rating: 5.1
Date: Oct 28, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Wait, didn't I just play this game a while ago? Oh yeah, it is just like Battlefield 2, what a 
 shame. If you havn't played the Series of Battlefield then you should start here, however. For 
 everyone else, find yourself a new game. Ea is just beating a dead horse with a stick of expansions. 
 Yes, again. The substance has little problem with it however, and the sound is pretty impressive. 
 But that dosn't give an excuse to come out with six of the same games with different time periods. 
 Graphics where only improved a little bit as well. Trust me, I was pretty disappointed at this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomdelonge0686
Rating: 4.9
Date: Nov 12, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  Good: Great ideas to try to keep playing with ranks, Decent maps, great ways to earn points and grow 
 in the ranks quickly, More now squad based and leader based.
  Bad. Warning alot more bad than good.... Ok where do i start right now i just got done playing and 
 im so angry i know all the problems.. Dont think im a noob i have a major rank im in like top 7,000. The 
 biggest problem in this is lag lag lag lag lag. Then bugs bugs bugs and more bugs. Titan mode was 
 the koolest thing ever... But now its ruined that than is so ruined cuz of glitches. On the EU team 
 u can get to sector 3 and then 4 before 1 and 2. How so? the game is so poorly made that ppl jump 
 right through the wall like it s not even there. Secondly lol lol ppl get 2,000 points in 1 rd getting 
 a transport flying ship flying over the enemy titan. and have a guy move around the seats over and 
 over. These r baby plroblems, what im fed up with is retarded morons taking advantage of how ea 
 poorly made this game. U know u can get into the reactor without blowing the consoles? Easy u take 
 ur beacon place it on the door and spawn on it. and just like bf2 with the vehicle drop ur inside 
 blowing up the hull. THe lag is omfg.... THe commanders r morons and the hackers move the titans 
 even when im commander my titan moves when i dont even press anything. The titans crash the game 
 so much. WHen ur running u dont run u skip. U attack to walls, ur body rolls and floats, and u fall 
 out of the ship, ur c4 sometimes goes through the floor. Im sorry this problem will never be fully 
 fixed how i know? Hacks with the stupid commander hack will always move the titan. Another issues 
 is the aiming system even tho i pwn more than i die, it s just annoying. U scoped moves up and down 
 then when u shoot ur bullets go so quick. I rarely spray but the gun goes everywhere and i hit pplin 
 the mid chest and head and they still take way to many bullets. Do i blame EA? or do i blame u noobs 
 out there? Because bf2 was just plain awesome till 1.22 patch came out. WHere u now can just leave 
 mores on the walkways and the tms dont die. I understand the at mines not a huge difference cuz 
 idiots would leave them in the main roads on ur own team. And the dolphin die is gone i mis my dolphin 
 being able to jumop shock ur body to life and jump back up thats gone. Being able to chuck c4 is 
 gone. Then ppl i guess bit ched about the vehicles in2142 they suck im sorry but they do... I hit 
 a guy 5-7 times before he died in an gun ship a fuc king gunship. I hit tanks with 8 rds before 
 it dies. I hit ppl with the apc multi times before they drop. ANd the mech is the strongest thing 
 in the game. even that i hit ppl and it seems to take alot for them to die. I just wish EA didnt 
 rush this project and make us the beta testers cuz u know. PPL r making it unfun.. the bugs r horrible 
 making it annoying and pissingme off... be warned if u loved old school bf2 cuz thsi one after a 
 while u love it and blow off the gayness bu tit ll u like it did to me. I give the gameplay a 1 
 cuz of the bugs, glitches and horrible changes.. And i dont care bout it bering like a mod i loved 
 the graphics still 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedish-marine
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 28, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is an sci-fi take on the very popular Battlefield-series. The game haven't changed 
 all that much but it still feels way less focused as the previous titles. + New Titan Modes, a 
 bit more balanced airforce, radio-command voices remain as good as ever.
  
  - Graphics is not looking as solid as in the Battlefield 2 and it's eating even more capacity of 
 your PC than before, over-powered vehicles and there's way too many of them, very few different 
 classes and you start off with nothing but your standard rifle which makes you very vulnable on 
 the battlefield. After I first played Battlefield 2 I started playing pretty much all my free time, 
 the strategic approach was to most part simply amazing and the general design was superb, even 
 though the airforce was severely over-powered. But in this game, the Battlefield 2142 everything 
 seems to have become a huge mass of vehicle-battles over way too open distances. The fighting part 
 never really impresses and the strategic point of the game is poor since there's no real places 
 where you have to plan and/or use cover. When it comes a Walker vehicle (the heaviest Land-vehicle) 
 you're screwed no matter what since you can't hide anywhere. The vehicles has become very wierd 
 looking, I know it is Sci-Fi and not authentic stuff but it's just looking broken when a tank is 
 just a huge square with a Siege-Tank -like cannon from the StarCraft series. The walker-vehicles 
 controls is crazy, you get stuck basicly everywhere and you can't really tell which direction you're 
 pointing at when you've spinned the cannon around a bit, the teamkill factor is frustratingly high. 
 Another annoying factor is that the APCs seem to have massive weapons on every possible slot which 
 can also point and shoot in about any direction with incredibly massive damage and accurancy. But 
 as for the positive sides of this game, the new Titan-mode is what's really unique with this game 
 compared to the previous installations. The ground-combat remains the same, there's strategic outposts 
 to conquer but this time they're not just flags which drops enemy tickets after you achieved over 
 50% of all possibly flags on the map but this time it's Anti-Titan Missile Silos. These silos is 
 the only way to destroy the enemy Titan's shield so that you later on can board it either using 
 a air-vehicle or the Assault APC which is equiped with launch-pods. And to keep these silos out 
 of the enemy hands won't be easy, but if you still manage to destroy the enemy titans shield and 
 board it you'll have to destroy a number of different Control Terminals, pretty much like in the 
 C&amp; C Renegade, in order to gain the possiblity to approach and destroy the reactor core. Once 
 the reactor is taken down you'll have to evade the titan in a couple of seconds and your team has 
 won the round. I wouldn't recomend this game to anyone except those who are huge fanatics of the 
 Mech Warrior series. The game feels cracked up if you're a Battlefield 2 fan, so I suggest you 
 to stick with BF2 and not get this game, at least not until they've fixed it but I doubt they will... 
 It's still EA Games we're talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goN_PL
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  As the review deck says, Battlefield 2142 is set in future. Half of the Earth is frozen due to 
 the recent climate changes. The population of European Union was forced to leave the northern part 
 of the planet and move along into much warmer south. Apparently, when Pan Asian Coalition discovered 
 plans of European Union, a bloody war began. PAC started to push EU back to the icy fields while 
 EU has managed to take control of North Africa sands and started to outnumber PAC from their backs. 
 This also means that there is no third side of the conflict , so you won't be able to play as Americans. 
 The fields of battle are different, starting from snow-coated roads of Berlin and Belgrade and 
 ending at Suez deserts.
  
  The game is a classic remake of Battlefield 2 set in the future, meaning you will quickly feel 
 like at home. All things are the same as in BF2. There are no BFGs or laser rifles; instead are 
 typical guns from present day. There is a rocket launcher, sniper rifle, assault rifle and a light 
 machine gun for all four classes.
  
  The graphics are surprisingly good as far for an engine that is 2 years old (also worked with Battlefield 
 2) , but it's no longer cutting-edge technology. Sound is astounding as ever. Gameplay is quite 
 high especially on the new Titan mode. Value and Tilt is also good. BF2142 deserves the right to 
 be bought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 1.1
Date: Oct 28, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  What more is there to say? It is broken. Unlocks don't work. Spend hours trying to rank up and 
 the points wont work. You would think this to be a poorly made game that just don't work but alast 
 it was made by EA so what can you say? Every EA games seems to be **** now and days. I am sorry 
 I am sure Oblivion took longer and more money to make and is more advanced then this BF2 mod but 
 it still turned out a great unbroken game unlike this one.
  
  Game play - 1 you cant even play the game properly to tell, you get dc'ed from servers, the titan 
 mode dont even work.
  
  Graphics - 2 dont get me wrong great graphics but usless if you cant enjoy them
  
  Sound - 
 1 what did you say? I can't hear you over the 4 year olds yelling in the mic and then when i get 
 the problem with connection Its like i went def, least i dont have to listen to those damned kids 
 any moew
  
  Value - 1 its a ea game nothing more to say
  
  tilt - wish i could put this at 0 but i will have to do with 1
  
  Also lets not forgeet the 
 spyware. Yes the spyware you only learn about until you open the box and thus can not get a refund 
 on the game since 99% of stores wont take back opened games.
  
  I give this game little credit that if they patch it and fix it then it will be a great game. But 
 since my bf 2142 messed up so much that I couldn't even play it/uninstall it or try to reinstall 
 it I feel like I just wasted 50 dollers. Just do your self a favor, take out a $50 bill and set 
 it on fire it will be better use of your money. Or spend it on some t hing usefull like food or 
 a real unbroken game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liraris
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  (Game play)
  Battlefield 2142 is an excellent game. The game play is really good. The single player could use 
 more maps, but the multiplayer is great fun. I love the vehicles in the game. The walkers are my 
 favorite I also enjoyed the tanks. The game play is superb.
  
  (Graphics }
  The graphics are great The maps are well-done. You need a good video card to get the most. Out 
 of it but.
  They really give you a good sense of what the battlefield of the future will be like.. . (Sound 
 )
  The sound is good also. It needs some improvements with some weapons, but if you have a good sound 
 card, you should be able to enjoy it,
  (Value} For a PC game 50 euro is quite expensive. When with this price you can get 2 PC games. 
 But if you are a battlefield game freak, like I am you should buy this game. I think its worth 
 the money. Overall battlefield 2142 is a great game, and if you are a battlefield fan you should 
 add this one to your collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Blade7
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing this game, I thought that I'd be experiencing a bit of a new gameplay. This 
 game just seems like a modification to Battlefield 2. Not much was done, but it is still a fun 
 game to play. I'll start with the great stuff first and then I'll hit the bad things that battlefield 
 2142 has.
  
  GOOD STUFF: The whole battle of the future is awesome. I sometimes feel like I am a soldier, fighting 
 for my life. It's awesome how you can drive the mechs and launch a pod to board the enemies titan. 
 Also when you see an enemy (if your the Squad Leader) , you will automatically see them in your 
 HUD. Makes me really feel like I'm in the future. The graphics and effects are great along with 
 the sounds. Also the fast artillery is cool too as when I played in a server, it would strike down 
 pretty fast. It does get annoying but it does show realistic features. The guns are really cool 
 and have some neat effects along with the gadgets. You can also try new things on your own character 
 which is a really cool new feature in the Battlefield series. Also the thing that gets me laughing 
 so hard are the characters voices. They make me laugh out loud when I hear them say (these are 
 the American army guys I'm talking about) Enemy Spotted or Enemy Tank Spotted . But new voices 
 for the characters are good in my theory.
  
  BAD STUFF: Here we go. I hate the fact that the Battlefield 2 characters run much faster then the 
 Battlefield 2142 characters. They also run slow and since it is the future, I think that it should 
 have been boosted a little more then battlefield 2 characters. Does this mean that in the future, 
 we will be running slow and also walking slow because we aren't that advanced? Also the thing that 
 I hate THE MOST is when I shoot a person (enemy) in the head 5 times (this happens in Battlefield 
 2 as well) and they just pull out their knife and slash it once, I'm the one who dies. In real 
 life, you shoot someone in the head (or even in games) you instantly die. There are no second chances 
 but it's sad to see that the knife packs more power then your pistol or even your assault rifle. 
 Even if they have no gadgets on, it still takes them some time to die. Hitting the enemy in the 
 back or chest proves more effective then the head. Yea sometimes you'll get that HEADSHOT in one 
 or two hits, but like I said before, isn't this suppose to be the future where the guns pack more 
 power, more ammo, and more stamina? Also the APC that launches the pods in the air, why are they 
 so difficult to destroy? If it was an APC versing an enemy APC, all you can do it just sit there 
 and shoot back and forth. There is no winning until a mech or tanks comes along. But all you have 
 to do it just use the EMP to stall it, drive up close (and this is only if you have C4 or rockets) 
 and then just shoot it down. You can survive a whole map with an APC which isn't fair to a lot 
 of players. That is for tactic people but if your not that tactical, then your dead.
  
  The conclusion is if you want something futuristic, go ahead and get this game. It will be the 
 best game you would probably ever by. I know in future patches, they will be changing a lot of 
 things to improve the gameplay and we are looking forward to that. Tight weapons, awesome graphics, 
 sweet accents (=P) , cool modes, and nice looking gadgets... what more can you ask for in a multiplayer 
 game. Fixes to certain things? Yea, but that's why patches were invented. Rock on EA Games and 
 DICE Stockholm!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h3llb0y9999
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  My first impression of demo was ehh ok this is pretty good it could be better, when i actually 
 got the game i was amazed because its soo fun so much non stop action its just amazing. The graphics 
 are GOOD even on lowest setting they are better then alot of other games out now. If you have at 
 least 1 gb ram and a nice graphics card i really reccomend you get this game, even if you dont 
 you can still play with a low graphics card like mine. There is sooo much unlocks that its not 
 even funny, it gets you occupied with getting all of them, its pretty easy to rank up if you are 
 skilled but even if you arent you will catch up and be pro. I think the best part of this game 
 is the titan mode beccause its a new feature from battlefield series. They should get more modes 
 though because titan and conquest isnt really enough. You get medals and stuff from doing everything 
 you can imagine including flying, driving, killing whatever you are good at you will get lots of 
 unlocks and medals, overall this is a great game !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grimb
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 got me very interested.
  
  Battlefield 2 hooked me.
  
  In fact, I stopped playing World of Warcraft to play B2 and in no time I was logging a lot more 
 hours with it than the total amount of play time I had with the corrosive, socially desolving acid 
 that is WoW.
  
  Ahem.
  
  Anyway, when B2142 came on the radar I was very anxious to play it, despite it's relatively close 
 proximity to the release of B2 (as it hadn't been out that long , or so it felt) .
  
  Jumping ahead to the demo release of 2142, I generally enjoyed the game - Titan mode was a lot 
 of fun and a nice change, but like I read elsewhere, it seemed like a B2 mod - nothing more. I 
 wasn't so sure I would get it when it was released.
  
  But, of course I did (as I do with any game that seems like it might interested me for at least 
 an hour) . As I played the game, I really began liking it more and more. The persistence of your 
 soldiers was an excellent addition and it had me longing for my next epic... I mean, gear upgrade. 
 After a while, I noticed that I actually play B2142 much different than I played B2, which I didn't 
 think was going to be the case.
  
  To give you an example, I played a Support kit and obtained the automated turret machine gun (forgot 
 what they are called, - a Sentry of some kind) . While on the roof of a building, I positioned this 
 gun to cover an area behind me so that I could lay at the corner shooting down at others without 
 having to worry about someone sneaking up behind me and slicing me from ear to ear. This added 
 a great deal of enjoyment for me as I would hear the machine gun fire, and turn in time to see 
 it cut my would be assassin down. This was something I had not experienced in B2 - being able to 
 make myself prone to a certain direction knowing my pet... er, gun was watching my back.
  
  Anyway, with many many hours under my belt already now, I am finding this game very enjoyable. 
 In fact, I uninstalled B2! Not to say that B2 will never be played again - there is just something 
 I love about present-day-ish combat fields, gear, guns and vehicles. But I know for some time to 
 come, when I need to jump into a game and cut down other people online, it will be via this game.
 
  
  If you have $50 to spare, and like B2, you should probably give this a try - but first try the 
 demo as those servers are still running.
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragoon_Jett
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  Takes awhile to get used to, the unlocks come just at the right time, makes you aim higher for 
 all of the unlocks, you will never have the right unlock untill you get them all, so play 24/7! 
 Everyone is having the same problem, desktop crashing, some are even getting there computers restarted 
 automaticly, it takes A LOT of rescources from your computer so close EVERYTHING, think deeply 
 about buying it, it also is different from Battlefield 2, but the Ranks/Unlocks are easy to get 
 besides there is so many, to get a new gun, you have to unlock three other things first, the squad 
 leader unlocks need 1-3 squad members in your squad to even use one! So choose your unlocks wisely, 
 I recamend that you choose all of the Misc unlocks. example: Grenades, energy boosters, extra grenades, 
 first so you can run faster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScholarInDisguise
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  If you're like me and are a seasoned player of Battlefield 2 you will probably be disappointed 
 and feel somewhat scammed out of your $50 after purchasing Battlefield 2142.
  
  That's not to say that it's not a good game because it is BUT...., it's also not a new game or 
 anything fresh for that matter. The simple truth is... BF 2142 is just a re-skinned game built 
 using the old BF2 engine with some added bells and whistles. EA will even tell you that the old 
 BF2 engine was used and that is how they where able to get it on the shelves so fast. So here's 
 my advice for yall. If you don't have aether BF 2 or BF 2142.... The only decision you really need 
 to make is whether you prefer playing a more authentic WW2 style game or one in a futuristic setting 
 with fictional weapons and environments. I myself prefer BF2 over BF 2142 but it basically comes 
 down to your taste in FPS environments.
  
  If you own BF2 and love it then do yourself and your pocket book a favor... wait tell BF 2142 drops 
 in price (if you MUST buy it) because it really is more-less a re-skinned BF2 with a better character 
 development tree and few other changes.
  
  In closing...., BF 2142 is probably worth the price based on it's own merits if you don't own a 
 BF game and prefer futuristic fps games. But if you're an old BF2 vet it's just not that much different. 
 More or less a Recycled BF2 with a few bells and whistles to milk more change out of the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonmaund
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 26, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Let's start by getting the bad bits out of the way...
  
  Battlefield 2142 is apparently spyware o. O I used the EA downloader system to buy/download/install 
 the game and, ofc managed to conveniently skip over the EULA but those who've bought the game from 
 stores have opened their copies to find a notice explaining that BF2142 and the maps that are included 
 are riddled with advertising boards that are updated live via the internet. The game then sends 
 back information about how long you looked at the advertising, how many are in view and how far 
 away they are, etc etc (god knows) . Gotta say EA have apparently stooped to a new low with this, 
 it's not as if BF2142 is free, why should we pay to view adverts?
  
  Anyway that's the view I took even before purchasing the game... Upon playing I don't actually 
 think I've noticed any advertising so far (and i've experienced all of the maps) but as most are 
 based on futuristic-esque urban environments It's not unreasonable to think there might be a few 
 billboards scattered around. What IS unreasonable is paying to look at them :/
  
  I'd downloaded the demo before actually installing the full game... which was actually a rather 
 poor 1 map demo of the Titan mode (which weighed in at a hefty 1gig aswell) and hadn't really considered 
 buying it afterwards. But peer-pressure took over and after a few of my WoW guild mates poked and 
 taunted I gave in! It's worth noting I'm not really a fan of its predecessor Battlefield2, infact 
 I bought BF2 to entertain me one rainy afternoon... and I think 1 afternoon was as long as it lasted. 
 the fact that BF2142 bares more than a slight resemblance to BF2 didn't really bode well for the 
 game at first. I know BF2 has a multitude of followers but I'm a real fan of BF1942 and thought 
 BF2 lacked character.
  
  ANYWAY, the review... yeah..
  
  The premise of the game is a post ice-age world fighting for ownership of the last warm place on 
 earth... north africa (rofl, god knows where the africans have gone but nvm) but quite frankly 
 who gives a toss, it's an excuse for some all out team-based PEWPEW action with massive guns, tanks, 
 mechs n stuff. Although it's set in 2142 everything still has a modern-day feel, you wont find 
 lightsabres and lazerguns (pewpew) but everything's been given a futuristic gloss (active camo for 
 snipers, walking mechs, large floating Titans with forcefields etc) and it gells nicely with the 
 old villiages, churches and large open spaces that make the BF games so popular.
  
  Upon loading the game you're asked to enter your EA account info (a quick signup awaits if you 
 don't have one) and then create a soldier (enter a name for your char) . You're then presented with 
 the main hub screen where you can access info about your character, the options screen, EA news 
 centre and the multiplayer/single player server pages.
  
  For those not familliar with the BF series of games... where have you been? The general idea = 
 2 teams, large (LAARGE) maps, guns, vehicles and capture points. Teams have to gain control of 
 specific nodes across the map and keep control of as many as possible for as long as possible to 
 win. The formula hasn't changed much over the years but finally there's a new mode added in the 
 form of Titan. Titan mode is similar but the nodes are replaced by missile silos that, once captured, 
 regularly shoot missiles at the enemy Titan a large, space-ship type thing in the sky. Of course 
 the enemy can do the same to your titan. Missiles continue to fire untill the forcefields are down, 
 at which time you can use planes/helicopters etc to board the enemy titan and destroy it from the 
 inside (these Titan fights are a lot like the opening battle in Star Wars Very Happy) where the 
 large open maps are replaced by close-quaters warfare... it rocks.
  
  Considering I'm still rocking an AGP system with a &pound;100 graphics card I can't say I had high-expectations 
 when it came to the game being pretty AND running smoothly... but to my surprise hitting the high 
 quality preset mode in the graphics options had awesome results and the game rarely dropped below 
 30fps (tweaking later produced even better results by turning the texture quality/filter quality 
 down 1 notch, turning off FSAA and turning the resolution up) BF2142 uses the BF2 engine so if 
 your system can handle BF2 you should be laughing. Just because the engine's based on a year-old 
 game doesn't mean it looks dated - infact it's gorgeous and the maps have a great variety to them 
 that makes each level feel different and special. Snowy french villiages (reminded me off CoD) , 
 dusty tunisian maps, lush forrest, rainy Belgrade - it's the art direction rather than the amount 
 of polygons that makes the maps look so good/believable. Dynamic lighting and shadows bounce off 
 pretty much every surface and it's definitly a nice atmospheric touch, and an achievement as you 
 frequently forget you're on a server with (up to) 63 other people. There are also a fair few nice 
 graphical effects like the EMP pulse for example that can knock out vehicles for a short time. 
 It also blurrs and distorts your visor for a while (a bit like metroid prime) .
  
  The sound quality also deserves a mention - software/hardware and creative x-fi modes all available, 
 each with a low/medium/high/ultra high option. My onboard sound chip didn't handle the team-voices 
 and commands well in hardware mode so I switched down to software-medium mode. In actual fact the 
 only difference between medium/high and ultra-high modes seem to be the amount of sounds that can 
 happen at once (32/64/128 respectively) as they all use 44k sounds... low uses 11k :S The music 
 on loading screens definitly has an largescale epic film quality to it and gets you in the mood 
 for the fight to come. Sound positioning works well and all the weapons sound like you'd expect 
 them to (futuristic guns will apparently sound a little more high-pitched than todays guns you 
 see) . When you're in a large battle with bullets whipping past your head it truly feels realistic, 
 which is commendable. Team-commands are given via the q button (pick me up, i need supplies, enemy 
 spotted etc) and translates into a voice shouting your option, you can also communicate via VOIP 
 which makes it infinitly more fun imo.
  
  There's an option of 4 different classes (the names of which have slipped my mind atm) that basically 
 translate into Sniper, Assault (all-round, can also heal... Paladin!) , Engineer and Heavy Support. 
 The best feature of BF2142 imo is the ranking system. As you play your wins/kills and other noteable 
 actions translate into points and medals that allow you to unlock extra abilities and weapons for 
 the different classes in the game. This adds an MMO style leveling aspect to the game as you make 
 the choices of what to unlock and from what class. Examples of unlocks are grenades, different 
 types of ammo, higher health regen/sprint speed, camo suits and ofc new weapons. The down-side 
 to this system is that you start off quite ill equipped, snipers don't really have a close-range 
 weapon... assault doesn't have explosives for dealing with vehicles etc. This changes after a few 
 hours of play though. Whereas BF2 had 8 levels of unlock BF2142 has 40... should keep you occupied 
 for a while eh.
  
  The major selling point of the BF series has been the ability to jump into vehicles and BF2142 
 doesn't dissapoint. Planes, Helecopters, Tanks, Mechs (yus, mechs, zomg!) , speedy jeeps and more. 
 Each look believable and act as you'd expect them to but with specific futuristic elements that 
 set them apart. the jeep has a speed boost for example that shoots you off at a phenominal rate, 
 some of the tanks hover rather than have tracks.
  
  There's a boatload could say about BF2142 but it all boils down to this... it's fun. That said 
 there's also a hell of a lot to learn and understand about the game - the Commander option for 
 example where one person controls air strikes, supply drops etc hasn't really changed from BF2 
 but it'll be a new concept for some people. It's also a frustrating game - I've lost count of how 
 many times i've died so far for an unknown reason.... one min i'm well protected in a bunker... 
 *POW* vMagix dies. When this happens it's definitly one of those  
 type moments and after this happens a few times you become really tempted to reroll a sniper and 
 pick a dark spot to camp in for the duration of the map. It'll also be a steep lurning curve for 
 those who haven't played since release due to the level of unlocks other people will have compared 
 to you but once you get your favourite class geared up it's fairly smooth sailing. BF2142 however 
 could simply be looked at as a BF2 mod... the games are really REALLY similar, same engine, menu 
 systems etc, infact the main game's even in the EA Games/BF2142/mods/BF2142 directory o. O but the 
 new futuristic sheen, titan mode, maps and detailed leveling system definitly put it over and above 
 its predecessor.
  
  The game isn't without issues at the moment though. Some people have experienced really poor performance 
 on decent-specced systems. Random disconnects from servers, ranking/points being lost, patch 1.01 
 not updating the game correctly etc. But I've been lucky at least.
  
  I went into BF2142 almost expecting not to like it much, but infact I think it's really enjoyable. 
 It's not amazing though, the game's pretty much a revamped BF2 and the whole capture node system 
 is not new. The inbuilt spyware (even if I can't see it) also brings my attitude towards it down 
 somewhat. However... It's good, it's most likely the best FPS you'll play this year and if you 
 liked BF2 and you're into futuristic-ish stuff then you prob own BF2142 already and are in the 
 process of having multiple orgasms over it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azaiarnyi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Despite the many glitches, which are found in most other Battlefield games,
  Battlefield 2142 is a great game. The biggest problem I have with this game is the annoying stats 
 tracking errors, which fortunately are now finally being taken care of. The game is great in most 
 other respects, it has great music, good graphics - despite the age of the engine used by the game. 
 The game-play is fun, and there is a host of awesome new weapons and vehicles to use - even though 
 most of them are just upgrades on what is available today. The game also adds a good reason to 
 keep playing - the ability to get promotions and upgrades of new weapons and equipment, which is 
 much better than the upgrading system of Battlefield 2, which only gives you several weapons to 
 unlock, and even that is more difficult and takes more time. Thus, despite the few shortcomings, 
 I say Battlefield 2142 is quite worthy of your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazymadman
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 26, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is solid, a Battlefield 2 slightly updated to give you a better gameplay experiance 
 in a different settings. Graphics, Sound, all good but not Great. A phrase which can describe this 
 game. That being said, EA proves itself again as being horrible. My Pre-Order from best buy landed 
 me a bonus of a different look for the EU's base assult riffle. The only problem is that its extremly 
 big, the size of a rocket launcher, for a gun that was realitivly compact in first person view. 
 It is basically unuseable when going up against other guns of the same type in the game. I contact 
 EA about the matter, hoping that there is some way to toggle or remove the bonus , they reply back 
 that its a mod and they dont support mods? Funny I thought it was an offical bonus as it states 
 on thier web page. Other people have had the same problem, with EA replying back to spend more 
 time playing to unlock a different gun. Even If this wasn't an issure, I spent about 8 hours playing 
 the other day doing verry well, reciving silver and gold stars. I come back the next day to find 
 all that hard work to be erased... No big deal it was a one time thing, I thought so I go play 
 some more do good and stop for the day. I come back and find all that hard work was again erased. 
 Now its a game, will my stats be recorded? If they are will they be erased? It wouldn't be a big 
 deal I dont really care about stats, but the game itself itsn't playable with the unlocks. If i 
 play without unlocks I dont even have grenades or explosives! How can I expect a fun gameplay Experiance. 
 In conclusion stay far away from another one of EA's horrid creation. Not a bad game, but broken 
 because EA had a hand in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthurdeac
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  Lost of people call this game a mod without even playing the game. If you want to call 2142 a mod, 
 then call Prey and Quake 4 a mod of Doom III. The new TITAN mode is a completely different gameplay 
 experience than the conquest mode seen in BF2. In 2142, people are way more focused on the round 
 objectives vs just killing each other. The first few hours may be frustrating because of the huge 
 learning curve. But once you figure out how to play and get some weapon unlocks, you will be addicted. 
 In my opinion, if you plan to play 2142, only play the TITAN mode. If you want to play conquest, 
 stick to BF2.
  
  PS: the demo sucks compared to the actual full game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobiascra
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  I have not played many other FPS on pc, due to me playing too much xbox 360 but i have played a 
 couple like the Quake series witch are ok but are, no comparison to this excellent game its a lot 
 better than Quake 4 and im very impressed.
  The graphics are good but it felt as if they could be a little better whereas the game play is 
 perfect. The sound is perfect could not be any better.
  Whereas the value i believe is one of the best things about the game but only because the extent 
 of the guns and vehicles you can drive planes, tanks, hover tanks, walkers (soooo fun) and cool 
 little cars with turrets attached to the back. Not to mention the vast selection of abilities and 
 different upgrades you can obtain. The multi player is amazing !!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentkillah
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 26, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  This game is fun and thats that.. Although getting used to the new guns made it a little more difficult 
 for me in the beginning, I am now on of the top ranking players at the end of the round everytime. 
 This game is a blast when you are doing well and kicking arse. But if you're having a crappy round, 
 it can be the worst game ever made (but it's not) .
  
  The sounds of the guns are excellent and if you really pump the volume the battle gets really intense. 
 The city maps in this game are god-like, too much fun (Cerebe Landing, Berlin, that on Plant one.. 
 lol) . Also spawning is taken to a whole new level, now you don't have to run from 1 flag, ALLL 
 the way over to another flag only to be shot and repeat. This game gives you many more ways to 
 spawn and get where you are needed FAST. Great game, a solid entry to the Battlefield series, and 
 I can't wait for the next installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aggiebrad
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  Yes, 2142 is a good game. Yes, it capitalizes on the widely successful franchise of 1942, Vietnam 
 and BF2. But No, it is not worth $50 as a stand alone game. 2142 is just that, a BF2 mod. There 
 have been minor if any graphical improvements. Gameplay is identical. It feels rushed. And why 
 wouldn't it be? This is EA we are talking about afterall. Forget about great games, they only want 
 profit.
  
  OPTIMIZING SHADERS!!! FIX THIS ALREADY!!! I thought for sure that EA would get rid of this or at 
 least tone down the weight time. For those of us with high end systems, it takes us a little while 
 to get everything worked out just right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aymenhamid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2006 2:12 am PT
Review:  Hey everyone! Hows 2142? I'm sure its great. Well if I were you I'd get some anti-Adware and anti-Spyware 
 on my computer double-time! I've learned from a friend that these mean viruses are on all 2142 
 multiplayer files, including the demo! Even though I haven't tested it , you all must be careful, 
 because the second you start a multiplayer match the viruses will start their work.
  
  If anyone can find the viruses on the discs and the demo files please reply.
  If anyone can work 
 on a patch to delete the viruses, please reply.
  If anyone proves this information isn't true or partially true please reply.
  
  
  P. S. I 
 haven't played 2142 yet. But I know it's Amazing!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k0v3rt
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  This game is completely worth the money. It plays just like the classic Battlefield, only better. 
 Sure they got a couple bugs to work out with the whole punkbuster situation, but this happens to 
 just about every new game. Online multiplayer is completely awesome. Unfortunately, the single 
 player mode is terrible. In the single player mode, titan is unavailable and there are no airships 
 to maneuver. If you're going to buy this game, don't count on the single player mode. Multiplayer 
 definately makes up for it. The addition of the new titan mode has done wonders for the franchise. 
 Can't wait until they release an expansion pack for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  In a nutshell it's B2 with only two factions, fighting over the warmer lands south of the Eurasian 
 landmass (though oddly enough, only one of the SP maps is NOT in Europe, and there aren't any local 
 forces objecting to all these Euros and PACs blasting their country apart) . The ungodly complicated 
 unlocks tree (unavailable in SP) and the monitoring software have already been extensively written 
 about (or beaten to death, depending on which forum you're reading, LOL!) Oh, yea.................... the 
 game. Good graphics (yesterday's news though, when Crysis arrives) , good sound, same gameplay (except 
 Titan mode) as B2. The handheld weapons still lack power, and the shot dispersion is too great 
 (have to wait for a good mod to come along to fix that) , and DICE has dumbed down the antitank 
 missles to anti tank rockets which have a tendancy towards curving trajectories. Good game? Heck 
 yea! Could easily have been better though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Notorious_E
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 25, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I wasted my money on this game, and i dont feel like wasting that much time. Basically, its like 
 playing Battlefield2 only with custom skins on players and vehicles. Also, your account name part 
 is a real pain. Almost any name i could think of out there is taken, i ended up thinking there 
 was a problem or glitch so i tried makin a name with random letters (asdfasdf) and it created, 
 and lucky me, u can only make one account per CD-Key. Just go buy Battlefield 2, and if u have 
 that already, keep playing it. Battlefield 2142 is nothing different from battlefield 2 except 
 for its appearence and the new vehicle, the walker robot, which itself is a total letdown. If you 
 want to command some robot that can walk and attack, go buy Mechwarrior. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuicideCivilian
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 25, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  2142 has a giant variety of levels, with diffrent environments.
  Lots of guns and unlocks.
  Fast game loading compared 2 BF2.
  New buddy list to join ur friends in the game.
  Well placed 
 teams.
  Play in Conquest or Titan mode online (or alone, witch i never do.)
  
  BUY THIS GAME. FORGET THE NEGATIVE REMARKS. LOOK HOW MANY PPL LOVE IT. Once youu get into ull love 
 it. Sqaud gamplay is alot better also, a mic is recommended to communicate with members. Their 
 are some bugs with stats, but mine have seemed 2 go away. You can actaully get the game for $40 
 if you know were 2 go. Great deal for such a great game. Best in the BF series~! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 25, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  Nice touch to an already outstanding development engine. BF2 was a breathe of fresh air. Now when 
 2142 has been released... not much difference. This game is nothing more than an over-priced MOD 
 for BF2.
  
  The Physics are pretty much the same. The infantry body armor is annoying as hell. (Let's unload 
 3 belts of ammo from a Support weapon into an Op For just to get him to fall.) In my book, a Head 
 shot will always be a Head shot. One shot one kill. Body shots, a little different. Ok body armor 
 could add a few more rounds of hits fine, but not an entire clip.
  
  The weapons kits are not very manageable. If you don't like the weapon you selected simply kill 
 an Op For personnel and take his gear. More than likely it will always be something better than 
 what you selected initially.
  
  The field of vision is slightly out of reach. It takes a little bit of gettinig used to, but once 
 you do it's not so annoying. For those snipers out there, find a high place to shoot from, or a 
 nice shaded area on the ground. Sniping at ground level is a little tricky with all of the fog, 
 not as much range.
  
  And one more thing, If I am paying for a single-user site license for this product, why the hell 
 do I need to have an Online account in order to play any single player mission?
  
  Multiplayer part of this game is great. You and your friends will be fragging for days.
  
  
 Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vorlin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 25, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  When one thinks of futuristic battles on a ravaged planet, one might come away with feeling incomplete 
 in BF:2142 (herein known as 2142 for brevity) . Some people will want to compare the L5-Reisigs 
 to something out of Mech Warrior and that's a rather unfair comparison. Some will expect us all 
 to have lasers and have glorious Star Wars-esque pew pew pew battles. The list goes on and here's 
 my humble opinions on the overall game, broken down by section.
  
  Classes ::
  They've done a great job combining the classes and improving on them. Example: assault has the 
 ability to heal others with the medic kit and support has the ability to resupply ammo to everything. 
 Each class is pretty well-balanced in my opinion, whether it be weapon-wise or abilities. What 
 most people forget is that not one class is better than any other (although everyone seems to want 
 to be a sniper, which is the recon class) and that it takes TEAMWORK above all to be really successful 
 and win. It should be noted that there are medals, badges, and pins that are awarded as you work 
 through the maps. This ranges from medic/resupply/repair pins to getting a ribbon called Wheels 
 of hazard after you bag 5 guys by running over them with a vehicle.
  
  Maps ::
  I haven't played all the maps yet, but I think they're pretty well done. Some of that might be 
 a bit off as if you find yourself at a flag point with no vehicle and you really want to get out 
 of there, it's quite the hike. That's really my only gripe about the bigger maps. They've made 
 just about every combat point accessible in a variety of ways so it's not just being able to roll 
 up in the hovertank or Reisig and sit there, but you can also flank/be flanked by guys on foot 
 who've gone around back through the hole in the fence.
  
  Titan mode ::
  Definitely a shining point in this game and unfortunately, the one that requires the most teamwork. 
 I find myself staying on the Titan to defend with the support class. The best times are when you 
 have a variety of classes that will help keep your titan alive, such as the engineer, assault, 
 and support classes. Right there, you have the ability to heal, resupply, and repair. Downside 
 is the lack of teamwork and having too many of one class (read: recon... you're not effectively 
 going to defend crap with that rifle) .
  
  Stability ::
  Once done tweaking my video settings; and you really want to get this done the first time, otherwise 
 it's annoying having to wait for the game to resync ; I only had some problems in the video area 
 when major explosions would go off in front of me. I hope there's going to be a patch to help fix 
 that as well as the loading times. To be fair, the load times are a lot better than BF 2. Patches 
 are a good thing though.
  
  Overall ::
  I think this game is a very good contender to be one of the top FPS MP games for a while. As it 
 stands now at the writing of this review, it's still #1 in the PC arena and deservedly so. The 
 game is fun and addicting as you rank up and get medals and such, but like any game, it will only 
 appeal to one as long as they are having fun.
  
  Now, get in there, soldier! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinypenny31
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 25, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  After reading several negative reviews before i got this game i pictured it being awfully similiar 
 to BF2. I played it as soon as i installed it and it was entirely new. The amount of hits to kill 
 people, the vehicles, the maps, the gameplay, the titans, and everything else just added to a really 
 new awsome experience. I have played more than 15 hours since its come out. (Probally a lot more 
 than 15) Its an awsome game and I encourage every1 to get it. Dont listen to the people who are 
 like Its so old they just changed the vehicles and weapons dont get it dont get it. THats bull. 
 They have changed a lot more. The new unlocks idea is awsome i think. It gives you something to 
 play for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kristian56
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 4:34 am PT
Review:  This is awesome just like battlefield 2 but massive improvement. They made the ranking system a 
 hell lot better theres now around 40 unlocks this include new weapons, tools and abillities.
  
  And the sound in this game makes u want to dance there that good make u feel like your there.
 
  Also they have now added a hole new game mode titan this alone it a good anther reason to go and 
 buy it its awesome. If u like the other battlefields get this its a good improvement and if u neva 
 have played them then even better u can the hole lot This is a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 24, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  For the beginners that have not played Battlefield 2 yet but are familiar with the Battlefield 
 series you will probably have a blast with this game.
  
  -Gameplay-
  Battlefield 2 was a truley updated version set in a modern battlefield and was just going around 
 capturing points; but one huge problem was that no one would join squads, no one would listen to 
 orders, and people would go in solo and get themselves killed.
  
  In Battlefield 2142 the whole gameplay has changed by, first of all adding the biggest addition 
 'Titan Mode' which is the same map that you regularly play 'Conquest Mode' on except instead of 
 capturing flags, you capture missle silos, and your objective is to use the silos to take out the 
 enemy titan sheild, and destry their titan before the get to yours. Dice realized the very frustrating 
 issue of squads, so now over half of the awards in 2142 require you to have a certain number of 
 squad member hours, squad leader hours, and commander hours. If you listen to the Commander/Squad 
 leader you recieve bonus points added into your score, now you get rewarded for listening to orders, 
 obviously you do not have to listen but you won't be rewarded, which brings you one-step back from 
 recieving and award. I really don't experience any bug/glitches/or crashes in 2142 like i did in 
 Battlefield 2. Also they combined the kits so Assault has Medic equipment, Engineer has Anti-Tank 
 equipment, Spec-Ops includes the Sniper kit, Support is on it's own. Each kit has unique unlocks 
 and if you pre-ordered it you automatically recieve a rank upgrade plus a free unlock. -Graphics-
 
  At least on 'Titan Mode' (for me) you need a pretty powerful card because you have 10 team mates 
 10 enemies all firing at each other plus gernade explosions, sheilds, and everything else going 
 on in the background. I do experience slow down in-and-out of 'Titan Mode'.
  
  -Sound-
  Intro music is awesome fits in with whats going on visually and (at least for me) kind of gave 
 me a heads up glance at the story the whole battlefield layout, what you must accomplish in order 
 to win. The voices that the team members speak are clear and if you can understand Russian i'm 
 pretty sure you can understand what they are saying. Gun fire sounds different then one another. 
 The Anti-Titan missiles sound pretty cool.
  
  -Summary-
  I'm an FPS gamer and if your like me who likes to play nonstop and yet have a blast! Then i highly 
 recommend this game for you. The game requires skill and previous knowledge of other Battlefield 
 games but if your new, it probably won't tak you that long 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigun0006
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 24, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is a fun game that ive played for hours and will keep playing for hours. the 
 rank systom is a good one that awards you for just about anything you do or help to do. its fun 
 as hell and has a great setting. First and foremost, the new TITAN mode is really fun. your team 
 catches ground silos to attack giant flying aircraft carriers. The silos shoot a missile about 
 every 2 minutes, so the sway of the battle is constently changing. then the titan will be weak 
 to attack on the inside. As far as graphics go, its good, but not ground breaking. It runs really 
 good on my computer, besides for some reason, the shadow system, which has a real pixilated look 
 to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonmfrid8
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 24, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  More or less you can call it BF2 in the future. The Titan mode is a nice addition, if only a variation 
 on normal conquest mode. I like it because it forces people into tight infantry combat and out 
 of the safety of tanks and walkers. The main problem it has is a number of bugs that need fixing 
 before it can live up to it's potential. Crashes a little too often between maps, Titans are really 
 jerky when you're trtig to run around inside, and a handful of other problems. Once patched up, 
 it'll be a great additional to the Battlefield family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngmekial
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  Because I have a messed up BIOS on my motherboard I have been unable to play BF 2142 at home..... so 
 I have been going to an internet cafe and bringing my friends (who are hooked on it just as much 
 as I am!) . I am not going to beat around the bush nor will I sugar coat the negitives; this game 
 is simply 1337! It really is. The vehicles, a bit unusual to learn to use but, in my opinion are 
 cool as hell! I really have to say , GJ EA! It did'nt really come out as buggy as BF 1942 or BF 
 2! not only because it did'nt come out as buggy but because I am a teamplayer; and this time around 
 EA has almost made it mandatory to be in a squad to gain more points to unlock more weapons and 
 upgrades to kick more ass! They are really making teamwork move from the basketball court ( or 
 soccer field, football field, rugby.... etc) to the online gaming world oriented with the PC.
  
  Well its time for me to start spilling the good stuff! In 2142 being in a squad really pays 
 off! If you are the squad leader of a squad with more than 1 person, you can unlock and use a Squad 
 Leader Spawn Beacon which allows you and your squad of 1 - 6 people to spawn where ever the beacon 
 was dropped until the spawn beacon is destroyed by an enemy or some stupid noob with a gun who 
 does'nt know what the funny looking thing with blinking lights on the ground is. Maybe he has'nt 
 yet noticed his teammates fall from the sky in a pod onto the beacon. Well any ways.... the unlocks 
 for BF 2142 are very very cool and the ability to use Heavy Body Armor or light on any kit is cool 
 and the Lambert Carbine + Active Camouflage are awsome! (FYI - Lambert Carbine + Active Camo [stealth 
 invisibility] are the last 2 Recon \ Spec Ops unlocks) . Something I experimented with in 2142 was 
 the IPS. The IPS or Infantry Protection Shield is an energy shield that protects a proned unit 
 from small arms fire..... But I ended up finding out what happens when a tank shell hits it! I also 
 unlocked the Active Camouflage which makes you 90% less visible to the enemy's eye. The best way 
 to use Active Camouflage to me is to turn it on when a vehicle is nearby and sprint up to it (keeping 
 out of its line of site [LOS] ) and pulling out my RDX Demo packs and putting 3 on that armor and 
 running for the hills. This is a very effective strategy!
  
  Well, to close this review I am going to leave a few tips and comments:
  
  1. Get BF 2142!
 
  2. I am not joking, get the damn game!
  3. If you own the game and read this, then when you are in a Titan; STAY AWAY FROM THE CORE WHEN 
 THERE IS C4 ON IT! I GOT 7 TK'S IN ONE ROUND CUZ MORONS KEPT GETTING NEAR THE CONSOLES AND CORE 
 WHEN I PUT MY DEMO PACKS ON IT!
  4. The Recon kit is the best because it doubles as a Spec ops kit ( but you have to unlock the spec 
 ops epuipment before you get to the gun )
  5. The assault also doubles as a medic! ( just look at the screen with the unlocks and read on the 
 stuff you can use )
  6. AND FOR THE LAST TIME BUY THE DAMN GAME ALREADY!
  
  
  
  Mekial (also my BF 2142 name, add me to your friends list) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is set in the year 2142. In this year there is a growing ice age, so two sides 
 are fighting over the last remaining livable land. The game (just like previous battlefields) doesn't 
 really have a story line, its just really fun.
  
  Gameplay: After three battlefield games they have an opportunity to create a new mode of gaming. 
 Its called Titan Mode. Titan's are these large ships which can take out anything! In the titan 
 mode you need to capture missile silos which will continually shoot at your enemies Titan which 
 will lower its shields and then you can jump abort it and destroy it from the inside-out. Of course 
 they still keep the regular Conquest mode in which each team has a set amount of reinforcements, 
 your job is to lower you enemies reinforcement count to zero and you win!
  On the maps there is a large amount of new futuristic vehicles and new weapons all at your disposal. 
 Another new thing is the knife kill system. On the online multiplayer if you kill another player 
 with your knife you will take their dogtags, they do nothing special, but it makes you look cool.
 
  
  Graphics: They are similar to Battlefield 2 since they use the same graphics engine. I think that 
 the games graphics are improved and the game looks very nice.
  
  Sound: I wasn't very happy when i started playing and i didn't hear the classic music i loved from 
 other battlefield games, but then again, i didn't mind the music. I thought it would be better, 
 but its still good.
  
  Value: This game will last as long as other people keep playing it, which will be for a while. 
 Since the main focus of this game is online you will only enjoy this while other people throughout 
 the world are playing.
  
  All in all: I really quite like this game, it will be played alot by me and others. Its nice to 
 finally have a new playing mode and getting to play in a time we will never know... hard to explain
 
  
  Finally: The good- new vehicles, new weapons, new mode, customisable characters, good follow up 
 to Battlefield 2.
  the bad- main focus is online, may need to upgrade your computer to play it, the endless amount 
 of patches EA makes for every game, need to unlock many basic items. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_6483
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 23, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This game takes everything that was great in the battlfield saga and made it better... not only 
 are the weapons and vehicles better, but the squad system and voice com. is better too.
  Graphically this game is very good, not quite FEAR or Doom 3, but in with the EMP effects and cool 
 dust effects, it makes it feel a bit more realistic.
  I also liked how the games battles are epic and the action is nonstop... it helps to play a game 
 like this every once in a while, Half Life, Metal Gear and FEAR make you think with their awesome 
 story lines, but here you just grab a gun and go kill stuff!!!!!!!
  The games bots are kinda stupid, but enough of them can take out the best player out there, and 
 the upgrade system works really well!
  overall this game is one i'll be playing for a while and i hope A LOT more people get it so i can 
 PWN THEM ALL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nks31
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 23, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  the game could not be any better with the available technology.... the graphics are great, the cutomizations 
 make the game fun and refreshing, there are awesome maps (especially if you are a CITY guy or like 
 the big maps) , and there are tons and tons of awards. in this installment you are not only driven 
 to get unlocks, but also awards. IE... everytime you get 5 kills in a row, you get an award and 
 it makes you feel all warm and cozy inside. those small awards add up tp larger ones later on. 
 . . to me, this game feels more ground based as opposed to whoever gets to the tank first gets 
 all the kills and what not. 
  
  all in all, if you have never played a game in the BF series, you will fall in love with this...
 
  
  and if you have played a game in the BF series then you liked it enough to look into its new game 
 2142... and that means you will like this one too.....
  
  now to be concieted. i was awesome at BF2...90% of the time i would gold star the round, but starting 
 with this one was a little harder. so for about a week you will try to get ahold of the game and 
 what works for you or not... enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThEtHoMaS
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Bugs
  When you are playing on the titan, auto turrets shoot through walls and dead people go through 
 the floor and walls, which is tedious if you a medic because you cant revive them, and extremely 
 unrealistic. Servers crash regularly, which is a pain. Bugs in exiting vehicles, instant deaths. 
 Light touches with vehicle causes an instant death as well, which is incredibly annoying.
  
  Changes
  
  They have taken out fast jets and replaced them with attack helicopters that 
 are fast, which is a disappointment to the aviators, but also excellent for ground troop players. 
 I enjoy this because i prefer ground myself and get pissed off when aviators blow my body about 
 a mile away in BF2, but the helicopters are effective nonetheless. They have also changed the tanks, 
 which has a dissimilar effect to veterans, yet also is changes game play a bit. The EU in this 
 game has this goliath slow tank which has a rotating turret while the PAC have this skinny tank 
 that can hover, but no rotating turret, so consequently the EU have the advantage is close range 
 battles but the PAC have the advantage in long range combat and mobility. Also in the tank, the 
 primary driver does not have a machine gun as secondary fire, but a zoom in key, which is not very 
 helpful, he must then have a secondary gunner to arm the machine gun which can rotate 360 degree 
 firing a machine gun like gun... So this does improve teamwork. Talking about teamwork they have 
 also introduced something called squad points. The squad leader will have to assign orders to the 
 squad, like defend, attack a certain position or strategic point. If the squad carries out these 
 orders then this bar in the top left corner goes up. When it is full then all squad members get 
 a field upgrade, which is a temporary unlock on the field, which I repeat is not permanent, until 
 you leave the server. This again motivates teamwork. But then again, no one knows this and just 
 goes Rambo and gets killed easily by squads who work as a team.
  The game has also changed the balance of having vehicle versus infantry.
  One hit with a rocket 
 from a mechanized troop in the back of a tank will K. O. the tank. It is also easier to place C4 
 on the tank due to lack of mobility. So, the Battlefield team has introduced the walker, which 
 could obliterate ground troops because one stroke of a key could easily avoid a incoming rocket, 
 because its mobile. So there is a positive effect because they have made tanks more into mobile 
 artillery, which then makes the ground forces more diverse, whereas in the air they have stripped 
 diversity by just having attack and transport helicopters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxximus77
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Despite many complaints in various forums. I installed the game and off I went with no problems. 
 A few expected glitches here and there and the stats and awards are not updated top notch yet but 
 I'm sure they will work soon. I've played all of the BF games and I am satisfied with this one. 
 The graphics are nice, the game play is good. My system is an AMD Atlhlon 2. ghz. 1 mhz ram and 
 a Geforce 6100 video card. Not a great system but still the game plays great on it....... I recomend 
 this game to all BF fans........ And hang in there. EA will fix the glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonl521
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I really dont like games that are SCI-FI, but bf2142 is not one of thoose games. For a game set 
 in the future, its pretty realistic, no lasers, or magical powers. I had battlefield 2, and i loved 
 that game, and still do. BF2142 does have its simularities with BF2, but its different enough that 
 it'll keep me entertained for a long time. This game has a huge value, and people will probaly 
 still be playing it in a few years. Its very good, and i incourage any battlefield fans, or FPS 
 fans to try it out. By the way, if you have tried the demo, and you didn't like it, the demo has 
 the worst map out of all of them. i look foward to seeing you on the battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  although not horrendously different to its ppredecessor battlefield 2, this game has a few new 
 features which pushes it up that little bit further which makes it a game which is definately worth 
 buying.
  lets start wiith the titan mode. you can tell the developers got their inspiration from that opening 
 scene in star wars, once the pods crash down and the jets land on the cargo bay, it really starts 
 to kick off. there are two ways into a titan, either go through the doors from the main cargo bay 
 or land your pod on the roof and sneak down into the rafters to get an elevated view of the huge 
 cargo hold inside. once inside, whether you are attacking or defending, it really does start to 
 get a bit mental, with nades and mines everywhere it cn get a little frustrating when simply trying 
 to get from one place to another, however, it can be extremely rewarding to camp in a hallway with 
 a support gun just waiting for the enemy to attempt a run past you.
  another big difference is the class sytem and the unlock system. the makers have turned to more 
 af an rpg style level up mode now with you constantly strengthening your soldier as you go up in 
 rank. this is good as it mean someone higher in rank than you may not necessaril; y be stronge rthan 
 you as it depends on what rankd tree they have gone up. each class has two distinct ranking trees, 
 for example, the asaault can go the more medic side of things or they can go for the more firepower 
 with the shotgun addon and the grenade launcher addon. this means that everyone can bring their 
 own little bit of hell or heaven into the game depending on what tree they have gone up.
  the maps are quite good too. however, with a lot of larger vehicle orientated maps on show, there 
 isnt much room for infantry heroics, which can become annyonig for playes like me who just want 
 to own everyone the real way with an assault rifle. the dominant vehicle on the game, although 
 slow, has to be the battle mech, with rockets and two machine guns this is a valuable weapon to 
 be had in any squad as little can stand up to it alone. the air vehicles are a cross between choppers 
 and jets. as a seasoned bf2 chopper pilot, i found flying both of these incredibly easy as it is 
 the same motions really except generally easier. the jets are no longer overpowered, if anything, 
 they are nothing more than transport unless all you guys are on the mountred guns in which case 
 they can become very dangerous to infantry and other air vehicles alike. i wont go into too much 
 detail but in genral this is a very fuun andf satisfying gamme to play as you will find yourself 
 leveling uopo very quickly at first (i went up 7 ranks in a day) so if you enjoyed any of the bf 
 games befiore it you will enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 23, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I must say when I went to pick up my copy of Battlefield 2142 I had mixed feelings, part of me 
 told me it would be bad and part of me told me it was great just like the demo. I was also worried 
 about this so called spyware. Well, my feelings were wrong. The spyware is not notived and the 
 game is great, it's immersive, intense, it has good graphics, great sound, it looks really cool. 
 Apart from some annoying bugs from time to time, it's a great game, and all the bugs so far and 
 be fixed quite easily.
  The graphics while some say are dated are great because I can play it, they've grown the audience 
 allowing for us with mediocre computer to play the game at maximum! The sound is also steller creating 
 for a realistic experience. The sheer terror of walking around a wall, seeing a walker in great 
 detail and then the thud of bullets all around you is amazing and terrifying.
  the gameplay is pick up and play allowing for a noob like me to figure everything out in a matter 
 of minutes and making for a easy to follow experience. Of course some of the more complicated aspects 
 are annyoing like upgrades but we'll all figure that out eventually.
  It's a great value with single player thats actually not bad and a great multiplayer, the people 
 in it are great and the bots aren't half bad healing you and listening to you. It's very helpful, 
 they also work together as a team making for squad tactics.
  All in all this is a great game that should be checked out, if unsure, check out the demo, well, 
 time to go play it some more
  
  Cheers
  Toriko 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charley_mcd
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 23, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  This is a good game not the best but certainly not the worst it like many reviews say isnt head 
 over shoulders from BF2 but offers some great new ideas. The best new idea is easily the new Titan 
 mode, in which you aim to destroy the other teams titan by using missiles to destroy the shield 
 then battle it on the ships corridor to destroy the main reactor. There has (to be fair) been some 
 graphical improvements as the camp gibraltar map shows.
  But nothing special. The new unlocking syste is great too as you actually have to WORK to get the 
 best weapons. But like all games there has to downsides. Now im just going to say this as it is. I 
 have not had one round without it freezing, falling through the floor or just shutting down completely!
 
  So in the end this is a great game the can only be dragged down by its glitches. (I also havent 
 seen a single advert in it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grynnan
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 23, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  It might as well be a BF2 Expansion... Running slower though..
  
  And you'll pay the price for buying EA...
  IGA Worldwide -- the company taking your IP address 
 and placing the ads in the game -- states on their website that 70% of gamers [are] saying that 
 advertisements inside computer and video games help improve the realism of the gaming experience. 
 
  - I seriously want to know what kind gamer that is.
  
  I'm not sure how it works, but I put about 200rounds in every pepsi board I see in the game.. 
 
  
  IF YOU DO NOT WANT IGA TO COLLECT, USE, STORE OR TRANSMIT THE DATA DESCRIBED IN THIS SECTION, DO 
 NOT INSTALL OR PLAY THE SOFTWARE ON ANY PLATFORM THAT IS USED TO CONNECT TO THE INTERNET. 
  -I guess they better print that on the outside of the box. or EA gonna have some mayor problems 
 with the EU... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AG-Vuk
Rating: 2.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  This game was released because EA didn't see any future in BF 2 , to beat Quake Wars, and to fill 
 time before Crysis. Anyone who believes this is not a mod is just niave. In fact Crysis will also 
 be probably a graphically beautiful version of this engine. Unforunately no innovations. Back to 
 this game though, no innovations. There's and old saying out there , if you can't dazzle them with 
 brillance , baffle them with B. S. Guess which path EA choose ? This game is graphically only slightly 
 better than BF 2 , gameplay is the same , and the weapons are nowhere near anything 100 years in 
 the future , not that I would know , just my opinion. Weapons comparision is pointless then. Vehicle 
 criticism is pointless . If fact what it boils down to is the game is pretty well pointless since 
 it meant to distract the EA fanbase from the fact that EA is bankrupt of ideas and innovation. 
 This game as an added insult is a test bed for EA to run in game advertisement to make more money 
 from advertisers . So they make their $ 50.00 frmo you and then X from various advertisers , that 
 you must endure whether you chose to or not. Too top it off they collect and gather information 
 on your habits and pass it to avertisers . There is no security system in place that will protect 
 you from anyone determined to hack the system , ask any credit card company , the department of 
 defence, hell EA can't even protect it's own games from being hacked before public release . This 
 game was hacked in the Beta. To all those looking for the faintest glimmer of anything innovative 
 from EA , save your money you certainly won't find it here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfoxagent
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 23, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  this game is damn good, but it has it's flaws. the biggest thing I notice is that I never have 
 an online battle without getting a message saying my connect is bad or something along those lines. 
 alot of the time I go straight back to the menu or it will just crash the game altogether. this 
 gets annoying but it will only happen I play matches for extended periods like two hours or so. 
 other than that the gameplay rocks. online is light years better than the single player. the graphics 
 are great. they could be a little better but for what we have right now they get a 9. the weapons 
 are good, but I don't like the way they removed the Medic as a unit. and combining the sniper and 
 Spec ops was a bad idea. what kinda troo pwould want to run around with C4 and a sniper rifle and 
 a pistole. it just doesn; t work. the British would have an SA-80 and the Germans would probably 
 have an MP5. but the combination of all this still works out to make a great gsme. if you love 
 battle feild or are a die hard fan of Multiplayer. pick up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ijier
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is a surprisingly good sequel that goes above and beyond in the Battlefield Universe. 
 With the introduction of the many ground-breaking balances, this game provides an equal Battlefield 
 for all.
  
  Gameplay
  BF2142 provides the grounds for a more team-oriented infantry shall overcome attitude. The introduction 
 of the automatic spotting, and the many bonuses related to following orders (field unlocks, teamwork 
 points, that happy little + symbol, and many others) , allow any clan/squad-oriented player to really 
 enjoy their game time.
  
  With the more powerful armor clunking (or gliding) around the battlefield, one might expect the 
 infantry to be overshadowed as they were in BF2, and yet armor destruction is where the grunts 
 really shine. With effective ground emplacements, and more explosives on hand, any dedicated trooper 
 can dispatch of the lumbering Walkers and hovering tanks.
  
  Controls
  Everything just fits in BF2142, from the new 'spacebar' jump/parachute, to the ever present 'e' 
 to interact, it just seems they took the best keys and used them in the best ways.
  From aiming to sprinting across the snow-covered streets, it all just flows when you are playing. 
 The vehicles are especially delightful to drive. Only the hover tank requires some getting used 
 to, but once you have the hang of it, it glides like butter on a hot skillet.
  
  Graphics
  The first thing you notice when you play BF2142 is how real everything looks. You look 
 around you and you can see the broken remains of a quickly abandoned city. It all just pulls you 
 right into the game. Even the much debated in-game ads fit the setting and go unnoticed unless 
 your searching for them. Overall, I am amazed by Dice's ability to reproduce events and locales 
 that have never even occurred, but seem so real.
  
  Sound
  This is where the game really stands up and shines. Every little noise is there, all the classic 
 explosions and reports of rifles. Yet, they all have a futuristic tinge to them. The hum of energy 
 fields, the high whine of laser turrets, even the fizzle of grenades pulls you even further into 
 the fantastical desecrated wasteland that is the battlefield.
  
  Replay Value
  This game just begs you to hop back in and play it some more. Every little difference, and all 
 the major ones too, really put it above BF2. So, all the energy and focus that went into trying 
 to enjoy squad-play in a lone wolf game finally has a purpose in the wonderful world of Battlefield 
 2142 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Arrow
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  When I heard about Battlefield 2142 I immediately put away that $50 I knew it would cost because 
 lets face it; the Battlefield franchise has always been one of the premier FPS games on the market. 
 Battlefield 2142 continues that trend of excellent shooters with yet another game. BF2142 has more 
 stuff; from ranks to weapons to goodies to kit up your soldier, you'll find plenty of reasons to 
 keep on playing for a while, at least until the next Battlefield game that is.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  BF2142 has more of the same great gameplay that made BF2 such a hit. The same 
 old tried and true Conquest mode is back for another tour of duty but this time DICE expanded on 
 the gameplay modes with one that is truly worthy of mention: Titan mode. Titan mode has both teams 
 fighting to take out each others titan before their own can be destroyed. Titans are gigantic flying 
 aircraft carriers, in a sense. They are heavily defended, sporting energy shields and guns to numerous 
 to mention. This mode has you racing around on the ground to capture as many of the 5 missile silos 
 as you can. Each silo periodically launches missiles towards it's enemy titan, be that yours or 
 the other team's. These missiles deplete the energy shields that guard the titans and will eventually 
 destroy the titan outright if given the time, but there is a faster way. Once the shields are depleted 
 you can board the enemy titan and duke it close quarters style in the cramped corridors as you 
 try to gain entrance to the reactor core. Once the reactor core is down, you win. Titan mode is 
 a rousing success, albeit one that requires teamwork not often found on most servers. If your team 
 can work together like a well oiled machine this mode is the best thing since sliced bread.
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  Battlefield 2142 builds on the already good graphics engine in BF2 to create 
 a visually immersive environment to frag in. The lighting effects are superb and the effects are 
 once again top notch. Draw distance issues are pretty much a thing of the past, although still 
 no Far Cry in terms of how far you can see. BF2142 offers a solid visual experience and earns itself 
 a 9.
  
  Sound: 9
  
  Sound is once again very well done. The walkers thud along ponderously decimating everything in 
 their way and the guns all sound like guns should. Explosions are satisfyingly meaty and the voice 
 effects are of decent quality. There is one very annoying thing regarding sounds however, and that's 
 the Orbital Strike commander ability. It's high pitched whine as the shells drop in quickly gets 
 on my nerves, I wish I could disable just this one sound effect because it's very annoying to hear 
 over and over throughout a match.
  
  Value: 10
  
  Let's face it, if people are still playing BF1942 then chances are pretty good they will still 
 be playing this for the next several years. Any game that gives you a few years worth of play is 
 a solid 10 in value.
  
  Overall Battlefield 2142 is another great game in the Battlefield franchise with plenty to keep 
 you coming back for a long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mimic-Denmark
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  Ive been with the Battlefield games since its beginning with 1942, heard about a new game that 
 lead you control everything on a big map and wage war, sounded to good to be true, so tried the 
 demo of 1942 with one of my friends and was blown away, the core gameplay in the battlefield games 
 is like an FPS fans nirvana, you can do anything you want, snipe, go strait in like D- Day or drive 
 jeeps, tanks airplanes, its all there. Now personally i think the Battlefield games have gotten 
 better and improved on with each realease on the PC platform, Battlefield Vietnam gave a new great 
 setting with the bf1942 engine, but the gameplay was more fast more concentreated and made for 
 some great action, plus you could hear a lot of oldies music from the period while you were in 
 a vehicle, and there was notthing cooler then to fly over the battlefield in a chopper with HUSH 
 on so both your enimies and your teammates could hear you. Now when Battlefield 2 arrived i thought 
 i was done with the Battlefield games, like been there done that, but Battlefield 2 amped it all 
 up, the sounds were incredible and sucked you in much more and made for one hell of an intense 
 experience, so i jumped on the wagon again there.
  
  Now with Battlefield 2142, i love sci fi so i was very interested about this game, but got turned 
 of from that i thought i was done with the Battlefield games yet again, plus all the bugs we sadly 
 have come to expect from the battlefield series and now advertiesment in the game, which just makes 
 me wanna stick all copies of Battlefield 2142 up in a dark place at an EA employe where the sun 
 dont shine. Well with that been said i had preodred a copy of the game and many times wondering 
 if i should cancel that order, i didnt do that and im glad i sticked trough it, because im having 
 an awesome time with a battlefield game once again, the new gadject like camo and shileds and one 
 of my favorits sentry guns. The settings is also very good, espacially when you love sci fi, and 
 the new titan mode when its not lagging is very fun, love to defend the corridors of the titan 
 with shileds and sentry guns and just waiting for the enemy. Havent seen any advertirsment yet, 
 but there are many billboards around the game which they properly will put those suckers in, dont 
 think its gonna ruin the game for me, but come on EA if you keep doing this people will stop bying 
 your products at a time, and thats a shame because BF2142 is a great game and a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danigozne
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 23, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  I've been playing BF2142 all this weekend, and I have killed 107 people, so, I'm ready to talk. 
 ;)
  
  First off, I have to say that BF2 is my favourite game, but that doesn't change that it is an unfinished 
 game.
  
  In the good side, Some maps are really cool for infantry (like Gibraltar) , and some others are 
 cool for vehicles (like Suez canal) . Probably their experience helped to add this positive balance 
 on the game. The futuristic environment and weapons look great to me, and FX have been definetely 
 improved. The unlock system is better than BF2 and there's some really cool stuff there, like the 
 BAThelmet, or the character enhancer (fastest running, extra clips, extra grenade...)
  
  In the bad side, some really bad things, like the first day patch thing (if the game wasn't finished, 
 why release?) They are taking the piss of people. Still after the patch, loads of crashes, and 
 bugs like the sliding walkers or the annoying there is a problem with your connection at the end 
 of the rounds (didn't they learned anything from BF2?) . Also If the redefine screen was bad in 
 BF2, this is even worse, (it just doesn't work!!) . There are just 2 factions, which helps balancing 
 (i guess) , but makes the game less interesting.
  
  I cannont judge the titan, because i've played just a bit, because i founded really buggy in the 
 demo, so I'm not really interested. I like the conquest.
  
  Overall, the game isn't better than BF2, just the same game in the future, but it's not fair to 
 say it's a mod, because there are A LOT of changes.
  
  If you like Battlefield 2, you're going to like this one as well, but get ready for the same frustration 
 you had before in BF2 (server crashes, people cheating, and so) .
  
  If my mark is bad, is just because is unbearable to pay so much money for an unfinished game. The 
 8.1 it's not deserved as it wasnt' the 9.3 of BF2. (again because it's an unfinished game) . Still 
 it is good fun most of the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan2929
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 23, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  First I'm going to bash some rumors
  
  ::This game is nothing more then a 50 dollar mod::
  Ok first of all, i do not consider this a 
 mod, If you don't want to consider this a new game, then consider an expansion pack, not a mod. 
 A mod just makes a game look difrent, an expansion pack adds something to the game, which this 
 dose.
  
  ::The game lags, and load times are longer then battlefield 2::
  Well obviously, its a newer game, if you lag, upgrade your PC, if you don't want to do that, shut 
 up.
  
  ::The game installs spyware on your machine::
  The definition of spyware is that of which follows
  
  Spyware: Any software that covertly gathers 
 user information through the user's Internet connection without his or her knowledge, usually for 
 advertising purposes. Spyware applications are typically bundled as a hidden component of freeware 
 or shareware programs that can be downloaded from the Internet. Once installed, the spyware monitors 
 user activity on the Internet and transmits that information in the background to someone else.
 
  
  If you had the common sense to read the user agreement (which yes i do read, always) you would 
 relise that what EA installs dose not clasify as spyware. What you install is not harmful to you 
 in anyway, all it dose survey the players of the game, in order to see what kinds of people play, 
 and what kind of marketing strategy should be employed.
  
  ::The camera shakes and ruins the game::
  Turn it off
  
  ::Infantry are usless against Mechs/Vehicles::
 
  EMP Grenades, EMP mines, call for arty strike, an EMP strike, or RUN THE **** AWAY
  
  /rant
  
  Ok onto my review. As a player of Battlefield 1942, since the day it was released, 
 I find 2142 an great addition to the Battlefield series. The whole idea of a second ice age is 
 a distant future, is a relief from other games based on the future centered around world war, alien 
 invasion, major corporations controlling the world, ect ect ect . The tech tree unlock system is 
 a good concept, stop complaining about not starting with nade or a defliberator, you can get thorugh 
 the first 3-4 ranks in one game and unlock them. I never play as medic, so i enjoy the fact that 
 i can use my unlocks for items i will actualy use, other then the defliberator. Finally, after 
 multiple attempts, a new game mode has been made, that is playable: Titan mode is probably some 
 of the most fun I have ever had in any battlefield game, ever. My only 2 problems with the game 
 so far, are: The fact that the stats system is messed up (Happened in BF2 as well, so im not to 
 worried)
  
  and I donut think that Spec Ops and Sniper should of been combined into one class. I understand 
 they were both stealth oriented classes, but a snipers roll is to take out enemy from long ranges 
 to thin out concentrations, while the spec-ops main purpose. Oh well, not to big of a deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wcmontour
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 it a first person shooter for the PC. It's premise is that the world is experiencing 
 a new Ice Age and humanity (or at least Europe and Soviet Asia) are fighting over dwindling resources 
 and habitable land area in the south (Africa) , You take on one of 4 character types and even can 
 try your hand at being a combat leader in fast paced scenarios set in various locations in Europe 
 and North Africa. The game premise is not the most original but it is different. The game play 
 can be very challenging, especially when you are playing with the veterans of the other Battlefield 
 games, and is very fast paced and addictive. Unfortunately this is marred by some serious problems 
 that EA should have fixed before its release. First there are serious stability problems in Titan 
 mode, the screen will just lock up, disconnect you from the game, or crash without warning. There 
 is a patch for that, but if you follow the onscreen instructions to install the patch you will 
 have to re-install the whole game because of an issue with the .exe files. Next is the Punkbuster 
 software that you MUST install (it is presented as an option but you can't play on any of the ranked 
 servers without it) . Its patch is to fix a problem with the online servers kicking you out of the 
 game for no apparent reason. I've downloaded that patch and still have problems with being disconnected 
 from the servers. If you can get both of the previous items to work correctly then (if you're lucky) 
 you might be able to play for a couple of hours. If you spent your time playing a ranked multiplayer 
 game (the only way to gain points, rank, and unlocks) you might be dismayed when you log in for 
 another session to find that none of your accomplishments (rank, unlocks, medals) were saved. The 
 company acknowledges this as "a problem and is working to fix it." Hmmn... we've heard that already. 
 The game manual is in my opinion, pathetic (of course most game manuals are these days) . It covers 
 only the basics of how to move, shoot, communicate, and connect online. Beyond that the player 
 is on his/her own with the symbology on different screens (server login screen and the commander/squad 
 leader screens) and there is no walk through or tutorial to help new players familiarize themselves 
 to game play. Of course there is the whole "spy ware" for advertising issue, which I am not even 
 going to discuss since there are plenty of opinions on this website (both informed and ignorant) 
 on the whole issue and has no effect on game play or enjoyment. Overall a good concept that was 
 rushed through development but lacks the finishing touches that the consumer/gamer should expect 
 when paying nearly $50. There are some folks out there who will probably disagree but I don't think 
 it was worth my money. So if you're not sure, save your's for another title or wait until the price 
 goes down and EA releases enough patches to make it work right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akitahkomachi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 22, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I'll start things out saying that I was a Battlefield 2 player and I might go back occasionally, 
 but this game has really shown great improvement. Titan mode, since it's the largest addition, 
 is amazingly interesting (almost a cross between Conquest and Onslaught from the UT series) , but 
 while it's a welcomed addition Conquest does seem different. The Conquest maps don't seem to have 
 the vast spread they did in BF2 creating some amazingly frantic and immersive gun fights that really 
 have to be played. When you have 24 v 24 and about 20 people from each side are in a battle it's 
 crazy, then the EMP strikes (artillery) come in, then from no where an enemy battlewalker enters 
 the view, it's impossible to describe. The new rank up system is welcomed, although when you start 
 out you are essentially useless the rank ups come fast and provide for a good deal of unlocks to 
 be made, and more pins, badges, ribbons, and medals that will add to your score just make it that 
 much faster to rank up. Really if you just play it for an hour and give up you'll never get to 
 what's really great about the game. If you don't want to dish out the cash you could go to a cyber 
 cafe and play it for a day then see how you like it. The learning curve is somewhat long due to 
 customization on the fly and many of the new features, field upgrades are nice to (they allow temporary 
 unlocks mid game and are a great way to test and see what you want to unlock next) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7ranc3
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 22, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I was really hoping for another evolutionairy leap, similar to the previous one. this game disappointed. 
 Don't get me wrong, if you have the hardware for it, this game is beautiful, but the graphics engine 
 is showing its age here. Load times are still unbearable, even for a monster machine like my gaming 
 rig. Some of the same boring exploits are still there for people who like to use them, instead 
 of tactically taking over spots. This game is a definite must if you liked BF2, but if you didn't, 
 you won't find anything here to draw you in. As for me, I still prefer my BF2, mostly because it 
 is a comfortable shoe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanefelix
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Before reviewing this game, there is a point i would like to push out first to many people whoare 
 unsure of this game because of *spyware*. Now im not against it, or with it, basically because 
 there is *nothing* to go against or with. The so-called spyware are just in game ads that barely 
 appear anywhere if you're enjoying the game. Now, if you donot like these type of games, and find 
 that B2 was boring dont look here cause there arent many new things, so you'll prob sit there and 
 start notcing those ads. These ads do not affect your computer anyway and are only shown in-game. 
 Now on to the review...
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay uses the same battlefield formula for the past years. Now thats not a bad 
 thing, but i might just suspect that many people want something new. But the only thing is that 
 the formula still works, and now adding a new titan mode, it makes the game a lot more in-depth 
 and fun for many people. For a brief layout of the titan mode, its just two ships in the sky, and 
 you capture missles on the ground by on means, disable the titans shield, and get on the titan 
 via air ships, or by apc pods. With this new game mode, players now have more choice, and obviously, 
 more fun.
  
  Graphics: The graphic engine used here is very similar to the Battlefield 2 one. As a matter of 
 fact, it is the same engine but with better details. Now thats not saying that this is a bad looking 
 game, but since this isnt a expanision we would expect EA/Dice to make a new engine for it. Although 
 this is pointed out, it is still very good to look at, and the weapon models are done very well 
 as well. With this said, the graphics are very well done, but just that a bit outdated for our 
 next-gen era. Sound: The gun sounds and music of this game was done pretty good. The weapon sounds, 
 which are not lasers by the way (at least you'd expect them to be in like 150 years) are like modern 
 day weapons, which uses bullets but just upgraded to a more future like look and sound. The background 
 music was done fairly well, as you would hear it in the menu and sometimes in game, but there is 
 nothing to worry about, but theres nothing particulary special to point ou as well. Overall: The 
 overall feel of this game is basically depending on your personal likings. If you tried out the 
 demo, and said so-so, im not that sure if you would enjoy this game or not. But theres lots of 
 extras here, and thats unlocking weapons and getting promotions. These kind of things really get 
 people motivated, but if you're not that kind and just want something different, there are plenty 
 more other titles to choose from. With that aside, this game is still very well done in all aspects, 
 and many people think this is a mod, but from my kind of perspective a sequal could be a game where 
 it takes many concepts from its predecessor (battlefield 2) and enhance them and make them better 
 where this game did very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_mayhem_01
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 22, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Not a bash, but no dice. After doing my homework and going through the latest reviews it was no 
 wonder why I stopped buying after BF 1942: Secret Weapons of WWII. Granted that Battlefield 2 itself 
 is a decent enough game, but its successors are too thinned out a platform to keep going strong. 
 All games eventually suffer from it. In this case it seems developers fell away from the original 
 formula that kept the original series Battlefield 1942 and its successors alive and well for so 
 long. Th@t formula = unbridled adult creativity! Being able to indiscriminately rip in and out 
 of a wide variety of WWII air, sea and land vehicles on large maps while mowing down the opposition 
 on single, campaign, instant battles, cooperative and multi-player with good playability and connectivity. 
 That's just the retail versions of it. Then came along a whole bunch of great FREE mods for it 
 like Desert Combat, DCX and Eve of Destruction to name a few. These mods gave an all new playability 
 to an already great game. Of course uncoordinated whining kids, smacktards, hard-core purists and 
 hackers and the sale of hack files has slowly decayed thier online longevity. When this happens 
 to a game it ceases being a game and becomes a frustrating pricey paper weight. Even Battlefield 
 2 suffered that fate. It is very sad to see cheats and hacks out for a game the same week it gets 
 released. Such as BF 2142! Google BF2 Hacks if you don't believe me. It might be an idea to weigh 
 a game on its single player experience nowadays rather than for the multi-player experience... 
 yeah, it's an experience. I'd check to see what type of a**hole hacks are already out there for 
 any game BEFORE I decided to buy! Even ad-ware within 2142? That is totally pathetic! Fortunately 
 for EA, Battlefield 2 just rode in on the coat tails of success of BF 1942 mods such as Desert 
 Combat! Why are those dirty words to some people? I'm just pointing out the origins of BF2 and 
 that's all! BF2 does DC with a been there done that attitude, but with dumbing down the game and 
 trying to please everyone while doing it. Example being helicopters. Lots of people complained 
 that DC helicopters were too hard to control. No they weren't! It was a reward to slam the opposition 
 to those who could figure out how to control them.... they earned that right. However, BF 2 does 
 try to encourage team-play, but that hardly ever happens excluding some clans of course :) But, 
 of course BF2 is more than a marginal improvment because look at all the eye candy and audio effects. 
 That makes for a better game don't ya know! While your at it go and be lured into a windowless 
 van by a nut-case who's offering sweets! Does this make any sense?!? Substance indeed...
  
  Gamespot reviewer Jason Ocampo quoted BF 2142 As you can probably tell by now, many of the gameplay 
 concepts that were introduced in Battlefield 2 return in a slightly more evolved form . http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/battlefield2142/review. html? sid=6159893&amp; tag=gumballs; subtitle;1&amp; page=1 
 Why would I want to shell out 50 bucks for a slightly more evolved game?!?. Wish the load times 
 were, at least, futuristic too! I'll give Titan mode an A for originality, but for 50 bucks I'd 
 want a COMPLETELY NEW perspective as compared to what BF 1942 mods did for BF 1942! I don't like 
 throwing money away ALL the damn time thank you!
  
  I, along with others, have every right to compare new games to old ones because THEY are the ones 
 that set the STANDARD! I love the way some people, usually tweens, who have a weak comprehension 
 of the English language immediately disrespect others that say anything constructive or factual 
 about a product. They try to justify their investment and shut you down with sophomoric replys 
 such as: (insert reason (s) here) ... It was a democracy the last time I checked! People can rave 
 about it so people can complain about it! Deal with it! Especially paying for a MOD! Anything less... well 
 you should get the idea. If you love the game and its series then that's great! Make no mistakes! 
 EA is good at what they do, but they are a marketing giant that is primarily stepping on the backbone 
 of consumers. Lately some companies like EA and Lucas Arts have been turning out seriously questionable 
 software and customer service practices resulting in a very angry consumer market. Baseless flames 
 and accusational remarks are pointless and we all can do without them. Facts; however, far outweigh 
 fiction. You do the math...
  
  Nuff said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommygun981
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Despite the flaming of this game it is truly just as good if not better than its predecessors, 
 the controls are vehicles the same and it looks fairly similar to bf2 but thats about where the 
 similarities stop, the ability to spawn in vehicles is a great new feature, as is the spawn beacon, 
 the unlock trees let you have full control over your killing power. I would recommend this game 
 to everyone, whether you have played bf2 or not, and for all the people who flame it, just get 
 over it and buy one of the best games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooder
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 22, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  fun game!!!
  
  If u liked bf, or any battlefield game, ull like this one
  
  cool unlock system with guns, gadgets, power ups thatl keep u hooked
  
  cool futuristic weapons 
 and settings
  
  its alot more fair when comes to killing eachother and u dont always have to lie down, but u should 
 still go iron sights for best results!
  
  awesome vehicles, especially the mechs and plane thingys (theyve improved the air combat so its 
 really easy for people who fly with mouse and keyboard!!)
  
  ive had no advertisement problems yet, its not spyware because they tell u whats comin
  
  only 
 a few minor problems, one being ull need a rrrrreeeaaalllllyyyy good system to run this and u might 
 have some problems when u first install it and get it set up, also, the titan mode can be pretty 
 laggy sometimes
  
  but overall, its a good solid game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 really does manage to capture the essence of what the future would probably feel 
 like (the gritty, dark, grayish type feel...) but has a lot of bugs to back that up.
  
  The game can go from exhilarating action and fun to pure frustration in a matter of seconds. I'll 
 give examples of both sides of gameplay
  
  FUN- One time in Cerbere landing, I was on the EU team, and we were assaulting the Church outpost. 
 Almost everyone had support machine guns, and a few had assault rifles. We were at the top of the 
 outpost to the west of the church (I cant remember the name) and waves of PAC enemies poured out 
 of the church at us while we mowed them down. It was like a futuristic senario of D-day from Saving 
 Private Ryan. After we stopped the waves of intruders, I went up into the mountains to the north 
 of the Church, here were some machine gunners, and some snipers. We picked off unaware soldiers 
 below, while our forces from the west could move in and take the church. Moments like these are 
 what makes/forces me play this game to this day.
  
  FRUSTRATING- I don't have any memorable examples that I recall, so I will make one up that could 
 easily happen during gameplay. So, you and your squad are walking along a street, when suddenly 
 you get hit out of nowhere. You think it could have been a sniper, but then you realize you were 
 completely from all sides behind cover... So then your teammate revives you, only to be killed 
 again, and then he revives you again, and the same thing happens. After about 30 seconds of him 
 reviving you time and time again, finally you dont die, but almost everyone else does around you 
 but a APC that just appeared out of nowhere. Suddenly you and an enemy run around a corner and 
 meet each other, and start firing your guns, both of you hit the other a few times, but finally 
 luck hits you when he has to reload. You start to run up to him, but you somehow hit the prone 
 key, and the 1 key taking out your knife. You get up, and start charging him, and stab at him, 
 only for it to do nothing (although you saw it stab him. Can you tell how crappy the knife system 
 is in this game?) Now he takes out his knife, and you start stabbing at each other, but suddenly 
 you hear the dreaded voice over the radio orbital strike inbound now you both just start running, 
 and you get safely out of range and crouch behind cover until it is over. Somehow, the very last 
 shell of the strike just barely manages to reach over to your exact position and send you flying, 
 but you are still alive. you land with 8 health left. then you see 3 enemy soldiers coming towards 
 your position. you hunker down in the nearest ruined house, and manage to fend off all 3 of the 
 attackers. you see a friendly squad, and you go to join up with them, and right as you set foot 
 outside the house, a pod comes crashing down on you, killing you. A message comes up- do you want 
 to punish the teamkiller? So basically, there are some extremely intense and fun moments, and some 
 extremely I want to kill someone for real moments in this game. Now I will go into the point by 
 point part of the review
  
  Gameplay- Generally satisfying, but controls can be extremely clumsy at times. Also there are a 
 lot of things that just feel plain unrealistic. Such as how your soldier can't seem to figure out 
 how to simply step over obstacles that are only a dew inches tall, forcing you to jump over everything. 
 Also the reloading in this game is so slow it almost makes it unbearable. If a soldier in real 
 life was getting shot at, he wouldn't reload that slow. I mean, this reloading is absolutely incredible 
 how slow it is.
  
  Graphics- The style of the graphics do really help the feel and atmosphere of the setting, but 
 other than that, they aren't anything special. Now a days they look very old and aged. Foliage 
 looks pixelated. The view distance basically makes it an insult to sniping (however the sniper 
 rifles are EXTREMELY innaccurate which is suprising seeing as how they are futuristic...)
  
  Sound- One word- repetitive. The sound that is used is good, though.
  
  Value- Only 10 
 maps, but titan modes adds a bit more value, and since Titan mode is another name for Glitch and 
 bugs mode, it doesn't add much more value.
  
  Yes, Titan Mode is very laggy, very buggy and just overall incomplete. It is fun, but not fun enough 
 for the amount of crap you'll have to go through, and once the fight gets inside of the Titan itself, 
 then don't even think about it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 22, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I have played every battlefield game and i have to say i like this one alot but the only reason 
 i feel it is not better then then BF 2 is one simple reason WTF how does a game go gold with this 
 many bugs. That aside i feel the game is BF 2 just with cooler toys and yes i think titan mode 
 is a much needed change up from doing conquest all the time, in the end another solid BF game needs 
 some time to get all the bugs worked out before it is better then BF 2 so until they get a huge 
 patch out for this thing i thing i will be fighting in present day for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCWojtowicz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-Even thogh it isnt as revalutionary as bf2 was to 1942, bf 2142 is just amazing its very 
 hard to describe but when you have a few unlocks and have joined a great squad you get completely 
 emersed in the battle. The squad mechanics really encourage teamwork and just makes a great gameplay 
 expierience specialy with the very creative unlocks.
  
  Graphics-It may only be a modified version of the bf2 engine but somehow it just looks better ive 
 ran both on medium and bf 2142 looks crisper and just more polished. (if u ran bf2 well you can 
 run this just as well)
  
  Sound-The sound is just amazing mostly because of the ranges of noises you can hear in about 5 
 mins of playing, the map loading music is byfar better than bf2, mostly because there are more than 
 2 tracks for maps.
  
  Value-If you are new to the series then it is worth every penny but if you have sucked all the 
 fun out of bf2 then this isnt different enogh to cost the full cost of a prime ea game.
  
  Tilt-If you have been convinced by this review just buy the game (the EA downloader option is much 
 more convienient)
  
  Note-There are no noticeable bugs so if you hated bf2s insane amount of bugs, this is nowhere near 
 as bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jparker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  [The paragraph breaks didn't work for me, so I've added Asterisks to break up the review]
  
  ***To follow up the enormous success of the rest of the battlefield series is no easy task, 
 but Dice has succeeded in making BF 2142 a game that delves further into squad-based combat, with 
 even more replay value than the other games in the series. The graphics are stellar if you're running 
 the game on a system that can handle it, and Dice has vastly improved the interface, load times, 
 server selection, and -- because it's worth saying again -- the load times. Battlefield Vietnam had 
 its music to match the era, and loading a game usually took almost an entire Janis Joplin song. 
 Battlefield 2 was similarly slow. With 2142, the game loads up in a third of the time of previous 
 installments, diminishing the loss of continuity of effect (staying excited about the game) , that 
 was much more likely in the long load times of earlier games. ***But how does it play? It's true 
 that veteran players of the series will quickly see that the tried and true formula is the same 
 as in previous games. This is where the this is just a mod theory rings true. But the addition 
 of character-based advancement through sequential upgrades forces the player to make decisions 
 of how is character will fit in to the battle. If you want to be the secret special forces fighter 
 who stealthfully (and with partial invisibility) moves in to enemy bases to destroy assets, you 
 can. If you like to go in with guns blazing, firing rockets (with which you can control at what 
 distance they will detonate) , there's that too. What the sequential character upgrade system adds 
 is the need for players to decide how they will effect their squad. In other words, this is no 
 run-and-gun Unreal Tournament type of arcade game -- you need to work with your teammates and design 
 a fighter that best compliments the team, while you play in a style you enjoy. ***The vehicles 
 are in some ways better and in some ways worse than earlier games in the series. Those who enjoyed 
 the more true-to-life simulation when flying helicopters and jets of previous games, may be disappointed 
 with the simplified flying styles of 2142 aircraft. While this might take away from the flying 
 expert who once dominated the skies in BF 2, it also serves to open up the flying game to more 
 players. Small additions to other vehicles add strategy to where there was just getting from one 
 place to another in previous games. An EMP rocket from the troop transport can shut down an enemies 
 vehicle for a short time, allowing other players to fire their rockets in attempt to beat what 
 would have been an over-powering tank. The Battlewalker is enough to scare the crap out of any 
 soldier on the ground forcing them to hide-and-gun in the hope that the base at hand can be captured. 
 Even the Jeep vehicle now has Nitrous, increasing the speed for a short time, making getting across 
 the enormous maps much easier and providing a viable means of escape when the crap really hits 
 the fan. ***There's been a lot of talk on the Gamespot forums about the in-game ad support, but 
 it beats the heck out of paying a monthly subscription fee. While it does lower our already shaky 
 respect level for EA games (horrible loading times in previous games in series, faulty server filtering, 
 and stability issues) , those that aren't conspiracy-minded will be able to easily tune out the 
 ads for the fast-paced and more truly squad-based gameplay. It's true that it seems like a quick 
 and somewhat dirty way for EA to make a buck, but it's hardly a showstopper when you get into the 
 game.
  
  ***In the end, Battlefield 2142 comes out on top for those looking to expand their BF experience 
 with plenty under the hood of the game to maximize replay ability. I feel that many reviewers have 
 short-changed this game for its smaller problems, ignoring what truly pushes this to the top of 
 the Battlefield franchise. If you're looking for a exciting next level for the Battlefield series, 
 this game is well worth your money. If you want to just drop in for some mindless killing, UT 2007 
 is just around the corner... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellowrockview
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  This game is an amazing game all those people whining about bugs ive played for about 7 hours now 
 since i got it yesterday (i know im sad) but neer the less this games great no bugs or intergreated 
 adverts at all!!!!
  
   10/10:
  this game will last you for ever its really fun and intuitive also it plays really well and loads 
 fairly quick aswell u can change all your controls so they fit u im not quite sure why you'd want 
 to because there awsome anyway also u dont get pwnd every 5 seconds every1 is fairly ok (baring 
 in mind its been out 4 days) but im sure this will stay the same for quite a while because of all 
 the servers.
  
  
  2 words some up the graphics freeking awsome there amazing the explosions are nice and you can 
 destroy allot of things. also the player models are quite good you can tell that dice have put 
 allot of effort into the graphics of the player and weopen models the weopens look nice and you 
 can all tell what they do right of the bat also there are nice touches like when you look down 
 the scope of a scar 11 (the eu medics default rifle) you can see a neon blue pulsating out line 
 of the gun goun round and round and round and round (until u get dizzy and throw up over your keyboard 
 and have to buy a new 1 lol) .
  
  
  the game is fullly intergrated for your 5.1 speaker systems also the sounds of the guns and chunky 
 and you can really feel the whooooom!!!!!!! The musical sore is as catchy and well done as halos 
 its incredible and stragely motivating. there some amazing features with sound like if you die 
 you can shout out a call for medical attention were a medic can come round and other things like 
 that.
  
  
  if u have a good enough graphics card and internet connection then you'll have hours of fun trying 
 to get all the medals and unlock new weopens and skills or you can play against bots (this would 
 probbobly be a good idea if u buy the game after about 3 months of its realese just for the first 
 5 matches just so you can get used to and aunlock some stuff.
  
  
  honestly i have no idea what tilt is so ill put it 
 as ten to even the score out.
  
  this games brilliant and should be added to any fps fan with an internet connection or a person 
 who dosent want the fees of online games and dosnet like guild wars 10'/10 :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCgamer154
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  This game is 1 of the 2 best pc games i've ever played!! It's more of the almost perfect multiplayer 
 ever!! I so reccomend it to anyone who likes multiplayer shooting games!! Okay lets get to the 
 rating.
  
  Gameplay-10 The best of the best!
  
  Graphics-9 Very good graphics you can see some good detail.
  
  Sound-10 Oh my gosh!!!! It's 
 awesome so is the music!!!
  
  Value-9 It's worth even $50, it's so worth it!!!
  
  Tilt-9 Your crosshair moves around goog in the game.
  
  Overall-9.4 Superb 1 of the 2 best 
 games i've ever played!!!!!
  
  I hope you have been impressed because i am telling the truth!!:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadEye2003
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 22, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  I couldn't wait for this game to come out, yeah i thought this would be the best game in the world. 
 That was till the day I got it. As soon as I installed it i couldn't play more than 30 seconds 
 without getting kicked back to the deskstop. yeah that's right no error messages no nothing just 
 back to the desk top. But oh wait 3 of my other friends are having the same problem! back to the 
 desk top they go after 30 seconds of game play. But oh wait it gets even better, when I called 
 their customer support you know what the problem was?? WE DON'T KNOW!!! YES THAT'S RIGHT THE COMPANY 
 WHO MADE THE GAME DOESN'T EVEN KNOW WHY IT'S KICKING SEVERAL PEOPLE AFTER 30 SECONDS OF GAME PLAY!. 
 Oh yeah on the good side about this game 1 of my friends can play it, but lol he said one dya he 
 was playing t he saw Coke advertisments poping up everywhere, yup cheap ads integrated into their 
 game I can honeslty say that I am not ever going to buy and EA game ever again, after this crap 
 EA has lost one of their customers and i am sure several more. I've had it after days of fustration 
 i'm done with EA games forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: girik9
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 22, 2006 3:08 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is undoubtedly an entertaining game. Even though there are not that many maps, 
 they are varied and all have different envirnonments. The Conquest game mode returns in 2142, although 
 it is overshadowed by the Titan game mode.
  
  The Titan mode is the best part about this game. It is thrilling and will have you immersed right 
 till the very end of the battle. Titan mode requires you to constantly do well. One minute your 
 team might be losing, the next minute you might be winning. This makes Titan mode online a very 
 fulfilling experience. The weapons in the game look and sound good, although the weapons are similiar 
 between the two factions in the game. The two factions are somewhat too similar, although it is 
 a nice touch. The sound is excellent in the game. The music is good, and the sound effects are 
 good. The graphics are good, but not brilliant. Since the game uses the same engine as BF2, the 
 graphics are not mind-blowing. Other good points are the stats tracking and the great multiplayer. 
 The game is let down by the single-player component because the AI is poor - and you can't even 
 play Titan mode offline. These few things mean that 2142 is greatly entertaining, but could be 
 improved in some areas.
  
  Only buy this if you are planning to play online/lan multiplayer most of the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbtunaboy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 21, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  First off, I have to say I was pissed at ea for all the things people were saying about the game. 
 It made me not want to get it. But I went and got it. I never saw the trailer, I never played the 
 beta, i just walked blind into it after I just hit 60,000 points on bf2 (friday oct 20th woot!)
 
  
  the Spyware thing pissed me off until I started sniping beetches - 2142 style. EA can set up shop 
 behind my shoulder and watch for all I care, it's a fun ass game. It's a battlefield game. It's 
 a good fun game.
  
  The visuals are very cool, especially when your close to a transport flier's engine, or in the 
 heat of battle in close quarters.... The eye candy is very nice. I decided to run the game at 800 
 by 600 on relatively low settings, and with an overclocked opteron 165 and 2 gigs of ram, I am 
 in the game before anyone else. So whom ever said it loaded slow is wrong, I have found nothing 
 but quick load times. And it still looks visually better than bf2.
  
  The few environments that I played in and became comfortable with in the 5 hours i've been playing 
 are filled with hidden spots and wide open streets just waiting for ambush and at mines.
  
  The new vehicles are ok, but they are only parts of the whole which is the man power of battle. 
 It's awesome, in my opinion, that they changed the way team play is. It reminds me of playing Karkand 
 with 3 flags and no vehicles. Bf2142 has vehicals, but they don't usually give enough force that 
 a squad of guys would do. Dont get me wrong, you can pwn in a mech lol. But it's a cool change.
 
  
  You can pwn in a mech; in a tank; in the helicopter thingie; in a jeep.... It's fun.
  
  I love the posted scores per minute posts for everyone at the page where the scores and end 
 results are shown
  
  The upgrades system has kept me very interested in furthering a 24 hour bf2142 shift. haha
  
 
  There are bad things about the game....
  
  The points system is screwy and will be changed (I assume this) in upcomming patches. Getting -3 
 points for a tk when you start off the level is lame. I really don't think it will stay.
  
  The artillery on the game is like acid rain lol. Of ALL THE 20 or so times I dropped arty, I killed 
 3 people. And I dropped arty on HEAVILY occupied territory. They tried to keep a balence on everything 
 including the arty, and arty isn't acid rain. It's kick ass and chew bubblegum. I don't care about 
 the sound. The commander voice over is the most annoying thing ever. lol. I think they got a russian 
 computer voice to do all of that work. Voice overs could have been better if they just kept the 
 same ones as bf2 (they'd have to add more, I know, but the voice overs are bad)
  
  It takes awhile to figure out what the hell you are doing, even if you are very fimiliar with the 
 same button config. But its got alot of new things so you gotta take the time to learn.
  
  The mechs can't look up. What the hell is that about? LOL It's like they wanted to hinder the mechanical 
 war beasts so that they were mearly kitties. Hopefully they will change this in upcomming patches. 
 The lag is bad when it lags.
  
  There are others, but they aren't as big as these, at least that I remember off hand.
  
  I 
 am very happy I got this game. It's got problems. Games always do. It is not a mod to bf2. And 
 if you were to try and say it was, it would be a 'distant 3rd cousin that you've only scene once 
 in your entire life' mod. I took it as buying a special forces pack (which I absolutely loved) 
 and it was WAY beyond my expectations.
  
  I end with this. It is justifiable to not get this game because of the spyware thing. I am not 
 interested in keeping personal info on my computer, so even though I beetched about the spyware, 
 it's just a flesh wound. Take it like a man, install it, and take a break from the best battlefield, 
 which is bf2. You'll love what bf2142 has, and I will be going back and forth because I really 
 love the team pulling together to help itself win alternate universe.
  
  Enemyboatspoted~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylestater
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 21, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Think about if Halo 2 and BF2 mated. This game would be born. Although it's fun and everything, 
 there are a few things that were changed. Some are good and some are bad. Like the RPGs, you can 
 barely guide them anymore. But that's about all the bad. The cool thing is that vehicles are less 
 stressfull to operate, control wise. Then you get a selection on your spawn menu that allows you 
 to make a custom class. And of course you get the popular Titan mode, a new multiplayer mode that 
 makes players take out the opposing forces Titan ( a big hovering base-like ship) by means of controlling 
 special points ( like flags) and uplink missiles to target the enemies Titan. The more control 
 points you have the faster you can take out their Titans shield. Once they are down you can either 
 board the Titan and take out the Riactor Core or let the missiles slowly destroy it. So the real 
 question is does this make it funner than the famous BF2. Well, in ways yes. And in some other 
 ways no. Like if your like me and like games like CSS and DOD: S and etc... Then you'd pick BF2 
 over the new 2142. But if your a Halo 2 fan just think of it like 2142 is Halo 2 on Crack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apocalypse_3d
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 21, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  like i said this games worth buying in store its really fun and ever rank u get u can unlock a 
 new item for the char u want i find it not to bad to play at first learn times like maybe 30 mins 
 to 1 hour for people that havent played before in all its just run shoot kill and capture its that 
 easy really so not really need to learn to play heck w, a, s, d run and strafe wow so hard then e 
 get in tank and cars or plans and space bar jump and parshut well im just going to stop when im 
 ahead and i got to say its addicting games its so dam sweet if i had to rate this its an 8 out 
 of 10 well thats all apocalypse_3d out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanbijl
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I bought Bf 2142 today and I must say, Its the same packaged crap that EA always puts out. I was 
 sorly dissapointed with bf2 for the main reason that my rig (which is ABOVE system requirments 
 of that game by a lot) couldn't run it worth poo.
  
  BF2142 does a few good things to the engine, first of all, its a little (and I mean a little) more 
 stable, not as much stuttering, and I can finally play it online and actually enjoy it. Now.
  
  In short though, it is BF 2, in the future...
  but thats not a big problem, because the game 
 IS good... it has nice ideas, its different, and better than those modern or historic shooters...
 
  I loved the ideas of mechs, they are one of the best things about the game, the way they move, 
 how powerful they are.... they are the best thing about this game, but again... EA has a few problems 
 actually putting all these things to use...
  I find the mechs TOO powerful, which isn't a bad thing, but it takes away the fun when you are 
 trying to enjoy yourself, you cant do that, when you keep dying from some moron running around 
 in a mech.
  
  the new titan battle mode is pretty decent, I only got to play it once, due to the technical issues 
 I had with this game.
  
  Number 1... I have heard of people getting spyware on your computer... dont know if its true, but 
 my computer is being very unstable since I started playing it.
  Number 2, I dont like the game browser... Its buggy and impossible to find a game to actually get 
 running (countless numbers of full games, which according to the browser arn't) , I get tonnes of 
 errors trying to load some games (error connecting...) number 3. I get random crashes in the middle 
 of a game, thus ruining my ranking (which sucks as I don't play it enough) and finally number 4, 
 I didn't like the loading times, they are long, and sometimes unstable.
  
  Now since bf2 came out I wondered what the hell EA games was doing to this series... they have 
 been doing a decent, if not great job at capturing the multiplayer aspects of the game, after all 
 that IS what the battlefield series is about right?
  But what about those who hate laggy servers, and get constant errors? or those who want to improve 
 offline?
  I am dissapointed with the single player portion of this game, bf2 was like this to. You only get 
 a few choices of maps, and you only get 16 bots.
  This is what it all comes down to for me, I like practising, offline, to avoid the morons, who 
 sit in front of their computers playing games like this all day, that and lag. where are my 64 
 players on singleplayer? where are all the maps? like in the original and vietnam versions of this 
 game?
  
  EA games are continuing to ruin this fine series by not meeting the demands of their customers, 
 I hope the next patches fixes all, if not all, some of the problems with the game, and then It 
 would be a little more enjoyable. Give it a try if you are patient with games with errors... I 
 do like it, however, all the little things that are wrong with it make it very unplayable at this 
 point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VIP-Jerry
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I played every BF game and expansion and after 4 days of gamplay (40+hours) all i can tell you 
 is that i need more. This is the best of BF. At first looks same as all other BF games but after 
 hour or two you can see its completely different game from everything you ever seen. Whoever tried 
 Planetside and liked it than u cant miss with this 1, others just try it and you will see what 
 am i talking about. Cloacking devices, battle drones, orbital pod drops etc. Dont judge the game 
 by demo. Game itself is completly diferent even the sid plant map can not be compared in demo and 
 full version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snortt69_56
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 21, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  personally, i was a little bit let down. first i couldnt get the veterans program deal to work 
 but that was my own fault, and then i make a new soldier, which i think the whole idea is retarded, 
 bf2 was way easier that way, but i see why they did it cuz theres probly gonna be people wo make 
 different soldeirs for different classes maybe. so after i make a guy, i join a server, quits, 
 get back in the game, join a server, quits. so i reboot, still does the same thing. reinstall, 
 reboot. stillll does the same thing. make a new guy, it works fine for some reason, then today 
 i go to play, and it does the same crap. i did the lil punkbuster fix deal already. and i think 
 its just some servers cuz theres bveen a few where i can play for more than 2 seconds. im not even 
 gonna bring up the rankin and points system cuz everyone knows already. the unlocks are dumb to 
 me too, i just wanna be able to get some better guns, and not havin grenades, wtf honestly. havin 
 to unlock the shockpaddles deal, and other stuff just to get a better gun, kinda pisses me off 
 and takes away from the game. but since its bf i give it a good ratin cuz its still a sweet game, 
 if only there were a few different things but i didnt make it. once theres some fixin of the lil 
 stuff itll be a litlle better. not quite the step up from bf2, if any, that i was expectin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbrusati
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I think some people who don't know what the series is all about, can be a little harsh when writing 
 a review so let me set the record straight.
  
  So, you're a hard core gamer = You'll find issues with this and every other game that comes out 
 after you've mastered a game that you like to play the most and will, by nature judge this and 
 every other game by it. Even the smallest things will bother you about it. Just try to step outside 
 a minute and don't be so judgmental, this is a really fun game and worth every penny.
  
  So, you're an occasional gamer = You'll love this game and get past the small things and enjoy 
 the different scenarios, weapons and vehicles. For example, one thing I have noticed is if you 
 accidentally double click your sprint button while in a walker, it will lag until you jump out 
 then back in. Then it clears right up. (Temporary cure - Don't double tap walk/sprint while in 
 the walker) The second thing is when you destroy the enemy's or the enemy destroys your Titan, 
 you may get a There is a problem with your connection error while the vid clip of the Exploding 
 Titan loads up, then it clears up. Other than that, I haven't had any issues with game play.
  
  So, you're a beginner = Don't be shy noobs! It's all good! The learning curve on this is pretty 
 fast. I would have to say, if you're familiar with games like UT2004 you should adapt fairly well. 
 To enjoy the game fully, you really need to have a good computer with at least a 256 vid card, 
 1gig RAM and a good sound card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoxOfPocky
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  I've played BF:1942 and obviously my favorite, BF2. In all honesty, I was expecting a great upgrade 
 upon the series with BF:2142. However, I was a bit disappointed.
  
  Goods
  +NEW VEHICLES!! enough said, lol.
  +Cool and interesting unlockables.
  +New game mode, Titans!! 
 It acts a lot like attack and defend. The game requires your team to seek out and capture missile 
 silos around the map. The silos under your team's control fires missiles at constant intervals 
 at the enemies' Titan to lower their shield. Then when the shield if down you and your team can 
 invade their Titan to take it down faster. It's pretty interesting... for awhile...
  +Buddy List. You can now add people to your buddy list. This allows you to know when your friends 
 are on and which servers they're in. This is appealing because it's useful for people such as myself, 
 who doesn't want to use Teamspeak or Ventrilo when I just want to play with a few good friends 
 for an hour or two.
  +It is less demanding on your computer. My computer in all honesty is not a great piece of work. 
 I played BF2 and it sometimes take forever to load a map. However, in BF:2142 it takes like no 
 time for it to load. This is all down to you as a gamer though. Are you after instant gaming or 
 lustful graphics but take a few moments to load.
  
  Bads
  -Less kits. There are only four kits: Recon, Assault, Engineer, and Support. However, the kits 
 split into two kits you can say. Recon = Sniper &amp; Spec Ops. Assault = Assault &amp; Medic. 
 Engineer = Engineer and Anti-Tank. Support is well... support, lol. I placed this under the bad 
 because I grew a liking to how BF2 work how each kit have their own cool little name and special 
 attributes.
  -A little TOO futuristic. Ok, it's 2142, so why am I complaining. All I can say that the game doesn't 
 have that challenging combat like in BF2. The vehicles get these shields, aka: Counter Measure. 
 It pretty much protect you against engineer's rockets and other vehicles' fire. -Flying a helicopter 
 has no thrill either. In BF2, when I fly a helicopter there's a challenge to it because the missiles 
 doesn't have homing and rather hard to land perfectly (mouse and keyboard) . In 2142, it is a piece 
 of cake to land the helicopters and taking out another helicopter is a piece of cake because the 
 missiles pretty much homes in on the thing.
  -I do not see any True upgrades. The graphics if anything remained the same. I even feel it been 
 downgraded a little. The only real upgrades are the unlockables and it being set in the future.
 
  
  BF:2142 is a good game, I will agree to that. It carries the bases of what all the BF games in 
 the past have presented. However, it did not exceed what BF2 had offered. If anything it might 
 have downgraded it a little. Nevertheless it is a good addition to any BF fans' collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fires99
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is the best shooter so far this year. If you are looking for a great game that 
 delivers authentic battlefield action and epic battles, this game is for you.
  
  Pros: This game has introduced an revolutionary mode to the battlefield genera, Titan mode. Basically, 
 in this mode you must capture outposts that will fire a rocket to damage the titans shield. Once 
 this shield is disable, everyone will scramble to destroy its control panels and then reactor. 
 Titan battles are usaly all out wars and will leave you sitting on the edge of your seat. Many 
 new vehiculs have been added, including walkers wich oblitorates everything that opposes it. 40 
 unlockable accessories have been added, you are now able to customize your player and decide what 
 you want him to carry. You can do more with your squads wich makes you more into the game. Also 
 the commander has a few new skils like orbital strike (RUN if you hear it coming) and emp charges 
 (momentaraly knocks out any vehicle) .
  
  Cons: This game really resembles its bf2 predecesor so do not expect a revolutionnary system. There 
 has not been a great change in weapons, you only get 4 classes but that is balanced by the fact 
 that you can unlock 40 accesories. A few problems with the game like if your going 100 miles an 
 hour in a jeep you will probably die if you get out, but this will be fixed shortly with patches. 
 We have come to expect that the single player bots a retarded, this still has not been change. 
 I recommend that you have a pretty good computer if not it will be lag tastic!
  
  Briefly, this game rocks, if your looking for a great multiplayer experience that will have sitting 
 on the edge of your seat, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siliconkibou
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 21, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  BF 2142 is actually a excellent game. True it doesn't do anything TOO different from 1942, Vietnam, 
 and BF2, but that's a good thing.
  
  What it does do is what BF does best... great vehicles, awesome multiplayer action, and polished 
 delivery, yielding a real thinking-man's shooter.
  
  The spyware issues levied against it are actually quite unfair.
  
  DICE has been kind enough 
 to clarify that there is no running process while the game is not running, it does not monitor 
 your surfing habits or scan your files.
  
  All it simply does is assign you a random anonymous number for ad-tracking purposes and looks up 
 your IP address geographically to present advertisements relevant to your locale.
  
  This privacy-wise, is nothing more than what online games have been doing for some time to deliver 
 you a good online experience.
  
  As far as the ads go... I have yet to personally notice one (perhaps they're there... but I've been 
 having too much fun to notice) , so clearly they're unobtrusive, at worst.
  
  The gameplay is the usual top-notch affair, only really spoiled by poor sportsmanship by some players.
 
  
  The new weapons and vehicles, while not revolutionary,, are a blast to use, and balance is much 
 better than BF2.
  
  Aircraft, while still powerful, are no longer the nigh-untouchable powerhouses they where in BF2, 
 as they can be brought down by a variety of means.
  
  Pilots, rest easy, however, as you can rain down significant terror from the sky without having 
 to fear you'll be shot down and every moment.
  
  EA needs to address some issues with their stats and ranking tracking, as a lot of them just aren't 
 working right.
  
  EA, however is aware of the issue and working on it.
  
  Sounds and music are wonderful, as weapon effects and vehicle sounds have real substance and sound 
 sufficiently 22nd century. The music in 2142 is IMO the best in the series: moving, sweeping, compelling 
 scores that make you want to go save the world in a battle mech. :-)
  
  Overall, a fantastic game that has suffered from a bit of poorly-researched bad press.
  
  If 
 you've enjoyed any of the past Battlefield offerings, you owe it to yourself to at least check 
 this one out... see you on the field. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kegster202
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 21, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  When everyone says that this is just a mod off of BF2, or it should have been a expanision, yah 
 maybe it should have, but this game is still amazing on its own.
  
  It improves on just about everything from it predessor, BF2, graphics, frameates, load times and 
 most of all gameplay.
  
  It makes youj want to play as a squad, and the unlock and customization system really makes youj 
 want to play on.
  
  On its own, i think BF2142 should have been 10$ cheapers, but i think this game is the ebst in 
 the series nd a benchmark for the next one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxkgnb
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  If it were $19.00 this would be a 10. I find it more enjoyable to play then the others, but there 
 isn't much in the way of new content in this one. Runs great, fun to play, but unless your a Battlefield 
 enthusiast, wait for the price to fall. If your looking for your first time on the Battlefield 
 front grab it. It is, in my opion, to be one of the best shooters with some strategy released so 
 far. At least it is a complete game that is fun to play, unlike some other titles released this 
 year =/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iggy_23
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 21, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. It is an amazing addition to the battlefield series. This game has 
 amazing sound, graphics, gameplay, and value. All of these are well put within the game and make 
 it one that any battlefield fan should own. The sound is the first part. They nailed this one right 
 on the head. The ambiance you get from being surrounded by these futuristic guns is amazing. Even 
 though the guns are futurisitc though, its not as if they are lasers or anything. They are just 
 highly upgraded and futurisitc forms of the guns. The sound is also very good on the vehicles. 
 The walker for example, you can hear it coming and will be somewhat nervous if you have ever seen 
 the amount of destruction these can cause. The graphics are very good especially considering that 
 they re-used the old Battlefield 2 engine. When you have the graphics on high, this game will shine. 
 The guns all look really good, and the walker is probably one of the best demonstrations of how 
 good these games look. It is truely quite amazing and will look even better when all of your graphics 
 are maxed out. The value on this game is very high. However, it will not be as much so if you don't 
 have internet, as this is mainly an online game. You can play the same match over and over, and 
 still not find the exact same things happening over and over again. Then, as you play on the internet, 
 you can get unlocks to better your character. The first ones come easy at first, but then they 
 start getting harder for you to get, but all these unlocks will make your character much stronger, 
 and the gamplay much better. The gameplay on this game isn't as revolutionary as on Battlefield 
 2, but is still very good. My personal favorite is the additiion of Titan mode, which is a mode 
 where you can go in and capture missile silos so that you can take down the enemy's shields. This 
 is where the fun part comes in though, you get to board and assault the other teams titan, and 
 when you take out all four control panels and then the core, your whole team makes a mad dash to 
 get off of the titan. This is a good combination of getting a good defense on your titan, and a 
 good offense on theirs, and you can then really pull a game off in a clinch. There are however, 
 a couple problems with this game. Most of them are bugs that should be fixed in later patches. 
 First off, when your on a titan and when a team-mate dies, he will slide along the floor, and fall 
 through the floor of the titan making them very hard to revive. Second, the unlock system is very 
 detailed and you pretty much have to unlock everything. The next thing would be that it's not that 
 easy to get into unless you know what you're doing, it's not like Battlefield 2, so read the manual. 
 Lastly, you REALLY need to know what your'e doing when shooting, you can't spray and pray anymore, 
 so take your time and choose your shots. Overall, this was an amazing game that I will probably 
 be playing for the next year, just like Battlefield 2. I hope they fix some of the problems i mentioned 
 with patches, and this game will be even better than it is now. Hope you enjoyed my review!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tourismo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 21, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  Alright. There is a lot of tension surrounding this game's release already. let me make it clear. 
 this is a battlefield game. If i read someone say that it didnt take any revolutionary leaps forward 
 like BF 2 did, again, ill kill them. You can only do so much with a game based on battlefield action. 
 2142 is every bit as good as BF 2 is. This is what you get when you try to follow up a hugely successful 
 game such as BF 2. Everyone expects a game made from god himself. maybe this game wasnt made from 
 his holyness, but its a great game none-the-less. All the action, a lot more teamwork (you get 
 extra points for doing things inside your squad leader's order radius) , all the crazyness that 
 you'd expect from a battlefield game. i love the new maps, and i love the new vehicles. There are 
 only 4 kits, but dont panic. All EA did was combine some of the older kits in BF 2 (7 total) , and 
 made the kits in 2142 that much bigger and expansive. Take the recon kit for example. There are 
 multiple unlock paths you can take. One path in the recon kit is the sniper unlock path. Claymores 
 and such, and they lead to a sniper rifle unlock. The other path leads towards your special forces 
 kit from BF2 (C4 and such) . And there are a lot more gadgets to unlock this time around. Such as 
 an invisibility cloak, which i have yet to unlock.
  
  AS FOR THE ADVERTISEMENTS AND SPYWARE...
  http://battlefield. ea. com/battlefield/bf/BF2142_News_101906. aspx
 
  
  EA has released this article on there official website explaining in detail what this game does 
 with its in game advertising and the so called spyware . Im here to tell you that EA is not sharing 
 information on your computer. And the in game ads, there arent any when i play. i can see where 
 the ads would be, because there are billboards spread through the maps. but there are no ads on 
 them. They're just fake companies in the game. there are only two types iof billboards in the game 
 actually, one says RA and the other is another set of letters which are not real companies.
  
  To all BF2 veteran players, i recommend this game to all of you. you will not be disappointed. 
 This is just yet another solid Battlefield game from EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smackhq
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Hey Everyone,
  
  Enough people have stated this already so I will be brief on what I am upset about.
  
  1. $50 
 hard earned dollars for a mod. Yes mod. Nothing really new
  2. Maps stink in comparison to bf2 maps. Just no depth and much smaller. Fly around some time in 
 the largest map and you will see. Some BF2 maps were huge.
  3. Weapon and kit upgrades are nothing new / revolutionary so to speak.
  4. Vehicles.. leave you 
 wondering where all the high tech stuff is
  5. Servers are crashing a lot!
  
  The only thing I really like is the new game setup arena where you can save maps to favorites easy, 
 see your server history, add buddies and see if they are online and send messages to them. That's 
 it.
  
  All in all I am upset that I spent $50 on a game such as this that should have been much more and 
 could have easily. I see BF2142 hanging out in the $19.99 game store sale section very soon but 
 then again suckers are born every minute (me included on this one) . I should have waited and read 
 reviews first. Thx
  Smack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abuabu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  It is a good game by all means, in my personal opinion it is a decent upgrade to its predecessors, 
 but it lacks stability. With these kinds of games stability in game play is a key factor. Im sure 
 this issue will be fixed with patches. EA really could have gone out and done better with this 
 game, i would wait a couple more months and wished this game would have been more polished. Nevertheless, 
 it had very good upgrades that make the game worth it and that is the reason it grows on you. Finally 
 the controls for the aircrafts have been improved to the point were it is worth traveling with 
 them and they actually give a player time aim better and increases more aerial fight probability 
 and its just more fun to do. One downfall of this game is that there is only 2 classes to choose 
 from. They do have different weapons and difference machines but still not enough to cover for 
 the possibility of 2 other classes that would have made this game better. The reason i gave game 
 play a a 7/10 is due to stability, game play is very similar to BF2 but it had the futurist feel 
 that EA in my opinion did well with this game. Values is a 5/10 because its a lot of money for 
 a game that is only about 80% accomplished, there is a patch out for it already, and more are going 
 to come to improve game play im sure. But for the people that wanna buy the game soon, expect ur 
 pc to crash at least once while playing the game and u r going to feel glitchy after the sprint 
 run with ur solder. Graphics wise it is a very accomplished game as is sound wise. This game is 
 the same fun as some of the other Battlefield games all it needs is upgrades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreyarHunter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Machine Specifications:
  CPU- Intel Core 2 Duo 2.13
  RAM- 1gig @ 800 mhz (OCed)
  VIDEO- Geforce 7600 GS (512 mb VRAM/Passively Cooled)
  SOUND- SoundBlaster Live! 5.1
  ---------
 
  
  One of the things that always caught me about Battlefield is the ability to run about fighting 
 in any method you want, ranging from playing as a rifleman to being a pilot. Of course Battlefield 
 2142 allows the same freedom, with a huge amount of benefits ranging from field upgrades to permanent 
 squad support unlocks.
  
  Now, many people continually complain about the issues of EA and the recently (relatively anyway) 
 purchased DICE with the facts that they continually churn out what many believe are rehashes . 
 Although many view Battlefield 2142 as a modification of Battlefield 2, I find that it is more 
 than worth the price that EA asks for, however there are a few other things that disturb me that 
 I will cover later.
  
  First, we will examine the video portions of the game. According to www. systemrequirementslab. com 
 , I reach past the Recommended system specifications, however I can't really get above 1024x768 
 with everything but dynamic lighting set. Although that minor irritation is always nagging the 
 back of my mind, I am very happy with how the environments look, ranging from the beautiful snow 
 covered Europe, to the more desert Africa. Also, the visual tricks that have been done with things 
 like EMP hits (visor failures and the like) and the overall ambient color change from outside to 
 inside the Titan is something that will help add to the atmosphere.
  
  On the audio front, the sound systems seem like they have been redone entirely. Audio from across 
 maps seem to bounce perfectly to help in understanding what is going on across the field, although 
 the drone of engines tends to give you a little bit of a headache with their frequency of use. 
 Weapon sounds are high pitched generally, but there are still some rifles and firearms that sound 
 like this modern counter-parts.
  
  As for the bad portion that I mentioned before, it would be best if you read this quote from a 
 sheet inside the box only visible after opening:
  --------
  This Software may incorporate technology developed by IGA Worldwide Inc. ( IGA ) (the Advertising 
 Technology ) . The purpose of the Advertising Technology is to deliver in-game advertisements to 
 you when you use the Software while connected to the Internet. When you use the Software while 
 connected to the Internet, the Advertising Technology may record your Internet Protocol address 
 and other anonymous information ( Advertising Data ) . The Advertising Data is temporarily used 
 by IGA to enable the presentation and measurements of in-game advertisements an other in-game objects 
 which are uploaded temporarily to your personal computer or game console and change during online 
 game play. The Advertising Technology does not collect any personally identifiable information 
 about you, and EA will not provide IGA with any of your personally identifiable information. The 
 servers used by the Advertising Technology may, from time to time, be located outside your country 
 of residence. If you are located within the European Union, the servers may be located outside 
 of the European Union.
  
  By installing and using the Software, you agree to: (i) the transfer of the Advertising Data to 
 servers located outside your country of residence and, if applicable outside of the European Union; 
 (ii) the collection and use of the Advertising Data as described in this Section; and (iii) the 
 delivery of advertising and marketing content by the Advertising Technology. IF YOU DO NOT WANT 
 IGA TO COLLECT, USE, STORE OR TRANSMIT THE DATA DESCRIBED IN THIS SECTION, DO NOT INSTALL OR PLAY 
 THE SOFTWARE ON ANY PLATFORM THAT IS USED TO CONNECT TO THE INTERNET.
  --------
  
  Whether or not this means that personal browsing habits (the mainstream understanding) or the fact 
 that the technology is only watching how long you look at an advertisement (new understanding) 
 is up for debate. However the inclusion of software like this is reasoned by the fact that developments 
 costs are rising. Seeing as how the BF2 engine was just re-used for this particular iteration, 
 I find it hard to believe.
  
  However, balancing everything that goes on about this, I personally enjoy the game a great deal. 
 The old feeling of playing as a squad leader (which is something I did so often in BF2) is slowly 
 returning, with a nice little assault drone I call Joe following behind me. I would recommend this 
 to my friends, who will understand the reasons I outlined, while overlooking some of the other 
 issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColinBrinson999
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 looks so amazing with the sci-fi kinda thing going on and i am really happy i 
 just ordered it about an hour ago...
  
  I heard it uses the same graphics as bf2 but still those graphics rock!
  I have played the first 
 bf and bf2 with my firends over lan and it was great! I know this one will be the best in it's 
 series and i love the fact that there are 40 unlockable weapons and stuff... i want it now! CANT 
 WAIT
  At first i asked my mom to get me it for christmas but after seeing the reviews and videos my mind... i 
 am sounding kinda nerdy but... my mind overwehlmed me and i wanted to get this game now and i couldnt 
 wait so i asked and asked if i could get it b4 christmas and yet again i persuaded my mom to let 
 me get it! So people... GET READY TO GET PWNED!
  
  Thank you EA for yet another BF masterpiece! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mar_24
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  I didnt think i would like this game at first but i was supprised. Gameplay- the new titan mode 
 is very amuzing and is fun. The conquest is just like the BF2 version but it is still classic. 
 But the titan mode will not get boring anytime soon. And the unlocks are good and worth getting.
 
  
  Graphic-They are a bit dated but still good. They are smoother that Bf2 i think anyway. They look 
 cool when you get hit by a EMP blast and your vision screws up. But other than that it is still 
 the same graphics. Oh yeah and the Single player is a bit better but not worth buying just for 
 single player.
  
  Sound- I was really impressed with the sound of 2142 because it makes you feel like your in war 
 and the explosions sounds are sweet.
  
  Value- It has a great value because multi-player will last you well forever (or at least how ever 
 long it takes you to get bored of it) and the unlocks and ranks will last a long time. But it has 
 great multi-player. If you dont have online dont buy it because the single player, well sucks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoda101280
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 20, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first I'll start by saying I am a long time player of BF2 and I loved that game so it's only 
 natural that I was awaiting BF 2142 with child like glee.
  
  I'll just get right to it, out of the box 2142 is a bit less fun than BF2. Some of the things you 
 took for granted in BF2 you have to work your way up and unlock in 2142, things such as grenades, 
 the revive device, etc. Which isn't really a bad thing just takes a small getting used to. But 
 right off the jump one of the things I hated was the gun balance. My favorite class is the Heavy 
 Gunner class, so ofcourse that's the class I started with in 2142 only they are not their usual 
 selves. In 2142 the overheating time of the guns is very short and even when firing in controlled 
 bursts I sometimes run into overheathing issues, which wouldn't be so bad if the gun wasn't so 
 weak. I have died so many times even when I have the drop on a guy who never saw me coming just 
 b/c my gun overheated and even at point blank range the guy didn't die.
  
  So naturally I thought well there are unlockable guns maybe it gets better when you upgrade to 
 the next gun, nope. while the upgraded heavy gun seems to be a bit more powerful the overheating 
 factor is still problematic, not game stopping but it takes getting used to and those used to BF2 
 heavy gunner weapons will instantly notice the difference and likely be put off. I have since gotten 
 a bit accustomed to it and while I hope they balance this out I am enjoying the class right now.
 
  
  Big difference in BF2 are the unlocks, some are basic things like frags, emp grenades, revive device, 
 etc. some are new and really handy, heavy gunners get to unlock a nifty little auto turret as well 
 as a portable ion shield, which acts basically like a portable baracade, good for you but also 
 works nice in conjunction with the turret. Other classes get different unlocks, things like cloaking 
 devices, rocket and shotgun attachments for the rifle, etc.
  
  Ofcourse the other new addition is the Titan mode. This mode is pretty fun but right now it suffers 
 from lag problems and design issues. I don't know what it is about the titan mode that causes this 
 lag but it's not very fun to play with and it persists throughout the match most of the time and 
 it gets noticeably worse when you are actually on the titan itself. When not on the Titan it manifests 
 mainly as constant, There is a problem with your connection messages. When actually on the Titan 
 for an assualt there's noticeable slowdown and often times your character will kind of do this 
 stuttering motion when you run where you can't maintain control of your aim. I don't have any of 
 these issues when I play Conquest mode so I'm just assuming that it's connected to the Titan mode 
 somehow. It doesn't make it unplayable and sometimes are worse than others but it certainly makes 
 it less fun and more annoying as you can imagine.
  
  Overall I think 2142 is a very fun game, the new vehicles and unlocks and game play are a blast, 
 those who were left out of the piloting game in BF2 will be happy to know that flying is much much 
 easier in 2142. I was a very accomplished chopper pilot in BF2 but 2142 just takes all the difficulty 
 out of flying pretty much, which is good and bad I guess, depending on how you look at it. A few 
 small things I was pleased to see, it seems they reduced the lethality of grenades in 2142. You 
 still die if you're caught close to the blast but the blast radius on these frags seems to be a 
 lot smaller so it's a lot harder for people to simply frag flags non-stop and kill everyone in 
 the area, a plus though is that they seem to be a lot more accurate, not that they were hard to 
 land in BF2 but in 2142 they just seem to land right where you judge the arc, maybe that's just 
 me though. The command Orbital strike, counterpart to BF2's artillery strike also seems to be weakened, 
 it lasts a bit longer from what I can tell and again a direct hit will surely kill you but it doesn't 
 seem to have as large a radius on the splash damage. In BF2 just being near an explosion would 
 surely kill you but in 2142 it's a little more forgiving and I've survived some orbital strikes 
 I know would have killed me in BF2.
  
  All in all BF 2142 is a fun and engrossing game much like BF2 and while BF2 veterans will surely 
 have a few things to get used to it doesn't take long to find yourself in full swing and enjoying 
 the game, there are still some things I like a little better in BF2 but 2142 is a great game in 
 it's own right and has it's own feel. Although I must admit I do miss the recently added option 
 to toggle off vehicles, that addition was one of my most favorite things. while I love all the 
 vehicles and they are a blast, sometimes they detract from the battle as people will standing for 
 long periods doing nothing while waiting on their favorite vehicle. So a match of 16 vs 16 can 
 easily be reduced to a match of 8 vs 8 when you subtract the people who spend most of the match 
 waiting on vehicles. So I do miss that option. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doohuh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 20, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I guess I simply go in order based on the attributes of the game. Lets start with the gameplay. 
 Don't forget - this is a Battlefield game and the gameplay is awesome. They threw in some things 
 like head-butting as you walk/run, but luckily you can turn it off. Also, the RPG element is really 
 nice as you earn new things. By the way, it's really rewarding when you earn your first upgrade 
 within minutes of playing.
  
  The graphics are awesome in my opinion. Yes, the engine is getting outdated but it doesn't feel 
 that way when you have everything cranked up with such beautiful modeling.
  
  I have a X-fi which enables me to access all the highest sound options. So this is based from my 
 standpoint. The ingame sounds are wonderful while buzzing all around you such as hearing the thumping 
 of air strikes in the distance. Also, unlike BF2, 2142 has a song for each map in the game. It's 
 a nice touch of variety while waiting for load up (Which by the way, took seconds for me once everything 
 was optimized from the 1st time I played) . One thing though, there is one song which plays at the 
 end of every match no matter what map, but that doesn't exactly count. ;)
  
  Of course, the value is very high for you will get hundreds, if not thousands of hours of gameplay 
 just like you did in BF2. :D The maps have perfect balance and are layed out in ways where we still 
 have those epic battles in certain spots, but on the other hand, you never feel out of place.
 
  
  Now on the title, I recommended this game to BF2 veterans. I feel that if you're a beginner to 
 this series, you're going to have to learn a lot of contols and how to play. However, a veteran 
 should be able to pick up and play and easily learn the new features quite quickly.
  
  Now don't forget, there's a bunch of stuff I didn't include in this review. To name a few: Friends 
 list, Commander options, Squad leader specials, Many unlocks w/ customization, Clan tag add on 
 feature, and a few more. (Which I think were made mostly for the better good.)
  
  Hope to see you on the battlefield. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  First of all I have said this before and I am sick to death of seeing player reviews of demos before 
 a full retail game is released and I hope gamespot admins clamp down on this unsavoury practice 
 and prevent people posting reviews until a game comes out. Some people do not have much money and 
 have to choose carefully before buying these expensive games The best way of doing so is by reading 
 these player reviews rather than biased Professional reviews that appear in magazines and on sites 
 such as this. It is wholly wrong that there were 60 reviews slagging off this game before it was 
 released based solely on the SIDI map.
  
  Rant over and onto the review :-
  
  To be honest I don't really know what to make of it as it appears to be a mish mash of stolen ideas 
 from other games. There is absolutely nothing new here. Within an hour or so of playing different 
 maps, I could not help but thinking, This looks like Half Life 2... Fear... Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter.... Starwars Battlefront . The game has even taken those annoying turrets from Half Life 
 2.
  
  No doubt anyone who is considering buying 2142 is a BF2 fanboy, so lets compare :-
  
  Logging into the main server is much faster, as is loading into the game. There are 10 maps 
 which appear to be split into winter maps and sort of desert maps. They are all pretty much alike 
 which is a bit annoying and there are no distinctive characteristics - for example there is no 
 way in BF2 someone could launch into Karkand and wonder Is this Sharqi or Wake Island I'm playing 
 ? 
  
  The server browser is much improved and it is much easier to set up controls than other games in 
 the battlefield series.
  
  What is likely to cause a lot of consternation among players is that there is an unlock tree for 
 weapons and kit as you rank up. This makes individual players customisable but the difficulty is, 
 if you make the wrong choice in selecting your unlocks, you are screwed. Also new players coming 
 into the game are at a serious disadvantage to established players who already have unlocks and 
 it will take them months to catch up. The unlock tree does add a different aspect to the game though 
 and gives you something to play for whilst continuing to alter styles of play as you add to your 
 kit. There are only four kits and they are confusing as you have assault, recon, support and engineer, 
 but they do not equate to the same kits in BF2, so for example, Assault is really the medic kit, 
 and recon is really the sniper kit - this is just plain farce !
  
  In relation to the gameplay itself, weapons seem woefully underpowered (much worse than BF2) and 
 you can shoot the enemy with a whole magazine at close range in the face and he will not die.... 
 and if he has a better kit than you he will turn round and blow your head off with one shot - this 
 is very poor design. Movement of soldiers is still often quite clumsy and clunky.
  
  Another issue is that it is very difficult to distinguish friend from foe as the uniforms are very 
 much alike so expect to be punished for or receive a lot of team kills.
  
  As stated above, a lot is stolen from other games, for example SIDI which is the worst map as appears 
 in the demo is reminiscent of Ghost recon, Berlin looks very much like Half Life 2 with its towering 
 skyscrapers and blue / grey drab graphics, while Belgrade looks like a Call of Duty 2 Russian map. 
 The best maps by far in my opinion are Minsk which has to be beheld for its sheer scale and beauty 
 and Cerebere landing which is great for intense close combat infantry fighting. The thing is, I 
 became a little bored after a while because all of the maps are so similar.
  
  One of the best things about the game are the vehicles which can be quite fun, in addition to which, 
 flying is now easy and can be simply done with a mouse and keyboard. The downside is that infantry 
 are useless against vehicles unless you are playing as engineer kit with the rocket launcher.
 
  
  With regard to sound, there is nothing special here even though I'm running an X-FI Fatality soundcard. 
 The English cockney accent voice overs are very annoying. The music in my view doesnt compare to 
 BF2's catchy tunes.
  
  Onto the graphics, although it is the same engine, they are definately better than BF2 However 
 there are a lot of square and blocky objects, especially non playable vehicles and too many straight 
 lines which make the whole thing look unbelievable. The winter maps are just grey and drab. The 
 spawn screen is difficult to read without squinting due to the colours used and in Titan mode, 
 the blue Titan is often difficult to see on the spwan screen. That said, the first time I witnessed 
 an EMP strke, I thought my graphics card had blown - it is a really nice touch i have never seen 
 before in a game.
  
  I beleieve that there has been a massive missed opportunity in that there are no female player 
 models and it would be great to see ladies on the battlefield and plenty of girls do play the Battlefield 
 series - Hell they have even started letting women in the S. A. S. this week, so to think there will 
 be no female soldiers in 150 years time is plain ridiculous.
  
  Onto the new Titan mode - It is complicated and the game even comes with Titan mode training video, 
 but as far as I can see, it is a rehash combination of Assault and Onslaught modes found in Unreal 
 touranment 2004 ( I did say all the ideas were stolen didn't I !!!) .
  
  I found Titan great fun at first - I have to say that conquest mode doesnt really work for me in 
 this game and it is not as half as good as BF2 conquest. To put it simply, if you havent played 
 Titan, you havent played 2142. There are problems with regard to a lot of lag when inside a titan 
 which appears to be a bug. The aim of Titan is to capture missile silos (instead of flags) which 
 launch missiles onto the enemy titan. When the Titan's shield is down, you have to board the ship 
 and blow 4 consoles to make the whole ship blow up. This leads to intense infantry firefights inside 
 the Titan and it's a bit like MP quake 4, but for some reason I don't like this bit of the game, 
 especially with the annoying HL2 turrets
  
  Now the big one - Spy ware. I wish everyone would shut up whining. I havent seen an ingame ad yet. 
 I appreciate the views re invasion of privacy, but my only beef is that if games in the future 
 are to have such techniques ( who cares if Gordon Freeman picks up a can of coke as opposed to 
 a can of pepsi in Half Life 3 ) , is that they should retail at a substantially lower price.
  
  To put it simply, 2142 sometimes lacks atmosphere (especially in conquest mode) . When I play 
 BF2, I feel tense, and excited, my pulse races, I obey my commander, I gel on with my squad, I desperately 
 want to win the battle and rank up, but 2142 sometimes leaves me feeling bored.
  
  What concerns me is that 2142 has come out only 18 months after BF2 was released, which still has 
 a huge fan base. 2142 servers are all full at the moment but I don't think that will last. Further, 
 I suspect given the bugs (including points not being updated properly) that this game was rushed 
 out for the xmas market and to generate sales before the forthcoming release of the very similar 
 Unreal Tournament 2007 which is the standard bearer for this genre.
  
  To sum up, it is a very good game and well worth buying, however whether or not the disc will stay 
 in my drive as long as BF2 has, is another thing .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platearmor_6
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 20, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Amazing Because: Nice new Titan mode without lossing anothing off the original Conquest, Dozens 
 of unlocks, You die quicker making the game more tactical and Nice balancing between the teams.
 
  
  Dissapointing Because: Single player has gotten a little worse, Gaps in the backstory and the graphics 
 are getting a little old
  
  In 2142 the ice age has arrived and its forcing to giant factions (the EU and the PAC) to fight 
 over the last remaining land (North Africa) and there will only be one winner.
  
  Firstly if you liked the previous Battlefield games or anything along the lines of it then you'll 
 like this, eventually. Because really when you first start playing 2142 it will get a bit frustrating 
 at times, what with no grenades, explosive ordinance, any way to revive team mates and other little 
 accessories like that. But after you've been playing for about 30 mins to an hour you'll get your 
 first unlock and you will really be able to begin playing. In some ways this kind of makes the 
 gameplay a little slow and boring untill your first unlock but in other ways not having those accessories 
 means your gameplay will be constantly getting better as you move up the ranks. And it could take 
 up to weeks untill you work your way up to at least all the unlocks for your favourite class. There 
 are some things that annoyed me about the new kits and unlocks: Unlike Battlefield 2 this game 
 doesn't have an actual Special Forces class, instead it has a mix between the Special Forces and 
 the Sniper to make a new hybrid kit called Recon. This is a good idea except Special Forces was 
 my favourite kit and Sniper was my least, simple because I can't snipe. This is the same with alot 
 of the kits being the fact that theres only four kits. The kits look something like this, Recon 
 = Sniper + Special Forces, Assault = Assault + Medic, Support = Support, Engineer = Engineer + 
 AntiTank. To understand this you would have had to have been a Battlefield 2 player or have known 
 alot about the game.
  
  The graphics and sound. Know the graphics and sound are good. The graphics engine is taken from 
 Battlefield 2 which is a year old now, they still look great but don't quite keep up with the new 
 releases. As for sound well I have the Creative X-Fi and it cost me a bomb, it was worth it because 
 I'm playing with the sound quality up to ultra high but the sounds still don't come through as 
 good as some games. But still highly detailed.
  
  Single Player. Know the single player seems to have gotten a little worse since Battlefield 2 but 
 since this game isn't really well known for single player they didn't really need to improve it. 
 The AI seems to be a little sharper but there's only a tiny selection of maps, four or five.
  
  As for killing people well thats gotten better. It now only takes a burst of well aimed bullets 
 to kill someone so the firefights are alot more complex than going prone and shooting your entire 
 magazine worth of bullets at the enemy. You know have to move from cover to cover alot more and 
 use alot more tactics to flank and annihilate your enemy. With that said you get a great feeling 
 of victory when you haul yourself out of a big firefight victorious. Infact even getting overun 
 or retreating gets your adrenalin pumping and makes you fling around in your computer chair while 
 your trying to make your charecter dive behind cover with all thos bullets bouncing off the floor 
 and walls around you.
  
  Know I said the backstory above and I mentioned in the Dissapointments section that there was gaps 
 in the backstory to the game. Well these are the gaps. Europe and Russia are fighting over North 
 Africa, so what do the North Africans have to say about all this? Wheres America, Chinea, Japan 
 and the thousands of other countries in the world, PAC stands for Pan Asian Coalition but that 
 just seems to be a cool name they gave Russia. There are other things but this reviews getting 
 to long and I've still got one more thing to cover.
  
  The Titan Mode. Titan mode will apeal to alot of you. The basic aim is to take out the other teams 
 big ship that looms over the map, these ships are the Titans. To destroy the Titans your team must 
 capture missile silos instead of flags, these missile silos shoot at the Titan once every 8 minutes, 
 once these missile silos have taken down the Titans shield they while either keep fireing and battering 
 the hull of the Titan until its destroyed or you can bored the Titan and destroy various computer 
 consoles aboard untill the Titans reactor core is revealed. You then have to destroy the reactor 
 core, once this is destroyed it gives you a few seconds to get off the Titan before it actually 
 explodes, if you can get off of it in time you get bonus points. You will have to do this while 
 defending your own Titan and all the missile silos on the ground.
  
  Ok now this is the end of the review my final notes to are if you enjoy games like this or found 
 what I put in this review has made you want to try it, you can pick it up for &pound;34.99 since 
 it is a new release. There some last things I will warn you about, number one: don't try the demo 
 it doesn't do the game justice, and two the game comes with spyware that is effectivly harmless 
 and I think Spybot and Adware can remove it. Anyway I hope you found my review helpful and happy 
 gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isrxl
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  When it's working right, this game is awesome (same as with BF2) . However for it to work right 
 there has to be a blue moon and all the planets have to align.
  
  The developers have had a lot of time to work out all the bugs and glitches that plague this game 
 (which are really the same ones that plague BF2) and instead they concentrated on addon packs (for 
 BF2) . The day this game was realeased there was already a patch waiting for it... how lame is that... 
 but worse is the fact that there are still plenty of issues with it. I really hope they get all 
 things sorted out because I'd really like to play this game and enjoy some uninterrupted play for 
 achange. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SplinterCellSC2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I think some people who don't know what the series is all about, can be a little harsh when writing 
 a review so let me set the record straight.
  
  So, you're a hard core gamer = You'll find issues with this and every other game that comes out 
 after you've mastered a game that you like to play the most and will, by nature judge this and 
 every other game by it. Even the smallest things will bother you about it. Just try to step outside 
 a minute and don't be so judgmental, this is a really fun game and worth every penny.
  
  So, you're an occasional gamer = You'll love this game and get past the small things and enjoy 
 the different scenarios, weapons and vehicles. For example, one thing I have noticed is if you 
 accidentally double click your sprint button while in a walker, it will lag until you jump out 
 then back in. Then it clears right up. (Temporary cure - Don't double tap walk/sprint while in 
 the walker) The second thing is when you destroy the enemy's or the enemy destroys your Titan, 
 you may get a There is a problem with your connection error while the vid clip of the Exploding 
 Titan loads up, then it clears up. Other than that, I haven't had any issues with game play.
  
  So, you're a beginner = Don't be shy noobs! It's all good! The learning curve on this is pretty 
 fast. I would have to say, if you're familiar with games like UT2004 you should adapt fairly well. 
 To enjoy the game fully, you really need to have a good computer with at least a 256 vid card, 
 1gig RAM and a good sound card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jollyriot2k1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 20, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I was completely unimpressed by BF2142 - especially taking note of the hype. From an objective 
 perspective, gameplay hasn't changed a whole lot. It's the same old GOOD bf2. But that's it, it 
 plays exactly the same as bf2. Titan's mode brings a mild variance to how the game works - but 
 nobody seems to care about it when you play online. So, basically the first team to hold the points 
 the longest wins like traditional BF2. The lack of any sort of fast air vehicle is laughable too 
 - why would they not have them in the future.
  
  Graphics are good but they havn't really taken a step up from BF2. They certainly aren't cutting 
 edge. As far as the sci-fi setting goes, some of the visuals are pretty cool.
  
  Sounds are awesome, for the first 5 minutes I played the game this is what jumped out at me.
 
  
  By this time I've ran out of good things to say. My major criticisms of BF2142 are how the game 
 seems to be built on a pretty much unchanged BF2 engine. This IS an expansion for BF2, it's being 
 marketed as a standalone product. In comparison to the pitiful expansion for BF2 and the booster 
 packs - yes there is a lot more content than those. However, they were pitiful on their own.
  
  Basically, this game is BF2 with new models - if you're good at BF2 you'll be good at this 
 from day 1. It doesn't matter that you're not familiar with the weapons and vehicles - because 
 it's all the same.
  
  As a final insult to injury, EA slides in the adware without telling the user or giving them an 
 option to not run it - this is why my reviewer's tilt is so low. If you buy an overpriced expansion, 
 the last thing you want is adware jumping into your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midn8t
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  the dog tag thing dosnt work, they said that it will show you list of dag tags you collected and 
 names of those who killed with know this dosnt actully happent, exmaple i got 4 dog tags and 24 
 hours latter i get scroe for them but at same time i didnt get dog tags for anything i did bettween 
 that time and time i they actulyl showed up on top of that there is no place to view dog tags actulyl 
 colleted it just gives a stat 3 or 4 dog tags collected and 3 or 4 uniqe diffrent dog tags, no 
 where dose it say who you killed with kiife nore dose it show you any of the dog tags. Game creats 
 Lag in titan mode, when ever command moves titan it creats larg amounts of lag cross whole server, 
 making it almost unplay able when your actully on the titan trying to fight.
  
  also is bugged with huge amounts of Master server kicks.
  
  You have to log into master server 
 and you have to stay connected to master server even though you log on to a ranked server so if 
 you ping gets to high for master server or the server your on becuase of the 2 connections 2142 
 has to maintain, you will end up getting kicked off from one or the othere.
  
  if in list it says you server pings at 32 or 50 chances are you will have a 70 to 80 in game. if 
 it 60 70 or 80 in the server list you will have around 100 ping in game.
  
  if you trying to play this on a DSL or cable line of with connection speed of 6 MB download and 
 512 up and are playing with frineds, watch the pings hit high.
  
  example you have to be connect to master server and bf2142 server but so do each one of your frineds.
 
  and chances of getting booted off master server are very likly.
  
  I gave game play a 6 becuase its fun to play but wiht number of random boots of master server, 
 its sometimes unplayable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anticlaus
Rating: 3.3
Date: Oct 20, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  As has been said before, this is basically a mod for BF2. The only really new thing is the Titan 
 mode. So you now have a whole 2 different modes to play. An increase from 1 in BF2. A good FPS 
 has several different game modes. Other then that, everything else is just reskined weapons and 
 vehicles, new maps and a bigger unlock tree , which is nice. For $50, that's not enough. Add to 
 the fact that EA is making big bucks from the in-game advertising, it's obvious they are just out 
 to make as much money as possible with as little effort as they can.
  
  There are plenty of other games to play these days. Go find one you'll like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VictorMazzi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 20, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Despite what you might see floating around the internet, the reports and reviews that say the game 
 has spyware built into it are false in their content, or are generally misrepresenting the game. 
 The fact of the matter is that Battlefield 2142 is a worthy part of the Battlefield series, despite 
 some bugs in the ranking system.
  
  First, the bad parts:
  --&gt; The rank system is currently badly bugged. You'll find that in some cases, your soldier 
 will not advance in rank. Since all unlocks are made available through points earned in rank advancements, 
 it can make the game rough to play, since you wont be able to access special weapons or tools.
 
  --&gt; If you're running Windows Vista, you might run into some driver-related problems. Make 
 sure your drivers are up-to-date, and you should have any problems.
  
  Second, the Spyware issue:
  --&gt; You'll see it floating around the forums at EA, here at Gamespot, 
 and in other various places that BF2142 has spyware in it. Despite what you may have read, these 
 reports are false. Since Spyware is generally software that is used to collect personal information 
 off your computer without your knowledge, the program that comes with BF2142 isn't that at all. 
 It's been clearly stated on the card that comes with EVERY copy of the game that software doesn't 
 take any information that is personally identifiable , nor does the company involved (IGA, if your 
 curious) ask EA for such information.
  --&gt; And for those wondering if EA plans to remove this program, don't look forward to it. According 
 to EA in a news release, the program is integrated into the game itself. It's doubtful at best 
 that they ever plan to remove it.
  
  Third, the good parts:
  --&gt; The sound, is by far, the best part. The music is not notable is being great, since many 
 tracks seem to have come from BF2. The sounds of gunfire, artillery, and other ingame effects are 
 incredible, and remind me of Call of Duty 2.
  --&gt; The graphics are good eye-candy. New textures for new features are awesome to behold at 
 first. The lack of a new engine means it's almost the exact same thing you've seen in BF2, just 
 with cleaner and better looking textures.
  --&gt; Titan mode is lots of fun. In many ways, it will remind you of Conquest mode, as the element 
 of controlling points remains. However, you wont run out of tickets until your titan is destroyed. 
 Defending your titan or attacking another players titan are equally interesting things to do.
 
  --&gt; The character kits (Recon, Assault, Engineer, and Support) are all pretty much the same 
 as BF2, but upgraded for the near future. The vehicles are strangely reminicent of Planetside, 
 with VTOL jetcraft and bipedal armored vehicles.
  
  Overall, the game is a lot of fun to play, once you get around the ranking system bugs and false 
 reports of spyware. Once the ranking system is fixed, the game will become many times better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keith4RFC17
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 20, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  Battelfield 2142 has too much in common with Battelfield 2 thats where they have went wrong they 
 have not opted for much diffrence, their graphics are starting to get old now their pretty much 
 similiar to the ones in Battelfield 2 not any better in other words the only real diffrence is 
 the fact they have changed into a more futuristic feel but the vehiciles are just decorated diffrently 
 shooting guns which have the same capabilitys of the ones in battelfield 2 i personally didnt like 
 the sounds of the guns im probably the only one that thinks this but they just dont sound good 
 i like too hear a gun with a Bang sound not a Squeaky sound a gun that is Squeaky sounds weak lol.
 
  
  When i look at the plus side of buying Battelfield 2 their is more new maps crazier than ever and 
 a new mode (finally!!) called Titan i dont want to explain it but its diffrent from playing the 
 usual conquest mode .
  
  I would reccomend most of use sticking to Battelfield 2 their is no reason to rush out to get this 
 game but for use that are getting sick of playing the same old maps in Battelfield 2 yes you probably 
 should get it its cheap anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 20, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  Positive:
  -great sound (as in battle sounds; music ... well, nothing to brag about)
  -decent graphics (better than in BF 2)
  
  Negative:
  -preinstalled adware (I won't call it 
 spyware, but it's close)
  -crippled singleplayer (5 maps for $50)
  -a huge unlocking system that benefits people who don't have anything else to do but play this 
 game in multiplayer mode for hours (why are weapons locked and can't be unlocked in singleplayer 
 since it doesn't affect more competitive online multiplayer experience)
  
  Other (mildly negative) :
  -weapons and vehicles are good, but they seem to be a few decades away 
 from reality not 150 years
  -knife? ... wtf ... 150 years from know, a knife just doesn't belong. What's the unlockable upgrade 
 kit for knife -- five medium size rocks and a baseball bat? Which brings another point ... dog 
 tags -- lol, make it a chip implant more likely
  -weapons reloading time, recoil, accuracy, etc ... not much improvement since AK-47
  -game loads/reloads 
 as slow as BF2
  
  Gameplay: 1 for singleplayer; 7 for multiplayer - overall: 4. Not all of us have the time or desire 
 to spend hours playing this game with total strangers. Sad thing is that the longer the game stays 
 as a popular online multiplayer the more it gets populated by a$$holes &amp; cheaters -- it becomes 
 a waste of time for others who just want to have fun.
  
  Graphics: 8.5 -- to me they look better than BF 2.
  
  Sound: 9.5 -- great sound.
  
  Value: 
 1 for singleplayer; 5 for multiplayer - overall: 3. $50 is lots of money for, basically, a BF 2 
 mod. And if that wasn't enough, EA decided to supplement their bottom line with in-game ads (a 
 very bad move) .
  
  Tilt: 2 -- mostly because in-game ads. It does change the impression of the company who does that. 
 ... and a stupid suggestion (to paraphrase EA) : if you are bothered by it don't connect to the 
 internet ... but you need to connect to the internet to play the game. Doesn't make much sense.
 
  
  Overall, if one is an online game addict with nothing else to do this may be a really great game. 
 Otherwise, for others there is a certain amount of fun like in other BF2 titles but don't expect 
 too much from it. If you are still curious ... download a demo, play the game at your friend's, 
 or wait until its price comes down. Definitively not worth $50 .. or $49.95 to be more precise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markt50
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  This is really quite poor. Putting aside the issue of ingame advertising for a moment, what we 
 have heare is basically a very average game that should have been released as a mod for BF2 or 
 at a budget price.
  
  The graphics are ok, if you've played BF2 then you know what to expect. I personally find the futuristic 
 vehicles look a bit ugly and angular, but for the most part it looked nice and ran well on my high 
 spec system. The sound is ok. The gameplay is ok, again if you've played BF2 then you know what 
 to expect. They have added a new Titan mode to the game, but I found it didn't add that much really.
 
  
  And this is the problem with BF2142, everything is just OK, there is nothing to make it stand out 
 or to make it special. Somehow it has lost that magic touch BF2 had. I used to feel very intense 
 during firefights in BF2. I've yet to get the same feeling in BF2142.
  
  Now onto the advertising. I hate the idea. I know some people don't mind it but I feel that if 
 it is successful then it will ruin gaming. I think EA should be ashamed for allowing the system 
 in BF2142. I find myself in a position of hoping that the game is a commercial failure, purely 
 so that it stops other companies from doing this. As such I have halved the scores I've given this 
 game. I would have given it a very average 6/10. Instead it gets a 3/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghoward79
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  This happens in all series eventually - a steep decline, drastic drop, sudden shift in the game 
 after numerous or even a single success. I rate this so poorly because I use BF42 and BF2 as the 
 standard and believe me this ain't no BF2 . I don't know where to start and I'll keep it short 
 -
  1. graphics slow down over previous version (s) .
  2. lower level lethality vehicles over prev vers. (see cobra helo in BF2 it would dominate this 
 new world. Even an Abrams tank would and don't even mention BF2 jets versus this new world. )
 
  3. Boring maps/worlds.
  4. Boring vehicles.
  
  I spent a fair amount of pocket change for this - I've already deleted it from my hard drive. Some 
 will love it, some people love AM/PM hamburgers too but I'll stick to a more nutritious meal and 
 continue playing BF2 and possibly try some of the great mods for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlkcoil01
Rating: 3.3
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:34 am PT
Review:  I have something to say about the game, but first lets talk about the producers of software games, 
 such as EA, they need to learn a clear lesson. FINISH THE PRODUCT FIRST BEFORE RELEASING IT!!!! 
 I'm at the point where I'm strongly considering refraining from purchasing anymore software games. 
 This is ridiculous for a franchise like BATTLE FIELD for EA to do such a thing once again, by producing 
 and releasing an unfinished product --makes no sense at all!
  
  What's with the inability to interact with the surrounding environment? By now EA should be able 
 to develop surroundings that are more interactive. Come on now, calling a game to be a leap forward 
 when its just a suped-up mod is wrong in every respect!!! Its time to for us players to boycott 
 games that is unfinished like this one. I'm all for it now and have grown tired of being overcharged 
 for uncompleted games like this one. Now software distributors are going to start placing advertisements 
 in the game by taking peoples personal information through ADWARE. This is also totally wrong. 
 We have to see commercials in movie theaters these days and now we have to see them in games. Come 
 on now! I didn't pay $50 to have my information stolen through ADWARE, which is not clearly disclosed 
 on the packaging. I'M ABSOLUTELY OPPOSED TO AD's being introduced into games in this fashion without 
 permission of the buyer first at the time of purchase. This was definitely foul for EA not to place 
 this information on the packaging. If they did, then I'm sure that many of us would refrain from 
 purchasing this game. Now regarding the game, the setting and environment is good. Game play is 
 similar to BF2, but repackaged almost like a suped-up mod (I repeated myself here) . The effects, 
 sound and so on have improved, but the load times and jumpy images from time to time are still 
 present. When are these going to be fixed? Why does a patch need to be prepared? Its clear that 
 EA had plenty of time to make the corrections. I'm sure they have the necessary funding and so 
 on required to do so. The game setting is decent and an improvement, but the interaction with the 
 surroundings is still lacking --should be able to break things like glass, walls and so on. Bullet 
 holes in the wall or dings are not enough for a game like this. Remember its supposed to be a 
 BATTLEFIELD. Its a good continuance of the series, but its time to make a real leap forward and 
 change the game by adding real spice to it. It reminds me of what Microsoft did to the XBOX. Microsoft 
 called XBOX 360 a leap forward, but it was only a minor leap that produced XBOX 1.5 and not XBOX 
 II. The technology and tools to make the change is now available. Game play is solid, but with 
 some unnecessary lengthy load times and crashes. Enough said here. Also the single player game 
 show some improvement, but not a clear leap forward. EA should have included more single player 
 missions, especially since many of us do not like the idea of ADWARE being built into the game. 
 The BOTS in single player have been improved some, not totally human like, but a little closer. 
 What's with having only two factions? Where's the snow and ice? One added caveat. The gore level 
 is dummied down in light of what we can find in most games today to produce an intense (sometimes 
 exhaustive) gaming experience. This I appreciate, because it helps me to maintain the understanding 
 that I'm playing a game. When a game reflects reality too realistically, why buy it? Games should 
 only take you away from the real world from time to time. I give EA kudos in this case.
  
  Don't care much for having to ramp up points (that becomes more difficult to acquire as one achieves 
 each level of experience) to acquire improvements to upgrade. What's with the bug regarding the 
 points to acquire the next mod level? Come on now, should not have to wait for a patch. Lasers 
 and so on would have definitely been a nice addition to the game. Perhaps next time EA will finally 
 get it right and choose to make the game the way it should be made... A finished product without 
 having to create a litany of patches. Our money we spend on these games is hard earned. What happened 
 to QUALITY? Oh! Still need to take time to learn the keyboard functions and so on, but once one 
 grasps each function the game becomes more manageable. Vets will have no problem, but nubies 
 are faced with a challenge - - still will have fun though.
  
  All said and done as far as the game itself, I give it a score of 8.3, due to the game not being 
 a true leap forward at this point by EA continuing to use an engine that is clearly dated and on 
 its last legs. (HINT! HINT!) BF1942 and BF2 are still the champs in the series to date. Because 
 of the egregious approach that EA has chosen to permit consumer's personal information to be taken 
 without their approval through hidden ADWARE included in the game, I also give the game a rating 
 of -6 demerits, thus making the game rate a 3.3 in my book. My apologies here, but hidden trackers 
 and so on are absolutely abominable in my book. CONSUMERS HAVE THE RIGHT TO KNOW!
  
  WRONG WAY TO GO TO INCLUDE ADS in the game through ADWARE. Its one thing to have objects designed 
 into the game to promote products and so on, but another when information can be collected from 
 a gamer's computer without the gamer being aware of it.
  
  ENOUGH SAID!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydrith
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  Despite what you might see floating around the internet, the reports and reviews that say the game 
 has spyware built into it are false in their content, or are generally misrepresenting the game. 
 The fact of the matter is that Battlefield 2142 is a worthy part of the Battlefield series, despite 
 some bugs in the ranking system.
  
  First, the bad parts:
  --&gt; The rank system is currently badly bugged. You'll find that in some cases, your soldier 
 will not advance in rank. Since all unlocks are made available through points earned in rank advancements, 
 it can make the game rough to play, since you wont be able to access special weapons or tools.
 
  --&gt; If you're running Windows Vista, you might run into some driver-related problems. Make 
 sure your drivers are up-to-date, and you should have any problems.
  
  Second, the Spyware issue:
  --&gt; You'll see it floating around the forums at EA, here at Gamespot, 
 and in other various places that BF2142 has spyware in it. Despite what you may have read, these 
 reports are false. Since Spyware is generally software that is used to collect personal information 
 off your computer without your knowledge, the program that comes with BF2142 isn't that at all. 
 It's been clearly stated on the card that comes with EVERY copy of the game that software doesn't 
 take any information that is personally identifiable , nor does the company involved (IGA, if your 
 curious) ask EA for such information.
  --&gt; And for those wondering if EA plans to remove this program, don't look forward to it. According 
 to EA in a news release, the program is integrated into the game itself. It's doubtful at best 
 that they ever plan to remove it.
  
  Third, the good parts:
  --&gt; The sound, is by far, the best part. The music is not notable is being great, since many 
 tracks seem to have come from BF2. The sounds of gunfire, artillery, and other ingame effects are 
 incredible, and remind me of Call of Duty 2.
  --&gt; The graphics are good eye-candy. New textures for new features are awesome to behold at 
 first. The lack of a new engine means it's almost the exact same thing you've seen in BF2, just 
 with cleaner and better looking textures.
  --&gt; Titan mode is lots of fun. In many ways, it will remind you of Conquest mode, as the element 
 of controlling points remains. However, you wont run out of tickets until your titan is destroyed. 
 Defending your titan or attacking another players titan are equally interesting things to do.
 
  --&gt; The character kits (Recon, Assault, Engineer, and Support) are all pretty much the same 
 as BF2, but upgraded for the near future. The vehicles are strangely reminicent of Planetside, 
 with VTOL jetcraft and bipedal armored vehicles.
  
  Overall, the game is a lot of fun to play, once you get around the ranking system bugs and false 
 reports of spyware. Once the ranking system is fixed, the game will become many times better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NatsoFungai
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  The game is a blast to play. kinda hard at first when you go against players with a few more hours 
 under their belts but there is something to do for everybody. even if you cant drive or fly or 
 hold a gun straight its easy to just hop in a vehicle with another person and just run a turret. 
 there are a few problems i have encountered so far. i get randomly booted from games from either 
 punkbuster or just plain disconnect, even though i opened up all 16 ports on the router, THATS 
 RIGHT 16 ports. had a problem where no matter what nothing could take down either titan shield 
 but hell. this game is the son you love but dont like to talk about. it will caus you anger and 
 frustration but in the end you still cant get enough of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandojones
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot better that BF2. The maps are kind of big, but it's not bad. Love the new lighting 
 effects and the graphics are a little better than BF2. On my computer, which is a 7800GTX and a 
 amd3800 (single core) , it runs at around 23 fps with all high and 2x AA. In the titan it is very 
 laggy when the commander moves it and jerks you around. I also like the attack hellicopters, they 
 are kind of like the jets, but are slower but better. I think anybody who likes BF2 will like this 
 and the people that gave it a bad review just didn't take advantage of all of the new things in 
 it and didn't play more than a hour. So if you gave it a bad review keep the bad out of your head 
 (that you think is bad) and just enjoy it!! Have fun.... i will!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Al_Pomo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Owning every other Battlefield game out there, I can say for sure that this game blows them all 
 out of the water. The futuristic setting allowed the developers to incorporate tons of new features, 
 from stealth-camouflage to walking robots, and the awesome new Titan mode, which is a refreshing 
 change of pace from the classic Conquest mode. My favorite upgrade is the new unlock system, which 
 is far better than the previous game's, allowing up to 40 unlock-able guns, devices, and enhancers. 
 Some people have complained about internet problems or Spyware, but for me this game runs more 
 smoothly than any others in the series. Thumbs freaking up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Focher
Rating: 3.4
Date: Oct 19, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  No widescreen. No new engine. Still long load times. Ads. Thanks but no thanks. Another example 
 of rehashed stuff with a different skin. If you accept this, I hope you aren't one of the people 
 complaining about a lack of truly new games. I have nothing else to say about it but because I 
 am required to have at least 100 words I will just keep on writing and even will make this into 
 a very long run on sentence that hopefully no one will read but obviously your are still reading 
 it so you must not understand grammar very well or perhaps you do but you like to read poorly written 
 things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  ###Now with the 1.40 patch released..... wait.... it is not out yet? That is right, we have had a 
 1.20 and a1.25 and a 1.40 Beta. The 1.40 Beta has been out for about three months now and from 
 what I am hearing it is a major disappointment. Not only have many of the major bugs been ignored, 
 some have been made worse. Was funny to hear a member of the developement team talk about leaving 
 in an exploit because it could be fun . I can't believe that attitude. Leave in a exploit???? Well 
 anyway, EA/Dice seem that they are not willing to clean up the current game. As far as I am concerned... the 
 BF series is about dead! While I had a lot of fun playing this game prior to the 1.25 patch, it 
 has become tedious just to watch the exploits/cheats happening. And on top of that, there are new 
 bugs that have been point out to EA which they simply wish to ignore. I am so disappointed with 
 EA's attitude. No more! I have sworn off all EA product. So long EA!
  
  ***Now with Patch 1.10 out I reviewed my first review. Everything still applies but there are still 
 some issues with lag and exploits. These need to be addressed. This game could be a hit if those 
 glaring bugs are squashed.
  
  BF2142 is in fact an excellent addition to the BF series. As with all additional games in the series 
 there are improvements. One major one to me is the game interface. Going back to the the first 
 Battlefield 1942 game the interface was always buggy and clunky. Had some interesting features 
 that never actually worked or were finally fixed with many patches. BF2142 has improved the interface 
 out of the box. So far I have found very few of the niggling bugs that seems to follow this seris 
 as far as the interface and the game in general go. Yes, there are still the occasional CTD and 
 a couple of graphical glicthes from time to time but most of these seem to have been smoothed out 
 over BF2142's older name sake. The real concern I have is that this game like its predessors will 
 find far too many hackers, cheats and cheaters. In a very recent game I actually caught several 
 people stat padding and do so very openly. Won't go into details but these things tend to make 
 this game, like it's predecessors, less fun to play and much less likely to have longevity on my 
 hard drive. At least for now, it is fresh and fun so I will continue to play till it gets out of 
 hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigyxs
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand why some people are not happy with this game. I've heard it said that it's just 
 like BF2 but with different skins. What would you say if it was a completely different game? Quit 
 complaining about a game that is sticking to it's roots. This is how good games end up ruined. 
 People cry about how the next in a series isn't all that different. So then they change it up real 
 good and put out a game you hate with the name BF slapped on it.
  
  Its a good game. It's fun. Titan mode rocks. The unlocks are fun. And best of all, its still BF. 
 =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehkillerkoala
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 19, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  If you own BF2, just keep playing it instead of this MOD!! of it with no point but shoot at people 
 once you see them, which doesn't occur often enough due to the maps. The gameplay is same old same 
 old BF style (you know, commanders calling air strikes on their own bases and people crashing helicopters 
 before they take off) . The graphics are the exact same as BF2... The sound is decent. The value 
 is 0, but this system only goes to one. I cannot stress this enough, THIS IS THE SAME GAME WITH 
 DIFFERENT SKINS, so dont give EA your money unless... well.... just don't. All of this said, the 
 biggest issue still remains. The spyware that scans your computers files and internet pages recently 
 visited. This may not seem like much to some of you, but if gamers allow invasion of privacy on 
 mass marketing companies, it could progress to a much worse thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kninetik
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Conquest mode feels like BF2 dressed in different colors. Titan mode on the other hand is just 
 plain fun. Whether you're pushed against the wall trying to keep the enemy from destroying your 
 titan or on the offense trying to destroy thiers, it's a thrilling battle every time. Narrow corridors 
 camped by a squad ready to fight for thier console, riding the chopper to land on a titan, sneaking 
 around stealing silos when there is a battle overhead, getting that new unlock, using the cannons 
 on the titan to bombard a silo, etc etc... its in one short word: fun
  
  A definate welcome is the combination of classes. No longer is an engineer a puny repairman, he 
 is now outfitted to go tankhunting as well. Vehicles feel just right as well. Aircrafts no longer 
 dominate mercilessly. Land vehicles are a plenty but hiking from one point to another is like a 
 death sentence. Also, it seems vehicles have been designed to give the players incentive to pair 
 up instead of going solo.
  
  Gameplay: 9 - Titan mode is great and I will not be going back to conquest mode anytime soon. The 
 minor drawback is that infantry have it pretty bad when it comes to getting from one area to another. 
 Vehicles are heavily depended upon to get anywhere.
  
  Graphics: 9 - Solid graphics though nothing really stands out to give it the best rating possible.
 
  
  Sound: 10 - Its very easy to tell what is approaching, shooting, destroyed, etc. Value: 5 - As 
 many people might say, this does feel like a mod to BF2 rather than a built from the ground up 
 game.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10 - Titan Mode is just a blast to play. I've uninstalled the other FPS games 
 because I am hopelessly hooked onto it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1029
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This game has got to be the greatest game in the series. It is fast paced and refreshing. The newly 
 developed Titan game mode adds a whole new and extremely fun challenge to the mix, along with the 
 classic conquest mode. I got this game the day it came out and played for nearly 12 hours straight... not 
 that I'm a geek and like playing computer games all the time, but because it is really that addicting. 
 The graphics are awesome, especially when run on two 7900GTs in SLI. It is much like Battlefield 
 2 in most of the gameplay, but the points are harder to come by. The highest score in a single 
 round that I have seen has been around 40, in comparison to 300+ in Battlefield 2. So even though 
 the ranks are much closer together as far as points go, it is also harder to achieve points. This 
 leads you to develop new strategy and take advantage of the squad point bonuses. All in all, and 
 freaking awesome game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDisciple90
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Though you wouldn't think it if you looked in the forums.. or some of the other reviews, this game 
 is a vast improvement over Battlefield 2. If you enjoyed countless hours of your life lost from 
 playing BF2, then you will absolutely love this game. If you are a newcomer to the series, then 
 it will simply put, blow you away. The gameplay is fast and frantic, and as long as you aren't 
 caught up in realism, the most intense battles in gaming history can be experienced here, and no, 
 that is not an exaggeration. The seemingly endless flood of angry posts would lead anyone to believe 
 that this is an over hyped, buggy game with Ads at every turn and spyware to steal your private 
 information. THIS IS NOT THE CASE. Just in case you missed it.... THIS IS NOT THE CASE. There is 
 NO adware OR spyware in this game, period. As far as intrusive ads getting in the way while playing, 
 I have yet to see (or notice mind you) a single ad in the game, either they are very rare, or I 
 am having too much fun to even notice them, in any case, Battlefield 2142 is a can't miss game 
 for any gamers, not just FPS fans. All in all, it may not be the revolutionary game on which it 
 was based, but ask yourself, is it more likely that the game is just inferior, or is it that Battlefield 
 2 hit the nail on the head so hard that it took the whole wall down, and creating something head 
 over heels better is just not possible right now? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt_Wuggles
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  AWSOME!!!!!!!!!!!!! I love it All the fans of the battlefield series will feel right at home! this 
 latest instalment to the Battlefield series is a great one! it is set in an post apacoliptic world 
 were an ice age has struk the northern half of earth!
  The world is devided into six fractions an the fight for survival is on! game features:
  
  
 -2 playable armies
  -1000+ posible costomizations
  -64 player online
  -many unlockables
  -great global ranking Yup!
  
  this game in great! go and buy it! but beaware!!!! 
 if ur computer isnt powerful it wont run!!!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . .. . . . . . . .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valyndir
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is an excellent addition to the series that once revolutionized the online gaming 
 market. While it still has its own set of issues that need to be corrected, it keeps the better 
 parts of Battlefield 2 while improving on some of the drawbacks. While this game is certainly not 
 as groundbreaking as the original Battlefield, it still makes for a fun, fast paced experience.
 
  
  I'll start with the pros, while battlefield 2142 takes place more than 135 years in the future, 
 it still feels very realistic. It moves in a direction that perhaps technology will one day take, 
 not overly futuristic but certainly more advanced than anything we have today. The addition of 
 customization is a good feature that allows the player to outfit themselves in a way more befitting 
 of a situation. However, it must be said that the customization falls short of what a lot of people 
 were expecting, there are only certain upgrades for each class, thus preventing an engineer from 
 healing and etc. One of the biggest upgrades that was found with Battlefield 2142 is the optimization 
 of the engine in conquest mode, where even the most modern of computers have issues running the 
 2nd entry of the series, a medium specced computer can run 2142 very well.
  
  Now the flaws, the most glaring of which in my opinion is the Titan mode twitching and lag. It 
 almost feels like the collision detection is being pushed to a breaking point even. Small gun twitches 
 and lag also tend to show up even when run with good specifications and stable Internet connection. 
 The futuristic feel of the game is also not something everyone will enjoy. Finally, the customization, 
 as stated before is hyped up to be more than it really is, the limits are certainly there.
  
  In summary, Battlefield 2142 is a magnificent game without being groundbreaking or pushing 
 any sort of technical or gameplay boundaries. It stays to what has been tried, tested and true, 
 but places that in a different venue. Once patches are released correcting the issues with Titan 
 mode, I feel EA will have done the series justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laureanSL
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 19, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  Of course there will be kids that will notice the nice looking graphics, the high quality sound, 
 the weapons design, the robots or other features that made the dying BF franchise so popular but 
 the truth is I was surprised this was passed as a standalone game and not as a BF2 mod.
  There is no real improvement over its predecessor, it sucks all the way from concepts to implementation 
 and even in titan mode it's not a goal oriented game. Exactly how stupid and / childish do EA and 
 DICE think we are?
  
  But since I am to write an unbiased evaluation then yes, the 2142 game is the best that could be 
 achieved with the past engine and as long as you just want to run around and shoot 'tards then 
 this is definitely your game and a necessary evolutionary step in your development as a gamer I 
 might add. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cozu
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 19, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  To all who loves games. In this case BF 2142 I must say is an excelent game and the graphics are 
 pretty good. But what i didn&acute; t like from this new version is the objective of the game. So 
 far in the MP Demo, attacking one big kind of starship, i dont see any exciting thing. In BF 2 
 at least the reason was to recover the peace in somre regions. In this new version if the objective 
 is just kill everyone in the field, mmmm i don&acute; t like that too much, I mean we can do that 
 in FEAR or HALO.
  This is just a point of view.
  Thanks
  
  Gabe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgandy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 19, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  The game and play is amazing. I do not like that the aircraft are so much easier to fly. That separated 
 skillful in BF2. Pretty much a monkey can fly in this one.
  
  However, money hungry corporates added advertising spyware in the game to make an aditional buck. 
 O, and there is a disclaimer saying if you do not agree with this spyware then do not install the 
 game on any computer that connects to the internet. And that we can pretty much send the data we 
 collect to anyone and anywhere. Joy. I just hope the money hungry slugs to not ruin something good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 19, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  Okay just going to make this quick...
  New Stuff From BF2:
  -Smoother Graphics Surfaces (souped engine)
  -Smarter SP AI (dont walk in circles or get stuck 
 behind buildings)
  -Cool New Weapons &amp; Vehicles
  -Fresh Maps
  -No Bugs At Release (So Far)
  -Cool Effects Such As The Shaky-Cam (Imagine Killzone Camera) , Great 
 Explosion Effects (Supases BF2 By A Mile) , AI Is Simply Brutal &amp; Intelligent Now (Nice Little 
 Hand Signals At You When You Hit Friendly Fire) .
  
  Bad Stuff In Same Order To The Above List:
  -Could Have Passed To Save 20.00 And A Whole New 
 DL
  -AI Cant Go Titan Mode!
  -Kits Need To Be Moded For Diff. Weapon Use (Unlocks Only Able To Use In SP If Unlocked On MP Games 
 And Are Signed Into EA When Playing SP) , Also... The Walker Is A Little Too Overpowering And Active 
 Defense Shields Just Seem Too Far Fetched (And The Weapons Have To Be Tweaked If You Play SP, As 
 They All Suck In Terms of Power, Just Like BF2) .
  -Only 5 SP 16p Sized Maps For SP Use And NO TITAN! Despite The Bots Not Being Able To Board Your 
 Titan And Do All The Complicated (Repetative) Actions To Actually Destroy The Titan Ship Inside 
 To Out EA Could Have Atleast Made It Possible To Play It On SP So You Can Board The Enemy Bot Team's 
 Titan (If Only For Practice Even!) .
  -No Bugs Yet But I Am Waiting!
  -New Effects &amp; Tweaks Make For A Good Experience But The Dated Engine Really Holds It Back 
 From What It Could Have Been (Battlefield 2142: Source, LOL!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 19, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  First off, I pretty much need to note this spyware that many of our Chicken Little's have been 
 screaming about. Looking at it, and there is nothing evasive being installed. My system has not 
 slowed down since installing BF2142, and the Communists aren't taking over, so for some of you 
 out there chill. This isn't another starforce.
  
  In fact I have dealt with more Ads in Anarchy Online than in BF2142. To the game itself:
  
 
  Graphically, this game uses the same engine as it's predecssor. For some this will cause a few 
 moans, and groans. For others it will give a nice sigh of relief. Like, I had stated this title 
 does use the same engine as BF2 so if you are familar with the character models, and terrain its 
 in here. Overall, graphically this game isn't rough at all for me to run. (An X1950XTX, really 
 has no issues running BF2142. If it did I would have been shocked.
  
  Audio, same fare as before, it offers the same types of audio capabilities, and my Soundblaster 
 X-Fi eats it up.
  
  Gameplay, if you enjoy BF2, but want a futuristic appeal you will like this. Each of the vehicles 
 have both their own strengths, and weaknesses. The notable Walkers, are powerful, but they are 
 not the bipedal tanks to rule all. I have found the walkers to be a bane to the ground pounders, 
 and stand out more like a sore thumb on the battlefield. Air isn't too much of a bane in this battlefield. 
 Light vehicles have their own ways to mess with the competition, but requires something notable, 
 teamwork!
  
  On foot you are are eqiuped to handle alot, but once you start upgrading you weapons, and kits 
 you will make even vehicles fear you. An EMP grenade is a very effective tool to screw a walker, 
 and tanks day. Melee, is more personal now since when you kill with a knife you take that enemies 
 dogtags, and it stays in your record permanently. So its a badge of honor, and shows who really 
 has an A game, and whos just is a wannabe.
  
  Overall, this isn't worth a 9 , but is nice and stable enough in my opinion to recieve an 8 , just 
 out of merit and features. MY dissipontment is that this title isn't really so much of an upgrade 
 from BF2, but the battlefield does happen to have a significant change. nice game lets hope with 
 future patches EA/DICE doesn't screw it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christian111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  this game may be a so called mod for BF2 i wouldnt know i didnt play BF2 its a great game otherwise 
 its fun and exciting if you think its just a crapy mod then it is just a crapy mod to you. i personaly 
 liked it anyways on to the technical stuff.
  the gameplay is well great always has been in battle field games. the weapons are well balanced 
 and if used correctly can be extreamly deadly. so if you complain you cant kill a walker with a 
 rocket launcher you just dont know how to use the rockett launcher correctly cause i have done 
 it plenty of times. the graphics are fine for an online game i have seen much better and much worse 
 so no complaints there the sound is well amazing the music is great and so are the sound effects 
 for the weapons. i like the new game mode cause i like indoor fighting i think its more frantic 
 and hectic a lot of fun. i like the viechles i think they are very balanced aparently they wernt 
 in BF2 cant say for sure though. the great thing about this and other Bf games is that they have 
 amazing replay value makes it worth the money. BF 2142 has great replayy value because of its persistance 
 upgrades which makes it even more worht it cause im one of those geeks that will sit there for 
 hours and get all of the upgrades haha over all good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: De3emon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 18, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This is clearly NOT a mod.
  
  After Battlefield 2 with this you will see the same engine but new menus, gameplay (mostly) , tons 
 of features and the load times are lower with higher frame rates.
  
  This could not all be done in a mod for Battlefield 2 unless you made the game worse in terms of 
 size, quality and playability. I find this a step upwards for the game and i find the game worth 
 the $50.
  
  You people have to lok past the price and how alike it is to Battlefield 2 and you can see that 
 the game is a full game, and that the gameplay is what many (including me) find better than battlefield 
 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctaStrangelov
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Highs: Great Graphics, excellent new game mode, much improved ranking/traking system, more focus 
 on teamwork, great new weapons, gadgets and equipment, lightning fast load times, stunningly audio 
 quality.
  
  Lows: a few minor bugs.
  
  Now people have been trying hard to find bad things about this game. And so far the only reasonable 
 one I could find is I just don't like the future setting . This game is all the things we loved 
 about BF2 but improved, increased and suped up. Between the mega fasted paced chaos of the Battlefield 
 to the rewarding feeling of earning a new weapon you are going to love this game. The gameplay 
 now has a higher focus on how well you work in a squad than how many people you can revieve. While 
 kills only get you one point now you get extra points for helping your squadmates, spotting enemies 
 for them, killing enemies they are attacking, resupplying them and killing enemies near where your 
 leader ordered you to attack. Another great feature is the NetBat unlock; this thing puts markers 
 on enemies that you simiply need to see, not even press enemy [wheelbarow] spotted , but only if 
 you are in a squad. The new game mode; Titan is an extraordinary play mode, it prmotes teamwork 
 farther than conquest could ever hope of. In it you must destroy a giant floating gunship, and 
 to do so you need to capture missiles to bring down its shields and then blast yourself via an 
 assualt pod into its hull where you can blow it up from the inside. While inside you must face 
 defenders, and these guys always play dirty. They fill up in choke points so you will need to throw 
 in more than a few grenades if you want to get past. One of my favorite new things is the suped 
 up ranking system. Ranks are more frequent and larger in number but you need all of the ranks in 
 order to get all of the unlocks, 40 unlocks in total many of which would be stanard stuff in other 
 games but DICE was smart and made a system where frequent play gets you all the nce toys. That 
 way mega joined 5 months later and only play 45 minutes a day n00bs will have an infinitly tougher 
 time than those who play often. The unlocks inculde an assualt rifle rocket-launcher, a cloaking 
 device, sentry drones, rolling mines, EMP grenades, improved scope, anti-tank rilfe, heavy machine 
 gun and many more. The number of unlocks may intimidate at first but its not a problem as you will 
 wuickly figure out what you want. I choose frag grenades and a sprint boost first then I unlocked 
 EMP grenades, a sentry drone and finally a heavy machine gun. I plan to unlock a demo pack, cloak 
 and carbine in the future. DICE also made awards more important, as now awards count to ranking 
 up. And not only did they expand the number of awards greatly but also they made a new class: pins, 
 which can be gotten many, many times even in a single round. The Vehicles in the game are fun and 
 unique. One side gets a standard thank while the other one's tank hovers, its harder to control 
 but the strafe makes fighting mechs very easy. The APCs now have escape pods and thats cool. I 
 like this game a lot and I have no life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clanzero
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 18, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I'm simply not going to get into an argument on how much personal data a company should be gathering. 
 That value should sit firmly at Zero.
  
  I've been following this game for months. And I was excited to walk into a store and pick up copies 
 for my group on release day. Up until I read about the personal data gathering.
  
  And without a clear indication on the OUTSIDE of the box, I think it really hits home with how 
 underhanded this technique is... even to the developer.
  
  This should be criminal and developers who think this is appropriate should submit to their own 
 personal home computers being opened up to public scrutiny.
  
  I'm not interested in My online banking and eccomerce information being available to the games 
 I play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlueSpirals
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Intense action and much better sound quality than the previous games, all-around fun 
 for FPS junkies (too bad I'm not one) . The Bad: Fewer tanks, the walkers are very unimpressive, 
 same old battlefield stuff, nothing groundbreaking or dissimilar to the earlier ones in the series. 
 Fewer classes, people who spend their whole lives playing this game get all the unlocks and thus 
 command the battlefield with superior firepower. Vehicles are clunky and frustrating. Graphics 
 severely unimpressive. THANKS FOR THE SPYWARE. Nothing futuristic about this game at all.
  
  This game smacks of Battlefield 2. Which isnt necessarily a good or bad thing, but I sure didn't 
 pay $50 for Battlefield 2 part 2, and I SURE DIDN'T PAY A CENT FOR SPYWARE. The gameplay: It's 
 really the same old stuff. If you have BF 2 there is no reason at all to buy this game, there is 
 nothing futuristic about it. The fighting is fun I guess, but it lacks the epic-scale feel of 1942, 
 the map-sizes of BF 2, or really any reason to be out killing each other at all.
  
  The two factions in this game look exactly the same. I have no idea who I am shooting at.
  
 
  The bottom line is, this game has absolutely no soul. I mean hardly any FPS has a soul but for 
 cripe's sake there is little motivation to play it at all. Thanks for the additional irritating 
 voice acting by the way, EA.
  
  --------------------------------------------------
  
  Dear EA,
  
  When I woke up this morning I felt a strange urge to buy Battlefield 2142, since 
 I have been a fan of the series for a long time. When I bought it at the store, I was made aware 
 that games cannot be returned once opened- and I understand why; I work at a computer store myself.
 
  
  But, what I DIDNT know is that I was purchasing a $53 spyware bundle. It became evident to me that 
 shortly after opening the game, thus removing my ability to return it, that it had a bunch of spyware 
 in it that was UNADVERTISED on the box. Now if it were printed on the outside, like it should be, 
 I would have avoided the game completely- like most other intelligent people.
  
  Unfortunately for me, I mistakenly trusted EA for a company that wouldn't try to sell me their 
 products WHILE IM BUYING THEIR PRODUCTS.
  
  In addition to my request for an immediate refund of my money, I am willing to offer EA advice 
 on their devious marketing ploys:
  
  1. Do not put adware in your games. Or, at least give the option of a filter on/off switch in the 
 program so that we don't have to be constantly reminded that to you we are dollar signs and mindless 
 consumers.
  
  2. If you do not utilize the advice of step 1, at least warn us ON THE OUTSIDE OF THE BOX that 
 we are indeed purchasing spyware.
  
  Congratulations, you guys really tricked me, that was a nasty surprise on that little white paper 
 inside the box. What a good scheme too, I have to break the seal in order to find out that the 
 program is NOT what I payed for, but I cannot return it to the store (because that would be too 
 convenient.)
  
  I request $53.86 US be returned to me immediately. In exchange I shall send you back your virus. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_andross
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  An ok game, though imo comes off as nothing more than a Booster Pack.
  The graphics are aged, and the overall gameplay is still drowned out by annoying bugs and crashes. 
 Not worth the 50 Dollars but maybe if the price decreases. The overall feel is also disappointing, 
 to me it just doesnt feel like a war to save your people, a war for the last habitable territory 
 on earth.
  Sound is decent, though thats debatable, a good thing though is more things to customize your soldier, 
 and the vehicles are pretty sweet, though titan battles are a bit difficult due too anti-teamwork, 
 people still fight and team kll over who gets the sweet ride (walkers) and spawn camping is still 
 horrendous, its not fun to not be able to fight back. Overall i give it a 6.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerjock815
Rating: 3.9
Date: Oct 18, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is, quite simply, one of the worst next gen games by a major company in a very long time. 
 You can always find games by lowly basement companies that are horrible. That sort of is expected. 
 The graphics are , even when compared to previous dice and EA titles such as BF2, ugly. Its hard 
 for me to grasp a way in which I could justify the game as giving me some sort of graphical enjoyment. 
 The sounds were bland and unoriginal as well. It was a mix of sensual disapoint. The problem i 
 discoverd the most was that there was simply an over focus on the vehicles. The game took the neat 
 feature of bf 1942 and the slightly too important feature of BF2 and exploited it to a point where 
 the game is nothing but a battle of overpowered, ugly vehicles. There is nothing like starting 
 a game, spawning, and discovering that there is absolutely nothing you can do against vehicles. 
 Instead, you just sit there and hope that nothing will happen. In the mean time the hover tank 
 with its highly exploitive zoom feature and the mechs march about blissfully ruining my day.
  
  In fact, the time i've spent writing this review could have been better spent trying to forget 
 I ever even bothered to play the game. I think I'll go play pong, atleast its better than BF2142. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: williamshattner
Rating: 4.6
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  First the good news, it needs to be said that the game is fun. The new unlocks and Titan mode are 
 a good direction for the series. They will provide many hours of good gameplay. Also the sound 
 is top notch on an x-fi system.
  
  Now the bad news: A future themed game with modern advertising. Now that is immersive. I really 
 don't mind advertising in games where it makes sense (like a race track) but modern adverts in 
 the future? I think that we really have to speak out against this. Next thing you know we will 
 be playing a game set in a medieval time period and the castle that we are storming will have a 
 big freaking Toyota billboard. Second this really does feel like a mod or at best an expansion 
 pack. The new gameplay is nice, but not a huge addition to the original. I would hope for more 
 from a $50 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wysper
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 18, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  The latest addition to the Battlefield games has not impressed most of the people I know as it 
 resembles more of a mod than a $50.00 game. The Demo was fun for about 5 hours of gameplay then 
 I realized that there was no way I could buy this game. The game itself is not a bad game if you 
 have not played the other series then by all means this should be a good buy for you.
  
  Now for us gamers who have tried the other series then sadly this looks like a mod for $50.00 which 
 is insulting to the community and it plays the same. Literally in those five hours of playing I 
 was really wanting something to pop out at me and say this is a game I want to buy, never happened.
 
  
  So with great disappointment I have rated this game poorly from an experienced gamers perspective. 
 Pre-sale game market will have a tough time if material such as this is expected to be successfully 
 released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krixxor
Rating: 1.6
Date: Oct 18, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo of this game. I didn't care for bf2, but I was a big fan of the original BF game 
 and expansions. To be blunt, this game is just plain horrible. The movement of your soldiers feels 
 very clumsy and clunky. That alone was enough to turn me off this game. But, now I find out they 
 are serving up in-game ads, based on information they gather from your personal PC. Nickel and 
 diming gamers to death with crappy add-on content is one thing, but this crosses the line. The 
 argument that ads keeps the cost of the games down doesn't hold water. This is a full price game. 
 Buying this game would be sending the message to EA and other game companies that we are okay with 
 paying for advertisements.. and we are okay with you collecting information from our PCs. For my 
 part, I don't like the way EA is doing business anymore, and I do not want other companies to start 
 immitating them. There is only one way to get the message across, and thats with the wallet. I'll 
 not be buying anymore EA games until these invasive, greedy practices are stopped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Largo2001
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 18, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  Who is EA kidding?
  
  Damn this thing is just like BF2 but with less color and even less classes! The engine which was 
 great two years ago is not even close to be cutting edge now: I mean a flimsy lamp pole will stop 
 a 60-ton tank or a 150-ton mech!
  
  Did I mention the single player mode is a write-off? Well that was expected since its a BF game, 
 but still, they could have at least tried something new.
  
  My take: KEEP YOUR HARD EARNED $$$ for something original, fresh or more creative (Gears of Wars/Crisys 
 anyone?) . The worst is that EA/Dice did not seemed to even tried to make up something new.
  
  Now one last comment: Gamespot what the hell are you thinking? 8.1? Is a portion of the revenues 
 from this game is sent to your office? I mean 8.9 for Company of Heroes (they had to revise it 
 to a 9.0 later) and 8.1 for this? You guys are usually good, but on this one, you are sending the 
 wrong message.
  
  Oh I almost forgot: this game comes with a SPYWARE included too! Well now that might be worth the 
 $50 isn't? Seriously, this might be a lawsuit in the making against EA shareholders (they should 
 have called Sony Music before releasing this game) .
  
  STAY AWAY FROM THIS CRAP: KEEP YOUR MONEY FOR GOOD GAMES SUCH AS COMPANY OF HEROES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thescorpion1983
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 18, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  Battlefield franchise always tried to stay true to the real thing. Real conflicts, from wwII to 
 vietnam, to the present conflicts. They made this new game based on movies like Blade runner, and 
 such futuristic movies about a possible near future. We are not talking about 5000 years in the 
 future, its 150 years or so. They decided to keep the 'bullets ' in the weapons so it dosent look 
 that futuristic or cartoonish. With their experience they know what is involved in modern warfare, 
 and what military could 'look' like in the near future. Weapons are great, assault machine guns 
 feel like Starship Trooper to me lol. Graphics were good in Bf2, are still good in BF2142, its 
 not all the games that need to have a new graphic engine because its new. They are trying to keep 
 the people that made the community from the start.. and that means LESS UPGRADES, wich they did 
 to have the most people available to play the game. 10 maps, new vehicules, new modes (wich everybody 
 heard no need to explain) and a new feel and look to the game... BUT does that justify my 50$ on 
 it?..... Simply opinion, but the fact of having ingame ads i dont care, if it was in the game, lets 
 say they would refresh their ads everyweek or day, but having a little program in my PERSONNAL 
 COMPUTER PC this i dont like. They know everybody is gonna play it online, and that nobody plays 
 it single player. Why did they think this would be a good idea? to save money?.. its not like this 
 game was revolutionary.. and the costs wouldn have been as much. But lets say it comes cheaper for 
 EA/DICE having this in-game ad thing.. wouldn they make the game cheaper for customers? NO because 
 they made this to make this money out of ads... so why puts ads and make money with it and lowering 
 the price of the game.. wouldn make sense.
  
  It all comes down to this, people are gonna buy it, complain then play. If you wanna fallow do 
 it, but at least you know whats the deal with it. Talking of a game yes its a good one. But this 
 violation of rights and intimity makes me wonder... they say its only during online play... yeahh 
 only during online play that they are gonna read all my cookies.
  
  All comes down to you players, wanna play it? no choice in buying it. Wanna play a great Battlefield 
 2142 mod set in the modern era for much cheaper since you mostly have it... try Battlefield 2 on 
 your desktop :P
  
  ... See you on the battlefield people... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colonelkaos
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 18, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  for some odd reason i keep getting disconnected from in game play , which i assure you , is very 
 annoying . The issue of eagames collecting and sending information to advertizing is very disturbing 
 and i will not be buying bf 2142 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  The demo seemed interesting. However Im disappointed Gamespot didnt make a bigger deal of the adware 
 issue in the review.
  
  I dont care how minor the collection of data is or how secure it is... there is no place for this 
 sort of action in a GAME that we are paying $50 for. They collect your ip, browsing habits and 
 interests and send them to an ad company to control in game advertisements and im sure thats not 
 all.
  
  I dont want my private information of any kind being collected and sent to anyone by a game. For 
 this reason alone this game is unacceptable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  As a BF gamer from the first hour I really wonder how long it takes to bring out at least one game 
 in the series which holds all the promises or at least a few of them.
  
  BF2142 isn't necessarily a bad game but there are to much flaws to recommend it.
  
  First, 
 if you played a lot BF2 and you are looking for a step up in the franchise there is really no point 
 in playing 2142.
  Mostly because the whole game feels, looks and plays nearly identical to BF2. That goes especially 
 for the ground combat. Infantry combat, tank combat and squad gameplay are nearly as boring or 
 thrilling as in BF2.
  Even the weapons feels pretty much the same. Still you're nailling hundreds of bullets out of a 
 heavy Mg to mow down a few opponents on foot.
  The only thing which really changed is air combat.
  You don't have jets anymore instead you're 
 given hover transport- and gunships.
  The upside is you don't have the plane camping and carpet bombing anymore. The downside, well no 
 jets although I appreciate it somehow because in the end gameplay is much better because of that.
 
  
  Dice really tried to distract a little from the fact that you're basicly playing a BF2 mod.
  
 So you will notice the outstanding amount of work who went into the sounds.
  Now every map has a unique and great soundtheme attached to it. The weapons sound crisp and most 
 of the vehicles do too.
  The only realy problem here is the voice over.
  The EU just sounds lame and only a bit better than the disastrous EU in Euro Force. And overall 
 they don't sound like some serious future warriors but more like folks at a english tea party.
 
  The PAC or the russians sound like taken directly from SF.
  Considering the fact that you hear the voice messages over and over (enemy spotted, we've taken 
 silo 4 etc.) this gets really annoying after a couple of minutes.
  So better and fitting voice acting in addition to more voice vareity would have been really necessary 
 here.
  
  The new Titan mode gives the game a fresh look at first but when you played a few rounds it becomes 
 as dull as conquest mode.
  
  That is because you're basiclly doing the same things in the same order over and over.
  
  You 
 start by capping the missle silos (like flags in conquest) .
  You bring down the Titan shield with them and hop on the Titan.
  Here you bring down shields 
 again by destroying the respective consoles.
  Finally you blow up teh core and it's game over for the other team.
  Now you watch the Titan 
 blow up in a big explosion and strangely the Titan doesn't move a bit while exploding it just sticks 
 in the air (someone had a F- in physics here I guess) .
  
  The next thing is that the game has all the old problems.
  I've seen decent PC's (mostly 2-3 
 year old Intel machines) which suffered from great chopiness and lag. But there are also some improvements.
 
  The server browser is now as it has should been right from the start with BF2.
  Also the loading times are much faster now.
  At least two things which really have gotten better.
 
  
  One of the worst thing in the game are the ads.
  Basicly you will hop around in the future, destroyed cities watching Pepsi commercials on big banners.
 
  And they're not random, EA has given you a little tool with the game which scans your internet 
 cookies to display ads you might been interested in.
  
  OK, let's say I payed 50 bucks to be not forced to watch ads.
  And that I don't mind to have 
 perimeter advertising in a football game because there it's like in real life and it fits.
  But having real ads in a fictitious shooter game not adds to the realism (which I don't want anyway) 
 but only to EA's bank account.
  
  So in the end this is the most dissapointing entry in the BF franchise so far.
  I really hope 
 EA trashes the engine, does something new and creative which gamers will like and stops adding 
 ads in games.
  
  Otherwise BF is burried, at least for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrantman
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 18, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  I have played each and every battlefield game, from 1942 to 2142. Each game brought something new 
 to the table. However, 2142 failed to deliver anything strikingly fresh or exciting. EA simply 
 changed how battlefield 2 looked and added a titan mode and called it a new game. I can see right 
 through this one and I wish I hadn't spent fifty dollars on it... So before EA can pull the wool 
 over your eyes ask yourself if the is really worth your time and money... Wait for EA to produce 
 something worthwhile. Show them that gamers only buy games that have some creativity and work put 
 into them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krass_of_nod
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Finally, its here. Battlefield 2142, I have been waiting a while for it and I am definitely not 
 disappointed. One thing I love that never was available in the other games, EMP weapons. Guy in 
 the sky giving you a hassle? hover tank chewing away your armor? Turn off thier vehicle for a second 
 and watch em scramble. The mechs also really impressed me, being a fan of the old mechs games I 
 really love the way they handle and how the they feel. The unlocks are cool to but at first can 
 be a pain because you are none to effective on foot in the beginning unless you have the anti armor 
 goodies or are on thier titan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobbyFr3sh
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is real fun i like it alot. I have only played the demo and i realize that if u get good 
 at this game quick it becomes funnier it's just that u sometimes move so fast in this game that 
 it sucks cuz u always die. So take it slower and this game can be pretty fun. I liek the new vehicles 
 there real cool and also the guns. I don't know why ppl don't liek this game it's pretty great 
 and it will be almost as good as ET Quake Wars. But this game will be real fun and ill enjoy it 
 tomorrow. The best thing about this game is the battles which are intense if ur pc can handle 64 
 players and titan mode is awesome i love titan battles. Another great thing is the shooting it's 
 eaiser to kill ppl in this game then most fps. i also liek that there are new medals and alot of 
 unlocks and stuff. And for the graphics there great even if there aobut the same as bf2. That's 
 good for me and some ppl with not to great systems so they are able to run the game. So i say go 
 out and buy this game It's worth 50 bucks trust me u won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I love this game and all the other ones. This has to be the 2nd best game of its game universe. 
 The gameplay was the same still moving and shooting but I didnt like the tank with the hover jets 
 how you had to drive it. Graphics, a little change could have done better, the graphics were good 
 when battlefield 2 was the new this but this is what 2 years later, EA could have done better, 
 get the graphics like oblivion, that would be sweet. Sound, same as last time didnt feel or hear 
 the change, if there was one. Value mabe 30$ at the most, I would just say get battlefield 2 or 
 wait tell the game drops in price. Thats all, thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaburan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  So we see a lot of similarities between 2142 and BF2. What can you expect? With the Battlefield 
 franchise since 1942, BFvietnam shared its similar graphics engine with 1942. Then Battlefield 
 2 came out with a new engine and here we are, 2142 with a more robust and tweaked engine to shape 
 up the future.
  
  I believe that the average user rating on this game does not do its justice. SO THEN WHY DO SO 
 MANY STILL PLAY THE GAME? I love the fact that flamers and EA haters go spew their mouths off to 
 the dev's yet there they are blasting away in an enemy Titan, among the several thousands who cannot 
 resist the Battlefield heat. Gameplay wise, its very similair to battlefield 2, including the key 
 mapping, menu screens, options and dialogues. We've always known that Battlefield 2142 was going 
 to share the same graphics as BF2, so then whats all the talk about? I think the graphics are cleaner, 
 slicker and the futuristic style takes you to the end of the world in an all out Terminator style 
 war for survival. The new Titan mode makes up for in every which way BF2 lacked, the constant flag 
 capping , and the back &amp; forth pubbing style between flags made the game at times quite a nuisance. 
 With the Titan mode, Teamwork is forced among the public and allows many solo players out there 
 to contribute more than before. It also encourages the use of the built in VOIP, Squad Commands, 
 Rewards and Unlocks. The complete new sounds in 2142 are all but minimal. Outstanding clarity especially 
 in support of the Sound Blaster X-FI make this game a beauty to listen to. Included are new theme 
 and map songs to keep the blood flowing through your veins. My only beef would be the constant 
 racketing noise of the Orbital Strikes.
  
  Thanks for listening to my 2 cents on the game, I think its definitely been under rated and people 
 should open their eyes in how EA has released a game quickly, on time and with great support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frag_Master666
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 17, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  It installs what is arguably spyware. And I'm gonna get advertisement?? Was it any cheaper to purchase?? 
 No. WTF?!
  
  I open it up and it tells me I get advertisement and spyware that tracks me unless I don't play 
 it online. So back it went and I had to argue with the store to take it back.
  
  From what I've seen from a friend's computer , it felt buggy and unbalanced. Why not just take 
 the original game (that rocked) and mod it? Why mess with the balance? At least it looked and sounded 
 cool. I wish EA would've spent more time on this game - or made it cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith2424
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 17, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I think this game was terrible. In game adds that install spyware to find the best ad to show you 
 based on whats on your computer so, if I have nothing else but bf2142 on my computer do I get bf2142 
 ads?
  
  There is stuff in this game that you really start to appreciate when you have played this and go 
 back to BF2, such as the ability to turn a tanks turret, starting with grenades insted of unlocking 
 them, having more classes and not having in-game ads. The game runs off the same graphics engine 
 as battlefield 2 so there is nothing new in the graphics department aspect of the game. However 
 there are some things that are good in this game. The sound is amazing and the unlocks are very 
 good for all classes. Titan mode is a great addition to the famous conquest mode. I think it was 
 way to soon for them to make a new battlefeild game and EA is just wanting to make a quick buck. 
 Just watch, by christmas a new expansion will come out and later booster packs will come out. After 
 failed attempts to make the game better they will start a new battlefield game probably battlfeild 
 2242? Maybe then they will at least have lazers.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rain07ke
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 17, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Who ever gives this game less than a 7 is either a) a complete moron or b) never played a single 
 Battlefield game in his entire life! This game is an outstanding new game for a already expanding 
 series. The new series is a depart from historical or present day events. It looks into warfare 
 than will happens in a near future, not super-futuristic like Unreal Tournament. The new Titan-mode 
 is a great depart from the popular conquest-mode. My only complaint is the fact that EA is running 
 out of new idea. Battles remains the same infantry-vehicle's tactics. Althought the new Walkers 
 are a awesome new vehicles to the game, glad its not as powerful as the previews make it look like. 
 The game is an excellent new addition to the franchise, a great multiplayer game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichB
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, a few people actually know what they are talking about , and can write an objective 
 review based on quality time with the game.
  
  I've played the final game more than most of the jokers on the board who are either reviewing the 
 Beta version (it's beta you HARBL-heads) , or played the full game for 5 minutes and then ran online 
 to be the first to slam it. I won a copy last week, so I've sunk lots of hours in and I can honestly 
 say that you will probably either love the game or you will wish you stayed with BF2. To me the 
 game is a mix on many fronts. I personally love the Titan mode, and while the battles on the ground 
 play out just like Conquest, the battles in the Titans are awesome. I think the unlock system is 
 perfectly paced and rewarding, but can definitely understand how it screws things up for the competitive 
 community. I like that the weapons and vehicles are still grounded in reality, and sound awesome, 
 but think that until you get a few unlocks many of them lack variety. In some cases vehicles have 
 had some of the bite taken out of them (Gunships I'm talking about you) but that actually makes 
 it easier for  guys like me to fly them.
  
  By the same token, you'll either like the future setting or you will not. But why go online screaming 
 about how DICE shouldn't have made the move to the future? Why don't we just ask them to build 
 the same game over and over again just so you can be happy?
  
  Bottom line, there's a demo out. I give the game an 8.6, but try it out for yourself and see if 
 it's for you. If you like the demo, odds are you'll be happy to spend $50. If you don't like the 
 demo, guess what? I just saved you $50. So you can always send me a small donation if this is the 
 case...;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swiftstrike5
Rating: 4.7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Sad... kinda like bf2 the game didnt even run out of the box you had to wait for a patch. GG EA 
 you fail. Hackers have already ruined the game also. The graphics lag like hell if you dont have 
 a 7950GTX dual SLI. The avg ping for servers is 400. EA raised our hopes then smashed them with 
 there gigantic wallets. The demo is basicly the game without the unlocks (supposively thats the 
 main part of the game) , but hell who pays for unlocks when the rest of the game blows... go buy 
 an expansion for bf2 instead. The new breath thing makes it look like the dude is hyperventilating 
 in africa. Air power is more like a aim here sign posted on your back. Active defense doesnt shield 
 from EMP which is usualy the worst enemy of aircrafts because you fall to your death at 700+m/s. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anubhav92
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  i agree with some of u that EA could have done a much better job, but hey its not a bad game. This 
 game is fun like all the battlefields and i dont seem to no wats the problem. The graphics might 
 not be the best, but the are better than Battlefield 2 and the game just feels better than Battlefield 
 2.
  I still think Battlefield 2 is a better game but give this one some time, they will add more maps, 
 fix things, and just make it better. I just wish there were more weapons to start of with and there 
 were more kits and atleast another race cause only 2 is kinda dumb. So if u like Battlefield 2 
 u should get this cause it will turn out to be a very good game. ( u dont got to buy it now but 
 buy it ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos_complete
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 5, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  So, here is the next battlefield game we have all been waiting for. And look, it's a huge disapointment.
 
  
  
  Gameplay: Uh, 6. Kind of fun, but boring. I could just play battlefield 1942, it's not really all 
 that different. Hard to get into the battle if you do not have a vehicle. Vehicles are somewhat 
 clumsy, and walking around for ages can be cumbersome.
  
  Some more things:
  
  
  1. Really crappy storyline. Some random ice age, war, blah blah blah.
  
  2. Yes, it's unrealistic. 
 The setting resembles 2042 more than 2142, if that. Check out 'future force warrior', and find 
 out why we won't be using assault rifles in 75, let alone 150 years. Militaries would most definitely 
 be more mechanized by 2142.
  
  3. Aside from that, all the other weapons are also merely futuristic versions of the ones found 
 in battlefield 1942, with some sleek designs. However, they're usually incredibly weak, for the 
 most part. 4. Combat has not evolved much at all. It's still the EXACT same as today, with a walker 
 that just functions as a walking tank. THERE ARE NO OTHER ELEMENTS THAT MAKE IT SEEM FUTURISTIC. 
 Oh, let's throw in some sleek looking bs, and say it takes place in 2142. That simply does not 
 work.
  
  5. Titan mode is kind of fun, but really not that different than other conquest modes. 6. Environment 
 is too similar to today. Double lined roads, buildings don't really look all that different. 7. 
 It simply does NOT give the feeling of a large scale war! There need to be massive numbers of troops, 
 heavy planes, and anything that would be used to launch a large scale futuristic assault (minus 
 superweapons, or they could include smaller ones) .
  
  8. I really don't get the 'future' feel when everything pretty much functions the same way it does 
 today. I just don't.
  
  Compare all the things we have today to things in 1870, and you'll catch my drift.
  
  Graphics- 
 Eh, for a game that's coming out now, decent, but really not all that special. The environments 
 are fairly dull, and could have been made much better and varied (cities, anyone?) That is all. 
 Sound-alright. The orders and voices could have been made less irritating, but the explosions were 
 pretty cool, generally.
  
  value- Not an absolutely terrible game, but surely not worth fifty bucks.
  
  All in all, it's 
 not a bad game, but it's just a total ripoff of battlefield 1942. Also, they failed to give it 
 a futuristic feel and setting; what it was supposed to be. The combat also has not changed at all; 
 if you are afraid to upset the battlefield purists, DO NOT PUT IT IN 2142! If you put it in 2142, 
 make it DIFFERENT. Even if they wanted to use projectile based weapons, there are many other types 
 that could have been implemented. It's kind of fun to play, but the weapons are fairly lame, and 
 unoriginal. Gets a five, because it's not all that bad, but it's by no means good. I know many 
 people will still buy boring, rehashed games, and that's why they still sell. But personally, I 
 really would like something more interesting than this.
  
  My score for battlefield 2142: 5.9/10. Well deserved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necronzero
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 17, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely horrible... The single player is nothing more than a cheap a$$ version 
 of a demo to get you to buy the game to play it online ... there is no single player storyline 
 what-so-ever.... totally lame...
  the graphics are ass 256 color ground small sp maps they could have given us the 64 player sized 
 (they are the developers) . The weapon selection is stupid, You can't have grenades but the bots 
 have all weapons and equipment the use no thought went into this at all 2142 should be the price. 
 I thought they would have learned from those bootypacks but nooooooo. We the customer don't know 
 what we want until they give\tell you what it is and in game ads screw the BF series from now on. 
 The game is 1 day old and they already made a 1.01 patch
  
  HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE PC specs: Pentium Extreme Duo, 4 GB of Ram, SLI nVidia 1 GB, 20 HD Display 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdushkin
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  ... and it's just a futurized , buggy BF2 skin! EA could have done so much more with the premise. 
 The graphics and audio are up to par, but the play action is choppy, small arms inaccurate, and 
 vehicle controls feel sloppy. The new HUD, pre-spawn equipment prep, and Titan mode are all welcome 
 additions, but the environments are uninspired and go forbid you don't have a vehicle to get you 
 to the action; you'll be running for days.
  
  If you're a die-hard of the BF franchise I suggest picking it up and forming your own opinion. 
 Otherwise, save your money for Huxley, or Crysis - I have high hopes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabooya
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 17, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Improved textures, excellent sound, and new vehicles. BF2142 is just what the first BF2 patch should 
 have done. BF2142 seems to deliver what BF2 should have. It is Not really that much of an improvement. 
 Bloom effects help create some realism, and new effect shaders boost quality of game. Load time 
 is a bit faster, and some new game features make it fun, but over all it would have been nice if 
 EA released this as an expansion rather then a new game. BF2142 is a great game and Was worth the 
 buy and I am looking forward to the patches, :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cdscottie
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  For years now shooters have come and gone but there have always been the few that stuck around 
 to become classics. Battlefield 1942 being one of them brought to the table large scale battles, 
 vehicle use, and balanced weaponry. Not much changed after a several expansion packs and another 
 game based in Vietnam. Then a new champion came out, Battlefield 2. It was praised for it's balanced 
 game-play, graphics, and squad systems. There was only one major problem with it and that was that 
 It lacked the large scale battles that it's predecessors but brought in more urban fighting. This 
 alienated some of it's fans that wanted to see a dozen tanks attacking each other at once or just 
 a bloodbath over the entire battlefield.
  
  But that has all changed. Battlefield 2142 brings back the large scale battles with it's new Titan 
 mode which creates a hectic battlefield for both sides. This new mode gives a direct objective 
 for both teams and gives more of a feel of war than just a scaled down urban battle. With the addition 
 of some great sound effects, futuristic looking weapons (They do look and feel like real guns) , 
 and cosmetically different vehicles it brings a Sci-Fi feel to an already great series.
  
  Only issues that have occured with this game include problems with online play, a dated graphics 
 engine but still looks good, and the fact that the ticket price for the game is a little steep 
 for some players who feel it is only a mod. Any which way, I would recommend downloading the demo 
 and give it a try before buying the game as it will only appeal to some of the battlefield series 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeteRoy
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 17, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is the result of all the kid complaints about Battlefield 2.
  
  It has no jets, infantry is stronger, the maps are smaller, it has no tv missilies, the choppers 
 are less powerful and less maneuverable, infantry weapons are weaker than today's weapons.
  
  It is a shame that this game proclaims to be in the future, 150 years from today and the weapons 
 and vehicles are weaker, less powerful, slower than today.
  
  Just by looking back in our own past you would see that every 150 years humanity has changed from 
 head to toe,.
  150 years ago from today the world didn't have fighter jets, the world didn't even have tanks.
 
  
  I would except that 150 years from today the military would have space capable jets that can go 
 into orbit and back, I would expect humanity to have space colonies 150 years from today, I would 
 expect the military to have a large number of different types of robots fighting, such as a robot 
 jet fighter and so on.
  
  Therefore, 2142 which is 150 years from today is extremely disappointing with what you can do, 
 it has the same vehicles 1942 had with the same speed and accuracy, the only difference is that 
 they have futuristic look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 17, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  I cannot imagine why this game was made. I've played a lot of BF2, and I wouldn't switch to 2142 
 if you paid me. The engine is the same, the weapons are DEFINITELY the same, although a little 
 underpowered this time around, and the vehicles are... cute. The gameplay is essentially the same 
 as BF2, which would be fine if this were a new game on a new engine with brand new concepts, but 
 it's not. Frankly, 2142 plays like a mod, not a new game in this series.
  
  I realize the debate will rage as to what kind of weapons, vehicles, and armour should have been 
 included in a a future version of BF, but I'm going to offer some suggestions that might have made 
 this feel like something other than a BF2 mod. It may be trite, but when you pick up this game 
 and pick a class, (after you're done swearing at the unlock system) you'll wonder where the beam 
 weapons are. In a game where you have hovering technology, beam or pulse weapons are not far fetched 
 . Still, maybe the BF team wanted to avoid the star trek or UT feel and go for a more solid-state 
 approach, which I can understand. Given that, where are the flechette guns, the guass rifles, and 
 the myriad variations of solid-state technology that could still breed fresh new weapons and gadgets. 
 There are so many lost opportunities here that it gets really frusterating. This is even more true 
 with the vehicles, which feel like slow cosmetic upgrades to tanks and helicopters.
  
  The bottom line here, is that the BF team focused on gameplay changes that could have been a minor 
 mod to BF2, and cosmetic changes that don't make you feel like it's 2142, or even 2042. I personally 
 dislike the unlock system, and don't care for the overall feel of the game, but that is my tilt 
 . I'd be more upset, but frankly, 2142 isn't a graphical upgrade, and BF2 is still fun and fresh 
 so I feel this is more a loss for DICE and EA than the player. I wouldn't buy this game if I were 
 you. Bottom line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregbobpwn
Rating: 5.6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  Various Comments.
  
  Looks like BF2 got a model and texture pack. 
  Sweet! The tank can sidestep! 
  Wait, hover tanks can't hover over water? Did they actually design 
 this game, or just slap new models into the old engine? 
  Wow, you can actually blow things up with a single rocket! Wow, your vehicle is blown up with a 
 single AT rocket! 
  Great, instead of bringing back the battleships, carriers, and destroyers from 1942, they give 
 us one titan that only serves to showcase the fact that EA has no concept of gameplay 
  
  What appalls me the most about the gamespot review is how quickly the whole game installs spyware 
 on your computer to put ads in the game, is brushed over. In an age where most of us need to run 
 a full time program to prevent spyware from infecting our machines (or periodically run adaware/spybot) , 
 we are now embracing a commercial install of such software, AFTER paying for the software.
  
  The review should be ducted 2 points just for such an inhumane action.
  
  And what's with 
 this new titan mode? How many years have they been making these games? This is all they could come 
 up with? One new game mode? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  Quite simply BF 2142 is a superb game in all aspects of online multiplayer war gaming. The Titan 
 mode is especailly rewarding both for the awesome battle platform (like a floating battle cruiser) 
 that is an offensive juggernaut to the battle to defend your titan against the relentless enemy 
 assaults. Launch pods are also a kool addition to the BattleField . I think this game is annoying 
 to certain BF2 "run and gun" Cowboys because It rewards teamwork, cunning and effort. Not... I say 
 Not.... the number of Kills that you make. It has clear strategic objectives and is not just one 
 big amorphous battle. It has something for everyone. If you wan't to be a lonewolf sniper.. well... fine... you 
 can be that. You may not score that high but if you like knocking people off from a distance well... then 
 have fun. I am a team player who will sacrifice for the team. I noticed that this kind of work 
 is rewarded in the game. I don't have to have 80 million kills to score high. BF2 was a supremely 
 annoying game in this regard. You had some folks more interested in just killing than in implementing 
 strategic attacks and capturing key points..... and battles would often devolve into pointless slaughter. 
 In this game strategy and sacrifice are rewarded above all else.
  Better is we not worry about the BF2 community with all the cheats etc. Hope most of them don't 
 show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batorre
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  ... Which is to say, it is not different. Or worth the full price-tag. At all. We're talking MINOR 
 tweaks here. This is BARELY a mod even.
  
  Used to be a day when the modding community would produce this kind of material, and of course, 
 that's free. Desert Combat was the mod predecessor to BF2 superior in most ways. I know of several 
 'Sci-Fi' mods on the horizon for BF2, unless the projects run out of steam (or money) , those have 
 potential to exceed BF2142 as well. The full-price is what really kills me. There is no way that 
 EA or DICE can say that a full development schedule was put into this game. This is cheap capitalization 
 on a loyal fan base. Still looks and sounds pretty, though. And Titan mode is a nice change of 
 pace, but it's hard to praise them too much for it. The BF series has been in need of a more defined 
 objective mode for YEARS. Conquest is great and all, but even a capture the flag kind of variant 
 would be nice. Hopefully Titan is just the beginning of new game modes.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hivihyar
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  same models, same system, even the aircraft work the same as the helli's.
  same engine, same graphic, ALOT of problems im having on the internet games, and as i have seen 
 im hardly the only one.
  EA server master dc alot, altough the same formula stays the same and fun as it always had, but 
 comparing to the games before it, its hardly as good as battlefield 2, and hardly as stable on 
 the internet as battlefield 1942, this game simply has nothing more to offer but new effects and 
 models.
  stick to ur battlefield 2 and dont support EAs way of taking ur money.
  unless ur a true, and maybe blind fan of the series (such as the sims expansions) and looking for 
 something new in the series, as small as it is.
  
  battlefield 2142 isnt a bad game although the internet problems alot of us are getting on the multiplayer 
 make it hardly playble, and if u have the game battlefield 2 u simply have hardly any reason to 
 buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhamar
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  If you are addicted to BF2 you will feel at home in this game since the basics are the same. This 
 evolution into the future gives you a faster pace of battle, the graphics like explosions and recoil 
 fire are really nice. This game have a lot of new weapons and features and more flexibilty to customize 
 your warrior. The maps are really nice with lots of buildings and places for infantry fights. The 
 Titan mode is a very nice addition to the series as well the Mechs. Like every new game it will 
 have patches and improvements in the future with lots of add-ons. Only negative about this game 
 is no aircraft fighters (just some helos) and the tanks get blown up fast and the uniforms in the 
 two armies look very similar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Speed_Wolf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  O. K. iv never got the game, yet! But iv played the Demo! The demo didnt even have the unlocks, 
 and i still liked it allot! But once i do have the real game i can get 40 unlocks! + like 100 Pins, Ribbons, badges, 
 and Metals! And you level up allot faster then battlefield2. The first unlocks id prob get will 
 prob be opec ops, or support, cuz thay have a a placeble robot gun and a coool shield thing, bolth 
 vary good for titan defence, spec ops have those cool invisi remotes to let you hide in 90% camo, 
 ill prob mix all of those so that im a sniper/spec ops, thats realy the cool part, mixing dif things 
 for total custom classes! You can allso get sqad leader items so you can have a little spawn point 
 thing you can place somewhere and thayll spawn there, and some rally cool hovering robots that 
 ether attack or give out hidden troops! well thats all i can say for now i gato go!
  
  Thank you EA for this Great game, see you all on the battle field! :D Speed Wolf :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spikleman
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 17, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  This game is just a mod, they took bf2 and made some skins and new maps, the weapons are boring 
 , the veichles are boring (aside the mech and the jeep with power boost) . The Titan mode is great 
 fun, but once again few game modes kill the game a bit.
  Another problems in this game are the lost connection with server problem with comes from Bf2, 
 but now it is even worst, i played for 2 hours and got disconnected about 6 times.
  Very very disapoint, really not worth the money, if you want a great online fps go to battlefield 
 2, it is way better.
  
  Regards 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S1010
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is very cool, and have great graphics. The new Titan mode is an amazing new addition 
 to the Battlefield series, but I think this game offers up minor evolutionary improvements over 
 its illustrious predecessor.
  Not many changes, except the time, vehicles and weapons. Perhaps the most exciting thing in the 
 game are the unlocks. They are many, and you will be able to choose from 2 different types of unlocks 
 for which class. The sound is cool, since you have to be adapted with the new sounds of the new 
 weapons. The gameplay is ok, but I think battlefield 2142 looks like a MOD for bf2. Well, this 
 game is OK, but I prefer battlefield 2, which is better in my opinion. I think you guys should 
 play this if you like the Battlefield series. I give it a 8.3. Great ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebat11
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2142 is more set for players who have not yet played a game like this. In Battlefield 
 2, if you were a good player you could easily dominate the battlefield especially in the aircraft. 
 The new aircraft in Battlefield 2142 are much easier to control since they can however like helicopters 
 and provide a good speed around the battlefield without zooming across it in 3 seconds. Although 
 I hate the idea that there are still tanks and buggies (they could have thought of something new) 
 they have introduced the walker (Mech) . The walker is fun especially with the new 'shield system' 
 for most vehicles.
  
  Although I haven't tried any of the unlocks yet, the use of grenades and the defibrillator will 
 be very helpful, as will all the other cool gizmos they've placed in the game. I find it much easier 
 to kill enemies in 2142 then in Battlefield 2, and that you don't have to be a PRO in order to 
 dominate.
  
  A great game overall, although I would like to see a couple new factions like the African nations. 
 Also we have no idea whats going on in North America? Ya right, the Americans are going to sit 
 around while the rest of the world fights (that'll be the day) . Im sure us Canadians are going 
 to want to move south too. Maybe that'll make a good expansion.
  
  In summary, great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SportFighting
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Well they had a great concept with titan mode and i really like that, but wtf is with the weapons? 
 way too underpowerd! i swear i hit that battle walker with all the rockets i had and it still ended 
 up killing me, and this didnt happen one time it was like every time, the rifles dont do much damage, 
 and the sniper rifle sucks, i dont think the head shots work. all in all you'll find yourself in 
 a vehicle and not on foot at all times, boo: ( i know im gonna end up buying the game but i shouldnt, 
 and niether should you. cant wait till Dark Messiah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illuminatirexx
Rating: 2.3
Date: Oct 18, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Bf2142 does not live up to its predecessors name, I was all excited about 2142 but its not worth 
 geting, this is just a MOD for bf2, which we have to pay for, not like other mods which are for 
 FREE, besides ea didnt do much in any direction here, the graphics are similarto bf2, teh weapons 
 are underpowered, the mechs overpowered.
  
  Even the titan mode is basicaly the same as the conquest was, just with a small twist on it, not 
 worth gating, if You do ull be hyped over it for the first 2 or 3 games but then itll all get dull, 
 and boring, and then ull begin to ask urselfe what was teh point of spending that $50 on this @#!%$@*&amp;, 
 very dissapointing, i predict ea will also come with expansion packs considering there are not 
 many weapons to unlock (only 2 or so per class, 2 granades-1 regular, 1 emp, 3 adons including 
 that hovering turret, stationary one, and that minishield for engeneers)
  
  NOT WORTH THE MONEY, if u have bf2 STICK WiTH IT, OR ANY OTHER GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 26, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  The year is 2142, and the dawn of a new Ice age has thrown the world into a panic. The soil not 
 covered by ice can only feed a fraction of the Earths population. The math is simple and brutal: 
 some will live, most will die.
  
  In Battlefield 2142, players choose to fight for one of two military superpowers - the European 
 Union or the newly formed Pan Asian Coalition -in an epic battle for survival.
  
  Armed with a devastating arsenal of hi-tech weaponry, including assault rifles, cloaking devices 
 and sentry guns, players will also take control of the most lethal vehicles known to man. Massive 
 battle Walkers wage fierce combat on the ground, while futuristic aircraft rule the skies. When 
 taking on this futuristic armor players will need to use their wits and an arsenal of new hi-tech 
 countermeasures like EMP grenades and smart mines to level the playing field.
  
  Epic online gameplay for up to 64 players drops gamers on the front lines as part of a formal squad, 
 or behind the scenes in Commander Mode to direct the strategic assaults of their team-mates.
  
  For the first time in the history of the franchise, Battlefield 2142 will include a brand new 
 game type to complement the classic conquest game. The epic, new Titan mode challenges gamers to 
 destroy the opposing armys Titan - a massive, heavily armored, flying warship - while defending 
 their own. To defeat a Titan, gamers must first take down its shields, board the craft and fight 
 to its inner core before detonating it from the inside. This genre leading gameplay innovation 
 changes the way you play, encouraging both teamplay and strategy in explosive large-scale confrontations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darfvader
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 17, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  When i first heared about the game I was concerned that it was an attempt to counter Quake wars 
 (and to milk more money from battlefied fans) . But now that the game is out it is obvious that 
 dice didn't only add a new coat of paint.
  The gameplay has a more balanced feel to it, the weapons do feel like the future weapons of the 
 battlfield'esque weapons and the new unlock system adds not only weapons but abilities and upgrades 
 to your trooper. the new titan mode is amazing and reminds an old sci fi fan of battles between 
 capital ships in games such as wing commander only this time you get to be a member of the boarding 
 party. If i had to compare this game to another game it would probably be planetside, and to me 
 that's a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minevich1
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  almost 2 year ago, battlefield 2 was released around the world globas
  this was readly amazing game (for me) , the graphic looks great, sounds great and zmzing gameplay.
 
  this all untill ea start to released the lastest patches (last half year) .
  battlefield really (for me) start been like sims-all 2 month new expansion pack with 2 new maps and 
 2 unlocks for free. jee let's buy new expansion pack for new unlocks, let's spend 150Nis (new israel 
 shekel) =35$ then i heard that the battlefield 2142 will released soon, i was very disepointed-i 
 think to my self- damn, EA Games ruin the battlefield series, and everything what intresting ea is 
 to do they money and not intresting (give **** about the fans of the series!
  i wrong in my opinion? maybe EA do great game? and will suprise us all?
  emm... the big answer is 
 NO ! (!!!)
  this game seems, sounds, and feel like mod for battlefield2
  and the multyplayer are so laggy, it's inpossible to play!!!
  i very disappointed from EA, and 
 how they destroyed all what they build fo years.
  i not recommend this game, even for battlefield fanboys like me
  my score-6.0 (fair) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjan17
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  Like I said in description I am actualy a bit dissapointed. So far the only new thing about this 
 game besides the graphics and new weaponary actualy nothing significly has changed. Ofcourse this 
 is the first game in the battlefield series that is based on a war that actualy did not happen. 
 What I mean is actualy ingame fighting infantry as always is completly inferior. The guns still 
 shoot really unrealisticly, I was really hoping they would learn something from Activisions C. O. D. 
 1 and 2 where they did not need to use tanks. Ofcourse flying arround is fun for a while running 
 arround is fun for a while. But this game actualy gives no sense at all of being on a battlefield 
 it is just running arround take flags/missile silo's and occasionaly shoot at someone. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
