-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlecruiser Millennium
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/battlecruisermillennium/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 17, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.6, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 4.9, 70 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3000AD, Inc.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Nov 18, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a game that reaches for the stars, but in trying to give you everything, it doesn't do any 
 one thing as well as it might. 

 Where Derek Smart and his infamous Battlecruiser space sims are concerned, small and modest just 
 won't cut it. Oversized hype, hopes, and controversy have long surrounded this ambitious homegrown 
 game franchise. A lightning rod among gamers, Smart loudly boasted about his first game, Battlecruiser 
 3000AD, during its protracted development. After an unpleasant journey between publishers, the 
 game was finally released in unfinished and essentially unplayable form by Take-Two Interactive 
 in 1996. This drew howls of derision from gamers just aching to type, "I told you so!" into the 
 nearest online forum. Smart stood his ground, vocally and provocatively meeting his detractors 
 head on while patching and revising the game for a 1998 re-release as a budget title, Battlecruiser 
 3000AD v2.0.           Battlecruiser Millennium is an extremely ambitious game.    

  Since then, Smart and a band of like-minded programmers scattered across the globe have created 
 his latest opus, Battlecruiser Millennium. It's an ambitious, sprawling, and flawed game that tries 
 to give you everything, yet fails to do any one thing as well as it might. Playing it will remind 
 you of Han Solo's letdown in  The Empire Strikes Back : As he and his companions flee Imperial 
 forces, there's a dramatic buildup as he prepares to launch the vaunted Millennium Falcon into 
 hyperspace -- and then nothing happens.   

  The first thing you'll notice about Battlecruiser Millennium is that it's improbably ambitious. 
 You can engage in single scenarios, play a structured campaign, or explore in a free-form mode. 
 You can fight with capital ships in space, with fighter craft in space or in planetary atmospheres, 
 with vehicles on land, and with small arms in a first-person shooter mode. You can choose to play 
 as one of 12 races, select from 13 castes (areas of expertise like science or diplomacy) , and pick 
 from six careers like marine, ship commander, or fighter pilot. You can visit more than 200 planets 
 and moons and dock at more than 100 space stations and star bases. The game tries to include everything 
 and the kitchen sink -- with the bathroom sink and a plumbing supply store thrown in for good measure. 
 For all the things that the game gives you, it lacks any multiplayer support out of the box. A 
 free multiplayer update is planned, though.   

 Not surprisingly, the sort of expansiveness offered by Battlecruiser Millennium comes with many 
 costs, one of them being the steep learning curve. The game's lengthy printed manual looks like 
 it would be at home with a hard-core Jane's flight sim. The keyboard and joystick command reference 
 alone takes up two pages of tiny print. All the ship systems create an alphabet soup that would 
 confuse even a veteran Pentagon planner -- you have your MTD, TTD, MTAR, VMI, FPA, WHI, FPI, and 
 TIR, to name just a few of the seemingly endless acronyms you'll stumble over. Making matters more 
 difficult is the lack of an index in the manual.   

  Along the same lines, the main menu interface is rather rough around the edges, and that's true 
 of the in-game interface too. Considering the towering piles of information that the game puts 
 at your disposal, the interface still works decently overall, despite some convoluted spots. To 
 help you out, pop-up tooltips appear when you hover the cursor over the numerous buttons and icons, 
 giving you the full name of each item. Still, information overload can be a problem.   

  The game does offer six training scenarios, with one for each possible career, but these aren't 
 worth much as teaching tools -- you're just thrown into space or onto a planet's surface. There are 
 no enemies to worry about, but also no instructions at all, either in the game or its documentation. 
 Battlecruiser Millennium also offers 24 instant action scenarios, and you do get written tutorials 
 in a separate HTML file for four of these. Using these tutorials is difficult, though, as you can't 
 reference the tutorials while playing. A game like this needs full, interactive, in-game tutorials. 
           It models both deep-space and planetary combat and exploration.    

  Still, once you get the hang of things, you'll really appreciate all you can do in Battlecruiser 
 Millennium. The instant-action scenarios cater to the different careers like commander or marine, 
 and they'll let you perform varied missions like leading one fleet of ships against another, rescuing 
 a downed pilot, or intercepting a smuggler ship. Some of these scenarios are quite dull, though. 
 Then there's a campaign where you play a capital ship commander, as well as a more interesting 
 free-form "roam" mode that lets you do just about anything you want.   

  Until the promised multiplayer update arrives to let you battle other human pilots or marines, 
 you'll find the great majority of the action and interest lie in commanding the big fleet ships 
 in space. From there, you can navigate the stars, wage battles with enemy ships, launch probes, 
 trade at stations, assign orders to your complement of shuttles or fighter craft, and much more. 
 Overall, there's a huge amount of flexibility on hand. As a carrier captain, for example, you can 
 get in one of your ship's fighters, take it out for a spin, then enter a planet's atmosphere, land, 
 get out of your ship, and run on foot.    

 You get an enormous sense of freedom playing this way. All this freedom and flexibility isn't as 
 exciting as it initially seems to be, though. Traveling around on a whim is really neat at first, 
 but some may find that the freedom begins to feel like aimless puttering fairly quickly. Plus, 
 the places you can visit are usually very dull -- the worlds seem essentially barren, and you don't 
 get to explore space stations since docking just means accessing new menus temporarily.        
    The game can sometimes give you a real sense of freedom...    

  Looked at separately, the various portions of the game don't succeed particularly well, either. 
 Take the first-person planetary gameplay, for instance. This shooter portion of the game feels 
 downright awkward and, frankly, amateurish. You get a number of weapons, a jetpack, the ability 
 to drive vehicles, and other theoretically promising options. Nevertheless, clunky controls, distinctly 
 underwhelming weapons, the inability to look up or down, and poor environmental feedback mean that 
 Battlecruiser Millennium has no chance of competing with the majority of today's shooters.   

 
  Battlecruiser Millennium features its own decently fleshed-out science fiction milieu, though 
 you'll gain much, if not most, of your knowledge of it outside the game from an accompanying HTML 
 file. The game universe feels dry and unimaginative, lacking the creative hooks or sophistication 
 you find in familiar science fiction franchises like Babylon 5, Star Wars, Star Trek, Farscape, 
 or Dune, to name a few. This means that despite the opportunity to explore a huge game universe, 
 there's little actual incentive to explore it.   

  The game lacks the epic drama, sense of wonder and adventure, or emotional intensity you expect 
 from a science fiction sim. That's particularly true where the real heart of the game is concerned -- commanding 
 capital ships. There, you have tons of information and options at your fingertips. Yet, as you 
 pore over readouts and access menu after menu, you often feel more like some kind of futuristic 
 accountant than a bold commander. There's a distinct dearth of audio-visual environmental cues 
 that would make you feel like you're commanding a massive, powerful ship from the bridge. It usually 
 looks and feels like you're just piloting a little fighter craft, albeit one with piles of missiles. 
 That's uninspiring.   

  Battlecruiser Millennium's graphics get the job done, but barely. They look dated, and the game 
 sorely lacks the sort of grand cinematic touches you'd rightly expect from a game about space travel 
 and combat. Ships, planets, and player models in particular tend to look blocky, and the textures 
 and visual effects are usually dull or unattractive. The game lacks the sense of visual scale you'd 
 expect -- space stations and capital ships don't look huge and awe-inspiring, but rather seem dinky 
 and unimpressive. Technical weaknesses mar the graphics too, as clipping problems arise in the 
 first-person shooter mode and textures swim across space stations, for instance.   

  For that matter, the game on the whole seems extremely buggy and crash-prone. It required a reboot 
 after every session for other games to function properly afterward. Also, even if you have a computer 
 that exceeds the game's recommended specs, there's a good chance you'll experience stuttering frame 
 rates in the teens regardless of what video settings you choose. That isn't merely an aesthetic 
 problem, either, since it can create practical drawbacks for moving and aiming.           ... but 
 it's buggy and very rough around the edges.    

  The game's overall audio environment is extremely spartan. More than a few of the weapon sounds 
 will literally remind you of the bleeps and bloops of early '80s arcade games. Sound effects often 
 fade out mysteriously, too. The occasional voice-over alerts you receive while aboard ships or 
 vehicles are decently done, but the moaning and gasping "pain" voice-overs you hear when ground 
 troops are wounded are embarrassing. The game's music nicely blends "new age" ambience with techno-style 
 beats. It's not an inventive or even particularly memorable soundtrack, but it's pleasant and fits 
 the setting fairly well.   

  Battlecruiser Millennium is one of those games that you really want to like for all it tries to 
 give you. Still, you'll likely walk away from it rather disappointed. The game features an admirably 
 massive scope and loads of varied gameplay options and opportunities. It gives you countless little 
 details to revel in (or get lost in, as the case may be) . Derek Smart and company seem to have 
 bitten off more than they could chew, though. While the game undeniably offers a lot, what it offers 
 isn't implemented nearly as well as it could be. More isn't necessarily better -- a wealth of details 
 and possibilities only matters if you have something exciting to do with them, which isn't often 
 enough the case here. For a game about exploring and fighting in space on a grand scale, there's 
 surprisingly little sense of drama or emotional engagement. Battlecruiser Millennium also tends 
 to be dry, unpolished, buggy, and difficult to learn. It's a game that reaches for the stars, gets 
 well underway, and yet in the end only makes it as far as the moon.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mechwarrior2468
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 1:40 am PT
Review:  In the world there are thousands of free games to download of the net, but most of the time only 
 some are worth the download. This game certainly has size, but as you play it's bad points start 
 popping out. The game has a campaign and a instant action mode. Instant action has about 20 or 
 so quick missions to dive into, but most take about 20 or more minutes to complete. This is certainly 
 not a quick game. Once you select campaign you are presented with lots of options. You can choose 
 your alter egos name, race, their trade etc. Changing their race really doesn't affect much- just 
 who blasts you and who doesn't. There are many trades; each affects who blasts you again- and what 
 ships they have. Let's say we selected Assassin. The Assassin can have most types of ships- to 
 make the selection of ships clear, there's basically a battleship class, a fighter class, and for 
 the ground (Planets) there's certain vehicles and hover cars. In most types there's different classes. 
 There's plenty to choose from but the battleships don't have much of a difference in their weapon 
 range. Say we've chosen a medium class battleship, and we've selected humans for the race. Now 
 we choose which planet we get deployed from. We'll choose Earth. We will choose to be in a medium 
 class battleship. Now, a bad mistake the developers made. The last option is to have a Roam game 
 or a Campaign game. Unfortunately, Campaign is only available if you choose Military for a trade, 
 and only for the battleship class. So right now we will choose Roam, where you have no rules- just 
 don't die. Now we can choose Start. At the start you are presented with the 'Bridge'. This is basically 
 what you would see playing a normal space shooter, with cross heirs and target info. But if you 
 look closely, it has 3 boxes at the bottom. The first is for way points. The seconded is a basic 
 map of your current galaxy and third has info about your target. At this screen you have lot's 
 of key commands, and I mean lot's. For example, W and P activate your weapons. W works your "weapons", 
 which seems to be your basic forward lasers, and P works your PTAs. PTAs are laser turrets, which 
 look far too like phasers from star trek. Only battleships have PTAs and for some reason, they 
 also have normal weapons. Why is this unusual? Because in combat, you have to turn around and maneuver 
 a whole battleship just to fire! 
  Anyway, you have about 5 or 6 computer systems, which is your main stems to control, maps and communication. 
 The main one, Taclops, is a open 3D map of your current sector. Because ships move so fast (Well, 
 kind of) , you can remain fully zoomed out, watching the ships units move around, or you can zoom 
 in to the ship as the camera follows it to get a better look. Most of the game is spent with auto 
 pilot on. Don't say "What? Auto pilots are for wusses!" because this is NOT. Once it's on, you 
 can click on your ships image and give it commands, such as 'attack', 'defend', 'fly to' or 'jump 
 to'. If you select 'Jump to' then you select a target, which are jump gates. These are your only 
 way to get to other sectors. Now the problem. Say your on the other side of the sector, and you 
 normally are, and you jump to a gate to Pluto. Your ship disappears and goes into hyper space. 
 Now that's fine, but your ship takes ten minutes just to get to the jump gate! There is no speed 
 up button, or fast forward- it's boring! And your ship takes 5 minutes just to recharge the engines. 
 In roam mode, you purpose isn't much. Fly around the galaxies, finding baddies that like to warp 
 into the galaxy and stir up trouble. Destroy them. Repair. Do again. It is slight addictive, but 
 not for long. This is a classic and common situation. You're just finished at a space station above 
 a planet, when a small enemy fleet, usually a battleship or two and some fighters warp in. Your 
 friendly space station releases its fighters which attack them. Any friendly ship flying through 
 will help out. You will try and help out, but normally the computer has taken care of them before 
 you get there. And attacking a massive space station is suicide. Its Ion Cannons blew my battleship 
 in less than 5 seconds. So don't try it. Campaign is a bit better, as you are given set missions 
 which give you a purpose, which you can actually gain credits for. Doing enough will gain you ranks, 
 so you can command your own fleet. 
  An interesting part is to inclusion of planet based missions. On planets you can command and drive 
 tanks, hover vehicles and planet based fighters. It, is also possible get out of your vehicles 
 and walk around with weapons. There is also the mission to be a space marine, which is a first 
 person space mission where your jet pack is your source to control.
  GRAPHIC LOWDOWN:
  For the year it came out, it was most likely a state of the art game. These days, it's really bad. 
 But now it's for free, it changes all that. For a free download, the graphics are defiantly worth 
 it, despite being a bit grainy.
  SHOULD I GET IT?:
  If it was still worth money, no. But now it's for free, this game is certainly great. The amount 
 of time you'll get out of this game is good enough for download, despite being massive.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
