-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battle of Britain
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/battleofbritain/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  4, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.1, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 36 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: TalonSoft
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Feb 28, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Like all Grigsby games, Battle of Britain doles out plenty of detail but leaves much room for improvement. 
 

 Gary Grigsby is one of the best-known names in computer wargaming - he created a whole slew of great 
 games for SSI, like Pacific War, Russian Front, Carrier Strike, and the Steel Panthers series. 
 One game, U. S. A. A. F., was a day-by-day blow-by-blow strategic simulation of running the bombing 
 campaign over the Third Reich in World War II from 1943 to 1945. U. S. A. A. F. was a great game, and 
 so when Grigsby and Steel Panthers cocreator Keith Brors signed with Talonsoft to develop new wargames, 
 the topic of doing a remake of sorts for U. S. A. A. F. inevitably came up. The result is Battle of 
 Britain, an interesting design of the vital air campaign over England in 1940. Like all Grigsby 
 games, Battle of Britain doles out plenty of detail but leaves much room for improvement.  

 The game premise is simple enough: You have control of your respective country's air force (Britain 
 or Germany) during a set time period. This means that you will designate where the squadrons are 
 based, what targets or patrol areas they will cover, and when they fly. Battle of Britain offers 
 several types of campaigns, ranging from single-day affairs to ones that can last a week, a month, 
 or several months. Two different time periods, the historical battle starting in August 1940 and 
 a hypothetical German strategic bombing campaign in 1941, are also offered.   

 The campaign objectives for each side are quite different. The British player must defend the country 
 against bombing attacks but at the same time manage and protect his precious RAF squadrons from 
 decimation due to combat, aircraft loss, and fatigue. The German player on the other hand must 
 bomb the British player into submission and diminish the RAF any chance he gets. While the British 
 player must manage his squadrons efficiently, the German player must manage his bombing campaign 
 down to a fine detail - though the AI can improvise and help out somewhat in the planning. Beginners 
 should try out the one-day and one-week scenarios from the British side in learning the game, though 
 these scenarios do tend to lean toward the Germans in the victory-conditions area.  

 The bulk of the game takes place over a map of the United Kingdom and northwestern Europe, showing 
 a nice geographic look of the terrain, with symbols depicting various airfields, towns, factories, 
 electrical stations, and so forth, as well as animated icons for the aircraft and raid sightings. 
 Each side starts the day in a preplanning mode, moving around squadrons or doing some basic management. 
 The German player does all the planning for the day in this stage, while the British player, depending 
 on his strategy, may elect to do not much of anything. The day then evolves in phased real time 
 - that is, in game terms, on a minute-by-minute basis. At any point you may pause and give further 
 orders, so there is no advantage in being fast on the click. Of course, the disadvantage is that 
 there is a lot of clicking.  

 The problem lies in the fact that, as in many other Grigsby designs, the interface, while at least 
 looking somewhat manageable, is not particularly user friendly. Certain pieces of information are 
 only available in certain functions or modes, causing you to cancel an action - say, the intercepting 
 raids function - just to find out which squadron a nearby group of friendly aircraft happens to 
 be in. Other functions bring up windows that blot out the map almost entirely, blocking out pertinent 
 strategic information. When the map gets messy and full of plane icons (which happens quite a lot) , 
 it can be hell trying to sort through the different layers and stacks of planes, which can become 
 all the more annoying when you forget something and can't access the stack from a game function. 

 To be sure, Battle of Britain is brimming with detail. All the available British and German squadrons 
 are in the game, along with literally thousands of pilots and statistics to boot. Aircraft have 
 a number of real-world and arbitrary attributes assigned to them (unfortunately, there's little 
 explanation as to how the attributes came about) and range from the common Hurricane and Bf-109e 
 aircraft to the more notable Bf-110c and rare Defiant aircraft. It's all there, if you want to 
 sort through it, though it does have a bit of role-playing appeal to it, fine tuning your squadrons 
 and watching out for potential aces.   

 Again, the British player must balance when and where he will attack the invading German aircraft 
 - should attempts be made at all the raids, or are the morning raids a diversion, or are they planning 
 for something bigger later in the day? Should the squadrons be "on alert" and stay put, or should 
 there be active patrols that fatigue the pilots? The German player can experiment with concentrating 
 on certain areas, wiping out the RAF, or attacking piecemeal. The British player gets points for 
 shooting down German aircraft - extra points for bombers - and the German player is awarded points 
 for shooting down RAF planes and for bombing targets, the more the merrier. This play balance in 
 the longer campaigns, and the management of your forces, is what Battle of Britain simulates best, 
 though at times it can get tedious. When thousands of planes are in the air, even the minute phases 
 can get really slow, a problem made worse by the hundreds of air-combat reports.   

 Word to the wise: Turn off the video option before you even start a game. Battle of Britain plays 
 tiny videos of war film, mostly gun camera footage, during significant events, which seems to be 
 about half the air battles. This can make the game crawl at an annoyingly slow pace, not to mention 
 the little sprites of the planes crashing and the battle sounds that can get equally annoying. 
 Turn off the music too, though turning it off from the main menu doesn't seem to work very well, 
 as the game appears to forget it ever happened once you get into a campaign.  

 Battle of Britain works rather well in the play-by-e-mail setting, where the British player sets 
 up first for the day, then the German player plans the attack. Since he does little else, the British 
 player plays out the turn, and the German player can replay the day's events when he gets it back. 
 Then the process begins anew the next day. The game also includes a TCP/IP option..  

 That brings this review to a final point: Battle of Britain requires some time, effort, and patience, 
 even if you do turn off all the frivolities. Some computing power couldn't hurt either. Battle 
 of Britain appeals to the wargaming die-hard rather than the general player - the interface and 
 sheer micromanagement problems will turn off many casual gamers, but fans of Grigsby may feel right 
 at home. The shipped version of the game comes with several bugs that hamper both sides (RAF aircraft 
 could not be destroyed on the ground, while Germany could easily cripple Britain by concentrating 
 on the power facilities only but couldn't shuttle squadrons to different airfields) , so make sure 
 you get the patch. The manual does a pretty good job of explaining the game, so even if you hate 
 manuals, you should probably give it a read at least once.  

 All that being said, Battle of Britain can be an interesting and involved game to play. It is not 
 for the weakhearted, because understanding the game system with all its details is paramount if 
 you ever want to win. Let's hope the next game, the true successor to U. S. A. A. F., entitled Bombing 
 the Reich, will streamline the interface a bit and allow for at least a better graphics resolution 
 (which seems to be stuck at 640x480) . Once you get around the interface problems and learn the 
 system (and some hotkeys along the way) , the game can be quite enjoyable, if time consuming. But 
 the daunting task of learning it will once again be the game's biggest drawback.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 20, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  Perfect subject, and good genre seelction. I always wanted to play BOB strategy on map, coordinating 
 attacks and defences, priority targets and race with time...
  
  Unfortunately, Talonsoft couldnt make it with unlimited materials, and history at hand. The game 
 gives a feeling like its missing something. The spirit maybe? The game has two things: The Map 
 and the papers on it. Nothing more. There is not even any aircraft pictures, building pictures 
 and descriptions. Players are obliged to know the stats of the aircraft abilities, weaknesses and 
 strengths by their selves.
  
  The battles are done on map and outcomes are somehow weird as you can never guess the casualties 
 nor hits no matter the size of your squadrons. that was the most annoying part of this game. you 
 have no influence on reinforcements nor you are informed as they arrive. you can not merge units 
 nor back up losses.
  
  It becomes compeletely frustrating after an hour or two. And eventually you ask yourself; what 
 the heck i'm doing here...
  
  How pity, A potentially perfect project is ruined once more.. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
