-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battle Realms: Winter of the Wolf
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/battlerealmswinteroftw/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.7, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 241 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Crave
Developer: Liquid Ent.
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 11, 2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fans of real-time strategy gaming who might have missed Battle Realms amid last year's busy holiday 
 season may still do well to give the game a look at this time. 

 It isn't easy for a real-time strategy game to distinguish itself these days, because the genre 
 is saturated. And it isn't just filled with fluff -- no matter what your tastes or gameplay preferences 
 may be, chances are good that there's been an excellent real-time strategy game in the last 12 
 months that would be a perfect match for you. Earlier this year, Blizzard's Warcraft III met with 
 tremendous success, and it is still widely played and very popular. The more recent Age of Mythology 
 makes a suitably good counterpart, with its larger scale and more epic feel. Meanwhile, Medieval: 
 Total War has a level of depth and tactical complexity not found in most other strategy games, 
 and Combat Mission: Barbarossa to Berlin uses real-time turn resolutions and extremely realistic 
 military units to completely reinvent modern wargaming. With such fierce competition on all fronts, 
 it's difficult even for last year's most notable real-time strategy games to remain relevant only 
 a year after their release. This is really the biggest problem with Battle Realms: Winter of the 
 Wolf, which is technically a pretty solid add-on to last year's distinctive martial-arts-themed 
 real-time strategy game.           Winter of the Wolf is an expansion that also ships with a full 
 version of the original Battle Realms.    

 The $30 expansion actually comes packaged with the original game, and so is clearly intended to 
 draw new players into the world of Battle Realms rather than just give those who already own Battle 
 Realms some more units and campaign missions to play with. However, those who haven't played Battle 
 Realms before in some ways have already missed the boat on this game, as it hasn't aged too well 
 in the last year. The graphics that were state of the art last year now look noticeably worse than 
 those of Warcraft III and Age of Mythology. More importantly, Battle Realms' gameplay problems 
 have not been addressed in the expansion, while more-recent real-time strategy games have incorporated 
 some of Battle Realms' innovations (and stylistic touches) to better effect. Nevertheless, the 
 core Battle Realms real-time strategy gameplay is still unusually different from the norm, and 
 now you can get a lot of it for your money. Also, those who already own Battle Realms will get 
 a $10 rebate when purchasing Winter of the Wolf.   

  The original Battle Realms campaign focused on an exiled hero named Kenji, who would become leader 
 of either the Dragon or Serpent clans and fight to unite the country under his flag. Along the 
 way, he'd inevitably square off against the vile Lotus clan and the barbaric Wolf clan. The latter 
 two did not play a central role in the story of Battle Realms, but they figure most prominently 
 in this expansion pack, which takes place before the events of the original game. It chronicles 
 the story of Grayback, a Wolf leader who begins the campaign by staging a rebellion against his 
 Lotus-clan enslavers. Grayback must unite and rally his forces and restore the Wolf clan to freedom 
 over the course of an 11-mission campaign.           A new campaign focuses on Grayback, a hero 
 of the Wolf clan.    

 The campaign gets off to a slow start, because it'll be a while until you actually break free from 
 the Lotus clan's shale mines and can actually begin building bases and training units. You'll at 
 first just have to make do with what you've got and go from point to point in several highly scripted 
 but not altogether engaging missions. These use in-engine cutscenes to drive the story along, and 
 while the voice-over is pretty good, the unflattering close-ups of the game's blocky units aren't. 
 Also -- and this has been a problem with Battle Realms all along -- because you have limited tactical 
 control over your forces, the battles in the early stages of Winter of the Wolf merely require 
 you to sit back and watch.   

  As a more general criticism of the campaign, it's odd that it focuses on what's arguably the least 
 interesting of Battle Realms' four factions. The various martial-arts-style units from the first 
 game were one of the main attractions -- it was a game in which you could control armies that looked 
 like they came straight out of a Hong Kong kung fu movie. The Wolf clan's Stone Age-looking barbarians, 
 with their bulging muscles and crude weapons, stood in sharp contrast to the other factions and 
 made for interesting opponents. But Grayback and his wild clansmen can't carry a game as well as 
 Kenji and his brothers-in-arms.    

 The Wolf clan may star in the campaign, but the Winter of the Wolf expansion makes a few additions 
 to all four of the factions, in the form of one structural upgrade and three new units per side. 
 These can all be used in the game's skirmish and multiplayer modes, and some appear in the new 
 campaign as well. The structural upgrade for each side is a high-level town center enhancement 
 that lets you train a couple of new units -- either a high-level fighter or a powerful female support 
 character. Those familiar with Battle Realms will recall the game's clever resource model, in which 
 the very same peasants used for harvesting the game's two resources -- rice and water -- could also 
 be sent into training facilities to be converted into fighting forces. Those military units could 
 in turn be upgraded into entirely new forces by sending them into other training centers. It would 
 invariably take a while to develop an army of top-tier units because of this, so the new town center 
 upgrades are an interesting twist since they let you train relatively powerful units in just one 
 or two steps. The new units, ranging from the bare-chested Dragon clan guardian and his huge studded 
 club to the Lotus' menacing, scythe-wielding reaper, fit right in with the original game's colorful 
 cast, and they're fun to watch in action.           Battle Realms is only a year old, but in that 
 time, the real-time strategy genre has taken several big steps.    

 Winter of the Wolf, true to its name, also adds a new snowy terrain type, which is a nice addition 
 to Battle Realms' rather limited selection of settings. In some of the original game's maps, occasional 
 rainstorms would increase rice-crop yields temporarily. Conversely, in these new snow maps, intermittent 
 snowstorms will bring rice production to a halt, forcing you to make do with whatever forces and 
 resources you already have on hand. A nice snowstorm may be an excellent opportunity to muster 
 all your military units and attack your foes, catching them when their resources are limited.  
          The game's original mechanics and fast pace can still make for fun, intense skirmishes. 
    

 The combat in Battle Realms is still quite chaotic. Units can be ordered to run, and they can easily 
 bypass the enemies they come across and strike straight at the most vulnerable units or structures 
 of their opponents. The game's large units, complex animations, and very large, spread-out buildings 
 make it difficult to keep track of what's happening in the game's large-scale battles, and the 
 game's interface -- while sleek -- unfortunately provides few options for precise control or effective 
 use of some of the game's unique features, such as the ability to equip individual units with specialized 
 battle gear. Also, the sprawling bases, relatively small unit counts, and relatively limited base 
 defenses mean that fast, early, surgical strikes against key points in the enemy base are dominating 
 tactics in Battle Realms. You might have trouble getting to those new units, since the game's relentless 
 AI or any experienced Battle Realms player will be giving you the fight of your life long before 
 you're in the position to train any. At times, Battle Realms plays like an action game in which 
 you're forced to control too many characters at once. Recent real-time strategy games have successfully 
 incorporated Battle Realms' brand of visually impressive, exciting battle sequences but also grant 
 players a superior level of control over the proceedings. It's little wonder, then, that relatively 
 few people are playing Battle Realms online at this time.   

  Last year's Battle Realms was a great game that featured a lot of unusual, even innovative features 
 and some truly impressive graphics. Winter of the Wolf doesn't make any huge changes to the original, 
 and therefore inadvertently illustrates just how far the real-time strategy genre has come along 
 in the last year. Fans of real-time strategy gaming who might have missed Battle Realms amid last 
 year's busy holiday season may still do well to give the game a look at this time, though the circumstances 
 are such that they're liable to miss out on the game once again, especially since they have plenty 
 of alternatives.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: malavos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  It&acute; s hard to believe that some great games are forgotten by the time. A great rts game, with 
 a solid campaing. It&acute; s so nice to play this. Specially if you like the type of games wich 
 you can use a lot of strategies. This dons&acute; t change in this expasion: Very kool, with some 
 new toys. =) Well, let&acute; s go to the grades. =)
  
  Graphics: 8,9 .... Nice to see. But not one of the betters, could be better.
  History: 8,4 ..... 
 Very good base, but either too short, and there is 4 claws. But 2 campaings. XD
  Fun: 9.6...... Yea, with this game you gonna have a lot of fun. XDDDDDDDDDD Specially if you like 
 big battles with a lot of dribs flying and other things. XD
  Sounds.... 9.0 Nice voices, good battle sounds.
  Music .... 10. Well. Feudal Japan. Dear, this 
 is so perfect. The musics are so powerfull, they give a extra touch to the game.
  New ideas? Yes - 10. The good engine of the game, easy interface. Pretty easy to learn how to play. 
 Units combinations, powerfull heroes in each race.
  
  Overral: 9,3 Solid game, with a GREAT&sup3; style, Nice to play, lots of fun. Not a much of a story, 
 but with so many units combinations and tatics. If you like games like warcraft III..... or....... 
 um.... rts with heros....... well. This is your game boy =P o///////////////////
  
  Well. Maybe one day, the two is coming forth.
  I&acute; m anxious to this. XDDDDDDDDD o/
  
 
  Comments? XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AU_gundam
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Well, what do I have to say? I like games with japanese themes. Especially ones with Samurai, Ninja, 
 and other funky oriental stuff. Battle Realms gives more than just that. I mean, look at the story. 
 Its not a standard Japanese-themed game based around a real historical event. Its a Japanese-themed 
 game taking place in a fictional island with several magical and mystical elements. The story also 
 does well in adding these elements, making it a departure from the historically based Japan themed 
 games.
  
  Now lets take a look at gameplay. The gameplay of the Battle Realms games quite differs from that 
 of others. First, combat units are made by training your peasants (aka workers) . You do this by 
 having them go to a designated building to become a certain unit. Repeat the process with ready 
 combat units to gain stronger, more capable fighters. Second, ranged units do not continuously 
 shoot when attacked by close range combatants. Third, realistic elements such as higher ground 
 meaning higher range for ranged units and flame attacks setting buildings ablaze.
  
  The only thing that I can find as a problem in here is the graphics. But it isn't that bad.
  
 
  Overall, this is a video game classic that any diehard Real-time strategy fan or Japanese-themed 
 game fan should have on their I Want lists if they don't have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  Well, I prefer Winter of the wolf than original battle realms... It contains new troops, buildings, 
 maps and one of the best is Map Editor.... Yea, it is true... You can design your own maps... And 
 the best of all is: it's easy... (the map creating) ... It has 2 new troops for every clan, 1 new 
 building for every clan and 1 more hero per clan... It is absolutely perfect! I'm still playing 
 it... Another thing that I liked is a new camaign: Grayback's journey. Since Wolf is my favourite 
 clan, and Grayback is my favourite hero, I just love this campaign... Completed it a few times... 
 Anyway, the expansion has really done a great job and only thing that I could wish for in another 
 expansion (if it ever comes out) is a new clan... I really hope there will be one... Again a 10/10- 
 perfect... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rysing_Furi
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 21, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  The game almost feels like Neverwinter Nights in the first few levels. You begin the game in underground 
 mines, so in the first couple of levels you'll be fighting with a rag tag bunch of brutes rather 
 than disciplined armor wearing samurai's. Gameplay is exactly the same as the original, although 
 your tactics will have to change as you don't have peasant huts in the first few levels, which 
 means you only have a limited supply of troops. Graphics are the same as the original, as is the 
 cinematrics (in-game engine cutscenes unfortunately) . Sound is still great, but as in the original, 
 they will repeat a bit too often. It's too bad this game wasn't a part of the original like in 
 starcraft with its 3 different factions as it would have lasted a bit longer, not to mention you'd 
 have the chance to play as the Lotus clan (which is only playable via skirmish/multiplayer) . But 
 the game still manages to pull off an entertaining sorte that'll keep you going for a while, at 
 least until they decide to make a sequel ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemanjaz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  Although it has passed a year since the original game was published, the game itself hasn't changed, 
 sure they added some new units but the game-play and graphic are still the same, that doesn't mean 
 tha they are bad, but they could give a little effort to tune up the game. Basically the story is 
 not sou bad but not like the first one, same goes for the campaign, It seams that is too short. Probably 
 they miss that spot but because its just an add-on its forgiven. The new units in the game are well 
 placed in the story, there is one new unit for each side and a new hero unit. The new snow region 
 is excellent the footprints and snow blizzards are also present. Nevertheless the game itself is 
 a very good and i recommended every one who played the original to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kq167
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the most fun games I have ever played. With millions of options to choose, 
 this game kept me busy for a very long time. The single player campaign is very similar to StarCraft. 
 It's an RPG and most of the mission have protecting a character or going to point A to point B. 
 Which deffinetly gets boring after a while. 
  
  But the campaign isnt what I was so impressed with, but just the single player skirmish is what 
 impressed me so much. So many options to pick from to keep you very busy. Many clans and characters 
 to choose from.
  
  But it's not all good and shiny. The multiplayer fails awfully, not because of gameplay, sound, 
 and graphics. But for the lack of nobodies online because no one knows this game even exists. Which 
 is sad to see!!
  
  Just blaim it on the company!!
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
