-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battleground 2: Gettysburg
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/battlegroundgettysburg/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 23, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.8, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 26 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: TalonSoft
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Dec 31, 1995

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Of the many Civil War strategy games available on the market, Battleground: Gettysburg comes very 
 close to being the best. 

 The Civil War still provokes strong opinions from people. Since the day the war ended, questions 
 of what if have inspired endless debate. Therefore, it's no surprise that people can 
 recreate the military actions of the period through wargames. Of the many Civil War strategy games 
 available on the market, Battleground: Gettysburg comes very close to being the best. TalonSoft 
 has taken a traditional genre and given it a new look, decent artificial intelligence, and more 
 historical information than can be found in most public libraries. Battleground: Gettysburg retains 
 much of the flavor of the typical hex-based war game. The interface gives you a choice of a 2-D 
 or 3-D battlefield view. The Battleview, as TalonSoft calls it, presents you with a 
 flexible view of both units and terrain. In the 3-D view, it is remarkably easy to see what's really 
 going on during the game. Hills, houses, roads, and units are presented in fine detail. A two-dimensional 
 view is available for traditionalists, but most people will find the 3-D mode more effective and 
 entertaining.  

 Battlefield: Gettysburg reflects an enormous amount of research by the programmers. The terrain 
 is a startlingly accurate reproduction of the actual battlefield. Units are represented by a number 
 of different uniforms, and their leaders are viewed as tiny pictures based on real photographs. 
 Nice graphic touches, including smoke from rifle fire and the tiny bodies left on the ground when 
 units suffer heavy casualties, add to the period atmosphere of the title. Players have an option 
 to toggle video clips on or off for combat, and the sound effects, while not exceptional, accentuate 
 the aggressive feel of the game.  

 Battleground: Gettysburg plays almost as good as it looks. Unlike many other wargames, the computer 
 opponent in this game is capable of providing a real challenge. The AI reacts to events rather 
 than following a predetermined script (well, most of the time) . While there is no difficulty setting 
 within the game, players can choose individual scenarios that are easier to complete than the entire 
 battle.  

 Sure, there's no shortage of Civil War games, but serious fans of the period should give this one 
 a close look. Battleground: Gettysburg does just about everything right, and is a fine game for 
 the money.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JMAsian88
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 10, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Just to let you all know, my dad got this game as a gift when he was in the military. Anyway this 
 game is pretty awesome. It's just like if you were at a board gaming place and playing against 
 another player. The graphics are okay, and so is the sound. I mean, when your battalion or corps 
 or whatever is shooting at the enemy, some littlw smoke clouds come up as the sound effects go 
 off. Oh yeah, the sound effects for everything-including the music- is real guns and cannons going 
 off. Actually just to make things simple, the creators of this game actually just went to some 
 Gettysburg reinactment and recorded the sounds. They also video-taped alot of things, so that if 
 you don't want the sound effects and animation, you can just turn on the vidoe effects and make 
 it seem like what the little people on the screen are really doing down there. Also, my dad got 
 all the other Battleground games to, including ----BG:1 Ardennes Deluxe (Battle of the Bulge) , BG 
 2: Gettysburg, BG 3: Waterloo, BG 4: Shiloh, BG 5: Antietam, BG 6: Napoleon in Russia, and finally, 
 BG 7: Bull Run (Battle at Manassas) . They are all fun to play, but sometimes I cheat if I'm losing, 
 by setting the advantage to my side to 100%, so every shot i make instantly kills the opposition. 
 Well i think that explains all! Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MInamin
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 15, 2005 1:25 pm PT
Review:  A dark haired man with a beard sits in full blue uniform of the Unionists on his horse surrounded 
 by several of his fellow generals. A grey haired man, also on horseback, approaches. This man however 
 is wearing a grey uniform.
  Hay Maj. Gen. John F. Reynolds, I'm Gen. Robert E. Lee the grey haired man said.
  Hay 
 
  Now looke here will ya. We got ourselves a situation goin off down there (gesturing to the small 
 town of Gettysburg) a whole load of our boys seen emselves a bunch of your n**ger loving scum. 
 Were gonna have to have ourselves a little battle.
  Fine.
  Righto I got this littl list here (pulling list from pocket) its the kinda rules of engagement. 
 With this Lee hands the paper over. Reynolds studies the paper.
  Now look here, I cant read this, are you illiterate?
  I certainly am! I can read or write 
 good as anyone
  Do you know what illiterate means?
  Of course I do! Anyhoo we aint here to talk about me. It says quite plainly we take tomorrow 
 to move our troops around, then day afta yall can shoot at us. Reynolds looks confused but Lee 
 continues oblivious. Day afta we can shoot yall. Then next day we can perform a melee, well so 
 long as were in adjacent hexes eh? 
  
  Now you may be forgiven for thinking that this is not quite historically accurate, because to the 
 best of my knowledge it isn't. However this is the distinct impression the game gives. You select 
 a scenario, preferably the first because this is the only one you can complete in one day, and 
 then you hear what is quite plainly horrible music. Finally you see the battleground. After having 
 found your magnifying glass you see your, well both sets of, troops. Several moments later you 
 notice display at the top of the screen. Having scrolled down you notice 3D normal view. Selecting 
 this causes the view to become more zoomed. Bizarrely though the game does not appear to be 3D. 
 Once you clicked again you realise that this is the apparent 3D view.
  
  After clicking on various icons and troops, and most probably hurling unnecessary abuse, your troops 
 are finally in the position you want, well the nearest you can manage. So next comes the Union 
 defensive phase. Basically this means the unions cannon can do one of two things, wipe out a whole 
 block of your troops or as the game quite irritatingly says fatigue increased in unit or words 
 to that effect which basically translates into ha ha you just wasted a shell. 
  
  Next comes the confederate offensive phase. Similar events happen with firing either causing monumental 
 loses on the unionist side or succeeding in doing nothing more than annoying you. Finally comes 
 the melee phase for whichever team had the movement day. Providing about 25 000 000 factors 
 are correct then a melee means that your men move into an opponents hex which causes huge losses, 
 normally on both sides. 
  
  After several days you notice that firing is so inconsistent and that positioning your troops 
 achieves nothing other than making possible to fire upon a unit, which is normally an utter waste 
 of a good few seconds. Every now and then reinforcements appear and this means moving loads of 
 troops, again wasting more of your life. 
  
  If after the seven days for the first scenario you have not given up or worst, or maybe better 
 if you didnt pay good money for the game, broke the game an annoying message will appear on the 
 screen and your informed as to who the victor is, as if you care. Normally the victor is the one 
 that the computer feels like saying as usually the events on the battlefield have very little bearing 
 on the outcome of the battle. 
  
  Even with just seven days or turns the game is exceedingly bad, just imagine therefore a scenario, 
 as there is in the game, which contains about 5000 units and 147 turns. This quite plainly would 
 ruin your life. Firstly it would take, and then waste, a good proportion of your life due to what 
 appears to be an inability to save, despite the fact that irritatingly after every turn you are 
 encouraged to save. Secondly the sheer anger at seeing for example your opponents confederate army 
 covering the battlefield with their lifeless corpses and then seeing the annoying box saying rebel 
 major victory, notwithstanding the fact that they have blatantly lost, would probably cause you 
 too pull your hair out. Literally rip it from your scalp, facing the prospect of total baldness 
 for the rest of your miserable days, a result of having the poor idea that playing a complete re-run 
 of the battle of Gettysburg would be a good thing to do with your week. 
  
  In conclusion I believe that creating a device for time travel and actually participating in, or 
 watching the, battle would be a much quicker and a safer alternative than playing the game. It 
 is also more probable that you would manage this than finish the game. 
  
  Finally I must explain my scoring. I gave a difficulty of easy because I never bothered trying 
 to figure it out and so used the AI and this is why the learning curve is so high, merely because 
 I've never figured it out. Its worth playing just to see how poor it is, but please, please dont 
 spend money on it.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
