-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlestar Galactica
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/battlestargalactica/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The fighters look pretty good.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 There's not a lot of depth in the gameplay.
 Doesn't capture the spirit of the television show.
 No Boomer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 30, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 3.9, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 3.6, 136 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Online
Developer: Auran
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date:     Oct 23, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This arcade game is relatively shallow and a pale imitation of its television inspiration. 

 
   Battlestar Galactica  is easily one of the best shows on television right now. Of course, it 
 always helps to have some of the prettiest and most visually poetic space battles seen in a long 
 time. Sadly, the same can't be said of Battlestar Galactica, the Xbox Live Arcade and downloadable 
 PC game. All the complexity of the series has been ditched for a frustrating and twitch-heavy arcade 
 experience.  

           Battlestar Galactica won't put you in the cockpit of a Viper; you'll have to settle for 
 a top-down view.      

  Based loosely on the first three seasons of the show (right up to the exodus from New Caprica at 
 the beginning of season three) , Battlestar Galactica lets you fly as a Colonial fighter pilot in 
 a variety of craft. These include the Viper Mark II (the "classic" Battlestar fighter) , the more 
 modern Viper Mark VII, the Raptor multirole vehicle, the Blackbird stealth fighter, and even a 
 Cylon Raider. While the handling characteristics vary a bit among craft, the basic premise of the 
 game remains the same: You fly in a 2D space combat arena, using missiles and guns to shoot down 
 enemy craft.  

  Granted, it's an arcade game, but Battlestar fans were probably looking for a bit more depth than 
 what is here. It doesn't help that much of the gameplay feels frustrating and unforgiving. When 
 you get in a dogfight, it feels like every enemy craft is gunning for you, even if there are a 
 half dozen other Colonial aircraft in the immediate vicinity. Battles involve usually flying straight 
 toward an enemy craft then firing missiles and guns before you overshoot. Then you turn around 
 and repeat the process all over again. You take damage quickly, though there are health power-ups 
 that literally bounce around the level until someone flies over and picks them up. When you die 
 (and you'll die a lot) , you'll respawn, so there's no penalty there. What it does cost you though 
 is precious time. Many of the missions have timed objectives: If you die three or four times, the 
 30 or 40 seconds you lose waiting to respawn and then get back into the fight will cost you dearly. 
 All you can do is grit your teeth and try again or dumb it down to the easiest difficulty level 
 because the medium setting is fairly unforgiving.  

  The space arenas are entirely 2D and designed more like mazes rather than outer space. There's 
 plenty of floating debris that can block your path, such as wreckage and asteroids, but you can't 
 hurt yourself by flying into it. You'll just slam against an invisible barrier that prevents you 
 from entering debris fields. The camera is also close in, so you can't pull it back that far, which 
 means you have to rely on a minimap and radar to see what's coming at you.  

  The 10 missions in the game are based loosely on various episodes. There's a mission where you 
 have to shoot down Scar, an extremely resilient Cylon Raider, in five minutes. Or there's another 
 one where you have to fly a Raptor to rescue Colonial pilots who have ejected and are floating 
 in space. There's also one where you get to fly the Blackbird as you try to cripple the Resurrection 
 Ship, though the Blackbird is hardly stealthy because Cylon Raiders have no problem detecting you. 
 When that's done, there's an instant action mode that allows deathmatch and team deathmatch against 
 15 computer-controlled opponents, though these end up feeling more like just generic dogfights. 
 Then there's multiplayer, which is the same thing, though with the difficulty of finding matches 
 online.  

           Frakkin' Toasters.      

  The visuals are all over the place. The fighters are rendered in decent detail, but everything 
 else is relatively low polygon and low res, such as the Galactica herself or Cylon Basestars. The 
 sound effects sound like they're lifted directly from the television show, so you can hear the 
 distinctive sound of a Viper's cannons firing, though there's no voice acting whatsoever (all dialogue 
 is delivered as text on screen) . Also, Bear McCreary's wonderful and powerful  Battlestar  musical 
 score is nowhere to be found, which is odd because this is an officially licensed game.  

  At 800 Microsoft points, the Xbox Live Arcade version is a bit pricey for what you get, but that's 
 a relative bargain compared to the PC game, which is roughly double the cost at $19.99. At least 
 the Xbox Live Arcade version gives you achievement points, though there aren't many easy ones here. 
 For instance, one requires you to shoot down Scar without dying on medium or hard difficulty, a 
 really daunting task. As it is, this arcade game probably won't appeal that much to  Battlestar 
 Galactica  fans because it just doesn't capture the spirit or the complexity of its television 
 inspiration.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cliffmeister
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  Such a shame that this opportunity to produce a game based on such a phenominal ground-breaking 
 sci-fi series was frankly pissed away. Obviously I am a fan of the tv series and also a gamer for 
 many years and by now I have always expected official merchandise games to be basically 'cash-ins' 
 however 99% are at least of a particular standard. This game falls into the 1% and then some. Graphics 
 are shoddy and may have been ok 4 years ago. Sound is minimal quality. Controls are clumsy and 
 extremely limited for a space combat sim. As soon as you see the main menu, you realise you're 
 on the proverbial good ship Galactica making a sudden unexpected stop at dissapointment central 
 spacestation. When you have a popular subject like this, fans want to really get involved in whatever 
 dynamics of the franchise they can, this game just doesn't deliver other than having the name printed 
 on the box and the cd. I would certainly not recommend this on any level.
  I expected an moderately bearable game, I might aswell have farted in a hurricane. It deserves 
 1.0 as they actually managed to publish copies in the first place and an extra 0.5 score for my 
 enjoyment of the delightful walk in the sunshine to my local post office to collect the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  The game feels a lot like the old games you would play at the local arcade. It feels a lot like 
 Radden and those type of games. I have watched the show since day 1 and i was waiting for a game 
 and i can say i am not impressed but i still enjoy it. the graphics are great and it really makes 
 you feel like you are in a fighter. The story is non exsistant but the action is very enjoyable. 
 It features both cylon and human ships and great power-ups and bonuses to unlock. I especaily enjoy 
 the raptor 2 fighter. I don't recomend it to any hard core gamer but if you just want to fly around 
 and have fun look no further. as a fan this review is probebly a little byist but its a great and 
 fun ride of sci-fi space action. So suit up and head out pilots. A;; in all its a game to play 
 and not to "Beat' in the since that it really has little substance for non BG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richardj692000
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 20, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Its amazing to find that again another Sci-fi program is tarnished by another game. Batllestar 
 galactica is an excellent program and this game does not deserve the programs title, and if an 
 actor from the aclaimed series were to lend his/her voice talent to this game i would hunt them 
 down and attack them with a spade and then hunt down the people that made this game, because obviously 
 they've stolen time and money of the public. 
  
  If i were to make a battlestar game i would wanna fly around FPS style, shoot out the tube, kill 
 a few toasters, fly back into the hanger and chill out with 6 and starbuck in my rack.
  
  For all the whats it like people, its essentially 3D models flying around a 2D map shooting titainium 
 moon shaped toasters with missiles and guns. For motion the game physics for space flight is good, 
 but i don't see Appollo hitting an invisable barrier and suddenly flying diagnally, or suddenly 
 sprought a blue shield. Which isn't in BSG. But into the game it becomes apparent that the point 
 of this shield is to stop you from getting killed instantly by 6 missiles launched all at once 
 at you and none of yr wing men, which happened alot. Thus on respawn your to far away to make a 
 frakking difference when yr buddies get chewed up.
  
  If you haven't got it yet, its rubbish, i'd give it 0.5 for someone saying "ooo lets make BSG game" 
 and then give the developers -0.5 for buggering it up. Oh and unless its 2 pence don't buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remusgd13
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  A game after the series could have been a huge hit. You can create a RPG game, a FPS game, a RTS 
 game, Battlestar Galactica it's a huge universe to work with. But instead the stupid developers 
 created an arcade game. Nice job guys. Chicken Invaders beats the hell out of you. The chickens 
 from Mars are far better than the colonists or the cylons . The Chickens RULE!!!!!!!!!
  I must right 100 words, but this game is so , so , so , so  
 fskmfskmfd sfdsm kdfmdkfmdmsfs dkmsfsklmfsdfsm m m mmm mmm mm m mmm m m m m mm mm m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Wow, dont think I can type enough charcaters to fit the minimun requirement ... this game is just 
 plain embarrassing and might have been fun back in 1990. Not really sure what they were trying 
 to pull off here, other than to make some money off BSG fans.
  
  Graphics - Boring
  
  Gameplay - Boring
  
  Storyline - None
  
  Overall - waste of time
  
  Need to fill 100 
 words so I can just tell you more how bad this game sucked. Controls were limited, fun factor out 
 the door. It had no appear other than the name and ships. Not sure who owns the BSG license but 
 bad move on this one. 
  
  When you see this in the bargain bin, more on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnarchyRising
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 28, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  When I heard about this game I was syked out because BSG is one of my favorite series on Sci-Fi.
 
  
  I have never to this day seen a worse movie/series to game title than this one. A top down shooter 
 copy of a show with deep storyline and awesome cinematics on the big screen? What were Sierra thinking 
 publishing this piece of binary crap.
  
  Any game based on this IP should have awesome graphics, physics, sound, game play and narrative. 
 It should be on par, if not exceeding, with X3 and EVE combined.
  
  This game, has none of the above. But at ~200mb before install, what could you possibly expect.
 
  
  Like the title says, buy the series instead. It's an awesome sci-fi show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffreyCor
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  As a Battlestar Galactica fan, both new and origional series, I was looking forward to this release. 
 The graphics and story are both very good, unfortunantly this is were it ends. The game is a direct 
 takeoff from an old style arcade game from the era of Zaxon. I am astonished that Sierra would 
 put out a game like this for anything more powerful than a PSP. Gameplay is tapping keys, limited 
 by the energy your ship has that is spend for each change in left-right and flip direction movement 
 and slowly rebuilds in time, using the faster/slower keys, and pressing one of the fire keys (guns 
 or missles) when the icon shows up over an enemy ship. The game screen is your ship moving over 
 a static field while enemys move around in and out of your field of fire and shoot at you. When 
 you do die the result is a count down and respawn. Bonuses are via running your ship into floating 
 powerups. If this was released as a free download it might be worth the price, barely. But as it 
 is don't waste your money. The beta / demo release of a freeware game is actually of far higher 
 quality and design effort than this is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 26, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Battlestar galactica, one of the most influential series of the modern time.
  This new game from sierra &amp; auran, well, is the total opposite and shouldn't even be considered 
 a game worth paying for. In fact considering that the total time I played it for, was less than 
 the time it took to go back to the shop for a refund (which I was refused) . This one will be going 
 on one of the online shopping auction marts straight away, why, read on?
  
  These days you tend to judge the size of the install to the quality of the game, and at just under 
 200mb taken up on the CD, things are not looking good already. This is basically a glorified 3d 
 space shooter where you mission is to fly around shoot ships and collect powerups. The ships are 
 from the original series as well as the new galactica series. BUT the graphics are like someone 
 who spend a weekend with paintshop drawing very crudely drawn ships and spent more time watching 
 the cricket. The surroundings (space debris, motherships etc) hold no interest at all except getting 
 in your way.
  The sound, go grab your IPOD at listen to some Moby, I guarantee you'll be uninstalling this appauling 
 game before the song's finished.
  What a waste of a TV show license, do not bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_paven
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 26, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I was hoping for either a full-fledged space-sim, or an entertaining arcade shooter... but this 
 is just a less than average piece of garbage. I can't imagine anyone having fun with it more than, 
 say, a few seconds.
  
  You have no sense of depth and direction (I could live with the constant perspective if there was 
 some sort of realism to the movement) , there are only a couple of dumb, erratic moves you can make 
 apart from moving forward, the shooting part is dull and unimpressive... and I could go on like 
 this forever. Big thumbs down for Sierra... I could never stand having my name associated with 
 something like this.
  
  P. S. Granted, I could be terribly wrong and this could be, by some miracle, a wonderful multiplayer 
 game, since I didn't have the guts to go online and try it only to be served more of the same garbage. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
