-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlestations: Midway
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/midway/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great mix of strategy and action.
 Lots of different ships, planes, and subs to command.
 Intuitive controls make it easy to switch between functions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The single-player campaign is too short.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 31, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.7, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 859 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Jan 30, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Battlestations: Midway strikes just the right balance between action and strategy to create a game 
 that's as unique as it is enjoyable. 

  If the gaming gurus at Milton Bradley have taught us anything, it's that battleships are made to 
 be sunk. It's a lesson that the creative minds at Eidos must be familiar with, because the publisher's 
 latest game, Battlestations: Midway, makes sinking the steel behemoths of the sea every bit as 
 satisfying as hearing a friend shout out, "You sank my battleship!" However, Battlestations: Midway 
 is more than a game about blowing ships out of the water; it's an interesting blend of action and 
 real-time strategy that does a remarkably good job of appealing to both tastes.  

          You can take to the skies as a fighter pilot...     

  Battlestations: Midway is set 
 in the Pacific Theater of Operations during World War II. In the single-player campaign, you play 
 as Henry Walker, a Navy recruit who shows up at Pearl Harbor just in time for the Japanese attack 
 in December, 1941. From there, your skills as a commander are put to the test in historical battles 
 such as the Battle of the Coral Sea and, eventually, the Battle of Midway. Between battles, you'll 
 see rendered cutscenes intended to develop a story about Henry Walker's rise through the ranks 
 to eventually become the captain of the massive aircraft carrier known as the USS Yorktown. The 
 dialogue in the story is forced and almost comically bad at times, but the characters do a decent 
 job of personalizing the battles, and it's gratifying to see your recruit go from cruising around 
 a harbor in a tiny PT boat to commanding fleets of ships out on the open sea. There are 11 missions 
 in the single-player campaign, and although some of those missions can easily take the better part 
 of an hour to complete, you can easily finish the campaign in four or five hours. There are 10 
 extra challenge missions focusing on specific types of units from both the Japan and US forces, 
 but the challenge missions aren't as exciting as the larger story battles. Despite these bonus 
 missions and the inclusion of a very good online multiplayer game, it's disappointing that the 
 single-player campaign is so short.  

  Although all the battles in the game are sea battles, there's enough variety in the missions and 
 the units at your disposal to provide a unique experience each time you play. You usually start 
 out with a handful of units at your command and a few simple objectives, such as destroying all 
 enemy carriers or defending your airfield. From there, it's entirely up to you how you go about 
 completing your objectives. For the larger battles, you'll probably find yourself spending most 
 of your time looking at the tactical map. It's a small map of the battle area that shows you everything 
 you need to know at a glance. Using this map, you can command all of your ships, subs, and planes 
 to move and attack. It takes a short while to get used to using the map and commanding sometimes 
 dozens of units at a time, but the level of detail isn't so fine as to require excessive micromanagement. 
 The artificial intelligence in the game works very well, and you never have to worry about your 
 units disobeying orders or behaving irrationally. The artificial intelligence is so good that in 
 the larger battles, you'll find the best strategy is to spend about 75 percent of your time commanding 
 units from the tactical map.  

  The other 25 percent of your time will be spent directly controlling your units, which is every 
 bit as fun as commanding them from afar. At any time, you can take control of any of your units 
 and do the dirty work yourself. You can captain a sub as it stalks an enemy cruiser, take to the 
 skies for an intense dogfight, man the antiaircraft guns on the deck of a battleship, manage the 
 operations of an airfield or shipyard, and more, all in a single battle. The units all have unique 
 controls, weapons, abilities, and limitations that you'll need to learn so as to make the best 
 use of all of your forces. This isn't a simulation game, though, so it doesn't take very long to 
 get a feel for each unit under your control. The ships, subs, and planes don't handle realistically 
 at all, but they are at least fairly well balanced against one another. You can feasibly take an 
 all-action approach to battle and forget about being a commander, but without proper support, you'll 
 have a hard time winning any battles. Taking a hands-off approach works better for developing a 
 strategy, but even then you'll want to jump into the action from time to time. There's a simple 
 but very distinct pleasure to be found in piloting an airplane and swooping in out of the skies 
 to dive-bomb a battleship or pelting the hull of a carrier with a volley of torpedoes from a submarine. 

          ... man the helm of a massive battleship...     

  Beyond going on strafing runs and commanding fleets of ships, you are given a few other responsibilities 
 in battle. There are shipyards and airfields in the game, as well as aircraft carriers. You can 
 command ships and squadrons of aircraft to deploy and attack or defend targets. As your squadrons 
 get shot down and your ships get sunk, it's up to you to deploy more. You're usually given a choice 
 of which type of ship or airplane you want to issue, as well as which weapons you want them to 
 use. It's an important decision because certain weapons are better against certain ships. If you 
 need to sink a sub, you'll need to send out some dive bombers equipped with depth charges, and 
 if you want to sink a cargo ship, your best bet is to send out a squadron of torpedo bombers. You 
 can only have a certain number of squadrons, airplanes, and ships active in battle at a time, but 
 as your units are destroyed, you can keep deploying new ones.     

  As you do battle, your ships will take damage. You can repair the damage by assigning crewmen to 
 focus on certain tasks, such as repairing leaks in the hull, extinguishing fires, or fixing the 
 engines. If your ship's hull takes too much damage, it can't be repaired and will quickly fill 
 with water and sink. Repairing your ships only takes a few seconds, and it doesn't require much 
 effort, but your ability to make quick repairs can greatly affect the outcome of a battle.  

          ... or captain a submarine to see if life really is better under the sea.     

  The 
 multiplayer game plays just like the single-player game, but with all of the units being commanded 
 by real, live players, the battles can vary wildly. There are nine multiplayer maps, many of which 
 are taken directly from the single-player game. You can play with up to seven other players, each 
 player commanding a specific ship, fleet, or squadron. The battles are all team-based, and you 
 can choose to play as Japan or US forces. Each side has unique units, but they are still balanced. 
 The maps aren't quite as balanced, though, with one side often starting at a significant disadvantage. 
 Even then, sound tactics and good communication between teammates can easily give an underdog the 
 upper hand in a battle. As with any multiplayer game, your enjoyment depends on the people you're 
 playing with, but that goes double here because of the higher level of cooperation and strategy 
 required in these battles.  

  Battlestations: Midway is available on the PC and the Xbox 360, and the biggest difference between 
 the two games is the price. The PC version is $20 cheaper, which makes the Xbox 360 version a tougher 
 pill to swallow. If you're playing the Xbox 360 version, you can earn some achievements by doing 
 things like using a specific unit for a certain amount of time during a battle, shooting down a 
 number of enemy planes, or sinking a certain number of enemy ships. The controls are intuitive 
 and easy to manage in both versions of the game. The PC version does support gamepads, and playing 
 with the Xbox 360 gamepad works just as well on the PC as it does on the console. Another difference 
 worth noting is that the PC version uses third-party software to connect to online games. The service 
 works just fine, but it's still not as quick and easy as playing on Xbox Live.  

  The two versions of the game both look and sound good. You can turn up the visual effects in the 
 PC version of the game and get it looking comparable to the Xbox 360 version. Regardless of which 
 version you play, the visuals look good, but they aren't especially impressive. The ships are detailed 
 down to the tiny crewmen walking around on deck, and you can enjoy some nice views of the Pacific 
 islands from the cockpit of a fighter plane. You'll occasionally see some rough spots like when 
 objects suddenly pop into view as you approach, or flat land textures, but for the most part, Battlestations: 
 Midway looks good and runs smoothly. But the game leans more toward real-time strategy than action, 
 so you'll spend most of your time looking at the tactical map. If you're playing the Xbox 360 version 
 on a standard-definition display, you'll probably have a hard time reading some of the text, which 
 can be a problem because there's a lot of small type that you'll need to be able to read. It's 
 not such a problem that it renders the game unplayable, unless perhaps you're playing the game 
 on a very small television.  

          You'll spend most of your time in battle commanding units from the tactical map.     

 
  The score in Battlestations: Midway is rousing and dramatic, just as you'd expect in a game about 
 historical naval battles. The tunes also change depending on whether you're fighting for Japan 
 or the US, which subtly sets the tone in battle. The voice acting in the cutscenes could be much 
 better, but it's not terrible. While you're in battle, you'll hear your subordinates report to 
 you with updates about the condition of your units, and these updates are often the best way to 
 keep track of what's happening. It's also a nice touch that you hear different sounds on the tactical 
 map based on which unit you have selected, which is also a good way to gauge what's happening. 
 If you're playing as the forces of Japan, you'll hear your pilots and captains shout in Japanese, 
 but even if you don't speak the language, it still helps clue you in about one of your ships being 
 in trouble. The explosions and engine noises all sound powerful and distinct, and some of the more 
 intense battles sound particularly impressive, with artillery, torpedoes, bombs, and machine guns 
 all going off at once.  

  Battlestations: Midway strikes a balance between action and strategy that makes it uniquely appealing. 
 The strategy isn't especially in-depth, but it is accessible and satisfying. The action portion 
 of the game is also kept very simple, which works in the game's favor by making it easy to switch 
 gears between the two different parts of the game. The action is also exciting enough to make it 
 worth your while to jump into battle, if only for a few minutes at a time. The single-player game 
 is sadly way too short, but the online multiplayer game is at least a small consolation. And while 
 it lasts, Battlestations: Midway is a very fun game to play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BiGG_SMiGG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 8:40 am PT
Review:  This, is, the, BEST EVER GAME that anyone could play! 100% awesome. The blend of the action and 
 strategy with no excessive micromangement is God in its own rights, i would have given it a 10 
 had it not been for the graphics, a bit mediocre for its time, but it doesnt deduct from the gameplay. 
 I mean 7.9 is a bit underrated over a slight graphics problem, but it has a reason, so you cant 
 reallly blame it. Does any body else agree with me? Rate it 9.5555555555555r. :) :) :) :) :) :) 
 :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) . i think it is really hard to finish these 
 reviews. so erm this is an under-appreciated masterpiece of a game. yes, it is. ha ha ha ha ha ha 
 ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
 ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
 ha ha ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazycerain111
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 6, 2009 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I buy the game, 20 dollars. I install it. I am extremely excited. And after playing a two and a 
 half hour tutorial, (I am not exaggerating) where a person that is extremely hard to understand 
 tells me things that go way into detail, which is not necessary. The airplanes that you pilot are 
 unbelievably hard to control, i crashed every 10 seconds. The mouse is inverted, so i had to spend 
 a half an hour looking for the controls to make it not inverted. I had to look up the controls 
 for doing things every 5 minutes because the tutorial, supposedly going into detail does not explain 
 the important things. the radar is SIMPLY AWFUL. On the first mission, in a PT boat, you have to 
 find the phoenix, a ship. I spend 10 minutes looking for it, ramming into walls and crashing my 
 ship. it turns out you have to go all the way around, which it gives you no notion of how to do 
 whatsoever. finally, after finishing the first part of the first mission, I have to pilot a airplane. 
 OH GOODY! No mission objective is displayed, and i kept crashing. your supposed "squad mates" which 
 are supposed to help you fight the enemy, and keep planes off your tail run away. i am stranded, 
 to fight by myself, with my health constantly going down, no idea what to do, and keep dieing. 
 I at that point, so angry, i took the C. D. out and literally stepped on it. In conclusion, THIS 
 GAME SUCKS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great story, great and easy to use controls, great characters, epic, great gameplay.
 
  
  The Bad: Amateur graphics, all it takes is a couple hits and your submarine is down.
  
  
  I've played a lot of bad naval combat games but this has to be the best. The missions can 
 be repetitive at times but you hardly notice sense it's so fun. I'm impressed, this is not your 
 average naval combat game it's far from it because everything is so detailed for example you ram 
 your ship into another ship usually in your average naval game the ship gets pushed aside but in 
 Battlestations: Midway the ship acts like if your were ramming that ship in Reality so that's a 
 plus. I wish they could make an MMO like this. Here's something I found rather tacky and corney, 
 in almost every video trailer there is some sort of cartoony drawing of a woman in a pornographic 
 pose, why did they have to add that? Great game I'll take a computer and this game to my grave 
 LOL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your A rising captain in the navy. drive your ships and planes in diffrent battles and kill 
 those nasty japs.
  
  Missions: Bomb This, Escape from this. pretty much kill and moving from point a to point b
  
 
  Controls: Standard FPS controls.
  
  Features: Pretty Graphics, Fun Simulation, Realistic.
  
  AI: Pretty good. They know tactics and how to use counter tactics against your units.
  
 
  Graphics:. They are actually quite nice. The water is very detailed and so are the enviroments. 
 The ships look great as well and look extremely realistic as there reallife counterparts.
  
  
  Audio: Gun sounds and ambient are realistic. Gun shots are amazing and you just wanna keep 
 wasting ammo to hear them again.
  
  Multiplayer: PLay with lots of players at once in massive battles
  
  Requirements: Mouse and 
 Keyboard
  
  The Good: Great sound, graphics and just a fun to play naval simulator.
  
  The Bad: Glicthes Glitches Glitches
  
  The Ugly: Nothing.
  
  Replay Ability: Little To 
 None. Not much diffrent on the second play.
  
  The Bottom Line: A great naval simulation for the World War II fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: William6058
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Many people like BM. I can understand that. I assumed the gameplay was great, but then, the computer 
 shuts down. I downloaded all the patches and did everything to fix that problem. But that problem 
 was yet to be fixed. I couldn't continue the story mode without fixing that problem! This game 
 is unstable and has left much to be desired. If only I could've experienced everything....
  
  Pros: Good gameplay and sound
  
  Cons: Gets repetitive and very unstable that makes the 
 game unplayable.
  
  First, the attack at Pearl Harbor. I experienced the storyline, found the Phoenix, and controlled 
 the patrol boat, and then, the computer shut down after a couple of black screens blinking as I 
 played the game. That was so annoying! This is even messed than Pacific Storm! (which has a fair 
 amount of bugs)
  
  Also, the gameplay gets boring easily. You just control the ship, click mouse buttons, and then 
 take very little keyboard in there. The submarine part was a little more fun, but the steep learning 
 curve also render this boring.
  
  There has to be more action, AA flak, machine gun fire, explosions, just like in Pacific Storm. 
 Have you seen Battle 360? If you did, you might notice the difference between BM and Pacific Storm.
 
  
  I regret getting that game and now I'm going to go ahead and keep playing the much better Pacific 
 Storm: Allies. This game is a mess. I'm glad that my mother trashed it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: humancalledBob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this one. Sure the graphics are no Silent Hunter 4 and it is arcade play and not 
 sim and the cut scenes are way better than game play and... and... and. But it was easy to manage 
 everything just with my Logitech rumble pad and the ease of jumping from one plane to another or 
 one ship to another was surprisingly simple and quick. Though the missions were on the short side, 
 replaying them was alittle different each time, just enough to keep you on your toes. Being able 
 to take control of each plane as it approached for a carrier landing was a nice touch. We lost 
 alot of planes that way. Since I just bought it a few weeks ago (Frys, $9.99) mp is dead so I can't 
 say anything there. I know I'll be looking for Battlestations Pacific later this year and hope 
 they can improve on a already great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kailii
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  The thing that Battlestations Midway (BSM) and octopusses have in common is the sheer number of 
 limbs required to have fun, roughly around 8 i'd estimate for BSM while knowing nothing about octos.
 
  
  I do know however, that having one hand on the keyboard and one on the mouse while adjusting the 
 helm of my flagship with my tongue and trying to find the formation controls with my left foot 
 is not even barely sufficient to command a small group of units in BSM.
  
  But that might be just me, i'm a control freak after all! For me it's just not enough to plot waypoints 
 for my carrier on the map, i want to watch her turn to her new course as well - while being rammed 
 by her escorts which are unable to find any pathing not going through my flattop.
  
  So much for the Gamespot review line: "The artificial intelligence in the game works very well, 
 and you never have to worry about your units disobeying orders or behaving irrationally." 
  
  Took me nearly 2 minutes to get rid of that Fletcher class DD trying to make babies with my 
 CV or something. And nope, not only once, and yes, fully patched game.
  
  To sum it up: BSM scores a clear zero when trying to look at it as a simulation which it is not, 
 but it also scores a clear zero regarding its entertainment value just because one never feels 
 like being part of an epic struggle.
  
  Check for incoming torpedoes every 2 seconds, adjust helm constantly, configure strike planes while 
 nothing else to do, repair damage in between, check again for torpedoes launched from planes destroyed 
 10 seconds ago, start all over again and adjust your 8 tentacles.
  
  And now they tell me "Battlestations: Pacific" is under development.
  That's just Great! Brace 
 for impact!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayonnaka_S
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  La verdad es un juegazo muy inovativo inmersivo ya k aparte de tener historia propia tiene estrategia 
 muy diferente a todos los k he jugado lo malo es k la inteligencia artificial en modo de campa&ntilde; a 
 es algo tonta y aparte no trae la campa&ntilde; a de los japoneses y e gustaria k no hubiera sido 
 battlestations midway si no battlestations pacific war osea k abarcara toda la guerra kontra japon 
 porke la verdad me kede pikado Y_Y y k agregaran en campa&ntilde; a a los japoneses kon eso tendrian 
 un 10 absoluto ^^ me gusto el juego y lo rekomiendo muuxooooooo es muy nuevo es dificil enkontrar 
 juegos de estrategia naval con tanto nivel de diversion komo este y otra kosa por lo k les doy 
 un 1000 es porke pensaron en todo mundo haciendo este juego de lo mas jugable posible osea k jala 
 hasta kon una nvidia fx5200 sigan asi eidos aunke aktualizen sus juegos en graficos sigan haciendo 
 k la gente kon tarjetas de video viejas puedan korrer sus juegos y seguro tendran muchas ventas 
 ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optimumbiscuit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  Put simply, I loved this game, sure the graphics are pretty poo and the story a little gung ho 
 and more money was spent on the cut scenes than on the missions themselves, which can be over in 
 a flash but it was tremendous fun and on the hardest setting, actually quite tricky to manage your 
 resources effectively against the japanese onslaught. It may not be the best game in the world, 
 but it shows a lot of promise for the future. The only bad thing that I found with it was the multiplayer 
 setting which is just a straight out slugfest against others which could have been improved with 
 a more tactical or strategy based option. Here's hoping for a big budget version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaqDeluxe
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I have always enjoyed sea battle sims that were more game than simulation. Harking back to Jutland 
 for sheer playability yet challenging (you run everything) like Harpoon. That was the mix we seemed 
 promised here... with the added bonus of on-line multi-player tossed in!
  
  The game was a bit buggy at release but most of that seems fixed in the first few patch cycles. 
 What remains is a frustrating on-line experience, the worst of it being trying to get a game going 
 with a balance group of players! It really hits hard not being able to play from a dedicated server... 
 someone must host the game. That seems to either make for a slow and laggy round or, it the host 
 has a sweet connection and a high-end machine, a unbalanced battle! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maka307
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Eidos has horrible support for the game. I have an error while installing the game and I have had 
 a support ticket submitted for a week and they still haven't gotten back to me. Horrible Support! 
 They haven't even posted that they are looking for the answer, they just haven't responded and 
 who knows if they will. If you have a problem with the game, don't expect to get help. Then when 
 I tried registering on the games forums it wont even let me post. I have no clue what the proplem 
 is there. If you want this game I hope you get a disk that actually installs correctly without 
 errors. Good luck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I had low hopes for this game, but the more I played the more the game entertained 
 me. Sure the missions can be long and one false step can lead to an hour of progress to be wasted. 
 But if you drill through it trying different strategies you will defeat the enemy in no time flat. 
 The most helpful thing in this game is the tutorials.. if you go through those you should be fine. 
 Starting the game without the tutorials can make your gaming a lot harder than it actually is. 
 Now the breakdown
  
  Gameplay: works extremely well, and the although managing the damage hud can be a bit annoying, 
 you can do fine without management. This may not be the case on the hardest difficulty (did not 
 go through that one yet) . Graphics: very nicely done, from the planes to the vistas. Sure, it doesn't 
 look like highly detailed when you get down to it.. but, with you hopping from ship to ship or 
 plane to plane, or even ship to sub you can overlook some of the fine details. Sound: pretty good 
 weapons sone accurate and fulfilling.
  
  Value: Replayability is there! Of course these take the form of unlockables.. but what do you expect 
 from an arcadish game? Tilt: I give this game a nice 9 because I personally enjoyed it, and I do 
 tend to play it for short bursts, even the challenges are fun.
  
  All in all this game exceeded my expectations and is a very fun game. It even performs well via 
 STEAM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dertinmann
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I thought that the concept was so good they could not possibly fudge this one up, but they did.
 
  
  Simply puy you get very little to play with: a few missions with a carrier or a battleship. Throw 
 some planes in... and that&acute; s it. After 2-4 hours you&acute; ve finished the game. Sure there&acute; s 
 multiplayer that&acute; s a bit better but the problem is still there: extremely few options and 
 maps, not to mention how few units you get to play with.
  
  The concept of simplicity in tactics is one thing: not putting in even a slight bit of effort is 
 a completely different thing!
  
  Even if you&acute; re a ww2 buff like me you just can&acute; t enjoy it since there&acute; s so little 
 to do and so little to play with, for Gods sake not even a skirmish mode! Like I said it is a bit 
 better in MP but that doesn&acute; t save this game: it&acute; s a waste of money and time.
  
  And you know they could have saved it in a simple way: add modding tools to get in maps and 
 ships and planes and everything. There is no such thing, not even a mission editor!
  
  Massive dissapointment and I hope you haven&acute; t bought the game: eidos doesn&acute; t deserve 
 to get away with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine646
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Uma boa supresa em termos de simulatores de batalhas, parece um dos simuladores mais abrangentes, 
 e com a maior imers&atilde; o que j&aacute; vi, otimo jogo aonde colocar o jogador no comando direto 
 dos navios, submarinos e avioes da segunda guerra mundial, bom jogo. Tudo isto &eacute; apresentado 
 em belos gr&aacute; ficos em 3D que simplesmente brilham em um PC topo-de-linha (e dando aquelas 
 ajeitadas, roda aceitavelmente nos PCs que n&atilde; o couberem neste perfil) , seu sistema de combate 
 poderia ser um pouco melhor aprimorato, e o som um pouco mais realistico. Sua historia entre-jogo 
 e muito bem focada, intercalado momentos historicos, com algumas tiradas de humor, aonde os dois 
 protagonistas se alteram no desempenho da guerra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Alpha_Omega_
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 11, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  Sometimes when you look in commercial, it will more value the game rather than you try it by your 
 self!
  
  This game have a difficulties in controling the ship, esp. airplanes! Maybe when you mean to play 
 as pilot, you need to buy some flight-stick first! Also the complexity of button very reduce the 
 game quality. Coz I'm a person don't like to open some controling-class or open how to... first! 
 Just play and keep enjoying the game!
  
  But this game have cool graphics and sound! Some water effect and bom blast looks great if you 
 played in high-class hardware PC. But the realistic don't looks like real war in open ocean.
  
  The scenario and gameplay very bad! When I played in Campaign Mode, I can see war in Pasific 
 and South-East Asia, the first I tought was great war in Philiipines and Borneo, but then I cannot 
 found any real war scenario inside of the game! Hey, great historical-scenario game is based on 
 real history stories!
  
  The gameplay is really boring! You cannot find any fun when you play with it! When you finish playing 
 this game, just install it! Coz I think that you never wanna play it anymore! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dores893
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 10, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  Save your money. This game suffers from several major flaws: short campaign, no sandbox mode, no 
 scenario editor, and very limited joystick compatibility (try going from Microsoft Flight Simulator 
 X to flying with a mouse on this game) . The graphics are nice, and the game could have really been 
 something great. However, just plain ignorance of what makes a good game have sealed the coffin 
 on this one. I give it a 2 for re-playability. Perhaps GameSpot should add a category for that, 
 which might have brought the game down to about the 6.0 it deserved. Way overrated by the GameSpot 
 team. The game had a lot of potential, but I played through the entire campaign in one afternoon 
 and then wondered where my money went. For those naval war buffs out there, I suggest you stick 
 to the Silent Hunter series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 4.6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Once i saw the Trailer for this game, i instantly started looking for the demo. Once installed, 
 i thought this game was great, what a great idea, this game will rock once they get it fully developed 
 i thought.
  
  Then i saw it at the store.... hoorah its here i exlaimed. I took it home, installed and off to 
 multiplayer i go..... what the ****, this is the demo..... wtf!!! im playing with demo kids... infact, 
 75% of the games out there were the DEMO games.... and the reason that 75% was used, was because 
 theres only 4 games online at a time that i ever saw.
  
  This game, had srious potential, and then dropped the ball, right on players faces. Eidos, i dont 
 acepet your apology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msymms
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I was very much looking forwards to this game, but was completely disappointed. The single player 
 game is way too short, and the multiplayer game is complete garbage on Gamespy. I have had a Gamespy 
 account for years, and yet the game fails to recognize me. When I attempt to create a new account, 
 it says my email is already in use. So through this Catch 22 I am unable to play the multiplayer 
 game. I have tried all the Gamespy Arcade downloads (which I should NOT need) , but still to no 
 avail. I will never buy any game that uses Gamespy again as a host, and this short sighted single 
 player game seems like poor addition to get people to purchase the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gibbie99
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 8, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  I just passed this, albeit on rookie level. The game is a challenge, and of a not fun variety. 
 Its a chellenge of how finely you can aim your mouse. It's a challenge of tendium, as, if you die, 
 you end up repeating the whole mission, again and again. It's a challenge of excitment, since at 
 the later levels you won't have time to jump into various aircraft and attack the enemy; you are 
 forced to play the rudamentary RTS game. And that's all this game is; everything is rudamentary. 
 There are only a dozen or so commands, although you can pilot a aircraft or a ship, ti's essentially 
 the same thing. It's a fun, quick game. I finished it in about 5 hours. I can't see it having much 
 replay value, since the missions are scripted, and really, just not that fun. It tries to do both 
 FPS and RTS at the same time, and failes miserably. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of this title about two years ago I was really excited and was thinking of the 
 possibilities one could have with such a game as BSM.
  
  Now that it's out and I've played it here's my opinion if you care anyway:
  
  BSM is a arcade, 
 action title that plays extremely smooth on most PC's with of course the req. spec's. I have an 
 adverage system and was able to turn everything to high even resolution so no badies there but 
 it's the gameplay that matters so I dug into the campaign and made it half way through the entire 
 11 missions so I think I'm qualified to write an accurate review of the gameplay in the full game 
 and not the demo.
  
  (Attention: Game Spoilers Below!!)
  
  Although, BSM employs some nice missions it is pretty straight forward with the aircraft battles 
 being it's strengh. The PT boat and destroyer missions are OK but seem tacked on and not every 
 engaging to say the least. Mission objectives so far have included blowing up this ship with a 
 torpedo or dropping depth charges to sink a sub. The battles are the highlight of this afair but 
 I feel like I'm playing an XBox game over a PC which to me is not a good thing. The trend now days 
 iseems that when you port games like these to different consoles you lose the traits that each 
 patform has like immersion and replay value. The one thing I can say is that Eidos got the control 
 scheme down right with the PC being the best to play this game on. Why? Because any true PC gamer 
 owns or has owned in the past a good joystick, yes joystick and makes the air battles a cinch. 
 Also, the accuracy with a mouse is more coveyed than with a Xbox 360 controller. This comes in 
 handy when in the heat of thing. There is a lot to learn here mainly because the battle are hectic 
 that one needs to replay to get a good feel over the whole situation so the replay value is there 
 even with a only 11 missions total to play, they are worth playing again either to use different 
 tactics on the tactical overhead or to try certain weapons of war such a sub or a dive bomber to 
 see if a different outcome might prevail. Of course you can also try the single challenge missions 
 and replay those as well and if you win one the game will unlock another but how many there are 
 total I cannot say at this time.
  
  The sound and video or acting is sub-par at best with dull animations pre-2004 quality if that 
 and weak effect sounds such as explosions and machine gun fire. I swore I could not here my deck 
 guns fire on my destroyer at all but it could be that there was so much going on that it was drowned 
 out but all the chaotic noise of the battle. The story so far seems solid and reminds me of MOH 
 Pacific Assault's line where it follows a certain soldiers view point from Pearl Harbor on to Midway 
 instead of the battle for Tarawa Island from the US marines perspective. This is about the Naval 
 side on the war which I credit for a good change from the Normandy US heroine WWII titles coming 
 by the dozens (yes, that includes our beloved COH also!) .
  
  Multiplayer seems to be the weak point in which one can play against four other or more on the 
 single player mission maps. I never liked multiplayer in any game except those that it was design 
 specifically for so I'll leave that up to them that do.
  
  In all, BSM is not what I expected. I knew it would be a arcade game filled to the brim with action 
 but it turned out to but something of a B rated movie and in it's own class and genre. The only 
 game that I can compare this to right now is Rise and Fall but with a Naval theme in WWII and not 
 a ancient hero theme of the old world empires. I plan to finnish BSM and play what ever is left 
 in the challenge missions with a occasional replay to see if things unfold differently than they 
 did the first time around but this is not one of those got to play it 24/7 strategy game titles 
 that so many gamers are addicted to now days such a MEW2 or the CIV series and now Supreme Commander. 
 I personally like the game's action while it lasts but may not be back for more shortly after. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nabeel200
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  well i have started playing this game since yesterday so cant say very much but as the critics 
 said that the game is short will have to see abt that, but i think the training missions r fairly 
 big. there is a lot of micro management in this game. i wonder u will get some much time to micromanage 
 things in the heat of the game. coz the AI does not wait for u to perform repairs to ur ship n give 
 orders to ur carrier to fly the planes, the micro management part is good i a sense but i cant think 
 of it as an element in the game campaign, with bombs n lots of fire power going all around u. The 
 air combat is a bit tricky coz of the dog fights but as time passes u can perfect it. i still have 
 to check the sub fights but i guess the overall game is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cronjob
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  A flying game... that only uses xbox controllers and keyboards. What is the point? I feel that 
 I've wasted my $40, because I wanted to use this with my $200 HATO Saitek X52 arrangement, but 
 there is no support for it. You can use an xbox 360 controller and a keyboard and a few other cheesy 
 controllers. But that's it. I'm not about to play this game with a mouse and a keyboard. Wish I 
 had bought a boxed version instead of a digital version, so I could enjoy that moment of breaking 
 the CD and throwing everything in the trash.
  
  Further, the gameplay is uninspired and the graphics are completely unappealing. They look about 
 four years old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:06 am PT
Review:  I liked this game because it striked a good balance between commanding your forces, watching them 
 attack the enemy, and getting in there yourself to help them out by attacking the enemy yourself. 
 This is different from most of the other games I own because they are either FPS games or just 
 RTS games and no games really mixed those two before. This game has good graphics sounds and gameplay. 
 However the campagin is too short and there really isn't much to do after that. Also you can't 
 command any land forces so you can't have any fun doing any FPS while invading an island. The controls 
 could also get confusing at times as there is a lot to remember. Aside from those I would reccomend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necrophio
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 20, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  It pains my to write such a bad review about such a pretty game. The good news is, the graphics 
 and sound quality in this game is superb. The AI seemed to be pretty good as well, the only thing 
 about this game that I couldn't get over was the controls. As far as using a mouse and keyboard, 
 don't bother. It will only make you mad. I'm sure if you had a xbox remote for the pc this game 
 would rock, but unfortunately, I didn't. Outside of the control issue, this is a pretty sound title, 
 i enjoyed looking around the many environments, and I'm sure if you had a joystick of some sort 
 this would be a completely emmersive game. I know the WWII genre has been beat to death, but the 
 ability to pilot many vehicles (plane, sub, ship, ect.) reminded me of battlefield 1942 minus the 
 FPS part. I would recommend this game if you had the proper controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kozanecki
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  World War II represents many things to different people. For game developers it represents a bottomless 
 pit of game scenarios -- some are good and some aren't so good. Fortunately, Battlestations: Midway 
 has combined two proven formulas of action and strategy to make a different kind of WWII game.
 
  
  Battlestations: Midway is set throughout World War II. The game kicks off by dropping you in the 
 shoes of US Navy Lieutenant Henry Walker -- who shows up in Pearl Harbour just in time to witness 
 the Japanese attack. The game places you in command of a fleet of boats, planes and submarines. 
 The player is given the option to either control the vessels directly or via the tactical map. 
 When controlling the vessel or plane directly you can alter its speed and direction as well as 
 fire its various weapons. Alternatively when you switch to the tactical map the game tends to feel 
 more like a traditional real time strategy game. Luckily, before you jump into the campaign there 
 are seven training missions that teach you how to control your boat. They cover basic ship movement, 
 attacking and defending, using aircraft carriers, deploying submarines and advanced fleet manoeuvres. 
 All up it takes about 45 minutes to complete the training missions before you are combat ready.
 
  
  Whilst Battlestations: Midway's main focus is on naval ship combat -- you are often given the chance 
 to take to the air and lead a squadron of fighter planes. There are three different types of planes; 
 Hellcat fighters, fighter planes equipped with bombs and bombers. The Hellcat equipped with a bomb 
 is the most fun of the three planes to fly. There is something quite satisfying about dropping 
 a 220kg bomb onto the deck of an enemy ship. Alternatively, the player is given the option to take 
 control of a submarine and take the stealthy approach to eliminating your enemy. This is fun in 
 its own unique way as when stalking an enemy ship you must be careful not to give away your position. 
 You can't spend all your time underwater, though, as the submarine will eventually run out of air. 
 Fortunately, all you need to do to refill your oxygen supplies is to resurface for around 30 seconds. 
 Doing this in the middle of a battle is not advised though, as submarines are extremely vulnerable 
 to air and ship attacks.
  
  Instead of directly controlling your vessels you can opt to control them via the tactical map. 
 Artificial Intelligence (AI) plays a big part when controlling your fleet from the tactical map. 
 To do this effectively you need to turn on ship AI to allow the ships to shoot and react on their 
 own. With this turned on your fleet is more than capable of dealing with any unexpected surprises. 
 In saying that the enemy AI is just as smart as your ship's AI -- so don't expect it to be able 
 allow the computer to do it all and sit back and relax.
  
  One thing that sets Battlestations: Midway apart from the others is its use of damage control. 
 Whenever your ship is hit by an enemy torpedo or artillery piece, it takes damage. This can either 
 cause your ship to spring a leak or catch alight -- which isn't good! By using the simple yet intuitive 
 damage interface, fixing your ship is a breeze. This feature can be a bit annoying at times, as 
 it is needed to remove the arcade feel to the game. At the same time though, it can be a real nuisance 
 having to repair your ship in the middle of a big battle.
  
  Graphically, Battlestations Midway is sharp and realistic. The ship models are highly detailed 
 and faithfully recreated after the real vessels they resemble. The same can also be said about 
 the planes and submarines. All the ships have people walking about on the deck -- which gives the 
 impression that the boats under your command are alive. It's really nice to see when rounds hit 
 the water that the water surrounding it ripples realistically. The various islands that you fight 
 in are all highly detailed, with small villages and ports scattered throughout them. Some of the 
 larger ships come camouflaged -- like their real life counterparts. While this doesn't completely 
 hide the ship when it's out at sea, it does help to break up the ship's outline -- making it harder 
 to shoot at from a distance. The multiplayer game plays just like the single-player game, but with 
 all of the units being commanded by real, live players, the battles can vary wildly. There are 
 nine multiplayer maps, many of which are taken directly from the single-player game. You can play 
 with up to seven other players, each player commanding a specific ship, fleet, or squadron. The 
 battles are all team-based, and you can choose to play as Japan or US forces. Each side has unique 
 units, but they are still balanced. The maps aren't quite as balanced, though, with one side often 
 starting at a significant disadvantage. Even then, sound tactics and good communication between 
 team mates can easily give an underdog the upper hand in a battle. As with any multiplayer game, 
 your enjoyment depends on the people you're playing with, but that goes double here because of 
 the higher level of cooperation and strategy required in these battles.
  
  The sound effects in Battlestations: Midway are loud and powerful. The sounds of the big artillery 
 pieces on the deck of your ships are often intimidating. As you would expect when you are at sea 
 -- there is always the constant sound of the sea in the background which is a nice touch adding 
 to the atmosphere of the game. Every time you give an order the crew gives you an aye aye captain 
 -- which is a cool novelty at first but quickly becomes annoying and old. Dialogue in Battlestations: 
 Midway is fairly generic -- but does the job .The orchestral score in the game is great as you 
 would expect from a game that recreates historic naval battles.
  
  Overall Battlestations: Midway is a great combination of action, strategy and nice new locations. 
 Whilst the game doesn't do anything that hasn't been done before, the way it's blended just fits 
 so well together. Despite short single player campaign, Battlestations: Midway is an enjoyable 
 action strategy game that shouldn't be missed by any wannabe fleet commanders. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stev69
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  A very odd game this, is it an RTS?, Action?, Shoot em up?, Sim, or an RPG?, who knows I would 
 be suprised if the developers do either. It tries to be a little bit of everything, and thats where 
 it ultimately fails to really be anything. Its not detailed enough to be considered a sim (in fact 
 its very shallow, could quite possibly run aground) , the A. I is so appalling that it cant be an 
 RTS, the RPG element is minimal you play the role of some guy and its loosely written into some 
 missions allegedly called a plot. And the action or shoot em up side of things just isnt very enjoyable. 
 It appears to me the developers are trying to appeal to, too wide a spectrum of gamers. I personaly 
 am getting pretty sick of this cross genre fad that seems to be engulfing the industry at the moment, 
 as these games always come across as not having enough in the relevant genre to appeal to either 
 hardore fans of that genre or even casual gamers, because it contains too much of a particular 
 element or not enough of the prefered element, that it doesnt appeal to that gamers preference. 
 Me i dont like action arcadie type games, so when I buy an RTS!!! I dont want to have a half baked 
 shooty RTnoS . You simply cant play and enjoy the game from an RTS view only because it doesnt 
 work and it feels like only half a game, you have to take control of the individual units because 
 the A. I is so lame.
  
  As the gameplay goes its short but not particularly sweet. The campaign isnt very long and probably 
 wouldnt take many people long to finish it, if they can be bothered. I have to admit I found it 
 more of a chore grinding on with the campaign rather than a pleasure. The A. I is truely terrible, 
 dogfights are over before you can really get you teeth into them. Also when you are the flight 
 leader, the whole flight flies in formation all the time! which means its very easy for the enemy 
 to get on your tail and open a can of whoop ass on your er..... ass. And dont count on your wingmen 
 to bail you out (ahem, welcome to pun city) , because they wont, they much prefer to continue to 
 fly in formation with you until you end up doing a good impression of a firey earth bound comet. 
 On the Naval side of things, pressumably to try to appeal to non sim gamers they have tried to 
 speed things up a bit in ship combat by cutting back on controls and tactical manovering and generally 
 dumbing down the whole experience. Quite simply it doesnt work, it doesnt feel realistic and it 
 feels like its a square peg in a round hole (please eidos just leave the naval games to the sim 
 heads, they dont work any other way as you have just proved) . And as for the budding sub mariners 
 out there steer well clear, if you ever wondered what a psuedo realistic sub shoot em up was like 
 then by all means pick this one up otherwise dont bother. Im finding it difficult to find words 
 that can convey to you how badly subs have been portrayed (or maybe betrayed would be a more apt 
 word) in this game. Imagine a game that is totally the opposite to silent hunter 3, one lacking 
 so much depth and an experience that finds you blowing all tanks and abandoning game hopefully 
 to be rescued by good old H. M. S Desktop. Enough said on that!. In general the strategic elements 
 to this game are minimal, the developers seem to be running on the assumption that you can be in 
 every unit simultainiously as that can be the only possible way to command the units (in single 
 player that is) effectively. As soon as you leave a unit and jump into another, the unit you were 
 previously commanding will revert back to the A. I and just sort of stumble around not really doing 
 a hell of a lot. For example having launched a flight of aircraft and taken them to the attack 
 site, it was necessary for me to jump back to the base to set up another attack, what do I see 
 on the map as soon as I leave the flight!! they all turn around and head for home!!!!!, and any 
 flight you dont seem to be directly controlling always seem to end up circling your air base, on 
 the naval side contnue in the last player controlled direction pressumably unitl they run aground. 
 Compound all of this by having to fly using a mouse and you are in for a really shockingly unresponsive 
 experience. It feels like a console game, for me there are some types of game which dont work on 
 consoles and this is one of those types. Its a total no brainer.
  
  However I find myself thinking that this is not what a game should be all about. Developers these 
 days seem intent on inflicting us with very pretty but dull games, at what point did gameplay become 
 a non essential after thought? They seem to be relying on multiplayer mode and nothing else, So 
 ill give gameplay a three because it feels like an after thought and isnt very engrossing.
  
  The graphics are possibly the only saving grace for this game, they are very good. Plenty of 
 shiney eye candy. Great models and even the ships have small animations of crew members moving 
 around on them, but if you are going to do that then they need to be done properly, for example 
 if you hit and area with these tiny animated crew members, rather than see them fly in many different 
 directions they just suddenly disappear. The games camera angles are sufficient but nothing special, 
 The backgrounds and environments arent that great, but then its quite a sparse area so you cant 
 expect to much there i suppose. The cut scenes are well done and enjoyable to watch, if you can 
 stand all the american gung ho bull **** being dished out by the bucket load. But as far as naval 
 games go it looks good. Ill give it an eight there.
  
  The sound isnt anything special, its adequate and nothing more. Again if you can handle the ham 
 salad acting then it does the job well enough. So ill give it a five.
  
  Is it value for money?, hell no! ive been seriousy stiched up here. Eidos have released some shallow 
 half arsed efforts before but surely this is the contender for the crown of crap. I did expect 
 alot more from a company that have on ocassion produced some quite excellent titles, they really 
 havent done themselves amy favours here. I think they have sold us short on this one. Feels like 
 a classic MTV gen title rather than a next gen. I cant even congratulate them on a brave innovative 
 attempt, as I firmly believe that developers in general are trying to take the gaming industry 
 in a direction that wont be good for it. They seem to want to bash the individualism out of gaming, 
 to use a theoretic comparison it would be like the car industry scrapping all different car models 
 and making everyone have a electric car that looks the same and is the same colour as all the rest. 
 Welcome to politically correct gaming. And a final thought its bordering on fraudulant advertising 
 to catagorize this game as an RTS, check your sin bin for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glen512
Rating: 4.6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I was very disappointed in this game. There is a lot of potential here, with the variety of aircraft 
 and ships that you can use, the ability for your command to grow as the campaign progresses, and 
 what could have been an innovative combination of FPS, RTS, and simulator. Unfortunately, little 
 annoyances add up to make what could have been an excellent game mediocre. First, let me say that 
 I believe that we owe it to the men and women who sacrificed so much during WW2 to pay them as 
 much respect as possible. I do not expect every little detail in a video game to be historically 
 accurate; after all, it is a game and should be fun, but there also should be some substance to 
 it and not just fluff. That is what a lot of this game seemed like to me... fluff. A b-movie and 
 dime-novel revolving around a Naval Officer and Marine Aviator. The story line seemed thrown together 
 by someone with an elementary knowledge of the naval campaign in the Pacific. Some small things 
 that added up to the point where I would roll my eyes or grit my teeth are as follows:
  A left-handed salute (very disrespectful in the military) . JFK and the PT-109 being in the Philippines 
 in late 1941. A whiny main character who just came out of the Academy second guessing an Admiral. 
 A Naval Officer and Marine Officer wearing the same uniform except for different color hats (No 
 Globe and Anchor on the Marine's hat) . Like I said, small things that alone I would have overlooked, 
 but they kept adding up. This is just a short list of such incidences. I am sure that any Sailor 
 or Marine cringes during the tutorial when the instructor voice over says, Way to go Sailor! You 
 just might become a Marine Aviator yet. 
  
  OK, I know it is a game and not a simulator, but I was expecting some of the more action oriented 
 aspects of Silent Hunter, Battlefield 1942, and Pacific Fighters rolled into a fun game. That is 
 what this game could have and should have been. Unfortunately, it was not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that I thought this was a game strong in strategy reinforced with nice simulation 
 elements. But a little disappointed i found this game offers neither of these. It is not strong 
 in strategy; as i had something like PTO2 in my mind. It is not even close, as ships are controlled 
 one by one not as fleets. Formation is possible but not effective IMO. The game offers you the 
 seat of a captain not an admiral. Map is too small to expect a grand campaign. Players are allowed 
 to play scenario sized games. It could have been much better if it offered production and logistics 
 management. I always admired PTO2 for that.
  
  It is not strong in simulation; as all aspects of the game is unrealistic from head to toe. It 
 is an arcade game actually. Ship battles are definitely unrealistic and more of a shoot em up style. 
 Ship artillery fires are weak modelled as if they are firing slingshots not the great naval cannons. 
 There is no big boom effects nor smoke of guns. Ships are controlled as if they are remote controlled 
 model cars going forth and back to manuever and submarines are even worse. No realistic collusions 
 and sea modelling is mediocre. No ammunition limit, no fuel limit, even no bad weather. Maybe my 
 expectations were high, maybe i expected something like silent hunter 3 models and features from 
 this one as i played SH3 too much these days but in any case it is not what i expected. I expected 
 more of a realistic game and a grand campaign where i can create my own strategy.
  
  Surely the most fun part is the carrier warfare, as sending bombers and fighters to enemy fleet 
 allows you to implement your own strategy. And flying with aircraft is fun although the controls 
 are awkward and un-mouse friendly.
  
  Also camera options are highly limited. There is no Free-view camera or a bird's view option of 
 a battle field. when i drop a bomb or a torpedo i can not see the hit or miss. just a radio message 
 says ordnance was on target sir what about my wingmen? It would have been great to have a little 
 event camera view (as in SH3) the target ship under fire etc.
  
  some elements are frustrating also. The battle of coral sea was bored me to death as japanese carriers 
 have limitless supply of aircrafts sending only bombers again and again!! no matter how much i 
 shot down! I have to mention that the game is also too american oriented and story is handled in 
 much an american way. like at last I will have the chance to take the revenge the pearl and the 
 japs will pay for this soon bla bla. Not everyone playing this game is american and if I was a 
 Japanese i would be pissed for sure.
  
  As a conclusion (after so much criticism) this is not a bad game. Even it is fun if you are looking 
 for just an arcade game. Keep in mind that it is not a serious strategy+simulation but an arcade 
 game when buying this game. But still i insist, this is a game of high potential but wasted of 
 much options. A free grand campaign, more strategic elements and more realistic combats (even as 
 an additional option or an expansion pack-maybe?) would be a nice feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goosestophe
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 11, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  This game caught my eye 3 months ago and I have been tracking its progress since. As of yet this 
 game has not been a disappointment, but neither is it perfect.
  Its gender is a new one to me, I have always enjoyed strategy games and one that allows for a chance 
 to posses your own units is a great change. The campaign, if short, was none the less exciting 
 and challenging at times (if you dont play on rookie) .
  Alas this game does have some large weak points. The lack of single player skirmish, its last-gen 
 graphics and repetitive sound effects are the noticeable ones.
  All-in-all Battlestations: Midway has a revolutionary gameplay and is worth its price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyokozam
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Been tracking this game and got a copy immediately when it landed on shore. Well ,a quick one then... quite 
 busy lately preparing my coming exam.
  My advice don't put too much expectation on this game , if your're looking for great challenge 
 and thrill . The overall gameplay is just average. Run thru the tutorial first instead of diving 
 straight to the game. As it explain every detail and key stroke move which greatly enhance your 
 approach to the game. Although each mission is short but its rather entertaining . A couple of 
 hour would have complete all mission. Rather short indeed .... Eidos should have put more work 
 into it. Perhaps they might be thinking of an expansion (who know ?) , so that they can earn your 
 money the second round. Hmm.... don't ever think they're idiot .
  Lucky, most mission are navel battle . As air battle is some kind of a nightmare. Especially using 
 key board and mouse to maneuver the aircraft and trying to hit the target on air. Its a torture 
 than enjoyment .
  
  Well the best thing about this game is the luxury of graphic. Great detail and sharpness. From 
 a person feature to background scene , its truly amazing and a job well done. U can see the wrinkles 
 and facial expression which looks so real. And if you're running on window vista os with direct 
 x10 . Its beyond words that can explain. So fine ,clear and sharp as if its come to life.
  
  Overall, its a game worth playing , if you're looking for some free time to pass on. Not much 
 of a replay value . I don't think this game worth the price tag. What I feel, people is paying 
 more for graphic than gameplay . If you're looking for great challenge and depth. My advice is 
 steer clear from this game. But if you love naval battle and looking for a quick short game. This 
 is one that you should not miss. At the end of the day, its all up to individual.
  Happy gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdcw9
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  This game has proved to be a disappointment for some, due to connectivity problems on the demo. 
 But little mishaps like that didnt narrow down my view about the game. I remained open minded 
 until I got my hands onto the real game itself. My initial thoughts were a little mixed. I was 
 impressed with the graphical details...
  
  Use of new water textures and advanced reflections and shadowing. Cloud textures appeared to be 
 far more realistic rather then just one blocked colour. They appeared far more 3D then other strategy 
 games with a similar background. I was also impressed with the satellite imagery used to create 
 the backgrounds.
  What was upsetting to see, was the lack of detail token with foliage, and other miner structures.
 
  
  Moving away from the background to a more important matter, the detail of the vehicles.
  I must say, they looked stunning when rotating around the models. The scale between planes and 
 naval ships are very accurate, and im a big fan of historical accuracy and it appears they got 
 their facts straight.
  
  For me, the campaign was a little too short for my liking, as it can easily be completed within 
 several hours. The challenges are very good, and really do hold their word of being challenging 
 .
  Multiplayer is fairly good, only, many people have raised the issue on lack of AI teams. I personally 
 agree with this, as it would be nice to pitch up against AI units with friends.
  
  My overall impressions are above average, its an enjoyable game, but I feel that it's just one 
 of those games where you just play for a couple of days, and never play again.
  
  However I also think that these types of games have a huge amount of potential. With direct x10, 
 i believe that historical and perhaps futuristic strategies will go far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: overload1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 8, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  What for the patches if they come the game has a lote of hope ,played all kinds of ww II games 
 from the 80 and up .The game has a little of every thing .One the Graphics are very good some thing 
 could be put in like hull hits and so on ,there is a lot still missing on the ships US carries 
 hand main guns on one side of deck witch you can not control and so on .the add on are endlles 
 to the ships ,planes to the end of the war .Dont for get the other one the chace for the German 
 nave .the bismark ,graf spee and the terpit .am running a high end 256 graphics card and what can 
 I say . I think this would be cool was in a game from the 80 you could go to the bridge of the 
 ship and control the ship from there it was just like being on the caption looking out the bridge 
 .All I can say is if the company reed all the review the keep giveing thm I dears for up dates 
 lets try to make the game better, go to the games web site and tell them what we think . have fun 
 going to go and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  This was one of those games I felt I had to have. Boy was I disappointed after playing it for several 
 hours. First, the controls. Controls for things like ships are just fine and are easy to use. However, 
 flying is tedious beyond explanation. The game supports mouse/keyboard and several gamepad style 
 controllers. Unfortunately, it does not allow for use of a joystick. So, if you are like me and 
 don't wish to have a console game on your PC then you are stuck flying with a mouse. A mouse??? 
 Somehow it just doesn't work. Flying can be accomplished but you fill like you are some drunken 
 first timer behind the controls. The next big mistake was multiplayer. In order to play MP you 
 have to have a GameSpy account. But, if you have an existing account you have problems logging 
 on. There is a work around for this but come on.... why do we HAVE to log to GameSpy in the first 
 place. If I know someone else that has the game, Why can't I just Direct IP to his game? That's 
 right, there is no option to Direct IP to a game created by someone else. Bugs, yes there are bugs. 
 From sometimes choppy game play to stuttering (sometimes) sound. And this on a high end system. 
 I had one instance playing the first campaign mission that my screen would freeze while the game 
 played on. Found a work around but was extremely frustrating. Had another time when I was placed 
 in an aircraft senario without any aircraft. Maybe if they patch the game it will get better. If 
 I were you though, I would steer clear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bireno
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 5, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I want to like this game, but a mixture of the shortness, difficulty &amp; poor graphics sort of 
 turn me off.
  
  Some missions are ridiculously hard until you've played them over and over &amp; know exactly what 
 to do. It can be frustrating. Also, the plane AI is stupid: You order a torpedo run &amp; they 
 end up dropping their torpedoes too high &amp; having them explode on the water.
  
  There's not a lot more to say about this game, other than that it could've been better.
  
  
 Oh, and by the way.. Don't bother trying to fly with the mouse - it's much easier with a joystick. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrookmanZ71
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Right off the bat I was amazed at the graphics and detail but as we all know graphics only go so 
 far. I had been playing the Demo for a few days before the full game came out so I was hooked on 
 multiplayer but I thought I'd give single player a shot. As you start the campaign you imediatley 
 recognize the same old story line, a navy officer looking for vengence advancing through the ranks. 
 As I played through the first two or three missions I didn't feel part of the story at all. The 
 missions were fun but it didn't feel like a grand campaign. I then tried my hand at the challenges. 
 Those were actually entertaining so my view of the game went back up a bit. Personally i'm a fan 
 of large tubs of steel blowing the be-jesus out of eachother so the ship challenge was especially 
 enjoyable. I am slightly dissapointed that the huge guns on the Battleships didn't sound more thunderous 
 when firing but it isn't a game breaker.
  
  The absolute best feature of this game is its multiplayer option. Like any game, being able to 
 pit yourself against human oponents adds a whole new dimension to the game. The only drawback in 
 this game is the server browswer which is sort of primative.
  
  
  Things that could be better:
  
  1. Campaign length and depth
  2. Program stability in multiplayer
 
  3. A mode in which players can choose the amount and type of vessels they want to fight with
 
  4. A more streamlined server browser with main lobby chat option
  5. Enhanced sounds for explosions and artillery All in all, to me it was worth the 40$ to be able 
 to play online with some friends of mine who also bought it. Otherwise I would have been bored 
 with the game after day 3 or 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_razorback
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 9, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  I know I'm not the only one that feels this way. Game companies are just taking the quick route 
 to making cash and totally forgetting about and entire customer base. Unfortunately this game is 
 yet another example of a consolge-game ported over for PCs. If you ask me it should have been entitled: 
 Battlestations: Console-Way! 
  
  I found it very hard to immerse myself in Battlestations: Midway... There was more realism in old 
 DOS flight sims circa '92 than there is in this game!
  For me Battlestations: Midway is an infantile game, lacking true depth and realism.
  
  Although 
 the graphics are nice and run great on my box___ but who wants the picture of a turkey dinner without 
 any of the real meat? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 6, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  If you a generation x guy like me. Then you will remember a navel game for the super Nintendo. 
 That placed you in dive bombers and torpedo planes and AA guns, Midway more or less. I thought 
 that was a great game, alas there were no sequels. All it needed was a face lift. To bring it to 
 todays standards. Have no fear for it is here. This game is just fun. It places tactics with simple 
 game play. You can fly your bombers, fighters and torpedo planes into battle just like old, but 
 you now can tell them where to go and then take over when you get there. This is the same with 
 your ships in your fleet. Game play is simple this is not a simulator ship or plane. Pretty much 
 point to fly, aim and steer. Little things thou, to steep of a dive and your swimming, drop a bomb 
 to high and you miss or worse. Tactics not real hard either if you send planes or ships without 
 support you may now look for your air force or navy at the bottom of the ocean. Take on a battleship 
 toe to toe with an aircraft carrier you die. Chase a carrier when he has planes, they with pummel 
 you from long range. The multi is good much like the ai with more tactical mistakes. On the servers, 
 if you dont have players that jump ship when they figure out they are losing. Then your battle 
 could go on for awhile. Or in they leave then the server starts over from lack of players. The 
 graphics are good not like a sim more arcadeish. You have to get used to your controls for the 
 commander aspect, but if you cant pick the ship or plane controls in a half hour you should go 
 back to pong. Just a fun game nothing real fancy two thumbs up&amp;#61514;.
  This is the second review. The story mode is entirely too short. With a lot of missions I could 
 do with out. If you played the demo with all the ships in the story mode you will only see these 
 near the end of the story. The cut scene are really good and add to the story line but can be skipped 
 if you play it again. The multi player is good but you would be lucky to last for a whole game. 
 Because people are always leaving even before they lose. And when it lags you will be pulling out 
 teeth. For the price it is a good game but I would wait till the price comes down a bit. Not a 
 whole lot of replay value offline. If it had a mission builder like most simulators then I could 
 see you playing for hours. But once you beat the story mode parts that you like and get sick of 
 the multi player lags and players leaving. It will sit on your self like most of the one timer 
 games. This is the Madcow and I approve this Message 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pickledwood
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  These high hopes havn't been entirely destroyed mind you. I just feel as if I'm playing half a 
 game. Everything I'm playing though is very solid. All of the units, the physics, and the graphics 
 are all to par. And the multiplayer is great, with only a few issues keeping it from absolute stardom. 
 At this point unfortunetly it's only the multiplayer that's keeping this afloat on my hard drive 
 (6gb's! ouch) . The multi-player on regular took me five hours to complete. The challenges took 
 me less than three. I've played all but three multiplayer maps. So that means that I've played 
 the entire game within two days of paying the $39.99 for it. As for the multi-player, some work 
 could be done as well. a point pool/buy system would have been great. And a more open flowing battle 
 creation system (similar to Pacific Storms Battle Planner Mode for Multi-Player) would have made 
 this game a classic for nearly everyone. As is the omission of a skirrimish mode, the innability 
 to custom mulitplayer battles to a greater extant and the lack of a longer and more difficult single 
 player campaign is likely to get this game the boot after another week for Pacific Storm play (picked 
 it up one day after Battle Stations... buggy... yet better SO [if you like heavy strategy] much 
 better... sad.) If you like flashy games, buy it but I'd wait for it to hit the bargain bin... 
 and if you own and 360... avoid it like an STD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpam
Rating: 4.9
Date: Feb 3, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  I like the concept of mixing strategy and action. But one of the problem with this game is that 
 you can't chose to do only strategy : the units are so stupid that you will get much better results 
 driving them yourself. When you only have a few units, that's nice, but when you have plenty, it's 
 too much (you know, even in 100% strategy games you don't always have enough time to handle all 
 your units, so here it's even worse) .
  The graphics are average which has the advantage of running smooth on my GeForce 6600 GT. The sounds 
 are ok except that since I don't speak Japanese the ingame Japanese sounds would benefit from a 
 translation/subtitle in order not to disadvantage the Jap team (you know, they tell you when a 
 unit is under attack and other useful things) .
  The default controls are aweful, but once customized they are really easy.
  The damage aren't 
 very realistic, particularly boats seem totally immune to planes crashing on them.
  Finally, the big problems :
  - the demo version keeps freezing, particularly when connecting 
 to servers... I shut down the game normally 4 times, using the task manager approx 3-5 times, and 
 using the restart button of my PC approx 15 times. I hope they fixed this in the final version 
 released just 4 days after...
  - in multiplayer, one idiot or quitter can easily ruin a full team, they should either let new 
 players connect during a battle when the server is not full and give them the abandonned units/structures 
 or make sure they give *all* abandonned units to the remaining players, which is not currently 
 the case (like when someone quits, a player gets a boat, and the shipyard stay abandonned...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deahjuve84
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  I think this game is part of the change that we are living in the video game world I mean we have 
 now the tech to bring so amazing games and sometimes we see really bad games but this is the kind 
 of software we need it&acute; s have everything , is easy to play im not a military or anything 
 like that but it really brings to life the battle acording to the weather if you play at nigth 
 in a dark room the sun really disturbed you and the sound makes a difference so I think this is 
 part of the revolution i hope you enjoy it and thanks to eidos, gamespot and everyone involveld. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 2, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is very unique, I remember back in the 90s a few games trying to do just what this game 
 was able to do, but with computer power of today. First of the game is VERY short in single player; 
 you can easily finish in one lazy Saturday. Theres a very nice tutorial that is almost as long 
 as the single player. The graphics are beautiful and very believable, but nothing on the scale 
 that you would see in a game like Fear or Gears of War, but the graphics are very doable. The sound 
 is very well done, with a nice 40s theme to it, the voiceovers are pretty bad, but work well enough. 
 The controls for the PC game are easy to get use to, but there are a lot of keyboard controls to 
 remember, and it can get pretty hard, during a farce battle.
  I really did enjoy the very short campaign, Battlestations Midway need a lot more of it, but over 
 all this is a very unique and I will hope there will be an add-on soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aguinebe
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 1, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Let me start with: I love this game.
  
  Starting with the eyes, the graphics are great, even though they do not push any boundary. Same 
 for the sound: good, but not revolutionary.
  
  Now where the game really shines is in the gameplay. It balances action and strategy in a very 
 elegant way. Commands are simple (you can tell the UI was designed with consoles in mind) , however 
 it works on the PC, unlike your typical console port. Jumping from the tactical view to the 3rd 
 person action is seemless, and it does remind me a bit of BF1942, since you can jump into different 
 vehicles quickly and never get borred with the action.
  
  In multiplayer mode, coordinated teamplay is not recommended, it is necessary. Here's the key: 
 to sink the bigger enemy boats, you'll need to set their decks on fire (bomber attacks, artillery 
 attacks) at the same time as you breach their hull (with torpedoes) . If you do lone-wolf, single 
 weapon attacks, the enemy boat will repair the hull or deck with its crew, and you wasted time 
 and resources.
  
  You could play the game as a naval warfare RTS, from the tactical map, but jumping in and delivering 
 the payload yourself is both fun and rewarding. So your action skills do have a great impact on 
 the outcome.
  
  The only downside is... you can feel this game was not allocated the production budget it deserved. 
 As a result, the single player campaign is very short. And you'll miss a few things that you find 
 in bigger productions: a skirmish mode (you against the AI) , cooperative mode (you with a buddy 
 through the campaign) , a map editor, a proper server browser, ranked and clan support, VOIP (for 
 the PC) , etc.
  
  So in the end, this gets a 9.0 for an excellent idea and great realization. I would love to see 
 this genre thrive to see how far it can be taken. So go buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huangzhihao
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 1, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  I just bought it today. Few hours in the afternoon and few during the night, and i'm done with 
 the campaign, lol. Yes, it's only about 7 hours of gameplay for the US camp..... I wouldn't buy 
 it if i knew it. I really wish there's some kind of skirmish option.
  
  However, the gameplay is ok. easy to control and a variety if units. A little more realistic plane 
 damage could help. Don expect to have a rts camera. Every thing u control will be in 3rd person 
 view, u just switch around. Also, you may not find the game so epic as it looks. The largest fleet 
 you can get in the campaign consists of 5 ships. Since it's an action-rts-blend game, don play 
 it if you want realism, because u will find the cannons have extremely short range and your carrier 
 can suffer a incredibly amount of torpedo hits (during WW2, usually 4 can finish off a carrier) , 
 and the map is small too, to fit in the acion style.
  
  In general, it worth no more than $20 accourding to the amount of content and effort put in. Some 
 kids are rating it too high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unurkan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, this has to be the best naval game in a long time. I have been looking for something 
 like this since the ill-fated Enigma: Rising Tide and the older Fighting Steel. Beautiful graphics, 
 combined with incredible gameplay make this game one of a kind. Very easy to learn, but hard to 
 master, I cannot recommend this game enough for anyone who has even a passing interest in naval 
 action and WWII.
  
  Every unit ingame is beautifully rendered and unique. Everyone serves a purpose and balances eachother 
 out wonderfully. This game can feel like a strategy game and like a shooter at the same time. The 
 seemless blend of the two is what makes this game so unique.
  
  I encourage everyone to get this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
