-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlezone II: Combat Commander
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/battlezone2combatcommander/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 20, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 7.5, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 471 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Pandemic Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Dec 31, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The designers have neutralized the fast pacing and complex mechanics that made the first game so 
 much fun. 

 Activision's Battlezone has become better known for its poor sales than for the fact that it was 
 a great game. It combined elements of real-time strategy and action games to create a hybrid that 
 was at once unique, intuitive, and fun. Most everyone who played it loved it. Whatever the reason 
 for Battlezone's disappointing sales, it certainly wasn't the quality of the game. Unfortunately, 
 in what must have been an effort to make Battlezone's sequel more marketable, developer Pandemic 
 Studios attempted to fix something that wasn't broken. As a result, Battlezone II is just a dumbed-down 
 version of its predecessor.  

 Battlezone was set in the late 1960s during a secret space race between the United States and the 
 Soviet Union. The two superpowers on Earth were attempting to become superpowers on other worlds 
 as well and were fighting to colonize and mine resources from the planets in the solar system. 
 Toward the end of the game, a hostile alien race appeared that forced the warring earthlings to 
 team up against the new threat. Their alliance is the basis for the sequel, which begins with you 
 serving as a lieutenant for the ISDF, a multinational fighting force attempting to combat alien 
 terrorism. Your apparent enemy is the Scion, an alien race that is building some sort of superweapon 
 and destroying ISDF outposts.  

 However, even from the beginning it is clear that something else is amiss. You are given conflicting 
 orders, put in harm's way more than seems necessary, and then told to remain silent about your 
 operations. There's something going on that's more than meets the eye, and watching the story unfold 
 is one of the more enjoyable elements of Battlezone II.  

 That the campaign's story is interesting enough to motivate you from mission to mission is a good 
 thing, because Battlezone II's missions themselves are often boring. Whereas Battlezone was entertaining 
 precisely because of the sheer amount of control it put it your hands, Battlezone II is dull because 
 it isn't as flexible. Early missions typically tell you what to do, step by step, and lack any 
 of the base building and resource gathering that made the first game fun. Instead, you just follow 
 your commander around and perform various small tasks and listen to reports of other more interesting 
 activities as they occur elsewhere in the field. The first ten missions in the game feel like tutorials, 
 and it isn't until you've played through at least a dozen missions that you're given the ability 
 to plan and build your base and assemble an army of units.  

 Even when you finally take control of an army, it feels less significant than in Battlezone. Inevitably, 
 you'll be planning your base defenses and preparing to build offensive units when you'll receive 
 an order to go explore an event happening somewhere else, and you'll have to abandon the strategy 
 portion of the game to go on some solo excursion. In fact, you spend so much time on short solo 
 missions that it seems as if the real-time strategy elements of the game are almost an afterthought. 
 Fortunately, the interface has been significantly improved over Battlezone, which makes it easier 
 to control your other units than before. The only problem with the first game's interface was that 
 it was difficult to assign orders to units that weren't in your line of sight. That problem has 
 been remedied in Battlezone II, which offers a more complete command menu that lets you give a 
 wider variety of orders to both offensive and utilitarian units, no matter where you are on the 
 field. And Battlezone II lets you create building queues and group units together, which makes 
 creating and commanding a large force not only easier, but more useful.  

 Unfortunately, the improved interface is counteracted by the game's artificial intelligence, which 
 makes units take the most basic approach to every task. Assign a force to attack an enemy, and 
 they'll start blasting away, regardless of whether you or other friendly units stand in their way. 
 In fact, friendly fire is such a problem that it's often dangerous to use large forces when you 
 could just as easily take out the enemy yourself. The same problems affect the units' pathfinding. 
 Ask a service truck to come repair you, and it'll take the shortest route available, even if that 
 means going through an enemy base. Such pathfinding is acceptable in a top-down real-time strategy 
 game in which you can set waypoints, but it's frustrating to have to micromanage your units to 
 safety in Battlezone II's 3D environment. More realistic unit behavior would have gone a long way 
 toward making Battlezone II a better game.  

 The problems of the campaign aren't cause for concern in Battlezone II's instant-action and multiplayer 
 modes. These modes let you build and attack as you see fit, and they should be satisfying to Battlezone 
 fans. The lack of a story makes the instant-action and multiplayer missions seem empty, but they're 
 still the best option for those who feel restricted by Battlezone II's campaign. It's easy to start 
 or join a multiplayer game; you're connected to a server menu with a single mouse click. There 
 you can play deathmatch, capture the flag, and strategy games, the latter of which is simply the 
 multiplayer version of the single-player game. And both the instant-action and multiplayer modes 
 give you the option to play as the Scion, which have their own ships, buildings, and technology. 

 The units of Battlezone II are disappointing in comparison with the ultrapatriotic designs of the 
 original. The eagle-headed tanks adorned with red, white, and blue have been replaced with plain-looking 
 vehicles and more generic science-fiction vehicles such as walkers. It makes sense that the jingoistic 
 designs would be ousted in the face of an army made up of many countries, but the ISDF could have 
 come up with something better than orange, boxy tanks. Likewise, the alien ships are fairly standard, 
 and they display little to distinguish themselves from any other alien race design since the movie 
 Alien. At least Battlezone II's environments are much better than in its predecessor, and the wide 
 variety of battle settings helps make the game more interesting even as the bland missions and 
 the vehicles don't.  

 Ultimately, by trying to appeal to some mythical mass market, the designers have neutralized the 
 fast pacing and complex mechanics that made the first game so much fun. As a result, Battlezone 
 II seems completely generic. Its missions are short and easy and are filled with scripted events 
 and plot points, but the missions don't actually let you make any interesting decisions. There 
 are brief flashes in which the old Battlezone shines through, but you'll have to be patient to 
 find them.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gameman45
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  This game was one of my first good games that i got when i was young. It offers great gameplay 
 and fast paced action and strategy at teh same time to make this title a game for everyone. It 
 has a great classic storyline of aliens and humans battling to ultimately claim the universe. You 
 can alos choose your path ni alot of parts of the which adds some replay value to it. The instant 
 action is fun too. You can either play as the commander of teh humn clony and build up your base 
 of operations or just be a soldier and get orders from your commander. As you can well expect it 
 has a great online experience as well. The Graphics are pretty good for teh time taht it came out. 
 The sound is great. Amazing voice acting and sound effects. Gameplay is alos wonderful. It has 
 a fairly long storyline as well as controls and overal feel. Overall I would recommend this game 
 ot anyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diashi
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Battlezone II could have learned much from its predecessor as well as the other way around. While 
 some things in the game were made much better a lot of the feel of the original was lost.
  
  First off the story line was good but the missions were far too linear to hold up against the 
 previous installment in the series. Rather then you deciding what to do and how to do it in the 
 order you want the game forces you to do things in order, also while you may be able to get a good 
 base going you'll many times have to abandon it to go on a solo crusade. 
  
  The ai is also lack luster at best because they have no "thought" involved in thier movements, 
 for example if I tell a team of mortar bikes to attack an enemy base while I go do my solo thing 
 and there is a canyon riddled with defenses between them and the base, they won't stop and fight 
 the defenses, they'll zoom right by and most likely get completely destroyed in the process due 
 to the power of the defensive towers.
  
  The units and weapons themselves also lost a lot from the predecessor for instance howitzers bieng 
 replaced by mortar bikes on the ISDF side of the fight, mortar bikes are flimsy and often hard 
 to hold at an exact point to do an accurate bombardment of a tower or base, the Archers on the 
 scion side are a much different story as they are basically flying howitzers, however you can't 
 pilot them only the ai can.
  
  How the weapons are put in the ships was one of the biggest issues I had with this game. In the 
 original battlezone ships were VERY customizable as far as weapons went, you had cannons, rockets, 
 and specials. Sounds very basic but that arrangement allowed you to take a scout and put much better 
 weapons in it, then make yourself an ammo dump that you could retreat back to since the larger 
 weapon consumed so much more ammo. In this installment what you can put where is much more limited 
 since you have cannons, guns, rockets, missiles, specials, shields and all of them can only go 
 in thier specific slots. A more detailed example would be that the scout unit in the first battlezone 
 had two cannon slots and a rocket slot, almost all the same weapons existed but since there were 
 only three categories I could customize it so much more, for example I could put a comet cruise 
 rocket in that slot on a scout, wheras on BZII the best you can put there is a tag cannon.
  
  Ship design in BZII bothered me as well, while the tanks admittedly looked good (at least to 
 me) other ships looked like scrap, ISDF scouts for instance looked terrible, while the fins on 
 the back were good the front just looked like junk. the walkers were none too good either everything 
 else was o. k. but not great, while the scion side looked much better for the most part it still 
 wasn't great.
  
  Placing buildings was also much less free because rather then bieng able to place them wherever 
 you wanted the terrian was shoved into a giant grid so it felt much more constrained, also the 
 fact that ISDF bases had to be shoved together often made them crowded and hard for the AI to navigate, 
 more then once I found myself stringing power plants together just to get a little open space between 
 the bigger buildings in my base.
  
  Some noted improvements however were things like Scrap Pools, in multiplayer they made excellent 
 conflict points. also the fact that you could upgrade the scavengers on them to make them more 
 efficient was good if you (like me) preferred it to be a little faster.
  
  Control of units was much nicer as well aside from the above noted AI issues. More options as well 
 as a VERY nice satellite command view made things much easier. I often just hopped into a relay 
 bunker to build my base and control units to specific locations before going out in the field myself 
 to get some very coordinated attacks.
  
  The multiplayer was also very good strategy is my favorite but admittedly some of the deathmatches 
 were very good as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  I'll get right to the point. I loved this game. I was a big fan of the first battlezone that came 
 out a long time ago with all its immersive storyline and battles. Back then I just loved the innovative 
 idea of a space sim/strategy on a planet in the solar system. The environments in this second release 
 are just as facinating as the first ones where.
  All the intrigue, story, battles are still present in this second installment and deliver more 
 of the fun I enjoyed initially.
  Gamespot still looks at those minor flaws and ranks the game accordingly. It deserves much much 
 more. This is defenetly a great game and deserves its credit.
  Check it out, you won't be dissapointed, specially if you are a fan of the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariomusicmaker
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  This was my favorite game of all time, online with a few friends, quick battle was the best with 
 stacked resourses. man i spent my child hood glued to this game. my dad and i would play lan games, 
 not as fun as online cuz i always got beat but still fantastic . on with the revew.
  
  This game had awsome graphics back in 1999 (ish) , game play easliy the best part. i loved how you 
 could get out of your ship and snipe other people out of hter eship. GREAT FOR MULTIPLAYER! we 
 had sliping battles.
  
  also building was quick and sinple and fun! this game was and still is almost perfict! only thing 
 wrong with it is no xp support : (
  
  if you can pick this game up for like 5 $ GET IT! i would not mind paying 50 for it if it where 
 released today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volswagn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 5, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit I played this one before I went back to play the original, and I was hooked from 
 minute one. I came from a FPS background and had never played command-and-conquer titles. It wasn't 
 for a lack of wanting to, they just seemed so damned intimidating. Battlezone II was the perfect 
 mix of FPS and C&C. The opening missions totally familiarized the player with the interface, and 
 the purpose of each building or unit was revealed bit by bit, until the player had learned all 
 of them. The graphics were, and I believe still are, killer. 
  
  I have read some reviews calling the bright orange coloring of the US units "cartoony." I disagree. 
 They're industrial. In the town I grew up in, the local manufacturing company (before it closed 
 in the '80s) had trademarked its orange generators, trucks, and large equipment. I totally bought 
 the coloring in this game. 
  
  Besides the coloring of the units, the other graphics are stellar -- the vector-type graphics being 
 filled in with real colors during construction is a particularly cool effect. The explosions are 
 bright and flashy, and the environments (now that systems today can turn up all the eye-candy) 
 are nothing short of beautiful. 
  
  Once you finish the game, there is a whole new game waiting -- IA (Instant Action) . Build a base 
 with defenses and then eventually go conquer enemy bases. This was my favorite part of the game, 
 and it's alway's good for an hour or two. 
  
  Because the game STILL has a thriving online community, there are plenty of mods, a complete fan-built 
 game-length mission pack, and just released in Aug 2006 was a fantastic v1.3 beta patch that fixes 
 issues in the game, makes the AI a little harder, spices up the graphics even further, and also 
 includes a massive mix of new maps. It's a must have. I still go back to this game every couple 
 years and marvel at just how much fun it has provided... This game is a classic. Try it out before 
 reading the negative reviews and see for yourself. You can get it at Half. com for around $5-10 
 these days. It's well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dddd2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 15, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  well i cant get off it!
  its a awesome game that needs real skills in online gaming!
  grapics arent the best but not bad either
  Great gameplay strategy if youre in a relay bunker
 
  strategy& shooter wile u are in battle
  Very much fun with maps!
  there are awesome mods for the game :D
  Not so easy to learn but u will get it easy
  nice campain 
 also a REAL story this time :D
  i cant wait until bz3!!!!!
  
  in some words
  NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE
  NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE 
 NICE
  NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE
  NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE
  NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE 
 NICE
  NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE
  NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE
  NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE NICE 
 NICE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  When I played this game, I couldnt really see anything the whole time. Maybe it was the old pc 
 I was playing with, or I didnt know how to adjust the display back then, but whatever the reason, 
 the game experience suffered because of it. Therefore, I did not really get any fun out of this 
 game. The gameplay from what I could do was fun. I liked going against the aliens with all of the 
 vehicles that you could use. The instant action type mode was nice to use as well, with it you 
 could build the stations and the units, and then just fight it out. The aliens were way more advanced 
 than the humans, which to me was kind of unfair. I think they could have balanced it out a little 
 bit. But then again, if I could have seen the picture better, I would be writing a better review 
 about it. Perhaps someday, I will then like this game. But not today 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilblackgirl
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  I read the reviews posted here and elsewhere about Battlezone 2 and most of the reviews seem to 
 be based on the comparison to the original. I never played the original, so this review is based 
 solely on Combat Commander. I played this game when it originally came out and again here recently 
 (03/2006) when the developers released the 1.3 patch adding a ton of great updates to the game. 
 This is a fun, old school FPS/RTS game. You play the role of a new soldier in an interplanetary 
 war between yourself (the army that employes you) and the alien inhabitants of Pluto (?) , the planet 
 you have landed on. The team that previously tried to establish an outpost has all but been wiped 
 out and it's up to you to find out why and battle the inhabitants of the planet. The bulk of your 
 time is spent in various vehicles (tank, ship, etc) that hovers over the terrain of the planet. 
 You also have the ability to jump out of the vehicle which shows you as the soldier you are, complete 
 with weapon. There are very few times when you really need to exit your vehicle, save acquiring 
 another one or interacting with other teammates or accessing base terminals. The game, in the beginning, 
 sends you on small missions, guarding various pieces of equipment that the alien enemy is trying 
 to steal. You advance by doing escort missions and eventually scouting missions with other teammates. 
 You never feel like the 'lone soldier' as your com-link always has chatter from your superiors 
 giving you heads up on current situations and objectives. The RTS part of the game has you gathering 
 resources to use for building new ships, bases and ammo for the various ships you'll be piloting. 
 The MP side of the game is equally fun by teaming with others to complete similar goals. As old 
 as this game is, it's not easy to find many online games to join, but as cheap as it is, it's pretty 
 simple to get your hands on a copy (ebay, amazon) and have a fun lan party playtime with your friends. 
 The new 1.3 patch adds some 100 new maps to the game as well as support for higher end resolutions, 
 better textures, new in-game menus and better setup in audio/video. The graphics are somewhat dated, 
 but still decent compared to today's advancements. For an engulfing and challenging single player 
 game, this one is a blast. If you are able to find the crew for a multiplayer game, it's equally 
 as much fun.
  
  Edit: After having played again for a bit, i'd forgotten something about the game. You have two 
 main view optiions, 3rd and 1st person. The 3rd person view, to me, is somewhat worthless because 
 when shooting at enemies, the crosshairs tend to float oddly and make it a bit difficult to actually 
 keep them on the enemy. The enemy tends to jump around a lot and make it tough to keep focus on 
 them. The best view is the 1st person view. The problem with this is that it's induced some motion 
 sickness and is making it difficult to really play for any length of time. I don't get motion sick 
 with any FPS, but this one is giving me headaches and making me naseaus. It's unfortunate, because 
 i really enjoy this game. I've slightly adjusted the score because of this problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JephirDromulus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:55 am PT
Review:  People say that Battlezone II is too different from the original game, however it has much more 
 to show than what's on the outside. For starters, the single player experience is very fun and 
 every level is unique. You will never get the same order twice, and the storyline is very immersive. 
 The developers also made an incredible job at balancing Battlezone II. The two races have entirely 
 different units, structures and technology trees, yet none is overpowered and have an equal chance 
 of winning a battle (although I agree that some people say that the Scions are harder to use, once 
 you get to know them well they're just as good as the ISDF) . 
  
  However, the biggest aspect of the game is the mod community. Over 1250 maps and counting have 
 been created for the game by community members, and many mods were designed to even make new singleplayer 
 missions, extending the storyline of the game. If you want to see what they're working on now, 
 go to www. bz2md. com or www. bzuniverse. com! 
  
  In conclusion, this game has a lot to offer, and no matter who you are you will enjoy playing. 
 Great job Pandemic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari20091
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  The Game may be old and the graphics are lacking compared to battlefield 2 or Quake 4 but overall 
 the game is challenging and fun. It has a great storyline and gameplay. The game is great for the 
 online play. This is what makes the game most fun. There are also many mods and updates for the 
 more experienced players. The 1st person shooter mixed with the stratagy makes the game more challenging 
 and hand on gameplay. The game does not match up to modern games but taking in account of the age 
 of the game and the graphics it is not bad. Those into science fiction and strategy games would 
 greatly enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmiSS
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 1, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Battlezone 2 came in under the radar. It snook up on me. Its a great combination of 3rd person 
 vehicle action, FPS, and top-down strategy. The gameplay could be a little more balanced and the 
 game could be updated with new maps and make it more compatible with newer systems. But o'well. 
 BZ2 makes for a nice break from the regular FPS and vehicle action. Its got a pretty good single 
 player game, with good story and it shows you the two different sides of the fight.
  BZ2 is one of my "cult classics" when it comes to PC games. I find that even against todays high 
 sellers like Battlefield: 2 and Star Wars Battlefront. The gfxs aren't really all that bad. they 
 are dated but don't take away from gameplay. In the end BZ2 is one of those games that you should 
 own. Even if its not always installed on your system. You should own a copy, just in case you need 
 a break, or your going to that lan and you need a game to play. Wipe it out and let the battle 
 begin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 16, 2004 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I was impresed with the look of this game and the graphics were real nice. The trees would be destriyed 
 when hit with gun fire etc. I didn't get or like the feel as much as the first game. Maybe I am 
 afraid of change or maybe I resist change. LOL
  
  I did like the sion ships and building their bases but that was about all I can say. I could not 
 get anyone here to play the multiplayer on our LAN as they didn't like it at all and I found online 
 gamming was not that good either. I did play all the way thru the game and more than once but it 
 was not as fun as the first one. I had one friend that played with me online .
  
  I got to say it is a shame I wanted so much more but it left me feeling let down. I still play 
 the first game while BZ2 gathers dust on the shelf and an empty place in my hard drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disdaine
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 26, 2004 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Before you question why I gave this game a 9.2 amid a flurry of bad reviews, hear me out. When 
 was the last time you played a strategy game? Nothing new, I means games such as Starcraft or Total 
 Annihilation (personal favorite) . Battlezone and Battlezone II introduced a wonderful concept that 
 has yet to be fully implemented since; to be a strategy game and an 'in-control' action game at 
 the same time. Don't get me wrong, the game is not near perfect. But, I feel the 9.2 is deserving 
 considering how it could have potentially revolutionized strategy gaming. Unfortunately, no one 
 seemed to care.
  
  For me, strategy gaming isn't about scripted missions and given order. I want to build a base, 
 implement defenses, and launch an almighty offensive. That sounds fun right? So I'm going to throw 
 the single player right out the window. Good, we're done with that now. With patches, you can play 
 as one of the two sides versus the computer. One player acts as commander and can pilot the same 
 as any other player. The commander however is the only player that can order units and build structures. 
 Now hold up... "but being a pilot sounds so boring"... yea, we've all heard that before. The commander 
 can assign orders to the pilots and also assign units to follow their orders. As such, if someone 
 is awesome with tanks, give him a tank and a good amount of extra ones as backup.
  
  ... holy crap, this is getting long. Forget it, just go out and buy the game and try it. I think 
 it probably retails around $5-$15 these days. And guess what? It actually runs decent! Try running 
 it on a 450mhz like when the game actually came out... good luck. Anyway, try it, review it, and 
 if you don't like it you can grab your cajones' and cry. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
